Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H7163
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019 No. 124
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Ms. DEAN).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
July 23, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable MADELEINE
DEAN to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
HOPE REMAINS FOR PEACE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Wisconsin (Mr. POCAN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. POCAN. Madam Speaker, today
we will be taking up a resolution to de-
nounce the BDS movement, the boy-
cott, divestment, and sanctions against
Israel.
This region is not unfamiliar to me,
as I have been there twice, in both
Israel and Palestine. I do not support
the BDS movement.
When I was last in Palestine, I asked
multiple people with whom I met if
they supported the movement, and the
response was that they did not, as they
were afraid of the economic effect on
Palestine, where many are already
struggling.
However, I also do not support the
resolution today, as it goes too far, in
my opinion, in telling people what they
can or should think or say about the
situation in Israel.
Israel the country and the Israeli
people are good friends of the United
States. They are a strong democracy
and a close ally of our country. I have
supported the Iron Dome as a way to
deescalate the tensions that occur
when a rocket is sent into Israel from
inside Gaza, for example. It is better to
take out that missile before there is
any damage or death rather than re-
turning a volley of rockets back in re-
sponse, injuring or killing people of
both countries.
But I also think it is okay to be crit-
ical of the Netanyahu administration,
or government, and their policies.
Look, if a dear friend does something
that jeopardizes themselves or their
family’s lives or livelihoods, I have a
moral obligation to say something be-
cause I respect my friend. It should be
no different with our response to
Israel. People have a right to be con-
cerned about a number of actions by
the Israeli Government.
We have a right to question how con-
tinuing to create illegal settlements
into the West Bank will make it harder
to broker a two-state solution, the best
path forward toward peace in the re-
gion, given the additional difficulty of
the land swaps.
We have a right to question why it is
okay to take Palestinian children, or
any child, into a military court for de-
tention by Israel.
We have a right to ask if sectioning
off 2 million people in Gaza, with over
a million people needing food assist-
ance and 95 percent not having access
to clean water, will ever lead to peace,
or why not allowing Members of Con-
gress to go into Gaza from Israel is
smart. What don’t they want us to see
by not allowing us in?
We have a right to ask how demol-
ishing Palestinian homes in East Jeru-
salem or the West Bank or crops in
Gaza serves to further peace in the re-
gion.
We have a right to ask why it makes
sense to have a major highway with a
giant wall in the middle of it with one
side for Palestinians and the other for
Israelis, as it looks like something we
have judged poorly previously in his-
tory.
We have a right to ask if a bullet di-
rected at a child is an equivalent re-
sponse to a thrown rock.
I am not saying that Hamas, the or-
ganization that has been recognized by
the United States as a terrorist organi-
zation, is innocent or pure—anything
but. But, obviously, not all Palestin-
ians are Hamas by any stretch of the
imagination.
If we really want peace in the region,
where we will never have to send young
men and women from our country to
risk their lives, then we need a govern-
ment in Israel that respects human
rights more and works more aggres-
sively towards peace.
I was told a resolution advocating for
a two-state solution would be up today
as well, a resolution I support; but ap-
parently it is not, and that is a mis-
take. Instead, only this resolution op-
posing BDS is up.
And while I do not support BDS, I
cannot support this resolution as word-
ed. My hope is that we will have real
peace in the region someday, that we
will have a two-state solution where
both Israelis and Palestinians will live
in peace, both internally and with each
other. But this resolution won’t do
that.
Madam Speaker, I just wish real ef-
forts toward peace were what we were
debating today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.000 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7164 July 23, 2019
HONORING HENRY LOZANO
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. GOMEZ) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GOMEZ. Madam Speaker, on
July 19, surrounded by loved ones, the
city of Los Angeles lost a giant. His
name was Henry Lozano.
Madam Speaker, I simply don’t have
enough time to recount all of Henry’s
achievements or the profound impact
he had on our district and on the Gold-
en State. His list of accomplishments
is pretty impressive.
He was a Korean war veteran, serving
as a Marine corporal in the 1950s; a
fierce workers’ advocate as a labor
leader for UAW Local 509; chief of staff
to Congressman Ed Roybal; an adviser
to Xavier Becerra, the current attor-
ney general of California and the
former Congressman for the district I
now represent.
Congressman Ed Roybal was the first
Latino elected to Congress from Cali-
fornia since the 1800s, a founder of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Often-
times, I say I stand on the shoulders of
giants, and people think I am referring
just to the elected officials who came
before me; but, more often than not, it
is the people who surround those elect-
ed leaders, like Henry Lozano, the ones
who are their advisers, their
confidantes, the people who try to keep
them true to their word and to their
core and to their principles.
Henry was that type of individual. He
cared deeply about the Latino commu-
nity and empowering them in a time
where we oftentimes felt marginalized.
He came up during the seventies and
the eighties and the nineties.
I did not work with Henry directly,
but I got to know him. Back in 2004, at
the Democratic National Convention, I
was introduced to Henry by a mutual
friend, and he said that Henry was a
legend within the Latino community
on the east side of Los Angeles. He said
he was the one who helped, really,
mentor countless elected officials and
wannabe elected officials like myself.
I befriended Henry, and Henry gave
me quite a bit of advice. Most impor-
tantly, he wanted to make sure that I
would remain truthful and remain
committed to the community that I
would one day represent.
I got to visit him just before he
passed in the hospital. He looked pret-
ty good to me. We talked, and the first
thing he asked me about is what did I
think. I thought he was referring to the
Presidential election, but, in the end,
it was really about a local city council
race.
He said that politics is always local,
and you should always think about the
people first.
Henry will be missed. He had a pro-
found impact on a lot of folks, and I am
one of them. So I hope that we will
keep his memory alive.
HONORING BARBARA TORRES
Mr. GOMEZ. Madam Speaker, I have
sad news to report regarding someone
else we lost on the east side of Los An-
geles.
She was a labor union leader, an ac-
tivist, and a daughter of East Los An-
geles. Her name was Barbara Torres.
Barbara passed away at the young
age of 39, but she left a life of meaning.
She was always around, even though
she didn’t have a car. She gave so much
to people who had so little, even
though she didn’t have much herself.
She fought against the biggest oppo-
nents, even though she was small in
stature. She would often be the first
one into a fight because she always had
one saying: ‘‘If we fight, we win.’’ That
really sums up Barbara Torres.
She was the champion of the little
guy and the underdog, because she was
the little guy and the underdog. She
understood that the system can some-
times be against the people who need
the most help, but she was always
there and never gave up faith.
She valued her community, but we
also valued her in return.
Yesterday, we put Barbara Torres to
rest. At her funeral service was the
mayor of Los Angeles, Eric Garcetti,
myself, Los Angeles City Council
President Herb Wesson, State Senator
Maria Elena Durazo, as well as Assem-
bly Member Reggie Jones-Sawyer and
the head of the California Democratic
Party, Rusty Hicks.
For somebody who did not have a
title in the end, who was not of wealth
or means but was just somebody who
showed up every single day for every
fight, she left an impact. She will defi-
nitely be missed because we know that
she made California, Los Angeles, and
this country a better place to live.
f
PRESERVE FREE SPEECH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. TLAIB) for 5 minutes.
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I stand
before you as the granddaughter of a
Palestinian grandmother, my sity, who
yearns to experience equality, human
dignity, and freedom. I stand before
you, the daughter of Palestinian immi-
grants, parents who experienced being
stripped of their human rights, the
right to freedom of travel and equal
treatment. So I can’t stand by and
watch this attack on our freedom of
speech and the right to boycott the
racist policies of the Government and
the State of Israel.
I love our country’s freedom of
speech, Madam Speaker. Dissent is how
we nurture democracy and grow to be
better, more humane, and just. This is
why I oppose H. Res. 246.
All Americans have a constitutional
right, guaranteed by the First Amend-
ment, to freedom of speech, to petition
their government, and to participate in
boycotts.
Speech in pursuit of civil and human
rights at home and abroad is protected
by our First Amendment. That is one
reason why our First Amendment is so
powerful. With a few exceptions, the
government is simply not allowed to
discriminate against speech based on
its viewpoint or its speaker.
The right to boycott is deeply rooted
in the fabric of our country. What was
the Boston Tea Party but a boycott?
Where would we be now without the
boycott led by civil rights activists in
the 1950s and 1960s, like the Mont-
gomery bus boycott and United Farm
Workers grape boycott.
Some of this country’s most impor-
tant advances in racial equality and
equity and workers’ rights have been
achieved through collective action pro-
tected by our Constitution.
Americans of conscience have a long
and proud history of participating in
boycotts specifically to advocate for
human rights abroad. Americans boy-
cotted Nazi Germany in response to de-
humanization, imprisonment, and
genocide of Jewish people. In the 1980s,
many of us in this very body boycotted
South African goods in the fight
against apartheid.
Our right to free speech is being
threatened with this resolution. It sets
a dangerous precedent because it at-
tempts to delegitimize certain people’s
political speech and to send a message
that our government can and will take
action against speech it doesn’t like.
Madam Speaker, the Supreme Court
has, time and time again, recognized
that expressive conduct is protected by
the Constitution, from burning a flag
to baking a cake. Efforts to restrict
and target that protected speech run
the risk of eroding the civil rights that
form the foundation of our democracy.
All Americans have the right to par-
ticipate in boycotts, and I oppose all
legislative efforts that target speech.
Madam Speaker, I urge Congress,
State governments, and civil rights
leaders from all communities to pre-
serve our Constitution, preserve our
Bill of Rights, and preserve the First
Amendment’s guarantee of freedom of
speech by opposing H. Res. 246 and
antiboycott efforts wherever they
arise.
f
b 1215
HONORING THE LIFE OF COR-
PORAL WILLIAM ‘‘BILL’’
MCMILLAN, III
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
South Carolina (Mr. NORMAN) for 5
minutes.
Mr. NORMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the life of Corporal
William ‘‘Bill’’ McMillan, III. Corporal
McMillan was a combat medic serving
in Iraq when he lost his life in an IED
attack on July 8, 2008.
The death of Corporal McMillan
prompted his father, Lloyd, and Brad,
his older brother, to write a poem
about his sudden death entitled ‘‘The
Medic’s Last Patrol.’’ It goes like this:
As your Stryker rolls, you remember many
missions through this long, tough
fight.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.003 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7165
July 23, 2019
You know the last task will come, last work
be done, then home. All right!
You will mount up to take that last patrol
with fellows all well tried;
That honor roll of troopers you have come to
know with love and pride.
You have all talked, laughed, wept, and
fought hard, side by side.
Many times before, you’ve watched them
play, work, fight, and bleed.
You’ve patched them up, cheered them on,
and sent them back to lead.
You’ve been there for them in the dust of
day and in the cold of night.
Then on to the next patrol, with that hon-
ored roll. Back one more time to fight.
You remember. The report was out. They
were all about, and they had planted
one to three.
On late guard, near break of day, an IED you
see they start to lay.
You call Sarge, ‘‘Hey! Look close over there.
Can you see?’’
Sarge runs right out, and starts to shout,
‘‘That’s it!’’ And you do the follow me!
Later, you patch the enemy then work
smart, fight tough, to get yourself free.
You ask, ‘‘Is this the last patrol? Is this it
for the Sarge and me?’’
Experience kicks in. You both fight hard and
win. Clearly, the last patrol it’s not.
You and your team will see lots more pa-
trols, as that’s the soldier’s lot.
As you’re grouped the next day, the General
praises your brave acts.
You and Sarge got four, and the team got
nine more, in those all-out attacks.
Your team did its job. They fought hard and
did so very well.
You’ve sent the enemy on their last patrol,
their justly deserved death knell.
Now, you are rolling on this new daytime
mission. The light is oh so bright.
Your patrol is off to guard the convoy,
checking all that is in sight.
You laugh at stories told as along you roll
and grab a snack. All right!
Then that flash of light, that blast of might,
your eyes they see now closed so tight.
For four, the last patrol has come. The rest
for a moment numb, a truly terrible
plight.
Later, the caisson rolls. The cannons boom.
Overhead, the Blackhawks fly.
We honor you as we stand in place. But we
ask, O God! Tell us why.
We find some comfort as we hear ‘‘Amazing
Grace,’’ our eyes very far from dry.
It was a one-way ticket, but we know you’re
in a better place.
Now, you are with our dear Lord and holy
master.
You have passed from last patrol to honored
guard of God’s most holy pasture.
f
FOCUS ON HUMAN RIGHTS IN
DISCUSSIONS WITH PAKISTAN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. SHERMAN) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. SHERMAN. Madam Speaker, the
Prime Minister of Pakistan, Imran
Khan, came to Washington this week-
end. As chair of the Foreign Affairs
Subcommittee on Asia, it is appro-
priate that I comment upon what has
occurred so far in the bilateral discus-
sions, and I look forward to meeting
the Prime Minister later today.
What is unfortunate is the approach
taken by the Trump administration.
First, as to Afghanistan, the hearts
and minds of the Afghan people are
critical to our success in what has been
our longest war. Tens of thousands of
Americans have worked to get the
hearts and minds of the Afghan people
on our side, building schools and hos-
pitals, under very dangerous condi-
tions.
Now, the President takes this high-
profile opportunity as an opportunity
to say that he might kill 10 million Af-
ghans, or was thinking about it, or
raises the possibility that we would use
nuclear weapons to destroy Afghani-
stan.
This does untold harm to our efforts
in Afghanistan to win the hearts and
minds of the Afghan people.
What the President should have done
is talk about the Durand Line and how
Afghanistan should accept this border
between Afghanistan and Pakistan, a
border that Afghanistan disputes but
that the whole world accepts.
As to Kashmir, it is not surprising
that the Prime Minister of Pakistan
wants America to arbitrate or mediate.
That has been the position of Pakistan
for decades. But then, the President
said in Osaka, last month, Prime Min-
ister Modi asked the United States to
arbitrate or mediate the Kashmir dis-
pute.
That is utterly preposterous, and it is
embarrassing that we have a President
who wouldn’t realize how preposterous
that statement is. Of course, the record
has been set straight by Prime Min-
ister Modi.
Third is what the President didn’t
say. He didn’t make a major issue over
Dr. Afridi, the doctor who was critical
in helping us find and kill Osama bin
Laden. Bin Laden was hiding a mile
away from the military academy of the
Pakistani Army, their West Point.
We have not demanded that the Paki-
stanis who helped Osama bin Laden be
put in jail, but we do insist that the
one Pakistani who helped us find bin
Laden be released from Pakistani jail.
The President barely raised the issue.
In fact, he didn’t voluntarily raise it at
all.
This is not just a humanitarian con-
cern. It is also a strategic national se-
curity concern because who will help
us fight terrorism if we leave Dr. Afridi
behind?
In a news interview, Prime Minister
Khan suggested there might be a trade,
where Afridi was released and a ter-
rorist named Dr. Siddiqui released by
the United States.
No friendly country would demand
that we release a terrorist in order for
them to release a hero, but we have to
be practical, and we have to get Dr.
Afridi released.
Finally, the President failed to men-
tion with the Prime Minister of Paki-
stan the situation as to human rights.
Hundreds of individuals in Sindh have
been forcibly disappeared by Pakistani
authorities.
A prime example of that I should
highlight today is a 17-year-old boy
from Sindh, Aqib Chandio. He was ab-
ducted 14 months ago, in broad day-
light. He is still missing.
It is time for the Prime Minister of
Pakistan to provide information about
Aqib Chandio. Where is he? Produce
him in court or release him. What is
his fate?
Of course, we need information about
hundreds of others who have dis-
appeared, including Murtaza Junejo,
Shahid Junejo, Ayoub Kandhro, and
Insaf Dayo.
I want to mention Dr. Anwar
Laghari, a friend of mine who was shot
dead in Sindh in 2015 while working
with the Sindh United Party, a party of
which he was one of the leaders. Paki-
stan has not adequately investigated
that brutal murder, and it is time for
Pakistan to do so.
Finally, we focus on the issue of
forced conversions in Sindh, young
Hindu and Christian girls forced to
convert to Islam and forced to marry
men many decades their senior. The
Pakistani Government needs to stop
this pernicious practice. They need to
do more. That is why nine of my col-
leagues joined with me in sending a let-
ter to the President, urging a focus on
human rights in Sindh in these bilat-
eral discussions.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 23
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker at 2
p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
We give You thanks, O God, for giv-
ing us another day. We ask Your bless-
ing upon this assembly and upon all to
whom the authority of government is
given.
Encourage the Members of this
House, O God, to use their abilities and
talents in ways that bring righteous-
ness to this Nation and to all people.
Ever remind them of the needs of the
poor, the homeless or forgotten, and
those who live without freedom or lib-
erty. May they be instruments of jus-
tice for all Americans.
We are grateful for the success of the
recent negotiations between the Presi-
dent and congressional leaders on the
debt limit and budget caps deal and ask
Your blessing on them and on those
now charged with moving the business
of government and the national econ-
omy forward.
May all that is done within the peo-
ple’s House this day be for Your great-
er honor and glory.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.005 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7166 July 23, 2019
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. BAIRD. Madam Speaker, pursu-
ant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote
on agreeing to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The SPEAKER. The question is on
the Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BAIRD. Madam Speaker, I object
to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER. Pursuant to clause 8,
rule XX, further proceedings on this
question will be postponed.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from Utah (Mr. MCADAMS) come for-
ward and lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
Mr. MCADAMS led the Pledge of Al-
legiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to 15 requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
f
WE MUST ACT ON BIPARTISAN
HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS
(Mr. MCADAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MCADAMS. Madam Speaker, pas-
sage of the Affordable Care Act nearly
a decade ago, while not a perfect bill,
helped thousands of Utah families gain
insurance coverage, many for the first
time, and I am working in Congress to
ensure we meet the law’s goals to im-
prove access to care and protect all
Americans’ coverage, particularly
those with preexisting conditions.
Utah’s hardworking families struggle
with the rising costs of care, fueled to
a large degree by skyrocketing pre-
scription drug prices.
Everywhere I go, people talk about
how the cost of an illness or an acci-
dent sparks the fear of being one
health crisis away from financial ruin.
That is why I have voted for a dozen
bills to seek to lower the cost of pre-
scription drugs and strengthen con-
sumer protections, and I urge my Sen-
ate colleagues to act, too.
I continue to meet with Utahns about
their healthcare concerns, and I re-
cently had a conversation with moms
of kids with type 1 diabetes, who ex-
plained to me how the high cost of in-
sulin is affecting their child’s treat-
ment.
We have a bipartisan consensus that
our healthcare system needs work, so
it is past time that we act on bipar-
tisan solutions that lower Americans’
costs and ensure their access to qual-
ity, affordable healthcare.
f
FOR THE PEOPLE AGENDA IN
ACTION
(Mr. SARBANES asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Speaker, last
year, the American people embraced
the Democrats’ For the People agenda:
lower healthcare costs, raise wages,
and clean up corruption.
Americans hate corruption. They
hate the idea that people are cutting
the line, breaking the rules, and get-
ting ahead, cheating on the system.
They want to see us clean that up in
Washington.
And they sent us last year with a
very, very powerful message. Three
things, they said:
The first was: Make it so that I can
get to the ballot box in America with-
out running an obstacle course. Make
it easier to register and vote in this
country.
And in H.R. 1, the For the People
Act, we did that. We put that proposal
forward to strengthen voting.
The second thing they said was:
When you get to Washington, behave
yourselves. It is that simple. Be eth-
ical, be accountable, and answer to the
people.
So we put ethics reforms into H.R. 1,
the For the People Act.
The last thing they said was: When
you get to Washington, don’t get tan-
gled up in the money. Remember where
you came from. Work for us, not the
special interests and the insiders and
the lobbyists.
And we fixed that in H.R. 1. That was
part of the For the People agenda.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO JUDGE
AVERN COHN
(Mr. LEVIN of Michigan asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to pay tribute to Judge
Avern Cohn, who turns 95 years young
today and marks 40 years of service in
the Eastern District of Michigan.
Although he has technically been on
senior status for two decades, Judge
Cohn maintains a remarkably active
docket, and his Chambers are a land-
mark for anyone interested in an as-
tounding range of history, legal doc-
trine, and public policy.
I count myself among the many
Michiganders, from all communities
and stations of life, who know room 218
is the place to go when you have a par-
ticularly thorny problem to solve or
need advice on a sensitive matter. You
just have to be ready because the judge
dispenses his wisdom unvarnished.
Judge Cohn’s work ethic is leg-
endary. In any room, he is generally
both the most well-read person on his-
tory, philosophy, culture, and also,
somehow, the most up to date on cur-
rent affairs, as he devours numerous
newspapers and websites every day.
It is hard to overstate Judge Cohn’s
impact on the law and the people who
have passed through his courtroom,
whether they be defendants, attorneys,
or staff. He has left an indelible im-
print on so many lives.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
join me in congratulating Judge Cohn
on 40 years of service and in wishing
him continued success.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
PERLMUTTER). Pursuant to clause 8 of
rule XX, the Chair will postpone fur-
ther proceedings today on motions to
suspend the rules on which a recorded
vote or the yeas and nays are ordered,
or votes objected to under clause 6 of
rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
BUILDING BLOCKS OF STEM ACT
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 1665) to direct the Na-
tional Science Foundation to support
STEM education research focused on
early childhood.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1665
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Building
Blocks of STEM Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The National Science Foundation is a
large investor in STEM education and plays
a key role in setting research and policy
agendas.
(2) While studies have found that children
who engage in scientific activities from an
early age develop positive attitudes toward
science and are more likely to pursue STEM
expertise and careers later on, the majority
of current research focuses on increasing
STEM opportunities for middle school-aged
children and older.
(3) Women remain widely underrepresented
in the STEM workforce, and this gender dis-
parity extends down through all levels of
education.
SEC. 3. SUPPORTING EARLY CHILDHOOD STEM
EDUCATION RESEARCH.
In awarding grants under the Discovery
Research PreK–12 program, the Director of
the National Science Foundation shall con-
sider the age distribution of a STEM edu-
cation research and development project to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.007 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7167
July 23, 2019
improve the focus of research and develop-
ment on early childhood education.
SEC. 4. SUPPORTING FEMALE STUDENTS IN PRE-
KINDERGARTEN THROUGH ELEMEN-
TARY SCHOOL IN STEM EDUCATION.
Section 305(d) of the American Innovation
and Competitiveness Act (42 U.S.C. 1862s–
5(d)) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) RESEARCH.—As a component of im-
proving participation of women in STEM
fields, research funded by a grant under this
subsection may include research on—
‘‘(A) the role of teacher training and pro-
fessional development, including effective
incentive structures to encourage teachers
to participate in such training and profes-
sional development, in encouraging or dis-
couraging female students in prekinder-
garten through elementary school from par-
ticipating in STEM activities;
‘‘(B) the role of teachers in shaping percep-
tions of STEM in female students in pre-
kindergarten through elementary school and
discouraging such students from partici-
pating in STEM activities;
‘‘(C) the role of other facets of the learning
environment on the willingness of female
students in prekindergarten through elemen-
tary school to participate in STEM activi-
ties, including learning materials and text-
books, classroom decorations, seating ar-
rangements, use of media and technology,
classroom culture, and gender composition
of students during group work;
‘‘(D) the role of parents and other care-
givers in encouraging or discouraging female
students in prekindergarten through elemen-
tary school from participating in STEM ac-
tivities;
‘‘(E) the types of STEM activities that en-
courage greater participation by female stu-
dents in prekindergarten through elemen-
tary school;
‘‘(F) the role of mentorship and best prac-
tices in finding and utilizing mentors;
‘‘(G) the role of informal and out-of-school
STEM learning opportunities on the percep-
tion of and participation in STEM activities
of female students in prekindergarten
through elementary school; and
‘‘(H) any other area the Director deter-
mines will carry out the goal described in
paragraph (1).’’.
SEC. 5. SUPPORTING FEMALE STUDENTS IN PRE-
KINDERGARTEN THROUGH ELEMEN-
TARY SCHOOL IN COMPUTER
SCIENCE EDUCATION.
Section 310(b) of the American Innovation
and Competitiveness Act (42 U.S.C. 1862s–
7(b)) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) USES OF FUNDS.—The tools and models
described in paragraph (2)(C) may include—
‘‘(A) offering training and professional de-
velopment programs, including summer or
academic year institutes or workshops, de-
signed to strengthen the capabilities of pre-
kindergarten and elementary school teach-
ers and to familiarize such teachers with the
role of gender bias in the classroom;
‘‘(B) offering innovative pre-service and in-
service programs that instruct teachers on
gender-inclusive practices for teaching com-
puting concepts;
‘‘(C) developing distance learning programs
for teachers or students, including devel-
oping curricular materials, play-based com-
puting activities, and other resources for the
in-service professional development of teach-
ers that are made available to teachers
through the Internet;
‘‘(D) developing or adapting prekinder-
garten and elementary school computer
science curricular materials that incor-
porate contemporary research on the science
of learning, particularly with respect to gen-
der inclusion;
‘‘(E) developing and offering gender-inclu-
sive computer science enrichment programs
for students, including after-school and sum-
mer programs;
‘‘(F) providing mentors for female students
in prekindergarten through elementary
school in person and through the Internet to
support such students in participating in
computer science activities;
‘‘(G) engaging female students in pre-
kindergarten through elementary school and
their guardians about the difficulties faced
by such students to maintain an interest in
participating in computer science activities;
‘‘(H) acquainting female students in pre-
kindergarten through elementary school
with careers in computer science and encour-
aging such students to consider careers in
such field;
‘‘(I) developing tools to evaluate activities
conducted under this subsection; and
‘‘(J) any other tools or models the Director
determines will accomplish the aim de-
scribed in paragraph (2)(C).’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rials on H.R. 1665, the bill now under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support
H.R. 1665, the Building Blocks of STEM
Act.
Employment in computer and infor-
mation technology jobs is projected to
grow faster than any other occupation
between the years of 2016 and 2026.
Despite the opportunity for good,
high-paying jobs when they graduate,
women earned only 19 percent of under-
graduate computer science degrees in
2016.
Disturbingly, the ratio of women to
men earning computer science degrees
actually declined between 2006 and 2016.
H.R. 1665 devotes resources to ensure
girls in prekindergarten and elemen-
tary school are exposed to STEM ac-
tivities and encouraged to pursue
STEM studies from a young age, before
many are dissuaded or discouraged
from doing so.
The legislation includes a focus on
computer science education to help en-
sure we will have the talent to fill the
jobs of the future.
We must act now to increase the par-
ticipation of women in STEM, and it
starts with the focus on early child-
hood education.
Mr. Speaker, I want to commend my
colleagues, Representatives STEVENS
and BAIRD, for their leadership in this
legislation, and I urge my colleagues to
support it. I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, research shows that
early exposure to science, technology,
engineering, mathematics, and com-
puter science has positive impacts on a
broad spectrum of student outcomes.
For example, early math knowledge
not only predicts later math success; it
also predicts later reading achieve-
ment.
Studies have also found that children
who engage in scientific activities from
an early age develop positive attitudes
towards science and are more likely to
pursue STEM expertise and careers.
H.R. 1665, the Building Blocks of
STEM Act, directs the National
Science Foundation to support STEM
education research focused on early
childhood and to award grants to en-
courage young girls to pursue com-
puter science learning.
Across the country, the share of
STEM jobs has expanded significantly,
with STEM employment increasing
from 9.7 million to 17.3 million from
1990 to 2018.
Data suggests that this trend will
continue, and the U.S. is struggling to
meet that demand. To meet it, we must
engage children—particularly young
girls—in STEM in early childhood and
sustain that interest as they grow.
More graduates with STEM degrees
means more advanced American tech-
nologies and a more robust economy.
But it is not just about the economy.
STEM graduates have the potential to
develop technologies that could save
thousands of lives, jump-start a new in-
dustry, or even discover new worlds.
By supporting more hands-on STEM
engagement for younger ages, we are
supporting and investing in America’s
future.
In the 115th Congress, the House
passed this legislation unanimously,
and I hope it will do so again today. I
want to thank Representative BAIRD
and Representative STEVENS for re-
introducing this bipartisan bill and
moving it forward.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Ms. STEVENS).
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 1665, the
Building Blocks of STEM Act, which
supports STEM education research fo-
cused on early childhood education.
There is a lot of discussion about the
gender disparity in the STEM work-
force and the leaky pipeline that wid-
ens the gap as women and girls con-
tinue through school.
Although women make up half of the
U.S. workforce, they make up less than
a quarter of those employed in STEM
occupations.
The Building Blocks of STEM Act ad-
dresses these disparities by ensuring an
equitable distribution of STEM edu-
cation research funding for projects fo-
cused on young children and helping us
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.002 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7168 July 23, 2019
understand why girls are encouraged or
discouraged from participating in
STEM activities.
It also ensures that the National
Science Foundation grants are awarded
to entities that are working in partner-
ship, such as research universities with
local education agencies, to increase
participation in computer science edu-
cation.
Computer science is particularly
struggling to recruit and retain
women, who make up less than 18 per-
cent of the computer science work-
force. The number is trending down,
not up.
b 1415
This has a ripple effect on our coun-
try’s ability to fill the high-skilled jobs
of today and tomorrow. We need the
next generation of young women to
pursue STEM degrees, and we are not
seeing the numbers we need.
It is critical that we continue to
work on STEM opportunities for mid-
dle-school-aged children and older, but
we also need to ensure our Federal re-
sources start at the beginning and sup-
port research on STEM education of
younger students, starting at the be-
ginning of their educational career.
We know this all too well in Michi-
gan. We know the structural and cul-
tural barriers that exist for women in-
terested in STEM from a very young
age. Lack of support, unconscious or
conscious gender bias, and stereotype
threats are just a few.
In several studies, when children
were asked to draw a mathematician or
a scientist, girls were twice as likely to
draw a man as they were a woman,
while boys almost universally drew
men, often in a lab coat.
The science is clear that children
who engage in scientific activities from
an early age, before middle school, de-
velop positive attitudes toward science
and are more likely to pursue STEM
experiences and career opportunities
later on.
We need to be working toward inter-
ventions to increase the number of
girls and women in these fields, and
that is why I am so proud to sponsor
this bill.
I thank Chairwoman JOHNSON for her
leadership on the House Science Com-
mittee toward increasing STEM oppor-
tunities for women, particularly for
women of color.
I introduced this bipartisan legisla-
tion with my colleague, Congressman
JIM BAIRD, along with our counterparts
in the Senate, Senators JACKY ROSEN
and SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO. I urge my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle
and in both Chambers of Congress to
support this bill and send this impor-
tant legislation swiftly to the Presi-
dent’s desk.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Indiana
(Mr. BAIRD).
Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 1665, the Building
Blocks of STEM Act.
I was proud to join my colleague, the
chair of the Research and Technology
Subcommittee, Representative HALEY
STEVENS, in introducing this legisla-
tion.
As one of only two Members of Con-
gress with a Ph.D. in science, I under-
stand how important it is to start chil-
dren off on the right foot by teaching
STEM concepts and principles at an
early age. Research shows that kids as
young as 1, 2, or 3 are capable of ab-
sorbing STEM concepts. Children have
a natural curiosity that can be fostered
into an interest in science, technology,
engineering, math, and computer
science.
Equally important is ensuring that
we get more girls involved in the
STEM fields so that we can have as
many people as possible contributing
to the knowledge base of our society.
H.R. 1665 directs the NSF to fund re-
search and studies that focus on early
childhood and young women in STEM
at the K–12 level. Investing in children
early ensures that we are laying the
groundwork to develop young
innovators in STEM.
Hoosiers know that to grow our Na-
tion, we need everyone involved. This
bill helps ensure that we are preparing
students to fill the jobs of the future,
continuing America’s global leadership
in science and technology.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
support this bill.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I have no more requests for time. I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume to
close.
The love of learning starts young,
and the Building Blocks of STEM bill
promotes this by prioritizing a focus on
early childhood STEM education. It
gives us the opportunity to encourage
girls to get and stay engaged in STEM,
helping us to improve our educational
programs and diversify the STEM
workforce.
I, again, thank Representative BAIRD
and Representative STEVENS for re-
introducing this bipartisan bill.
As the House did in 2015, I encourage
this body to support and pass this leg-
islation unanimously.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking
member and the Members on both sides
of the aisle for their support of this
bill. I urge its passage, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1665.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
AMERICAN MANUFACTURING
LEADERSHIP ACT
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 2397) to amend the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology Act to make changes to the im-
plementation of the network for manu-
facturing innovation, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2397
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘American
Manufacturing Leadership Act’’.
SEC. 2. CHANGES IN IMPLEMENTATION OF MANU-
FACTURING USA.
Section 34 of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C.
278s) is amended—
(1) in the section heading by striking ‘‘NET-
WORK FOR MANUFACTURING INNOVATION’’ and
inserting ‘‘MANUFACTURING USA NETWORK’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘centers for manufacturing
innovation’’ each place it appears in sub-
sections (a)(3)(B), (b)(1), (d), (g), and (i) and
inserting ‘‘Manufacturing USA institutes’’;
(3) by striking ‘‘center for manufacturing
innovation’’ each place it appears in sub-
sections (d)(1), (d)(4)(E), (g), and (h)(1) and in-
serting ‘‘Manufacturing USA institute’’;
(4) by striking ‘‘center’’ each place it ap-
pears in subsection (d)(2), (d)(4)(E), and (d)(5)
and inserting ‘‘Manufacturing USA insti-
tute’’;
(5) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘NETWORK FOR MANUFACTURING INNOVATION
PROGRAM’’ and inserting ‘‘MANUFACTURING
USA PROGRAM’’;
(B) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘ ‘Network
for Manufacturing Innovation Program’ ’’
and inserting ‘‘ ‘Manufacturing USA Pro-
gram’ ’’;
(C) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (G), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(ii) in subparagraph (H), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(I) to contribute to the development of re-
gional manufacturing innovation clusters
across the Nation.’’; and
(D) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ‘‘Net-
work for Manufacturing Innovation’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Manufacturing USA Network’’;
(6) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘NETWORK FOR MANUFACTURING INNOVATION’’
and inserting ‘‘MANUFACTURING USA NET-
WORK’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘ ‘Network
for Manufacturing Innovation’ ’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘ ‘Manufacturing USA Network’ ’’;
(7) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘CENTERS FOR MANUFACTURING INNOVATION’’
and inserting ‘‘MANUFACTURING USA INSTI-
TUTES’’;
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘ ‘center for manufacturing
innovation’ is a center’’ and inserting ‘‘ ‘Man-
ufacturing USA institute’ is an institute’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘Secretary’’ each place it
appears in subparagraph (C) and (D) and in-
serting ‘‘agency head’’;
(C) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘center for manufacturing
innovation’’ and inserting ‘‘Manufacturing
USA institute’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.010 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7169
July 23, 2019
(ii) by striking subparagraph (E);
(iii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A),
(B), (C), and (D) as clauses (i), (ii), (iii), and
(iv), respectively, and moving the margins of
such clauses (as so redesignated) two ems to
the right;
(iv) in the matter preceding clause (i) (as
so redesignated), by striking ‘‘Activities of a
Manufacturing USA institute may include’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) REQUIRED ACTIVITIES.—Activities of a
Manufacturing USA institute shall include’’;
(v) in clause (i), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘cost, time, and risk’’ and inserting
‘‘cost, time, or risk’’;
(vi) in clause (ii), as so redesignated, by in-
serting before the period at the end the fol-
lowing: ‘‘addressing workforce needs through
training and education programs at all ap-
propriate education levels, including pro-
grams on applied engineering’’;
(vii) in clause (iii), as so redesignated, by
inserting before the period at the end the fol-
lowing: ‘‘, as appropriate’’;
(viii) in clause (iv), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘women and minority owned’’ and
inserting ‘‘women, minority, and veteran
owned’’
(ix) by inserting after clause (iv) (as so re-
designated) the following:
‘‘(v) Development of roadmaps or
leveraging of existing roadmaps with respect
to technology areas being pursued by that
Manufacturing USA institute that take into
account the research and development un-
dertaken at other Manufacturing USA insti-
tutes and Federal agencies with respect to
such areas.’’; and
(x) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) PERMISSIBLE ACTIVITIES.—Activities of
a Manufacturing USA institute may include
such other activities as the agency head, in
consultation with Federal departments and
agencies whose missions contribute to, or
are affected by, advanced manufacturing,
considers consistent with the purposes de-
scribed in subsection (a)(2).’’; and
(D) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘cen-
ters for manufacturing innovation’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Manufacturing USA institutes’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘cen-
ter for manufacturing innovation’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Manufacturing USA institute’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) APPLICATION.—Effective beginning on
the date of the enactment of the American
Manufacturing Leadership Act, an institute
shall be subject to subsections (a)(2), (c), and
(d) in the same manner and to the same ex-
tent as such provisions apply to a Manufac-
turing USA institute established pursuant to
this section if such institute—
‘‘(i)(I) is, as of such date of enactment, con-
sidered a Manufacturing USA institute under
subparagraph (A) or recognized as a Manu-
facturing USA institute under subparagraph
(B); and
‘‘(II) as of such date of enactment, receives
Federal financial assistance under sub-
section (d) or otherwise consistent with the
purposes of this section; or
‘‘(ii) is under pending agency review for
such recognition as of such date of enact-
ment.’’;
(8) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Secretary’’ and inserting
‘‘agency head’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘for a period of not less
than 5 and not more than 7 years’’ after ‘‘fi-
nancial assistance’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘Sec-
retary’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘agency head’’;
(C) by striking paragraph (3);
(D) in paragraph (4)—
(i) by amending subparagraph (A) to read
as follows:
‘‘(A) COMPETITIVE, MERIT REVIEW.—In
awarding financial assistance under para-
graph (1), the agency head shall—
‘‘(i) use a competitive, merit review proc-
ess that includes peer review by a diverse
group of individuals with relevant expertise
from both the private and public sectors; and
‘‘(ii) ensure that the technology focus of a
Manufacturing USA institute does not sub-
stantially duplicate the technology focus of
any other Manufacturing USA institute.’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking
‘‘Secretary’’ and inserting ‘‘agency head’’;
(iii) by amending subparagraph (C) to read
as follows:
‘‘(C) PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT, TRANS-
PARENCY, AND ACCOUNTABILITY.—For each
award of financial assistance under para-
graph (1), the agency head shall develop and
implement metrics-based performance stand-
ards to assess the effectiveness of activities
funded in making progress toward the pur-
poses of the Program, including the effec-
tiveness of Manufacturing USA institutes in
advancing technology readiness levels or
manufacturing readiness levels.’’;
(iv) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘the
Secretary shall’’ and all that follows through
‘‘collaborate’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘the agency head, in coordination with the
National Program Office, as appropriate,
shall collaborate’’; and
(v) in subparagraph (E)—
(I) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
striking ‘‘Secretary’’ and inserting ‘‘agency
head’’; and
(II) in clause (x), by striking ‘‘center for
manufacturing’’ and inserting ‘‘Manufac-
turing USA institute’’; and
(E) in paragraph (5)—
(i) by amending subparagraph (A) to read
as follows:
‘‘(A) TERM OF AWARD.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), an
award made to a Manufacturing USA insti-
tute may be renewed for an additional period
not to exceed the duration of the original
funding award, subject to a rigorous merit
review. In awarding additional funds, the
agency head shall consider the extent to
which the institute has made progress in
achieving the purposes described in sub-
section (a) and carrying out the activities
specified in subsection (c)(2).
‘‘(ii) EXISTING INSTITUTES.—Notwith-
standing clause (i), an institute already in
existence or undergoing a renewal process on
the date of enactment of the American Man-
ufacturing Leadership Act—
‘‘(I) may continue to receive support for
the duration of the original funding award
beginning on the date of establishment of
that institute; and
‘‘(II) shall be eligible for renewal of that
funding pursuant to clause (i).’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘Sec-
retary’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘agency head’’; and
(iii) by striking subparagraph (C);
(9) by amending subsection (e) to read as
follows:
‘‘(e) GRANT PROGRAM FOR PUBLIC SERVICE
ACTIVITIES FOR MANUFACTURING USA INSTI-
TUTES WITHOUT FEDERAL FUNDING.—The Sec-
retary may award grants on a competitive
basis to Manufacturing USA institutes that
are no longer recognized as such under sub-
section (c)(3)(C) to carry out workforce de-
velopment, outreach to small- and medium-
sized manufacturers, and other activities
that—
‘‘(1) are determined by the Secretary to be
in the national interest; and
‘‘(2) are unlikely to receive private sector
financial support.’’;
(10) in subsection (f)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Network
for Manufacturing Innovation Program’’ and
inserting ‘‘Manufacturing USA Program’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(ii) in subparagraph (F), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting a semicolon;
and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(G) to work with non-sponsoring Federal
agencies to explore and develop options for
sponsoring Manufacturing USA institutes at
such agencies;
‘‘(H) to work with sponsoring Federal
agencies to develop and implement network-
wide performance goals with measurable tar-
gets and timelines;
‘‘(I) to help develop pilot programs that
may be implemented by the Manufacturing
USA institutes to address specific purposes
of the Program, including to accelerate tech-
nology transfer to the private sector; and
‘‘(J) to identify and disseminate best prac-
tices for workforce education and training
across Manufacturing USA institutes and
further enhance collaboration among Manu-
facturing USA institutes in developing and
implementing such practices.’’; and
(C) by amending paragraph (5) to read as
follows:
‘‘(5) HOLLINGS MANUFACTURING EXTENSION
PARTNERSHIP.—The Secretary shall ensure
that the National Program Office incor-
porates the Hollings Manufacturing Exten-
sion Partnership into Program planning to
ensure—
‘‘(A) significant outreach to, participation
of, and engagement of small- and medium-
sized manufacturers in Manufacturing USA
institutes across the entirety of the manu-
facturing supply chain; and
‘‘(B) that the results of the Program, in-
cluding technologies developed by the Pro-
gram, reach small- and medium-sized manu-
facturers and that such entities have access
to technical assistance, as appropriate, in de-
ploying those technologies.’’;
(11) in subsection (g)—
(A) in paragraph (1)(A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and all
that follows through ‘‘report to the Sec-
retary’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘Each
agency head shall require each recipient of
financial assistance from that agency under
subsection (d)(1) and any other institutes
considered to be Manufacturing USA insti-
tutes pursuant to subsection (c)(3) to annu-
ally submit to the appropriate agency head a
report’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘Each agency head shall submit such reports
to the Secretary.’’; and
(B) by amending paragraph (3) to read as
follows:
‘‘(3) ASSESSMENTS BY GAO.—
‘‘(A) ASSESSMENTS.—Not less frequently
than once every 3 years, the Comptroller
General shall submit to Congress an assess-
ment of the operation of the Program during
the most recent 3-year period, including an
assessment of the progress made towards
achieving the goals specified in the national
strategic plan for advanced manufacturing
required under section 102(b)(7) of the Amer-
ica COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010
(42 U.S.C. 6622(b)(7)).
‘‘(B) ELEMENTS.—Each assessment sub-
mitted under subparagraph (A) shall include,
for the period covered by the report—
‘‘(i) a review of the management, coordina-
tion, and industry utility of the Program;
‘‘(ii) an assessment of the extent to which
the Program has furthered the purposes de-
scribed in subsection (a)(2);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.003 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7170 July 23, 2019
‘‘(iii) such recommendations for legislative
and administrative action as the Comp-
troller General considers appropriate to im-
prove the Program; and
‘‘(iv) an assessment as to whether any
prior recommendations for improvement
made by the Comptroller General have been
implemented or adopted.’’;
(12) in subsection (h)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (e)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection (k)’’;
and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7) COLLABORATIONS WITH OTHER FEDERAL
AGENCIES.—The Secretary shall collaborate
with Federal agencies whose missions con-
tribute to, or are affected by, advanced man-
ufacturing to identify and leverage existing
resources at such Federal agencies to assist
Manufacturing USA institutes in carrying
out the purposes of the program specified in
subsection (a)(2). Such existing resources
may include programs—
‘‘(A) at the Department of Labor relating
to labor and apprenticeships;
‘‘(B) at the Economic Development Admin-
istration relating to regional innovation,
such as the Regional Innovation Strategies
program;
‘‘(C) at the Department of Education relat-
ing to workforce development, education,
training, and retraining;
‘‘(D) at the Department of Defense relating
to procurement and other authorities of the
Department of Defense;
‘‘(E) at the Food and Drug Administration
relating to biopharmaceutical manufac-
turing;
‘‘(F) at the National Science Foundation,
including the Advanced Technological Edu-
cation program;
‘‘(G) at the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration relating to procure-
ment, workforce development, education,
training, and retraining; and
‘‘(H) additional programs that the Sec-
retary determines are appropriate to support
the activities of existing Manufacturing USA
institutes.’’; and
(13) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(j) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) AGENCY HEAD.—The term ‘agency head’
means the head of any Executive agency (as
defined in section 105 of title 5, United States
Code), excluding the Department of Defense,
that is providing financial assistance for a
Manufacturing USA institute, including the
Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of
Energy.
‘‘(2) REGIONAL INNOVATION CLUSTER.—The
term ‘regional innovation cluster’ has the
meaning given such term in section 27(f)(1)
of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722(f)(1)).
‘‘(k) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(1) NIST.—There are authorized to be ap-
propriated to the Secretary to carry out this
section $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024.
‘‘(2) RESERVATION.—Of the amount made
available under paragraph (1) the Secretary
shall reserve not less than $5,000,000 for the
National Office of the Manufacturing USA
Program established under subsection (f).
‘‘(3) DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.—For Manu-
facturing USA institutes operated by the De-
partment of Energy, there are authorized to
be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy—
‘‘(A) $70,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020,
2021, and 2022; and
‘‘(B) $84,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023
and 2024.’’.
SEC. 3. INCREASED EMPHASIS ON REGIONAL IN-
NOVATION WITHIN AND EXTENSION
OF REGIONAL INNOVATION PRO-
GRAM.
Section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler Tech-
nology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722)
is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(2) by adding at the end
the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(I) Developing relationships at the local
level to build supply chains and use existing
capabilities of entities operating on that
level to bring economic growth to suburban
and rural areas.’’; and
(2) in subsection (g)(2) by striking ‘‘2019’’
and inserting ‘‘2024’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on H.R.
2397, the bill now under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I rise in support of H.R. 2397, the
American Manufacturing Leadership
Act.
I thank Ms. STEVENS for her leader-
ship in introducing this bipartisan bill
and for her commitment to developing
legislation that will help strengthen
America’s manufacturing base.
I also thank my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle who have worked
with us to develop and advance this im-
portant legislation.
Back in 2014, I was proud to support
the original Revitalize American Man-
ufacturing Innovation Act that estab-
lished the Manufacturing USA pro-
gram. That bipartisan bill was spon-
sored by TOM REED and JOE KENNEDY
and was signed into law by President
Obama.
Since its inception 5 years ago, the
Manufacturing USA program has
grown to support 14 manufacturing in-
stitutes focused on a variety of tech-
nology areas, ranging from 3D printing
to groundbreaking energy-saving man-
ufacturing processes.
H.R. 2397 would ensure the continued
success of the Manufacturing USA pro-
gram by reauthorizing the program for
another 5 years and by allowing agen-
cies to renew funding for institutes
after reviewing the institutes’ progress
on clear performance goals.
This bill also strengthens the ability
of the institutes to leverage existing
programs all across the Federal Gov-
ernment to improve their role in re-
gional innovation, education and train-
ing, defense technology procurement,
and other activities.
Today, manufacturing remains a
vital component of our Nation’s econ-
omy and national security. H.R. 2397
will help to grow our manufacturing
industry and to bring along with it
many good-paying jobs for our work-
force.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I rise today in support of H.R. 2397,
the American Manufacturing Leader-
ship Act. This legislation reauthorizes
and amends the bipartisan Revitalize
American Manufacturing Innovation
Act of 2014.
Nationally, manufacturing supports
nearly 13 million American jobs, or
roughly 9 percent of the workforce, and
represents about 11 percent of the
American economy. Most of these
firms are small manufacturers, sup-
porting local economies by providing
well-paying jobs.
Technology will continue to change
this sector dramatically. Today’s man-
ufacturing floor looks far different
from the assembly lines of the past,
and the skills needed by manufacturing
workers will continue to change.
Innovative processes, such as addi-
tive manufacturing, are transforming
the future of manufacturing. It is es-
sential that these technologies are
transferred to and adopted by all U.S.
manufacturers so that we remain glob-
ally competitive and the number one
destination for companies looking to
carry out advanced manufacturing.
With manufacturers in the United
States performing 64 percent of all pri-
vate sector R&D in the Nation, it is
important that we capitalize on these
investments and reauthorize the net-
work of public-private partnerships es-
tablished in this act, which bolster
manufacturing innovation.
This bill includes important reforms
to better coordinate centers for manu-
facturing innovation funded by all rel-
evant agencies and incorporates rec-
ommendations made by the Govern-
ment Accountability Office to improve
management. This bill also prioritizes
manufacturing workforce development
and outreach to small and medium-
sized manufacturers.
I thank Representative STEVENS and
Representative BALDERSON for intro-
ducing this legislation and for their
work in ushering it through the
Science Committee on a bipartisan
basis. I encourage my colleagues to
support this legislation.
I would note to my colleague that I
have no other speakers so, as I reserve
my time, when the gentlewoman is pre-
pared, I will close.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Ms. STEVENS).
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I am de-
lighted to have been joined by my col-
leagues to introduce H.R. 2397, the
American Manufacturing Leadership
Act. I thank Chairwoman JOHNSON,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.003 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7171
July 23, 2019
Ranking Member LUCAS, Representa-
tives BALDERSON and GONZALEZ, and
the sponsors of the original Revitalize
American Manufacturing Innovation
Act, Representatives KENNEDY and
REED, for their partnership in leading
this legislation and for being such
great champions for advanced manu-
facturing.
Today is a great day. It is a great
legislative day and a great day for
American manufacturing, for innova-
tion, for our workforce, and for the ef-
fective utilization of our Federal Gov-
ernment to advance, grow, and com-
pete.
Today, the American Manufacturing
Leadership Act reauthorizes the Manu-
facturing USA program through bipar-
tisan support and the willpower of our
Federal Government.
What began in Youngstown, Ohio, as
a pilot initiative, the vision of a lab
that would usher in 3D printing appli-
cations, workforce training programs,
and the transfer of new technologies
across the country and into the supply
chain, is now one of the 14 institutes
encompassing various research con-
centrations. Those include Lightweight
Innovations for Tomorrow Institute lo-
cated in Detroit; REMADE Institute in
Rochester, New York; Digital Manufac-
turing Institute in Chicago; and
PowerAmerica in North Carolina for
battery technology.
This work is in my blood, and it is
part of why I came to Congress. It is
also imperative for our role in global
competition and for the investment in
industrial policy and strategy vis-a-vis
sound economic policy.
We will ensure that Manufacturing
USA can continue to contribute to the
growth of our domestic advanced man-
ufacturing base and an advanced manu-
facturing workforce to fill the high-
skilled jobs of the future.
AMLA authorizes agencies to renew
their institutes for an additional period
of funding following a fair review of the
institutes’ progress. It also strengthens
the important partnership between
Manufacturing USA and the Manufac-
turing Extension Partnership program,
as well as other relevant programs
across the Federal Government.
Finally, the bill authorizes funding
to allow the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, NIST, and
the Department of Energy to continue
funding their current institutes and
stand up at least one additional insti-
tute in fiscal year 2020 and each year
thereafter.
The real strength of these institutes
lies in the consortium model, with the
private partners contributing at least
50 percent of the funding.
In 2017 alone, Manufacturing USA
raised almost $180 million in invest-
ments from the private sector from
nearly 1,300 manufacturers, univer-
sities, community colleges, govern-
ment labs, and NGOs.
They are only able to do this because
the Federal Government sets the table
and provides support in the planning,
development, management, and oper-
ation of each institute.
Manufacturing USA institutes pro-
vide critical U.S. global leadership in
advanced manufacturing.
b 1430
The institutes serve as a unique col-
laborative platform for industry and
academia to engage in best-in-class ex-
pertise to solve challenges and usher in
new innovations.
The program is making, I believe, in-
credible strides in workforce develop-
ment for the future and existing work-
force. For example, in 2017, the LIFT
institute in Detroit reached over
160,000 students across the country
through innovative web-based cur-
ricula, as well as in-person training
programs. And the Manufacturing In-
stitute in Chicago, the digital manu-
facturing lab, has used a taxonomic ap-
proach to codifying job roles specific to
the changing nature of advanced manu-
facturing brought on by the Internet of
Things.
The United States will never be able
to compete by bringing back the manu-
facturing of yesterday. We can cele-
brate our milestones—50 years since we
landed on the Moon—as we usher in the
innovations to improve the lives and
outcomes of our manufacturing base
for the next 50 years.
The American Manufacturing Lead-
ership Act has already been endorsed
by the Information Technology and In-
novation Foundation, the American
Society for Mechanical Engineers, the
Bipartisan Policy Center, and the
American Association of Manufactur-
ers.
To the small and midsized manufac-
turers, to the suppliers, to the complex
web of craftsmanship, to the future en-
gineer, to the computer programmer,
to the student dreaming in Livonia,
Michigan, about what they are going to
do, this one is for you.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman
from Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY).
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairwoman for her extraordinary
leadership on this issue for years, for
the effort that she led on getting this
passed in Congress several years ago,
and her entire staff, the staff on both
sides of the aisle when this bill was ini-
tially passed.
I also want to thank Congresswoman
STEVENS for her incredible enthusiasm
and dedication to workers across
Michigan, across her district, but for
never losing sight of what manufac-
turing means for this country, what
this country was built on, and the men
and women who make it all possible.
Mr. Speaker, a few years ago, when I
introduced the Revitalize American
Manufacturing and Innovation Act, it
was guided by one thing: the people in
my district. They were workers from
Fall River to Taunton, to Milford, to
Newton, who built more than just prod-
ucts on factory floors. They built en-
tire companies; they built commu-
nities; and they built families.
Those same workers have made this
legislation, this national manufac-
turing network, successful over the
past 5 years because they have brought
their ideas, their determination, and
their passion and pushed our manufac-
turing industry forward. They have re-
fused to leave anyone behind.
Centers like the Advanced Func-
tional Fabrics of America, based at
MIT, the research now is focused on de-
fense and health but has consequences
in a broad variety of additional innova-
tions, has over 100 members from var-
ious States across this country pio-
neering new technologies that will
make their way into American homes
and make our soldiers and troops safer
along the way.
By collaborating with local aca-
demia, especially with community col-
leges and vocational-technical schools,
those workers are passing their skills,
their expertise and experiences to a
new generation of men and women who
will follow in their footsteps.
As the roots of these institutes con-
tinue to expand deep into communities,
from Cambridge to Youngstown to De-
troit and San Jose, American workers
will build new companies, stronger
communities, and secure families from
the abundant resources that we
produce together.
Above all else, the workers who lift
our economy to great heights on fac-
tory floors deserve an economy that
works just as hard for them as they do
for our Nation. I urge all my colleagues
to support this reauthorization.
I congratulate Ms. STEVENS for work
well done, and I thank the chairwoman
again.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume to
close.
I rise again in support of H.R. 2397,
the American Manufacturing Leader-
ship Act. This bipartisan legislation
takes important steps to reform the
Revitalize American Manufacturing
and Innovation Act of 2014.
It requires greater coordination
among the centers for manufacturing
innovation and incorporating GAO rec-
ommendations on the management of
these centers. Most importantly, this
bill prioritizes manufacturing work-
force development and outreach to
small- and medium-sized manufactur-
ers.
These public-private partnerships
combine the technical knowledge base
supported by our excellent universities
and research institutions with innova-
tion leadership supported by our pri-
vate industries, both large and small.
These centers provide the U.S. with the
opportunity to lead the world in ad-
vanced manufacturing competitive-
ness.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I simply urge all Members on both
sides of the aisle to support the bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.013 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7172 July 23, 2019
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2397, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to amend the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology Act to make changes to the im-
plementation of the Manufacturing
USA Network, and for other pur-
poses.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EXPANDING FINDINGS FOR FED-
ERAL OPIOID RESEARCH AND
TREATMENT ACT
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 3153) to direct the Direc-
tor of the National Science Foundation
to support research on opioid addic-
tion, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3153
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Expanding Findings for Federal Opioid
Research and Treatment Act’’ or the ‘‘EF-
FORT Act’’.
(b) FINDINGS.—The Congress finds that—
(1) research gaps currently exist in the pre-
vention and treatment of opioid addiction;
(2) the National Science Foundation’s re-
search on opioid addiction has increased un-
derstanding of the neuroscience of addiction,
substance abuse intervention, the role of il-
licit supply networks, the secondary effects
on families, the use of technology to address
the opioid epidemic, and options for alter-
native, non-addictive therapeutics for pain;
and
(3) the National Science Foundation and
the National Institutes of Health have recog-
nized that fundamental questions in basic,
clinical, and translational research would
benefit greatly from multidisciplinary ap-
proaches and collaboration.
SEC. 2. NSF SUPPORT OF RESEARCH ON OPIOID
ADDICTION.
The Director of the National Science Foun-
dation, in consultation with the Director of
the National Institutes of Health, shall sup-
port merit-reviewed and competitively
awarded research on the science of opioid ad-
diction.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on H.R.
3153, the bill now under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I rise in support of H.R. 3153, the EF-
FORT Act.
The effect of the opioid epidemic on
communities across our country is
clear. Research from the CDC shows
that, on average, 130 Americans die
every day after overdosing on illegal
opioids. In 2017, approximately 1.7 mil-
lion Americans had a substance abuse
disorder related to opioids. Those sta-
tistics are staggering, and the effects
of this problem on our communities is
heartbreaking.
While past and ongoing research con-
ducted by the National Science Foun-
dation has greatly increased our
knowledge of opioid addiction, more
work, of course, is needed. The basic
research authorized in H.R. 3153 will
extend and expand our understanding
of opioid addiction and its impact on
our communities and allow us to de-
velop more effective evidence-based
policies to address this epidemic.
I commend my colleagues, Rep-
resentative WEXTON and Representa-
tive BAIRD, for their leadership on this
good, bipartisan legislation and urge
my colleagues to support it, and I re-
serve the balance of my time
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
H.R. 3153, the Expanding Findings for
Federal Opioid Research and Treat-
ment, or EFFORT, Act identifies gaps
that exist in research of the prevention
and treatment of opioid addiction and
authorizes the National Science Foun-
dation to support research grants in
these areas.
This legislation will help drive re-
search to understand one of the most
important issues facing our country:
How do we stop the opioid addiction
crisis?
Congress must do all we can to com-
bat opioid abuse and the continuing in-
crease in opioid-related deaths.
In 2017, more than 70,000 people died
from drug overdoses, and approxi-
mately 68 percent of those deaths in-
volved opioids. With my home State of
Oklahoma being one of the leading
States in opioid prescriptions, I believe
supporting programs intended to im-
prove our understanding of the science
of addiction and combat this crisis is
just common sense.
I thank Representative JENNIFER
WEXTON and Representative JIM BAIRD
for their bipartisan work on this bill.
Opioid addiction affects too many in
our communities, and I applaud this ef-
fort to support more basic research in
the science of addiction.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage all the
Members of this body to support this
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Virginia (Ms. WEXTON).
Ms. WEXTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairwoman for yielding and for
her leadership on the very fine bills we
have before the House here this after-
noon.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of my bill, H.R. 3153, the bipartisan EF-
FORT Act, which would expand Fed-
eral research on opioid addiction.
Since 2011, more than 200 people in
the northern Shenandoah Valley of
Virginia have lost their lives due to an
opioid overdose. Some of the highest
numbers of children being born in Vir-
ginia with neonatal abstinence syn-
drome have been from my district.
But these numbers don’t tell the
heartbreaking devastation the opioid
crisis has wrought for families who
have lost their mother, their father,
their brother, their sister, or their
child. Meanwhile, our law enforcement
officers and first responders are strug-
gling with the trauma and burnout
that comes from being on the front
lines of so many tragic and needless
deaths of their friends and neighbors.
Tens of thousands of Americans and
more than 1,000 Virginians are dying
every year from overdoses. Addiction is
an illness, and fighting the crisis effec-
tively requires adequate research and
funding. The EFFORT Act will help to
do this by directing the National
Science Foundation to support re-
search on the science of opioid addic-
tion.
The NSF has done an exceptional job
in establishing some of the
foundational understanding on opioid
addiction, including research regarding
the use of technology to address the
crisis, the secondary effects on fami-
lies, and options for alternative thera-
peutics for pain. And while this re-
search has significantly increased our
understanding of addiction, research
gaps remain in a wide range of dis-
ciplines, including, for example, social
and behavioral issues such as stigma,
socioeconomic status, or treatment ac-
cessibility.
The NSF has a unique ability to help
us close some of these gaps and, in
turn, to help us develop solutions. By
expanding the NSF’s research on opioid
addiction both within the agency, as
well as jointly with the National Insti-
tutes of Health when needed, we can
more effectively integrate clinical and
basic research, obtain a broader under-
standing of the science of opioid addic-
tion and its impact, and have a more
comprehensive approach to tackling
the crisis.
As a founding member of the bipar-
tisan Freshmen Working Group on Ad-
diction, I have worked to be a strong
advocate for addiction prevention and
recovery efforts, and I am pleased to
have introduced this legislation with
my fellow freshman colleague from In-
diana, Dr. BAIRD. I thank him for his
leadership on this issue, as well.
I urge my colleagues to support this
important bipartisan legislation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.015 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7173
July 23, 2019
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Indiana
(Mr. BAIRD).
Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman from Oklahoma for yield-
ing.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
3153, the Expanding Findings for Fed-
eral Opioid Research and Treatment
Act, also known as the EFFORT Act.
The opioid crisis has, tragically, de-
stroyed the lives of many Hoosiers. Ac-
cording to the most recent available
data from the National Institute on
Drug Abuse, in 2017, drug overdose
deaths in Indiana increased by 221⁄2 per-
cent from the previous year. Indiana’s
2017 rate of overdose deaths at over 29
per 100,000 was significantly higher
than the national average.
This epidemic does not discriminate,
and we must use evidence-based policy
to ensure the health and well-being of
current and future generations. The
National Science Foundation’s re-
search has increased what we know
about addiction, and while this re-
search is at the top of its class, gaps
still remain in the prevention and
treatment of opioid addiction.
b 1445
That is why I joined my colleague,
Congresswoman WEXTON, to introduce
the EFFORT Act, directing the Na-
tional Science Foundation, in consulta-
tion with the National Institutes of
Health, to support merit-reviewed and
competitively awarded research on the
science of opioid addiction.
By expanding basic research, we can
promote collaboration and further un-
derstand how to better treat the mul-
tiple aspects of the opioid addiction.
I hope we can see an end to this crisis
soon, and I am proud that Congress is
taking action to fight back.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Ms. STEVENS).
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 3153, the EF-
FORT Act.
The opioid epidemic is one of the
deadliest public health emergencies of
our time, and it affects not just those
addicted to opioids, but everyone
around them as well.
The numbers describing this epi-
demic are truly staggering. According
to the CDC, between 1999 and 2017, al-
most 400,000 Americans died from an
opioid-related overdose. These statis-
tics have worsened over time, with the
CDC reporting that the number of
Americans who died as the result of an
opioid-involved overdose in 2017 was six
times higher than the number who died
in 1999.
My home State of Michigan has been
hard-hit by this epidemic. Between 2016
and 2017, drug overdose deaths in
Michigan increased by almost 14 per-
cent, but it was not the only State suf-
fering in this way.
In the same timeframe, 23 States, in-
cluding Michigan, had a significant in-
crease in the rate of deaths from a drug
overdose.
It is long past time that we invest in
significant resources in combating the
opioid epidemic.
As chairwoman of the House Science,
Space, and Technology Committee’s
Subcommittee on Research and Tech-
nology, I have seen firsthand the excel-
lent work done by the National Science
Foundation. Their previous work on
addiction and opioids have resulted in
critical insights into not only the psy-
chological process of addiction, but the
social impacts of addiction as well.
Despite the progress made by the Na-
tional Science Foundation, there is no
doubt that further work is essential to
combat the opioid epidemic.
H.R. 3153 will take advantage of the
NSF’s strength in basic research across
many disciplines, from neuroscience to
social science, in collaboration with
the expertise of the National Institutes
of Health in public health.
The research authorized in this bill
will allow us to develop a more focused
and effective policy to address the
opioid epidemic.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to com-
mend my colleagues, Representative
WEXTON and Representative BAIRD,
both of whom I have the privilege of
working with on the Science, Space,
and Technology Committee, for their
excellent leadership on this bipartisan
bill, and I urge all of my colleagues to
join us in passing it.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I might consume.
I have no additional speakers.
I rise again in support of H.R. 3153,
the EFFORT Act.
Opioid addiction knows no economic
or political boundaries. It affects all of
us.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Rep-
resentative WEXTON and Representa-
tive BAIRD for their bipartisan leader-
ship on this bill. I strongly urge my
colleagues to support this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I have no further requests for speeches.
I would like to close at this time.
Mr. Speaker, I would first like to
thank all of the members of this com-
mittee on both sides of the aisle and
wish to recommend that we pass the
bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3153.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
COMBATING SEXUAL HARASSMENT
IN SCIENCE ACT OF 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 36) to provide for research
to better understand the causes and
consequences of sexual harassment af-
fecting individuals in the scientific,
technical, engineering, and mathe-
matics workforce and to examine poli-
cies to reduce the prevalence and nega-
tive impact of such harassment, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 36
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Combating Sexual Harassment in Science
Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
Sec. 4. Research grants.
Sec. 5. Data collection.
Sec. 6. Responsible conduct guide.
Sec. 7. Interagency working group.
Sec. 8. National academies assessment.
Sec. 9. Authorization of appropriations.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) According to the report issued by the Na-
tional Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and
Medicine in 2018 entitled ‘‘Sexual Harassment of
Women: Climate, Culture, and Consequences in
Academic Sciences, Engineering, and Medi-
cine’’—
(A) sexual harassment is pervasive in institu-
tions of higher education;
(B) the most common type of sexual harass-
ment is gender harassment, which includes
verbal and nonverbal behaviors that convey in-
sulting, hostile, and degrading attitudes about
members of one gender;
(C) 58 percent of individuals in the academic
workplace experience sexual harassment, the
second highest rate when compared to the mili-
tary, the private sector, and Federal, State, and
local government;
(D) women who are members of racial or eth-
nic minority groups are more likely to experi-
ence sexual harassment and to feel unsafe at
work than White women, White men, or men
who are members of such groups;
(E) the training for each individual who has
a doctor of philosophy in the science, tech-
nology, engineering, and mathematics fields is
estimated to cost approximately $500,000; and
(F) attrition of an individual so trained re-
sults in a loss of talent and money.
(2) Sexual harassment undermines career ad-
vancement for women.
(3) According to a 2017 University of Illinois
study, among astronomers and planetary sci-
entists, 18 percent of women who are members of
racial or ethnic minority groups and 12 percent
of White women skipped professional events be-
cause they did not feel safe attending.
(4) Many women report leaving employment at
institutions of higher education due to sexual
harassment.
(5) Research shows the majority of individuals
do not formally report experiences of sexual har-
assment due to a justified fear of retaliation or
other negative professional or personal con-
sequences.
(6) Reporting procedures with respect to such
harassment are inconsistent among Federal
science agencies and have varying degrees of ac-
cessibility.
(7) There is not adequate communication
among Federal science agencies and between
such agencies and grantees regarding reports of
sexual harassment, which has resulted in har-
assers receiving Federal funding after moving to
a different institution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.018 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7174 July 23, 2019
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) ACADEMIES.—The term ‘‘Academies’’
means the National Academies of Sciences, En-
gineering, and Medicine.
(2) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the National Science Founda-
tion.
(3) FEDERAL SCIENCE AGENCY.—The term
‘‘Federal science agency’’ means any Federal
agency with an annual extramural research ex-
penditure of over $100,000,000.
(4) FINDING OR DETERMINATION.—The term
‘‘finding or determination’’ means the final dis-
position of a matter involving a violation of or-
ganizational policies and processes, to include
the exhaustion of permissible appeals, or a con-
viction of a sexual offense in a criminal court of
law.
(5) GENDER HARASSMENT.—The term ‘‘gender
harassment’’ means verbal and nonverbal be-
haviors that convey hostility, objectification, ex-
clusion, or second-class status about one’s gen-
der, gender identity, gender presentation, sexual
orientation, or pregnancy status.
(6) GRANTEE.—The term ‘‘grantee’’ means the
legal entity to which a grant is awarded and
that is accountable to the Federal Government
for the use of the funds provided.
(7) GRANT PERSONNEL.—The term ‘‘grant per-
sonnel’’ means principal investigators, co-prin-
cipal investigators, postdoctoral researchers and
other employees supported by a grant award,
cooperative agreement, or contract under Fed-
eral law.
(8) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—The
term ‘‘institution of higher education’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 101 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
(9) SEXUAL HARASSMENT.—The term ‘‘sexual
harassment’’ means conduct that encompasses—
(A) unwelcome sexual advances;
(B) unwanted physical contact that is sexual
in nature, including assault;
(C) unwanted sexual attention, including sex-
ual comments and propositions for sexual activ-
ity;
(D) conditioning professional or educational
benefits on sexual activity; and
(E) retaliation for rejecting unwanted sexual
attention.
(10) STEM.—The term ‘‘STEM’’ means science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics, in-
cluding computer science.
SEC. 4. RESEARCH GRANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall establish
a program to award grants, on a competitive
basis, to institutions of higher education or non-
profit organizations (or consortia of such insti-
tutions or organizations)—
(1) to expand research efforts to better under-
stand the factors contributing to, and con-
sequences of, sexual harassment and gender
harassment affecting individuals in the STEM
workforce, including students and trainees; and
(2) to examine interventions to reduce the in-
cidence and negative consequences of such har-
assment.
(b) USE OF FUNDS.—Activities funded by a
grant under this section may include—
(1) research on the sexual harassment and
gender harassment experiences of individuals in
underrepresented or vulnerable groups, includ-
ing racial and ethnic minority groups, disabled
individuals, foreign nationals, sexual- and gen-
der-minority individuals, and others;
(2) development and assessment of policies,
procedures, trainings, and interventions, with
respect to sexual harassment and gender harass-
ment, conflict management, and ways to foster
respectful and inclusive climates;
(3) research on approaches for remediating the
negative impacts and outcomes of such harass-
ment on individuals experiencing such harass-
ment;
(4) support for institutions of higher edu-
cation to develop, adapt, and assess the impact
of innovative, evidence-based strategies, poli-
cies, and approaches to policy implementation
to prevent and address sexual harassment and
gender harassment;
(5) research on alternatives to the hierarchical
and dependent relationships, including but not
limited to the mentor-mentee relationship, in
academia that have been shown to create higher
levels of risk for sexual harassment and gender
harassment; and
(6) establishing a center for the ongoing com-
pilation, management, and analysis of campus
climate survey data.
SEC. 5. DATA COLLECTION.
Not later than 180 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Director shall convene
a working group composed of representatives of
Federal statistical agencies—
(1) to develop questions on sexual harassment
and gender harassment in STEM departments to
gather national data on the prevalence, nature,
and implications of sexual harassment and gen-
der harassment in institutions of higher edu-
cation; and
(2) to include such questions as appropriate,
with sufficient protections of the privacy of re-
spondents, in relevant surveys conducted by the
National Center for Science and Engineering
Statistics and other relevant entities.
SEC. 6. RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT GUIDE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Di-
rector shall enter into an agreement with the
Academies to update the report entitled ‘‘On
Being a Scientist: A Guide to Responsible Con-
duct in Research’’ issued by the Academies. The
report, as so updated, shall include—
(1) updated professional standards of conduct
in research;
(2) standards of treatment individuals can ex-
pect to receive under such updated standards of
conduct;
(3) evidence-based practices for fostering a cli-
mate intolerant of sexual harassment and gen-
der harassment;
(4) methods, including bystander intervention,
for identifying and addressing incidents of sex-
ual harassment and gender harassment; and
(5) professional standards for mentorship and
teaching with an emphasis on preventing sexual
harassment and gender harassment.
(b) RECOMMENDATIONS.—In updating the re-
port under subsection (a), the Academies shall
take into account recommendations made in the
report issued by the Academies in 2018 entitled
‘‘Sexual Harassment of Women: Climate, Cul-
ture, and Consequences in Academic Sciences,
Engineering, and Medicine’’ and other relevant
studies and evidence.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months after
the effective date of the contract under sub-
section (a), the Academies, as part of such
agreement, shall submit to the Director and the
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of
the House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of
the Senate the report referred to in such sub-
section, as updated pursuant to such subsection.
SEC. 7. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy, acting through
the National Science and Technology Council,
shall establish an interagency working group
for the purpose of coordinating Federal science
agency efforts to reduce the prevalence of sexual
harassment and gender harassment involving
grant personnel. The working group shall be
chaired by the Director of the Office of Science
and Technology Policy (or the Director’s des-
ignee) and shall include a representative from
each Federal science agency with annual extra-
mural research expenditures totaling over
$1,000,000,000, a representative from the Depart-
ment of Education, and a representative from
the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission.
(b) RESPONSIBILITIES OF WORKING GROUP.—
The interagency working group established
under subsection (a) shall coordinate Federal
science agency efforts to implement the policy
guidelines developed under subsection (c)(2).
(c) RESPONSIBILITIES OF OSTP.—The Director
of the Office of Science and Technology Policy
shall—
(1) not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, submit to the Committee
on Science, Space, and Technology of the House
of Representatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the Sen-
ate an inventory of policies, procedures, and re-
sources dedicated to preventing and responding
to reports of sexual harassment and gender har-
assment at Federal agencies that provide legal
definitions to which institutions of higher edu-
cation must comply; and
(2) not later than 6 months after the date on
which the inventory is submitted under para-
graph (1)—
(A) in consultation with outside stakeholders
and Federal science agencies, develop a uniform
set of policy guidelines for Federal science agen-
cies; and
(B) submit a report to the committees referred
to in paragraph (1) containing such guidelines;
(3) encourage and monitor efforts of Federal
science agencies to develop or maintain and im-
plement policies based on the guidelines devel-
oped under paragraph (2), including the extent
to which Federal science agency policies depart
from the uniform policy guidelines;
(4) not later than 1 year after the date on
which the inventory under paragraph (1) is sub-
mitted, and every 5 years thereafter, the Direc-
tor of the Office of Science and Technology Pol-
icy shall report to Congress on the implementa-
tion by Federal science agencies of the policy
guidelines developed under paragraph (2); and
(5) update such policy guidelines as needed.
(d) REQUIREMENTS.—In developing policy
guidelines under subsection (c)(2), the Director
of the Office of Science and Technology Policy
shall include guidelines that require—
(1) grantees to submit to the Federal science
agency or agencies from which the grantees re-
ceive funding reports relating to—
(A) administrative action, related to an alle-
gation against grant personnel of any sexual
harassment or gender harassment, as set forth
in organizational policies or codes of conduct,
statutes, regulations, or executive orders, that
affects the ability of grant personnel or their
trainees to carry out the activities of the grant;
and
(B) findings or determinations against grant
personnel of sexual harassment or gender har-
assment, as set forth in organizational policies
or codes of conduct, statutes, regulations, or ex-
ecutive orders, including any findings or deter-
minations related to reports submitted under
subparagraph (A) and any disciplinary action
that was taken;
(2) the sharing, updating, and archiving of re-
ports of sexual harassment and gender harass-
ment from grantees submitted under paragraph
(1)(B) with relevant Federal science agencies on
a quarterly basis; and
(3) to the extent practicable, ensure consist-
ency among Federal agencies with regards to
the policies and procedures for receiving reports
submitted pursuant to paragraph (1), which
may include the designation of a single agency
to field reports so submitted.
(e) CONSIDERATIONS.—In developing policy
guidelines under subsection (c)(2), the Director
of the Office of Science and Technology Policy
shall consider guidelines that require or
incentivize—
(1) grantees to periodically assess their organi-
zational climate, which may include the use of
climate surveys, focus groups, or exit interviews;
(2) grantees to publish on a publicly available
internet website the results of assessments con-
ducted pursuant to paragraph (1),
disaggregated by gender and, if possible, race,
ethnicity, disability status, and sexual orienta-
tion;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.005 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7175
July 23, 2019
(3) grantees to make public on an annual
basis the number of reports of sexual harass-
ment and gender harassment at each such insti-
tution;
(4) grantees to regularly assess and improve
policies, procedures, and interventions to reduce
the prevalence of sexual harassment and gender
harassment;
(5) each grantee to demonstrate in its proposal
for a grant award, cooperative agreement, or
contract that a code of conduct is in place for
maintaining a healthy and welcoming work-
place for grant personnel and their trainees;
(6) the diffusion of the hierarchical and de-
pendent relationships between grant personnel
and their trainees;
(7) each grantee and Federal science agency
to have in place mechanisms for the re-integra-
tion of individuals who have experienced sexual
harassment and gender harassment; and
(8) grantees to work to create a climate intol-
erant of sexual harassment and gender harass-
ment.
(f) FEDERAL SCIENCE AGENCY IMPLEMENTA-
TION.—Each Federal science agency shall—
(1) develop or maintain and implement policies
with respect to sexual harassment and gender
harassment that are consistent with policy
guidelines under subsection (c)(2) and that pro-
tect the privacy of all parties involved in any re-
port and investigation of sexual harassment and
gender harassment, except to the extent nec-
essary to carry out an investigation; and
(2) broadly disseminate such policies to cur-
rent and potential recipients of research grants,
cooperative agreements, or contracts awarded by
such agency.
(g) FERPA.—The Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy shall ensure that
such guidelines and requirements are consistent
with the requirements of section 444 of the Gen-
eral Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g)
(commonly referred to as the ‘‘Family Edu-
cational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974’’).
(h) SUNSET.—The interagency working group
established under subsection (a) shall terminate
on the date that is 7 years after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
SEC. 8. NATIONAL ACADEMIES ASSESSMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Director
shall enter into an agreement with the Acad-
emies to undertake a study of the influence of
sexual harassment and gender harassment in in-
stitutions of higher education on the career ad-
vancement of individuals in the STEM work-
force. The study shall assess—
(1) the state of research on sexual harassment
and gender harassment in such workforce;
(2) whether research demonstrates a change in
the prevalence of sexual harassment and gender
harassment in such workforce;
(3) the progress made with respect to imple-
menting recommendations promulgated in the
Academies consensus study report entitled ‘‘Sex-
ual Harassment of Women: Climate, Culture,
and Consequences in Academic Sciences, Engi-
neering, and Medicine’’; and
(4) where to focus future efforts with respect
to decreasing sexual harassment and gender
harassment in such institutions.
SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Director to carry out this Act, $17,500,000.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous materials on H.R.
36, the bill that is now under consider-
ation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I rise today in support of H.R. 36, the
Combating Sexual Harassment in
Science Act.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my
good friend, Ranking Member Mr.
LUCAS, for joining me in introducing
this bill and for his commitment to ex-
panding access to STEM studies and
careers.
This bill is a product of more than a
year of activity by the Science, Space,
and Technology Committee. We heard
from many experts about the preva-
lence of sexual harassment in STEM,
what factors have enabled it, the im-
pact it has on the lives and careers of
so many talented young scientists and
engineers, and the loss to our Nation
when they leave research altogether.
We also learned of some best prac-
tices for universities, scientific soci-
eties, and Federal agencies to begin to
bring transparency and accountability
to this challenge.
Federal science agencies have an im-
portant role to play, because they have
the responsibility to ensure that all
federally-funded researchers, including
students, are able to carry out their re-
search in safe environments at all
times.
However, agencies need universities
to be partners in that area and effort,
and that partnership starts with uni-
versities reporting to their funders
when a student or researcher is brave
enough to come forward with an allega-
tion of sexual harassment.
Mr. Speaker, I applaud the National
Science Foundation for its bold leader-
ship in implementing a reporting pol-
icy, and NIH and NASA for their own
more recent efforts. Unfortunately,
other agencies have been slow to re-
spond.
H.R. 36 directs the Office of Science
and Technology Policy to issue uni-
form guidance to all Federal science
agencies to implement reporting re-
quirements for all grantees.
We worked closely with the univer-
sity community to define the cir-
cumstances that should trigger a re-
port. Not everybody was happy with
the result, but it was a good com-
promise, and protects the most vulner-
able.
Also, it is important to note that this
bill does not interfere with due process.
It simply requires transparency while
protecting privacy.
H.R. 36 also supports research to in-
form updated policies in the future, it
seeks to incentivize culture change at
universities, and it makes clear that
sexual harassment should now be con-
sidered as important as research mis-
conduct, as recommended by the Na-
tional Academies.
While sexual harassment in science is
not a problem that can be solved with
legislation alone, H.R. 36 helps ensure
that the Federal agencies are doing
their part. No researcher should be
forced to choose between her passion
for science and her right to feel safe.
This legislation has broad support
and has been endorsed by 28 scientific
and scholarly organizations.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this
bipartisan bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I might consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
36, the Combating Sexual Harassment
in Science Act of 2019. I am proud to
say that this bill is a foundation of
more than a year of investigation,
analysis, and recommendations to the
Science, Space, and Technology Com-
mittee.
Curbing sexual misconduct in science
is a priority that Chairwoman JOHNSON
and I share.
Engaging more women in STEM
studies and careers is essential to
American competitiveness. Women
make up half the workforce, but ac-
count for less than 25 percent of Amer-
ica’s STEM workforce.
Unfortunately, too many women
have been driven out of STEM careers
due to a culture of harassment and
abuse.
H.R. 36 takes the first steps to ad-
dress this problem. The bill directs the
NSF to expand research efforts to bet-
ter understand the causes and con-
sequences of sexual harassment affect-
ing individuals in the scientific, tech-
nical, engineering, and mathematics
workforce.
Additionally, it directs the NSF to
examine policies to reduce the preva-
lence and negative impact of such har-
assment.
The bill also supports the adoption of
uniform guidance across the Federal
science agencies to reduce the preva-
lence of sexual harassment involving
grant personnel.
There is an established legal process
in place within higher education and in
the workplace for handling claims of
sexual harassment. I cannot stress this
enough: This bill does not alter that
process.
What this bill does is to create a uni-
form policy for universities and re-
search institutions to report to Federal
science agencies when administrative
action is taken that impacts the abil-
ity of a researcher to carry out a grant.
Pervasive sexual harassment in the
scientific community discourages
women from critical work in good-pay-
ing jobs and hurts American competi-
tiveness.
It is unacceptable for taxpayer dol-
lars to fund researchers who are guilty
of harassing students or colleagues.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
stakeholders, especially the university
community, for working with the com-
mittee staff to improve this legisla-
tion. I believe the revised bill strikes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.005 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7176 July 23, 2019
the right balance of protecting due
process and privacy, while making sure
that Federal science agencies can act if
a Federal research grant or the per-
sonnel supported by that grant is im-
pacted.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chair-
woman JOHNSON and her staff for work-
ing in a bipartisan and collaborative
way to move this legislation forward.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to support this legislation.
H.R. 36 takes the first steps towards
addressing the prevalence of sexual
harassment in STEM fields, which is
driving women out of STEM careers
and damaging U.S. competitiveness.
This legislation sends a strong mes-
sage to the scientific community that
misconduct will not be tolerated, and
it sends a message to women who are
in STEM studies and careers that we
support them.
I look forward to working with our
colleagues in the Senate and stake-
holders to advance this legislation and
make sure it is meeting the intended
goals.
Mr. Speaker, I again want to thank
Chairwoman JOHNSON and her staff for
working in a bipartisan and collabo-
rative way on this legislation. I en-
courage my colleagues to support this
legislation, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I have no further requests for time.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this
bipartisan bill. I thank members of the
full committee for their work on this
bill, I recommend passage, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 36, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
VERA C. RUBIN OBSERVATORY
DESIGNATION ACT
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 3196) to designate the
Large Synoptic Survey Telescope as
the ‘‘Vera Rubin Survey Telescope’’, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3196
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Vera C.
Rubin Observatory Designation Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Dr. Vera Rubin was born July 23, 1928,
to Philip and Rose Applebaum Cooper.
(2) Dr. Rubin pursued her graduate studies
at Cornell University and Georgetown Uni-
versity, earning her Ph.D. in Physics in 1954.
(3) Dr. Rubin’s Ph.D. thesis on galaxy mo-
tions provided supporting evidence that gal-
axies are not uniformly distributed, but exist
in clusters.
(4) Dr. Rubin continued to study the mo-
tions of galaxies, first as research associate
and assistant professor at Georgetown Uni-
versity, and then as a member of the staff at
the Carnegie Institution of Washington De-
partment of Terrestrial Magnetism.
(5) Dr. Rubin faced barriers throughout her
career because of her gender.
(6) For instance, one of the world’s leading
astronomy facilities at the time, the Pal-
omar Observatory, did not permit women.
Dr. Rubin persisted and was finally allowed
to observe at Palomar in 1965, the first
woman officially allowed to do so.
(7) In 1970, Dr. Rubin published measure-
ments of the Andromeda galaxy showing
stars and gas orbiting the galaxy’s center
too fast to be explained by the amount of
mass associated with the light output of the
stars.
(8) In the years that followed, Dr. Rubin
and her collaborators used their observa-
tions, in conjunction with the work by ear-
lier astronomers on the rotation of stars in
spiral galaxies, to provide some of the best
evidence for the existence of dark matter.
(9) This work contributed to a major shift
in the conventional view of the universe,
from one dominated by ordinary matter such
as what produces the light of stars, to one
dominated by dark matter.
(10) Dr. Rubin was elected to the National
Academy of Sciences in 1981, the second
woman astronomer to be so honored.
(11) Dr. Rubin was awarded the President’s
National Medal of Science in 1993 ‘‘for her
pioneering research programs in observa-
tional cosmology which demonstrated that
much of the matter in the universe is dark,
and for significant contributions to the real-
ization that the universe is more complex
and more mysterious than had been imag-
ined’’.
(12) Dr. Rubin was an outspoken advocate
for the equal treatment and representation
of women in science, and she served as a
mentor, supporter, and role model to many
women astronomers throughout her life.
(13) The Large Synoptic Survey Telescope,
funded jointly by the National Science Foun-
dation and the Department of Energy, will
honor the legacy of Dr. Rubin and her col-
leagues to probe the nature of dark matter
by mapping and cataloging billions of gal-
axies through space and time.
SEC. 3. DESIGNATION.
The Large Synoptic Survey Telescope shall
be known and designated as the ‘‘Vera C.
Rubin Observatory’’.
SEC. 4. REFERENCES.
Any reference in a law, map, regulation,
document, paper, or other record of the
United States to the facility described in
section 3 shall be deemed to be a reference to
the ‘‘Vera C. Rubin Observatory’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
b 1500
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on H.R.
3196, the bill now under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 3196, which, after today’s con-
sideration, will be known as the Vera
C. Rubin Observatory Designation Act.
I thank Representative GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN for joining me in introducing
this bill.
Dr. Vera Rubin was a trailblazing as-
tronomer, who dedicated her life to ad-
vancing our understanding of the cos-
mos. She was also a tireless advocate
for women in science, and she was well
known for her mentorship of aspiring
women astronomers. Today would have
been Dr. Rubin’s 91st birthday, but,
sadly, she passed away on Christmas
Day in 2016.
During the 1970s, Dr. Rubin published
the best set of measurements of the
galaxy rotation to date. Her data re-
vealed something surprising. The stars
orbiting in the outer regions of the gal-
axies were moving much faster than
expected. Dark matter, first proposed
decades prior, was the only way to ex-
plain the observed motion.
Dr. Rubin’s work helped to convince
the broader astronomy community of
the existence of dark matter and revo-
lutionized the way we understand the
universe. Instead of being dominated
by light-emitting matter, Dr. Rubin’s
work revealed that most of the uni-
verse is made up of a mysterious and
invisible substance called dark matter.
The Large Synoptic Survey Tele-
scope, or LSST, is an 8.4-meter tele-
scope currently under construction in
Chile. Funded jointly by the National
Science Foundation and the Depart-
ment of Energy, LSST will conduct an
unprecedented survey of the night sky.
The data collected by this telescope
will enable scientists to build on Dr.
Rubin’s pioneering work and probe the
nature of dark matter.
Dr. Rubin’s exemplary science and
her sterling character will drive sci-
entific discovery and inspire girls and
women in STEM for decades to come.
While Dr. Rubin has already claimed a
well-deserved place in history, H.R.
3196 will further elevate her story by
designating one of the world’s pre-
eminent research facilities as the Vera
C. Rubin Observatory.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
3196, the Vera C. Rubin Observatory
Designation Act. This bill honors the
contributions of the late Dr. Vera
Rubin, an astronomer who made
groundbreaking discoveries in the field
of dark matter and contributed to the
realization that the universe is more
complex and more mysterious than was
ever even imagined.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.021 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7177
July 23, 2019
I agree with Chairwoman JOHNSON
that it is fitting that the House honor
Dr. Rubin today on what would have
been her 91st birthday. Dr. Rubin was a
pioneer and lifelong advocate for
women in science, serving as a mentor,
supporter, and role model for many
women astronomers.
The new Large Synoptic Survey Tele-
scope under construction in Chile,
funded by the National Science Foun-
dation and the Department of Energy,
will photograph the entire sky every
few nights. One of the goals of the
project is to study the nature of dark
matter and dark energy.
I thank Chairwoman JOHNSON and
Representative GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN for
their leadership and for working with
stakeholders to update this legislation.
Naming the observatory in honor of
Dr. Rubin is a fitting tribute to her
contributions to the field, and I hope it
will inspire future generations of
women in astronomy. This bill des-
ignates the new NSF and Department
of Energy’s LSST telescope facility the
Vera C. Rubin Observatory. Given her
remarkable contributions to the field
of dark matter and advocacy for the
equal treatment and representation of
women in science, it is only appro-
priate that we honor Dr. Rubin this
way.
I thank Chairwoman JOHNSON and
Representative GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN for
their leadership in introducing this
bill. It is my hope that this will ensure
that Dr. Rubin’s legacy lives on and
continues to inspire young women to
pursue careers in STEM.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself the balance of my time
to close.
Mr. Speaker, I also thank Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN for cosponsoring this
bill, and I thank the full committee for
supporting it. I urge its passage, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico.
Mr. Speaker, today, I rise in strong support of
H.R. 3196, the Vera C. Rubin Observatory
Designation Act, of which I am the co-lead
alongside Chairwoman JOHNSON.
Dr. Rubin exemplified perseverance and te-
nacity in science. As a woman scientist, she
encountered many obstacles during her aca-
demic and professional career. As a student,
her application to Princeton University was de-
nied because, at the time, women were not al-
lowed to enroll in the astrophysics graduate
program of this institution. Similarly, years
later, she had problems accessing the Pal-
omar Observatory in California, one of the
most iconic scientific facilities in the world,
also because she was a woman. Experiences
such as these would be enough to discourage
a young student and scientist. Still, Dr. Rubin
persevered, demonstrating exceptional intel-
lectual capabilities and character.
Dr. Vera Rubin changed the way we under-
stand the universe. Her groundbreaking work
on dark matter and galaxy rotations remain at
the forefront of STEM research in the field of
astronomy. Her legacy will undoubtedly con-
tinue to influence future generations of sci-
entists and will hopefully be memorialized in
the new Large Synoptic Survey Telescope
(LSST) Observatory under construction in
Chile. I am very much looking forward to the
great work this facility will produce by re-
searchers, like Dr. Rubin.
I am immensely proud of this bill. Especially
to be speaking about it today, July 23rd, on
what would have been Dr. Rubin’s 91st birth-
day.
I believe highlighting the sacrifices and con-
tributions women have made to the sciences
is one of the many ways we can continue to
foster their participation in STEM fields. Like
multiple minorities, women face their own sub-
set of challenges that hinder their decision to
pursue or remain in STEM careers. This has
a negative impact on the development and ad-
vancement of women in general, and in our
economy by not capitalizing from the remark-
able talent of women in STEM.
I would like to thank Chairwoman JOHNSON
and Ranking Member LUCAS for their leader-
ship and for moving this bill through Com-
mittee. As someone with a STEM background,
and as a representative of many young girls
and women who are either pursuing or inter-
ested in pursuing a career in STEM—I look
forward to working with my colleagues to get
this bill signed into law. I urge my colleagues
to vote in favor.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3196, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to designate the
Large Synoptic Survey Telescope as
the ‘Vera C. Rubin Observatory’.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ENERGY AND WATER RESEARCH
INTEGRATION ACT OF 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 34) to ensure consider-
ation of water intensity in the Depart-
ment of Energy’s energy research, de-
velopment, and demonstration pro-
grams to help guarantee efficient, reli-
able, and sustainable delivery of energy
and clean water resources, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 34
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Energy and
Water Research Integration Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. INTEGRATING ENERGY AND WATER RE-
SEARCH.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Energy
shall integrate water considerations into en-
ergy research, development, and demonstra-
tion programs and projects of the Depart-
ment of Energy by—
(1) advancing energy and energy efficiency
technologies and practices that meet the ob-
jectives of—
(A) minimizing freshwater withdrawal and
consumption;
(B) increasing water use efficiency;
(C) utilizing nontraditional water sources
with efforts to improve the quality of the
water from those sources;
(D) minimizing deleterious impacts on
water bodies, groundwater, and waterways;
and
(E) minimizing seismic impacts;
(2) considering the effects climate varia-
bility may have on water supplies and qual-
ity for energy generation and fuel produc-
tion; and
(3) improving understanding of the energy-
water nexus.
(b) STRATEGIC PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 12 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a strategic plan
identifying the research, development, and
demonstration needs for Department pro-
grams and projects to carry out subsection
(a). The strategic plan shall include tech-
nical milestones for achieving and assessing
progress toward the objectives of subsection
(a)(1).
(2) SPECIFIC CONSIDERATIONS.—In devel-
oping the strategic plan, the Secretary shall
consider—
(A) new advanced cooling technologies for
energy generation and fuel production tech-
nologies;
(B) performance improvement of existing
cooling technologies and cost reductions as-
sociated with using those technologies;
(C) innovative water reuse, recovery, and
treatment technologies in energy generation
and fuel production, including renewable en-
ergy;
(D) technology development for carbon
capture and storage systems that utilize effi-
cient water use design strategies;
(E) technologies that are life-cycle cost ef-
fective;
(F) systems analysis and modeling of
issues relating to the energy-water nexus;
(G) technologies to treat and utilize waste-
water and produced waters discharged from
oil, natural gas, coalbed methane, and any
other substance to be used as an energy
source;
(H) advanced materials for the use of non-
traditional water sources for energy genera-
tion and fuel production;
(I) biomass production and utilization and
the impact on hydrologic systems;
(J) technologies that reduce impacts on
water from energy resource development;
(K) energy efficient technologies for water
distribution, treatment, supply, and collec-
tion systems;
(L) technologies for energy generation
from water distribution, treatment, supply,
and collection systems;
(M) the flexible operation of water infra-
structure to provide essential grid reliability
services;
(N) modular or energy-water microgrid
systems that can provide energy and water
resources in remote or disaster recovery
areas;
(O) recovering energy in the form of
biofuels, bioproducts, and biopower from mu-
nicipal and industrial wastewaters, and simi-
lar organic streams; and
(P) any other area of the energy-water
nexus that the Secretary considers appro-
priate.
(3) COLLABORATION AND NONDUPLICATION.—
In developing the strategic plan, the Sec-
retary shall coordinate and avoid duplica-
tion—
(A) with other Federal agencies operating
related programs, if appropriate; and
(B) across programs and projects of the De-
partment, including with those of the Na-
tional Laboratories.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.026 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7178 July 23, 2019
(4) RELEVANT INFORMATION AND REC-
OMMENDATIONS.—In developing the strategic
plan, the Secretary shall consider and incor-
porate, as appropriate, relevant information
and recommendations, including those of the
National Water Availability and Use Assess-
ment Program under section 9508(d) of the
Omnibus Public Land Management Act of
2009 (42 U.S.C. 10368(d)).
(5) ADDITIONAL PARTICIPATION.—In devel-
oping the strategic plan, the Secretary shall
consult and coordinate with a diverse group
of representatives from research and aca-
demic institutions, industry, public utility
commissions, and State and local govern-
ments who have expertise in technologies
and practices relating to the energy-water
nexus.
(6) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than 12 months after the date of enactment
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources of the Senate the strategic plan.
(7) UPDATING THE STRATEGIC PLAN.—Not
later than 3 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, and at least once every 5
years thereafter, the Secretary shall—
(A) utilize relevant information produced
by Federal Government agencies, academia,
State, local, and tribal governments and in-
dustry to update the strategic plan;
(B) include in the updated strategic plan a
description of the changes from the previous
strategic plan and the rationale for such
changes;
(C) include a review of progress made to-
wards the milestones outlined in the pre-
vious strategic plan; and
(D) submit the updated strategic plan to
the Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources of the Senate.
(c) ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES.—The Secretary
may provide for such additional research, de-
velopment, and demonstration activities as
appropriate to integrate water consider-
ations into the research, development, and
demonstration activities of the Department
as described in subsection (a).
SEC. 3. ENERGY-WATER OVERSIGHT AND CO-
ORDINATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out the re-
search, development, and demonstration ac-
tivities outlined in section 2, the Secretary,
in coordination with other relevant Federal
agencies, shall establish an Energy-Water
Committee to promote and enable improved
energy and water resource data collection,
reporting, and technological innovation. The
Committee shall consist of—
(1) representation from each program with-
in the Department and each Federal agency
that conducts research related to the energy-
water nexus; and
(2) non-Federal members, including rep-
resentatives of research and academic insti-
tutions, State, local, and tribal govern-
ments, public utility commissions, and in-
dustry, who have expertise in technologies,
technological innovations, or practices relat-
ing to the energy-water nexus.
(b) FUNCTIONS.—The Committee shall, in
carrying out section 2—
(1) make recommendations on the develop-
ment and integration of data collection and
data communication standards and proto-
cols, including models and modeling results,
to agencies and entities currently engaged in
collecting the data for the energy-water
nexus;
(2) recommend ways to make improve-
ments to Federal water use data to increase
understanding of trends in energy generation
and fuel production, including non-cooling
water uses;
(3) recommend best practices for utilizing
information from existing monitoring net-
works to provide nationally uniform water
and energy use and infrastructure data; and
(4) conduct annual technical workshops,
including at least 1 regional workshop annu-
ally, to facilitate information exchange
among Federal, regional, State, local, and
tribal governments and private sector ex-
perts on technologies that encourage the
conservation and efficient use of water and
energy.
(c) REPORTS.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, and at
least once every 2 years thereafter, the Com-
mittee, through the Secretary, shall trans-
mit to Congress a report on its findings and
activities under this section.
(d) APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL ADVISORY
COMMITTEE ACT.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided in this section, the Federal Advisory
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to
the Committee.
SEC. 4. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, nothing in this Act shall be construed to
require State, tribal, or local governments to
provide additional data for Federal purposes,
or to take any action that may result in an
increased financial burden to such govern-
ments by restricting the use of water by such
governments.
SEC. 5. COORDINATION AND NONDUPLICATION.
To the maximum extent practicable, the
Secretary shall coordinate activities under
this Act with other programs of the Depart-
ment and other Federal research programs.
SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) COMMITTEE.—The term ‘‘Committee’’
means the Energy-Water Committee estab-
lished under section 3(a).
(2) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’
means the Department of Energy.
(3) ENERGY-WATER NEXUS.—The term ‘‘en-
ergy-water nexus’’ means the energy re-
quired to provide reliable water supplies and
the water required to provide reliable energy
supplies throughout the United States.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Energy.
SEC. 7. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on H.R. 34,
the bill now under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 34, the Energy and Water Re-
search Integration Act of 2019.
I first thank my friend, Mr. LUCAS,
who joined me in introducing this leg-
islation, which calls attention to the
critical link between energy and water
and instructs the Department of En-
ergy to ensure due consideration of
water issues in its research, develop-
ment, and demonstration programs.
As we all know, especially those of us
who represent Texas, Oklahoma, and
other southwestern and western States,
we have limited water resources that
must be distributed appropriately to
our large energy industries, agricul-
tural communities, and rapidly grow-
ing populations. We have experienced
crippling droughts in recent years, so
it is vital that we do as much as pos-
sible to use this commodity wisely.
However, not many people are aware
of the importance of water to energy
generation and, similarly, the crucial
role that energy plays in delivery of
safe, sanitary water to our constitu-
ents.
The Energy and Water Research Inte-
gration Act encourages research into
energy technologies that would im-
prove and minimize the use of water
and energy production, and also estab-
lishes a mechanism for Federal agen-
cies to work with State and local gov-
ernments and other stakeholders to ad-
vance our understanding of what is
known as the ‘‘energy-water nexus.’’ In
addition, the bill requires a regularly
updated strategic plan to guide these
efforts. These are important, positive
steps towards using our limited re-
sources in the most efficient and effec-
tive way possible.
I am pleased that these issues have
already received serious attention so
far this Congress, with the committee
hosting a hearing on this bill in March
and two markups, one at the sub-
committee level and one before the full
committee. Our hearing witnesses and
other crucial stakeholders, including
the Department of Energy, were able to
contribute and shape the legislation to
the well-vetted proposal that we are fi-
nally considering today. I hope that we
can demonstrate a strong, sustained
commitment to research and develop-
ment in this vital area.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this
bipartisan bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to cospon-
sor H.R. 34, the Energy and Water Re-
search Integration Act. This legisla-
tion is a product of bipartisan Science,
Space, and Technology Committee ef-
forts to improve our understanding of
the critical relationship between the
U.S. energy and water sectors.
The production of energy is depend-
ent on reliable sources of water, and
the distribution of clean water is de-
pendent on the availability of energy.
No matter what the future U.S. energy
market looks like, integrating these
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.007 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7179
July 23, 2019
two systems is essential. But this is no
simple task.
Both water and energy management
are often impacted by many regional
challenges and resources and require
careful consideration of local factors.
For example, back home in Oklahoma,
agriculture is the single largest driver
of water consumption in the State. But
that same agricultural industry also
creates a source of energy through
biofuels.
Additionally, natural gas production,
which is key to the development of a
cleaner U.S. energy market, relies on
horizontal drilling and hydraulic frac-
turing, processes which require large
volumes of water. But these processes
can also produce water, enabling reuse
of this resource through fluid lifecycle
management.
The Energy and Water Research Inte-
gration Act will help prioritize re-
search and development on this critical
relationship between energy and water
systems and will help American re-
searchers develop tools and tech-
nologies to improve our Nation’s en-
ergy efficiency, environmental sta-
bility, and economic growth.
I am pleased to see the work that
many Federal agencies, including the
Department of Energy and the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency, are al-
ready doing to improve the efficiency
of our energy water systems, and to see
the administration’s clear
prioritization of this work, including
the multiagency Water Security Grand
Challenge and the recently announced
DOE Energy-Water Desalination Hub.
But we, in Congress, must also do our
part.
Because of the complex relationship
between energy and water systems,
this will require a multidisciplinary
approach. At every step of the R&D
process there is a need to facilitate
interactions between chemists, engi-
neers, geologists, and legislators, and
to encourage collaboration between the
Federal Government, industry, univer-
sities, and local stakeholders.
I believe this legislation, introduced
by Chairwoman JOHNSON and myself,
can help to streamline and prioritize
this work. The programs authorized in
this legislation will leverage the world-
leading, early-stage research programs
and unparalleled facilities at our na-
tional labs and enable the development
of next-generation technologies that
will improve the efficiency and produc-
tion in both the energy and water sec-
tors.
I thank my colleagues on the
Science, Space, and Technology Com-
mittee, particularly Chairwoman
EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON, for continuing
to prioritize important research and
development programs that will make
America stronger, cleaner, and keep us
globally competitive. I am grateful for
the opportunity to continue to work
with my fellow Science, Space, and
Technology Committee colleagues to
guide this important and bipartisan
work.
b 1515
H.R. 34 prioritizes critical research to
help improve the way we use energy
and water.
I again want to thank Chairwoman
JOHNSON for her leadership on this bill.
I urge my colleagues to support this bi-
partisan legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I rise to make sure that all members of
this committee and staff are thanked
for their efforts, and I urge support of
this bill.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 34, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY VET-
ERANS’ HEALTH INITIATIVE ACT
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 617) to authorize the De-
partment of Energy to conduct collabo-
rative research with the Department of
Veterans Affairs in order to improve
healthcare services for veterans in the
United States, and for other purposes,
as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 617
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Energy Veterans’ Health Initiative Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’
means the Department of Energy.
(2) NATIONAL LABORATORY.—The term ‘‘Na-
tional Laboratory’’ has the meaning given
that term in section 2 of the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Energy.
SEC. 3. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this Act are to advance
Department of Energy expertise in artificial
intelligence and high-performance com-
puting in order to improve health outcomes
for veteran populations by—
(1) supporting basic research through the
application of artificial intelligence, high-
performance computing, modeling and sim-
ulation, machine learning, and large-scale
data analytics to identify and solve out-
come-defined challenges in the health
sciences;
(2) maximizing the impact of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs’ health and
genomics data housed at the National Lab-
oratories, as well as data from other sources,
on science, innovation, and health care out-
comes through the use and advancement of
artificial intelligence and high-performance
computing capabilities of the Department of
Energy;
(3) promoting collaborative research
through the establishment of partnerships to
improve data sharing between Federal agen-
cies, National Laboratories, institutions of
higher education, and nonprofit institutions;
(4) establishing multiple scientific com-
puting user facilities to house and provision
available data to foster transformational
outcomes; and
(5) driving the development of technology
to improve artificial intelligence, high-per-
formance computing, and networking rel-
evant to mission applications of the Depart-
ment of Energy, including modeling, simula-
tion, machine learning, and advanced data
analytics.
SEC. 4. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY VETERANS
HEALTH RESEARCH AND DEVELOP-
MENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish and carry out a research program in
artificial intelligence and high-performance
computing, focused on the development of
tools to solve big data challenges associated
with veteran’s healthcare, and to support the
efforts of the Department of Veterans Affairs
to identify potential health risks and chal-
lenges utilizing data on long-term
healthcare, health risks, and genomic data
collected from veteran populations. The Sec-
retary shall carry out this program through
a competitive, merit-reviewed process, and
consider applications from National Labora-
tories, institutions of higher education,
multi-institutional collaborations, and other
appropriate entities.
(b) PROGRAM COMPONENTS.—In carrying out
the program established under subsection
(a), the Secretary may—
(1) conduct basic research in modeling and
simulation, machine learning, large-scale
data analytics, and predictive analysis in
order to develop novel or optimized algo-
rithms for prediction of disease treatment
and recovery;
(2) develop methods to accommodate large
data sets with variable quality and scale,
and to provide insight and models for com-
plex systems;
(3) develop new approaches and maximize
the use of algorithms developed through ar-
tificial intelligence, machine learning, data
analytics, natural language processing, mod-
eling and simulation, and develop new algo-
rithms suitable for high-performance com-
puting systems and large biomedical data
sets;
(4) advance existing and construct new
data enclaves capable of securely storing
data sets provided by the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, Department of Defense, and
other sources; and
(5) promote collaboration and data sharing
between National Laboratories, research en-
tities, and user facilities of the Department
by providing the necessary access and secure
data transfer capabilities.
(c) COORDINATION.—In carrying out the pro-
gram required under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary is authorized to—
(1) enter into memoranda of understanding
in order to carry out reimbursable agree-
ments with the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs and other entities in order to maximize
the effectiveness of Department of Energy
research and development to improve vet-
erans’ healthcare;
(2) consult with the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs and other Federal agencies as
appropriate; and
(3) ensure that data storage meets all pri-
vacy and security requirements established
by the Department of Veterans Affairs, and
that access to data is provided in accordance
with relevant Department of Veterans Af-
fairs data access policies, including informed
consent.
(d) REPORT.—Not later than two years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.028 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7180 July 23, 2019
the Secretary shall submit to the Committee
on Science, Space, and Technology and the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House
of Representatives, and the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources and the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate, a
report detailing the effectiveness of—
(1) the interagency coordination between
each Federal agency involved in the research
program carried out under this section;
(2) collaborative research achievements of
the program; and
(3) potential opportunities to expand the
technical capabilities of the Department.
(e) FUNDING.—There are authorized to be
appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs to carry out this section $27,000,000
during the period of fiscal years 2020 through
2024.
SEC. 5. INTERAGENCY COLLABORATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary is author-
ized to carry out research, development, and
demonstration activities to develop tools to
apply to big data that enable Federal agen-
cies, institutions of higher education, non-
profit research organizations, and industry
to better leverage the capabilities of the De-
partment to solve complex, big data chal-
lenges. The Secretary shall carry out these
activities through a competitive, merit-re-
viewed process, and consider applications
from National Laboratories, institutions of
higher education, multi-institutional col-
laborations, and other appropriate entities.
(b) ACTIVITIES.—In carrying out the re-
search, development, and demonstration ac-
tivities authorized under subsection (a), the
Secretary may—
(1) utilize all available mechanisms to pre-
vent duplication and coordinate research ef-
forts across the Department;
(2) establish multiple user facilities to
serve as data enclaves capable of securely
storing data sets created by Federal agen-
cies, institutions of higher education, non-
profit organizations, or industry at National
Laboratories; and
(3) promote collaboration and data sharing
between National Laboratories, research en-
tities, and user facilities of the Department
by providing the necessary access and secure
data transfer capabilities.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than two years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology of the House
of Representatives and the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
a report evaluating the effectiveness of the
activities authorized under subsection (a).
(d) FUNDING.—There are authorized to be
appropriated to the Secretary of Energy to
carry out subsection (a) $15,000,000 for each
of the fiscal years 2020 through 2023.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous materials on H.R. 617,
the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 617, the Department of Energy
Veterans’ Health Initiative Act. This
bill authorizes the Department of En-
ergy to conduct collaborative research
with the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs to address large and complex data
management challenges associated
with veterans’ healthcare issues.
H.R. 617 also authorizes the Depart-
ment of Energy to support activities
that will better enable other Federal
agencies to leverage the Department’s
capabilities in developing advanced
data analytics tools for a broad range
of applications.
I would like to thank the members of
the Veterans’ Affairs Committee for
working with us to improve this legis-
lation. I would also like to thank the
bill’s sponsor, Mr. NORMAN, for his hard
work on this bill.
Before I began my career in politics,
I worked as a chief psychiatric nurse
for the Dallas VA Medical Center in
Dallas, Texas. In that position, I saw
firsthand the unique healthcare needs
of the veteran community. I believe
the bill before us today will be a posi-
tive step toward tackling some of the
critical problems that the VA is cur-
rently facing in providing our veterans
with the care they deserve when they
come home.
I strongly support this bipartisan bill
and encourage my colleagues to do the
same.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of Rep-
resentative NORMAN’s bill, H.R. 617, the
Department of Energy Veterans’
Health Initiative Act.
This bill authorizes a critical and on-
going partnership between the Depart-
ment of Energy and the Department of
Veterans Affairs to improve the way
we diagnose and care for our veterans.
This partnership, known as the MVP-
CHAMPION initiative, allows DOE to
support the VA in analyzing healthcare
data.
H.R. 617 formally authorizes this pro-
gram, allowing VA researchers to gain
access to DOE’s high-performance com-
puting research facilities and signifi-
cant resources, including DOE’s exten-
sive expertise in data analysis and
complex modeling.
The VA currently collects genomic
and healthcare data, including the
deepest levels of DNA sequencing that
allows for high-quality genomic re-
search, from veterans who have volun-
teered for the program. This data is
then securely transferred to DOE,
where it is stored and analyzed in a se-
cure site at DOE’s Oak Ridge National
Laboratory.
This partnership and exchange of
data benefits both DOE and the VA.
The rich and expansive dataset pro-
vided by the VA presents an incredible
opportunity to train DOE’s next-gen-
eration computing capacities to solve
complex challenges; and with what
they learn from this analysis, the VA
can improve and better target health
treatments for veterans.
This data can help the VA make dis-
coveries about the causes of various
diseases and develop diagnostics to
move more quickly to detect them in
our veterans. It will also help the VA
develop more effective treatments and
improve treatment for critical medical
needs.
In return, by giving DOE access to
such a large database of information,
the VA will help DOE researchers im-
prove their ability to develop next-gen-
eration computing systems, algo-
rithms, and models, capacities that are
critical in maintaining U.S. science
and technological leadership.
These enhanced capacities can then
be applied in support of DOE’s core
mission areas and has the potential to
enhance expertise in everything from
biosciences and material designs to
maintaining our nuclear weapons
stockpile.
With the next generation of super-
computers right around the corner,
most notably, the computing systems
that DOE is expected to field in 2021,
DOE will be able to tackle even bigger
challenges after gaining expertise in
solving big data problems like this.
In short, the Department of Energy
Veterans’ Health Initiative Act will
improve the healthcare for those men
and women who have served our coun-
try. It also maximizes our Federal re-
sources for facilitating collaboration,
and gives other agencies, academia,
and industry the chance to benefit
from the Department of Energy’s R&D
expertise.
I want to thank Representative NOR-
MAN for championing this important
collaboration, along with the basic re-
search that will support our veterans
and American innovation.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I have no requests for time, and I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. NORMAN).
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank Chairwoman JOHNSON and Rank-
ing Member LUCAS for their support of
this all-important bill.
I rise in support of H.R. 617, the De-
partment of Energy Veterans’ Health
Initiative Act.
This legislation authorizes a partner-
ship between the Department of En-
ergy—the DOE—and the Department of
Veterans Affairs—the VA—to conduct
collaborative research in computing,
artificial intelligence, and big data
science in order to improve healthcare
for all of our veterans.
The VA hosts one of the largest and
most valuable health datasets.
Through its voluntary data collection
program, entitled the Million Veterans
Program, MVP, the VA has collected
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.008 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7181
July 23, 2019
detailed health information and
genomic data volunteered by over
600,000 veterans.
But the VA simply doesn’t have the
computing power or expertise to ana-
lyze all of this complex data. In order
to learn from their data and provide
better healthcare for veterans, the VA
needs access to more advanced com-
puting capabilities, expertise, and in-
frastructure than is currently available
at the agency.
As a world leader in high-perform-
ance computing, the DOE is an ideal
partner to help the VA meet this need.
In its national laboratory system, DOE
hosts 5 of the world’s top 10 fastest
supercomputers, including the fastest
supercomputer in the world, Summit,
at Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
The DOE also funds research and
computational sciences and data ana-
lytics, which can be used to solve a
range of complex big data challenges in
the physical sciences. The interagency
partnership between DOE and the VA
authorized by my bill is necessary to
analyze this data and ultimately pro-
vide better care for our Nation’s vet-
erans.
DOE has the capability to securely
store, using supercomputers at the na-
tional labs, and analyze the VA’s
health data to look for patterns.
Learning from these patterns can help
us improve the medical treatments for
heart disease, traumatic brain injury,
and cancer.
I think we can all agree that we
should be taking any steps possible to
improve the medical care of our men
and women who have answered the call
to serve. Not only does this bill take
that step, but it has benefit in giving
our scientists the ability to analyze
complex data that will help America
remain the world’s leader in advanced
computing.
The bill also requires the DOE to es-
tablish data storage facilities to se-
curely transmit and store data that the
VA provides. This will make certain
that privacy and security are main-
tained for veterans who volunteer for
the programs.
I am grateful that my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle have been able to
come together and move this bill for-
ward. Providing better care for our vet-
erans is a place where we can find com-
mon ground, especially since America’s
veterans fought to keep us all safe, re-
gardless of our political party.
In closing, I would like to thank my
fellow Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology members who cospon-
sored this legislation and the many
veterans serving in the House who sup-
ported my bill. I also want to thank
Secretary of Energy Rick Perry, who
has been a strong advocate of this part-
nership.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ in favor of im-
proving healthcare for veterans.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Puerto Rico (Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN).
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking
Member LUCAS for yielding me the
time.
I rise in strong support of H.R. 617,
the Department of Energy Veterans’
Health Initiative Act, introduced by
my colleague, Congressman RALPH
NORMAN from South Carolina.
I think this bill is very simple, but
very essential at the same time. It es-
sentially authorizes collaboration be-
tween the Department of Energy and
the Department of Veterans Affairs to
establish a program that facilitates
computing capabilities to process data
on health issues affecting all of our
veterans. The bill will subsequently
support the Veterans Administration
with identifying potential health risks
and challenges that our communities
have.
I think it is important because com-
bining those processing capabilities
with health information compiled by
the VA will help us to better under-
stand the healthcare issues related to
our veterans and the general popu-
lation as well and ensures that both
agencies will remain at the forefront of
scientific and medical research.
I am a proud cosponsor of this bill on
behalf of our veterans. Actually, we
have more than 90,000 veterans reg-
istered in Puerto Rico, and we are very
grateful to Congressman RALPH NOR-
MAN for introducing this bill.
I want to also thank Chairwoman
JOHNSON and Ranking Member LUCAS
for their great work together on behalf
of the scientific community and our
veterans.
I urge all of my colleagues to vote in
favor of this bill.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume to
close, since I have no additional speak-
ers.
Mr. Speaker, simply put, H.R. 617
harnesses the power of DOE’s super-
computers to revolutionize the way we
care for America’s veterans.
I want to thank Representative NOR-
MAN for his leadership on this bill.
I strongly encourage my colleagues
to support this bipartisan legislation,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I would like to close by simply thank-
ing all of the members of the full com-
mittee, as well as the staff, and to urge
passage of this legislation, H.R. 617.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 617, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
b 1530
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, July 23, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
July 23, 2019, at 11:34 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 1199.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
OPPOSING GLOBAL BOYCOTT, DI-
VESTMENT, AND SANCTIONS
MOVEMENT TARGETING ISRAEL
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 246) opposing efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel and the
Global Boycott, Divestment, and Sanc-
tions Movement targeting Israel, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 246
Whereas the democratic, Jewish State of
Israel is a key ally and strategic partner of
the United States;
Whereas since Israel’s founding in 1948,
Congress has repeatedly expressed our Na-
tion’s unwavering commitment to the secu-
rity of Israel as a Jewish and democratic
state;
Whereas it is a hallmark of American de-
mocracy for citizens to petition the United
States Government in favor of or against
United States foreign policy;
Whereas the United States Constitution
protects the rights of United States citizens
to articulate political views, including with
respect to the policies of the United States
or foreign governments;
Whereas American policy has long sought
to bring peace to the Middle East and recog-
nized that both the Israeli and Palestinian
people should be able to live in safe and sov-
ereign states, free from fear and violence,
with mutual recognition;
Whereas support for peace between the
Israelis and Palestinians has long-standing
bipartisan support in Congress;
Whereas it is the long-standing policy of
the United States that a peaceful resolution
to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict should
come through direct negotiations between
the Government of Israel and the Palestinian
Authority, with the support of countries in
the region and around the world;
Whereas cooperation between Israel and
the United States is of great importance, es-
pecially in the context of rising anti-Semi-
tism, authoritarianism and security prob-
lems in Europe, the Middle East, and North
Africa;
Whereas the Global Boycott, Divestment
and Sanctions Movement (BDS Movement)
targeting Israel is a campaign that does not
favor a two-state solution and that seeks to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.032 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7182 July 23, 2019
exclude the State of Israel and the Israeli
people from the economic, cultural, and aca-
demic life of the rest of the world;
Whereas the Global Boycott, Divestment
and Sanctions Movement is one of several re-
cent political movements that undermines
the possibility for a negotiated solution to
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict by demand-
ing concessions of one party alone and en-
couraging the Palestinians to reject negotia-
tions in favor of international pressure;
Whereas the founder of the Global BDS
Movement, Omar Barghouti, has denied the
right of the Jewish people in their homeland,
saying, ‘‘We oppose a Jewish state in any
part of Palestine. No Palestinian, rational
Palestinian, not a sell-out Palestinian, will
ever accept a Jewish state in Palestine.’’;
Whereas the Global BDS Movement targets
not only the Israeli government but also
Israeli academic, cultural, and civil society
institutions, as well as individual Israeli
citizens of all political persuasions, reli-
gions, and ethnicities, and in some cases
even Jews of other nationalities who support
Israel;
Whereas the Global BDS Movement does
not recognize, and many of its supporters ex-
plicitly deny, the right of the Jewish people
to national self-determination;
Whereas university-based Global BDS ef-
forts violate the core goals of the university
and global cultural development, which
thrive on free and open exchange and debate,
and in some cases, leads to the intimidation
and harassment of Jewish students and oth-
ers who support Israel;
Whereas the Global BDS Movement pro-
motes principles of collective guilt, mass
punishment, and group isolation, which are
destructive of prospects for progress towards
peace and a two-state solution;
Whereas boycotts and similar tools aimed
at promoting racial justice and social change
have been used effectively in the United
States, South Africa, and other parts of the
world; and
Whereas in contrast to protest movements
that have sought racial justice and social
change, the Global Boycott, Divestment and
Sanctions Movement targeting Israel is not
about promoting coexistence, civil rights,
and political reconciliation but about ques-
tioning and undermining the very legitimacy
of the country and its people: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) opposes the Global Boycott, Divest-
ment, and Sanctions Movement (BDS Move-
ment) targeting Israel, including efforts to
target United States companies that are en-
gaged in commercial activities that are legal
under United States law, and all efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel;
(2) urges Israelis and Palestinians to re-
turn to direct negotiations as the only way
to achieve an end to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict;
(3) affirms the Constitutional right of
United States citizens to free speech, includ-
ing the right to protest or criticize the poli-
cies of the United States or foreign govern-
ments;
(4) supports the full implementation of the
United States-Israel Strategic Partnership
Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–296; 128 Stat. 4075)
and new efforts to enhance government-wide,
coordinated United States-Israel scientific
and technological cooperation in civilian
areas, such as with respect to energy, water,
agriculture, alternative fuel technology, ci-
vilian space technology, and security, in
order to counter the effects of actions to
boycott, divest from, or sanction Israel; and
(5) reaffirms its strong support for a nego-
tiated solution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict resulting in two states—a demo-
cratic Jewish State of Israel, and a viable,
democratic Palestinian state—living side-by-
side in peace, security, and mutual recogni-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ZELDIN)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York (Mr. ENGEL).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 246.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, let me start by thank-
ing the authors of this resolution, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mr. NADLER, Mr. ZELDIN,
and Mrs. WAGNER. I am grateful for
their bipartisan leadership.
Mr. Speaker, there are 339 cosponsors
of this resolution. Let me say that
again: There are 339 cosponsors for this
measure opposing the global Boycott,
Divestment, and Sanctions movement
that undermines the legitimacy of the
State of Israel.
Support for Israel in Congress is an
issue that has been like catnip for our
friends in the press that cover our
work. Frankly, this issue has been po-
liticized in a way that I find ugly and
is ultimately harmful to the U.S.-Israel
relationship. It is time that leaders
stop playing politics with our relations
with the Jewish state.
When the fog clears, and the bullies
on their pulpits end their tirades, what
you see with this measure is a real bi-
partisan reflection on how this body re-
gards our country’s relationship with
and support for Israel and our opposi-
tion to BDS. Almost 80 percent of
House Members are cosponsors, and we
are here debating it under suspension
of the rules.
What this resolution says is simple.
It says that support for BDS and sup-
port for a two-state solution just aren’t
compatible. Let me explain why, and I
hope this explanation will also help to
address some of the concerns about
this measure.
Opposing BDS isn’t about opposing
any individual’s right to protest or
boycott. The right of any person to ex-
press views like that is enshrined in
our Constitution. That sort of free ex-
pression is a pillar of American democ-
racy, and this resolution says so. Let
me read from it:
‘‘Whereas it is a hallmark of Amer-
ican democracy for citizens to petition
the United States Government in favor
of or against United States foreign pol-
icy;
‘‘Whereas the United States Con-
stitution protects the rights of United
States citizens to articulate political
views, including with respect to the
policies of the United States or foreign
governments.’’
That is in this resolution. It couldn’t
be any clearer, Mr. Speaker.
Throughout history, protests, boy-
cotts, and movements like that have
played key roles in driving important
change. The resolution says that, too:
‘‘Whereas boycotts and similar tools
aimed at promoting racial justice and
social change have been used effec-
tively in the United States, South Afri-
ca, and other parts of the world.’’
But here is the thing about the glob-
al BDS movement: I don’t believe it
promotes racial justice or social
change at all. It promotes a one-sided
view of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
that seeks to marginalize Israel and
that would deny the Jewish people the
right of national self-determination, a
right proclaimed by none other than
the United Nations.
Many of us have been fighting for
years to advance a future for the
Israelis and Palestinians of two states
for two peoples living side by side in
peace and security. Building that fu-
ture will require hard work and conces-
sions.
BDS says that the onus is entirely on
Israel. All concessions have to come
from Israel, and the Palestinians
should reject negotiations and just
allow international pressure to build
on Israel.
That is not how negotiations work,
and it is no way to promote peace.
That is why this movement is so coun-
terproductive, in my view.
Do you want to criticize a govern-
ment? That is your right. Do you want
to stop buying products from a certain
country? That is also your right.
But participating in an international
commercial effort that undermines
Israel’s legitimacy and scuttles the
chances of a two-state solution isn’t
the same as an individual exercising
First Amendment rights.
I continue to believe that a two-state
solution that guarantees self-deter-
mination for both Jews and Palestin-
ians—not one or the other—is the best
way to solve the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict. I believe that the over-
whelming majority of our colleagues in
this body agree with me, and Congress
has said so before in bipartisan resolu-
tions.
Today, we have the opportunity to
reiterate that point and to warn
against something that would derail
that solution.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON,
Chairwoman, Committee on Science, Space and
Technology, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN JOHNSON: I am writing
to you concerning H.Res. 246, Opposing ef-
forts to delegitimize the State of Israel and
the Global Boycott, Divestment, and Sanc-
tions Movement targeting Israel. I appre-
ciate your willingness to work cooperatively
on this resolution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.010 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7183
July 23, 2019
I acknowledge that provisions of the reso-
lution fall within jurisdiction of the Com-
mittee on Science, Space and Technology
under House Rule X, and that your Com-
mittee will forgo action on H.Res. 246 to ex-
pedite floor consideration. I further ac-
knowledge that the inaction of your Com-
mittee with respect to the resolution does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the measure
that fall within your jurisdiction.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the resolution. I appre-
ciate your cooperation and look forward to
continuing to work with you as this measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COM-
MITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND
TECHNOLOGY,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
CHAIRMAN ELIOT ENGEL,
Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Rep-
resentatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: I am writing to
you concerning H.Res. 246, ‘‘Opposing efforts
to delegitimize the State of Israel and the
Global Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions
Movement targeting Israel.’’ This resolution
was sequentially referred to the Committee
on Science, Space, and Technology (‘‘Science
Committee’’) on March 21, 2019.
The Science Committee will forgo action
on H.Res. 246 in order to expedite floor con-
sideration. This is, however, not a waiver of
future jurisdictional claims by the Science
Committee over this subject matter. Addi-
tionally, thank you for agreeing to include
our exchange of letters in the Congressional
Record.
Sincerely,
EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON,
Chairwoman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary, House
of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: I am writing to
you concerning H.Res. 246, Opposing efforts
to delegitimize the State of Israel and the
Global Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions
Movement targeting Israel. I appreciate your
willingness to work cooperatively on this
resolution.
I acknowledge that provisions of the reso-
lution fall within the jurisdiction of the
Committee on Judiciary under House Rule
X, and that your Committee will forgo ac-
tion on H.Res. 246 to expedite floor consider-
ation. I further acknowledge that the inac-
tion of your Committee with respect to the
resolution does not waive any future juris-
dictional claim over the matters contained
in the measure that fall within your jurisdic-
tion.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the resolution. I appre-
ciate your cooperation and look forward to
continuing to work with you as this measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs, House
of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: This is to advise
you that the Committee on the Judiciary
has now had an opportunity to review the
provisions in H.Res. 246, Opposing efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel and the Glob-
al Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions
Movement targeting Israel, that fall within
our Rule X jurisdiction. I appreciate your
consulting with us on those provisions. The
Judiciary Committee has no objection to
your including them in the resolution for
consideration on the House floor, and to ex-
pedite that consideration is willing to forgo
action on H.Res. 246, with the understanding
that we do not thereby waive any future ju-
risdictional claim over those provisions or
their subject matters.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. MAXINE WATERS,
Chaiwoman, Committee on Financial Services,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN WATERS: I am writing
to you concerning H.Res. 246, Opposing ef-
forts to delegitimize the State of Israel and
the Global Boycott, Divestment, and Sanc-
tions Movement targeting Israel. I appre-
ciate your willingness to work cooperatively
on this resolution.
I acknowledge that provisions of the reso-
lution fall within the jurisdiction of the
Committee on Financial Services under
House Rule X, and that your Committee will
forgo action on H.Res. 246 to expedite floor
consideration. I further acknowledge that
the inaction of your Committee with respect
to the resolution does not waive any future
jurisdictional claim over the matters con-
tained in the measure that fall within your
jurisdiction.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the resolution. I appre-
ciate your cooperation and look forward to
continuing to work with you as this measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES,
Washington, DC, July 22, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs, House
of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing con-
cerning H.Res. 246, Opposing efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel and the Glob-
al Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions tar-
geting Israel.
Because you have been working with the
Committee on Financial Services concerning
provisions in H.Res. 246 that fall within our
Rule X jurisdiction, I agree to forgo formal
consideration of H.Res. 246 so that it may
proceed expeditiously to the House floor. The
Committee on Financial Services takes this
action to forego formal consideration of
H.Res. 246 with our mutual understanding
that, by foregoing formal consideration of
H.Res. 246 at this time, we do not waive any
jurisdiction over the subject matter con-
tained in this or similar legislation.
Finally, I would request that a copy of our
exchange of letters on this matter be in-
cluded in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of H.Res. 246.
Sincerely,
MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support H.
Res. 246. This is a bipartisan resolution
I introduced with BRAD SCHNEIDER,
JERRY NADLER, and ANN WAGNER to op-
pose BDS and efforts to delegitimize
the State of Israel, which is now up to
350 cosponsors.
We must combat the BDS movement
targeting our great ally in the Middle
East. The BDS movement seeks to
harm Israel today, tomorrow, and well
into the future.
It is an American value to be able to
express legitimate, reasonable criti-
cism of any government in the world,
including our own. The BDS move-
ment, though, is different, and we must
reject the blatant anti-Semitism in-
jected throughout BDS and the
delegitimizing of Israel.
We must educate and all be aware of
the toxic, anti-Semitic words of the
founder of BDS and how we have so
many Jewish students on college cam-
puses right here in the United States
from coast to coast targeted with bla-
tant anti-Semitism in the name of
BDS.
Congress needs to make a very
strong, bipartisan statement against
BDS, and this resolution does just that.
In addition, we should also enact legis-
lation with teeth.
In February, the Senate passed anti-
BDS legislation, S. 1, with a strong, bi-
partisan vote. This bill allows State
and local governments to adopt laws to
divest public funds from entities that
boycott Israel. Lead Republican
MCCAUL already has a bill in the
House, H.R. 336, that is identical to S.
1 and contains the anti-BDS legisla-
tion.
I strongly encourage the Speaker to
bring this bill to the floor as well so
that not only are we making a strong
statement, but we are also doing some-
thing about it.
I am grateful to House leadership for
bringing H. Res. 246 to the floor today,
for Chairman ENGEL’s work and his
team’s work in the House Foreign Af-
fairs Committee, and to lead Repub-
lican MCCAUL and his team.
Mr. Speaker, this is a big deal. I am
honored to work with you on this im-
portant effort, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 11⁄2
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. NADLER), who is the chair-
man of the Judiciary Committee.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H. Res. 246. This reso-
lution, modeled on legislation passed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.014 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7184 July 23, 2019
by the New York City Council, is fully
consistent with the First Amendment
and affirms the rights of those who
support the global BDS movement to
voice their opinions. Importantly, it
also puts Congress on RECORD rejecting
this misguided and deceptive move-
ment that is neither progressive in its
conduct nor pro-peace in its ultimate
mission.
BDS proponents advocate for a com-
plete boycott of Israeli businesses, in-
dividuals, and institutions—including
academic institutions, which are sup-
posed to be bastions of intellectual
freedom—hypocritically seeking to
deny all Israeli citizens the same rights
and freedoms that BDS supporters
claim that they themselves are denied.
Not only does the movement, at
times, invoke anti-Semitic tropes and
seemingly promote violence, it un-
fairly blames one party in the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict and does nothing
to promote direct negotiations to
achieve a two-state solution, which is
the only path to a fair peace.
In fact, the founder of the movement,
when asked whether BDS would end
when Palestinians were able to estab-
lish their own state, flatly says ‘‘no.’’
That tells you everything you need to
know, Mr. Speaker.
Instead of promoting peace and a
two-state solution, the mission of BDS
is clear: to delegitimize Israel, regard-
less of its policies or conduct, and to
deny the Jewish people, and only the
Jewish people, the right of national
self-determination.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this resolution.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. SMITH), who is a senior
member of the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my friend for yield-
ing.
I applaud Mr. SCHNEIDER and Mr.
ZELDIN for sponsoring this important
resolution. I especially thank Chair-
man ELIOT ENGEL for his very eloquent
comments a moment ago.
Not wishing to be redundant, I will
just say this because I associate myself
with their strong and persuasive re-
marks: The great former Soviet refuse-
nik and religious prisoner Natan
Sharansky, who testified at two of
about a dozen hearings that I have
chaired on combating anti-Semitism,
proposed what he called a simple test
to help us distinguish legitimate criti-
cism of Israel from anti-Semitism.
Sharansky called it the three Ds, de-
monization, double standard, and
delegitimization.
When the three Ds are advanced, we
know that anti-Semitism is the issue.
The BDS movement demonizes Israel
and, by extension, Jews, who are al-
ways cast in the role of oppressors, who
are always in the wrong. In so doing, it
applies a double standard, whereby
Israel is always wrong and the op-
pressed Palestinians are always in the
right, regardless of whether groups
such as Hamas are engaging in terror-
istic acts upon Israeli citizens. The ob-
jective of this is to delegitimize the
State of Israel, to deny its very right
to exist.
Mr. Speaker, I applaud them on this
bill, and I hope this vote is unanimous.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. SCHNEIDER), who is the author of
this resolution.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I
proudly rise today in support of H. Res.
246, of which I am the sponsor.
This resolution does four things.
First, it affirms the vital relation-
ship between the United States and
Israel, our most important ally in a
complicated region of the world.
Second, it reiterates our unbreakable
commitment to Israel’s security.
Third, it restates Congress’ strong,
bipartisan support for a negotiated
two-state solution.
Lastly, it makes clear that Congress
opposes the global Boycott, Divest-
ment, and Sanctions, or BDS, move-
ment that seeks to delegitimize Israel;
opposes a two-state solution; and
pushes the cause of peace for both
Israelis and Palestinians further out of
reach.
It has been our country’s long-held
policy that the best path to ensuring
Israel’s long-term security as a demo-
cratic and Jewish state, and realizing
the Palestinian people’s aspirations for
a state of their own, is through a nego-
tiated two-state solution.
The global BDS movement, on the
other hand, denies the Jewish people’s
connection to the land of Israel; refuses
to accept the basic idea of a Jewish
state; and seeks to delegitimize Israel
in international forums, on college
campuses, and in global commerce.
But don’t take my word for it. The
founder of the global BDS movement,
Omar Barghouti, has said as much:
‘‘We oppose a Jewish state in any part
of Palestine. No Palestinian, rational
Palestinian, not a sellout Palestinian,
will ever accept a Jewish state in Pal-
estine.’’
When global BDS movement sup-
porters chant, ‘‘From the river to the
sea, Palestine will be free,’’ these are
not words of peace. This is a call for
the destruction of the entire State of
Israel and the elimination of the Jews
from the land—all the land, not just
Gaza and the West Bank.
That is why it is so important that
we take a stand today and vote to con-
demn the global BDS movement.
Let me also be clear: This resolution
explicitly recognizes that boycotts
have a long tradition in this country,
including the civil rights movement,
efforts to end apartheid in South Afri-
ca, and other matters. However, not all
boycotts seek just ends.
Such is the case of the BDS move-
ment against Israel and its funda-
mental aims: the delegitimization of
Israel and the destruction of the Jew-
ish state.
I am proud that this resolution has
gained 350 cosponsors, including more
than three-quarters of the Members of
both parties. I would like to thank the
leadership of my Democratic colead
Congressman JERRY NADLER as well as
the efforts of our Republican coleads,
Representatives LEE ZELDIN and ANN
WAGNER.
This strong, bipartisan support sends
a clear, united message that this Con-
gress not only supports the Jewish,
democratic State of Israel and two
states as the path to peace for both
Israelis and Palestinians but that at
the same time we condemn efforts to
delegitimize and block the path to
peace.
b 1545
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Lou-
isiana (Mr. SCALISE), the esteemed Re-
publican whip.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate both of my colleagues from New
York, the distinguished gentlemen, Mr.
ZELDIN and Mr. ENGEL, for their strong
leadership in standing up against this
BDS movement.
I think we all know what it is de-
signed to do. It is designed to
delegitimize Israel as a Jewish state
and to undermine their economy,
which ultimately goes to the heart of
trying to bring down Israel by people
who have been against a Jewish state
and expressed anti-Semitism for dec-
ades. We all need to stand up against
that, and so this resolution is incred-
ibly important.
As my other colleague just men-
tioned, our nations had a rich history
of using boycotts to promote freedom.
There are other boycotts that have
been displayed to undermine freedom,
and that is really where the BDS move-
ment is in a very different category. I
think we all need to make that distinc-
tion.
If a boycott is being used to advance
freedom, that is one we should support;
but if a boycott is being used to under-
mine the very freedoms that exist in
the only real elected democracy in the
Middle East, we all need to rise up
against that as people who respect that
great tradition, that great love be-
tween the United States and Israel, an
unbreakable bond, one that brings Re-
publicans and Democrats together. We
need to continue that tradition.
But I would also add, Mr. Speaker,
that, as we are talking about why we
need to oppose the BDS movement
with this resolution, words are hollow
if we don’t follow it up with action. So,
at the same time, Mr. Speaker, hope-
fully, we get an overwhelming, maybe
unanimous, vote on this resolution.
It is long past time that the Demo-
crat leadership of this House bring up
H.R. 336 by the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. MCCAUL), the bill that actually
puts teeth in the law to stand up
against the BDS movement all around
the world.
Here, even, sometimes in Congress or
in other states, but in other countries
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.037 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7185
July 23, 2019
where they are trying to advance this
movement, we need teeth—words and
action. So these are words today. We
need to follow it up with H.R. 336, real
action.
Mr. Speaker, I urge that we stand
strong together.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Flor-
ida (Mrs. MURPHY).
Mrs. MURPHY. Mr. Speaker, I
strongly support the State of Israel. It
is a homeland for the Jewish people
and a sanctuary from anti-Semitism.
Israel is a thriving democracy, and its
citizens have made enormous contribu-
tions to our global society.
The U.S. has no better friend than
Israel. And, yes, on occasion, our two
governments will disagree on certain
policies, as all sovereign nations do,
but our strong alliance is rooted in
shared values, shared security interest,
and a deep historical connection.
I also believe the Palestinian people
have legitimate aspirations, deserve a
better future, and should have their
own state. I support direct negotia-
tions between the parties leading to
two states living together in peace and
security.
I support this bipartisan resolution
because the BDS movement makes a
just peace harder, not easier. It un-
fairly vilifies Israel, blaming it, and it
alone, for this complex conflict.
American citizens have the right to
boycott, and boycotts often promote
positive change, but the BDS move-
ment is misguided and harmful, and
Congress should say so unequivocally.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I continue
to reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 11⁄2
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DEUTCH), chairman of the Sub-
committee on the Middle East, North
Africa, and International Terrorism,
and a valued member of the Foreign
Affairs Committee.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairman ENGEL for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support
H. Res. 246 and to voice my relentless
opposition to the Global Boycott, Di-
vestment and Sanctions campaign that
seeks to delegitimize the State of
Israel and deny the Jewish people—and
only the Jewish people—the right to
self-determination.
This resolution reminds us that boy-
cotts have been previously used as
tools for social justice in this very
country. But BDS doesn’t seek social
justice. It seeks a world in which the
State of Israel does not exist.
It is not incompatible to support a
strong, secure Jewish State of Israel
and to support human rights, dignity,
and prosperity for the Palestinian peo-
ple. It is incompatible, however, to sup-
port BDS and claim to support two
states for two people when BDS envi-
sions Palestine from the river to the
sea, one state, and the other, rejection
of the Jewish State of Israel.
You simply will not, and cannot,
achieve lasting peace and security for
both Israelis and Palestinians and
work toward a two-state solution if
you support a movement that seeks to
delegitimize the very existence of
Israel.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my col-
leagues, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. ZELDIN,
Mr. NADLER, and Mrs. WAGNER, for
bringing this resolution to the floor
today. I strongly support their efforts.
I strongly support this resolution
condemning BDS, and I urge all of my
colleagues to do the same.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, it is im-
portant to note, really, from coast to
coast, we are hearing stories of stu-
dents on college campuses, in the name
of BDS, being targeted with blatant
anti-Semitism.
For example, at New York Univer-
sity, after the student government
passed a resolution supporting BDS,
the Bronfman Center for Jewish Life
was temporarily closed in response to
threatening Twitter posts by a student
who expressed ‘‘a desire for Zionists to
die.’’
A University of Michigan professor
refused to write a letter of rec-
ommendation for a qualified student
solely because she wanted to study
abroad in Israel.
A Students for Justice in Palestine
cofounder and University of California,
Berkeley, professor spoke at a national
conference and shared the anti-Semi-
tism meme of an Orthodox Jewish per-
son in his presentation.
At Warren Wilson College, an invited
speaker stated: ‘‘Jews are doing the
same thing to the Palestinians as the
Nazis did to the Jews.’’
A Yik Yak posting at the University
of California read: ‘‘Gas them, burn
them, and dismantle their power struc-
ture. Humanity cannot progress with
the parasitic Jew.’’
More globally, University of Durban
in South Africa called for the expulsion
of Jewish students who did not support
the BDS movement at the university.
It is really important for people who
may just be getting familiar with what
BDS is to know that, right now, we
have so many Jewish students who are
being targeted with this blatant anti-
Semitism, and that is why today’s
statement sends such a powerful mes-
sage.
Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Flor-
ida (Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ).
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge the
House to pass this resolution which op-
poses efforts to delegitimize the State
of Israel through the global Boycott,
Divestment and Sanctions Movement.
This resolution reiterates that there is
a viable pathway to peace: through di-
rect negotiations to achieve two states
for two people.
If implemented, the BDS movement
would blacklist Israeli businesses, dev-
astate the Israeli economy, and create
doubt about Israel’s legitimacy among
the next generation. That undermines
any possibility of achieving a lasting
peace.
The global rise of anti-Semitism is
manifesting itself in many terrifying
ways, and we must remain vigilant.
This resolution is paramount in ensur-
ing that BDS supporters cannot utilize
this movement to promote an anti-Se-
mitic agenda.
BDS does not seek and will not help
achieve Israeli-Palestinian peace. In
fact, it pushes the hope for a two-state
solution even further away. BDS only
gives fodder to Israel’s enemies who
seek to destroy her and isolate her
from the rest of the world.
Direct, bilateral negotiations be-
tween the parties is the only option for
a viable, long-lasting peace.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, some supporters of the
BDS movement—in fact, the move-
ment, in total, makes the argument
that Israel is the bad guy on humani-
tarian issues, on human rights.
It is important to note, Israel has a
long history of LGBT protections and
women’s rights enshrined in Israeli law
that is in stark contrast to its Middle
East neighbors.
Regardless of ethnicity or religion,
there are broad freedoms in Israel, in-
cluding the right to vote, freedom of
speech, equal access to education and
the workplace, and no special restric-
tions on the way women dress. By law,
women are protected from discrimina-
tion.
In fact, Israel’s declaration of inde-
pendence grants all Israel’s inhabitants
equality of social and political rights,
irrespective of religion, race, or gender.
Even Palestinians in the autonomous
regions have voting rights and receive
social services.
Under Israeli jurisdiction, some
350,000 Palestinian residents in Jeru-
salem receive certain civilian welfare,
health, and municipal services. In
other parts of the Middle East, it is a
monarchy with no voting rights what-
soever.
Hamas has repeatedly denied human-
itarian aid offered by Israel. In May
2018, when there were clashes on the
border, Gaza refused two truckloads of
aid from Israel to relieve medical
shortages.
There are so many falsehoods that
have been perpetrated by supporters of
the BDS movement, and that is, again,
another reason why today’s resolution
is such a powerful statement.
Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 11⁄2
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. SUOZZI), my very good
friend.
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, the BDS campaign has
been heralded by critics and enemies of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.039 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7186 July 23, 2019
Israel as a penalty for what they claim
is Israel’s oppression of the Palestine
people. Nothing could be further from
the truth.
These critics and enemies of Israel
are, in reality, simply adding the BDS
campaign to their arsenal of weapons
to try and isolate, weaken,
delegitimize, and, ultimately, destroy
the State of Israel, as they have for
decades.
For over 70 years, Israelis have faced
repeated terrorism, bombs detonated
on public buses, in cafes, and at reli-
gious observances. This terrorism has
been beaten back by a nation simply
trying to defend itself and persevere
under withering attacks.
So now Israel’s enemies have adopted
a new strategy. BDS is an anti-Semitic
movement, plain and simple.
The founder of BDS, Omar Barghouti,
said it very clearly: ‘‘ . . . we oppose a
Jewish state in any part of Palestine.
No Palestinian . . . will ever accept a
Jewish state.’’
The goals of BDS are clear. Just read
their words.
Israel shall not and cannot yield. And
we in the United States must stand
with our ally that shares our values
and has also worked with us.
Mr. Speaker, I urge strong bipartisan
support of this bill.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. SUOZZI just pointed out one
quote. Earlier, we heard another quote
from the BDS founder. I will share one
more. He also stated—and this is the
founder of the BDS movement: ‘‘Many
of the methods of collective and indi-
vidual ‘punishment’ meted out to Pal-
estinian civilians at the hands of
young, racist, often sadistic and ever
impervious Israeli soldiers . . . are
reminiscent of the common Nazi prac-
tices against the Jews.’’
The list goes on and on. As people out
there are listening to this debate, be-
coming familiar with what the BDS
movement is, just understand and take
heed of the words from the BDS move-
ment founder, Omar Barghouti.
Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 11⁄2
minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. GOTTHEIMER).
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in support of this bipartisan
solution opposing the boycott of Israel
and supporting a two-state solution.
I want to thank Chairman ENGEL for
his excellent leadership on this impor-
tant issue and Speaker PELOSI and Ma-
jority Leader HOYER for bringing this
resolution to the floor.
With this bill and 349 cosponsors, it is
very clear that Members of both par-
ties support our vital ally, Israel, the
leading democracy in the Middle East,
because our countries share common
interests and fundamental values, and
Israel’s security is key to America’s se-
curity—to fighting Hezbollah, Hamas,
PIJ, and global terror.
However, the Global Boycott, Divest-
ment and Sanctions, BDS, Movement
seeks to delegitimize Israel and deny
its right to exist as a Jewish state.
As Mr. SUOZZI, my colleague, just so
aptly read, the founder of BDS, Omar
Barghouti, said it very clearly: ‘‘Defi-
nitely, most definitely, we oppose a
Jewish state in any part of Palestine.
No Palestinian, rational Palestinian,
not a sell-out Palestinian, will ever ac-
cept a Jewish state.’’
That exactly captures what we are
fighting here today. There are few
clearer examples of bias and double
standards than the BDS movement. No
other democratic country faces a glob-
al boycott.
But BDS is also fundamentally in-
compatible with a two-state solution,
which I strongly support. BDS seeks to
punish only Israel, and it rejects direct
negotiations in favor of unilateral
strategy. That is why it is so impor-
tant that Congress goes on record op-
posing BDS and other harmful efforts
to single out and delegitimize Israel.
Standing up for the U.S.-Israel rela-
tionship should not be a partisan issue.
That is why the members of the Prob-
lem Solvers Caucus are proud to sup-
port this resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman
from New Jersey.
b 1600
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. This resolution
was introduced by our colleague Con-
gressman BRAD SCHNEIDER, along with
Congressman LEE ZELDIN, Chairman
JERRY NADLER, and Congresswoman
ANN WAGNER.
They have all done an excellent job.
Nothing in this resolution would pre-
vent anyone, in any way, from being
able to engage in free speech. That is
not what this is about, and we must
not allow false attacks on Israel.
Mr. Speaker, today, we must con-
tinue to make sure that confronting bi-
ased anti-Semitism and supporting a
two-state solution remain bipartisan
priorities.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
BDS supporters also claim that the
BDS movement is nonviolent. The BDS
movement does not distance itself from
Hamas, a designated Foreign Terrorist
Organization. BDS supporters, individ-
ually, are not distancing themselves
from Hamas either. Instead, their criti-
cism is focused on attacking Israel and,
in many cases, the Jewish people spe-
cifically.
Two Fridays ago, Fathi Hammad, a
senior Hamas official, called upon Pal-
estinians worldwide: ‘‘Our brothers’’ in
the diaspora ‘‘are still preparing. They
are trying to prepare. They are warm-
ing up. A long time has passed with
them warming up. All of you 7 million
Palestinians abroad, enough of the
warming up. You have Jews every-
where, and we must attack every Jew
on the globe by way of slaughter and
killing, if God permits. Enough of the
warming up.’’
Where are all the supporters of BDS
condemning these remarks? This is two
Fridays ago, calling for the murder of
every Jew in the world.
During a closed meeting in October
2017 between Hamas chief Sinwar and
Gazan youth about reconciling with
the Fatah movement, Sinwar stated
that the time spent discussing recogni-
tion of Israel is over and that now
Hamas will, instead, discuss when they
will wipe out Israel.
Hamas uses women and children as
human shields. They deny humani-
tarian aid to their own people. They in-
cite violence. They have launched
rockets into Israel, killing innocent ci-
vilians. They have declared that jihad
is an obligation. That list goes on.
The Palestinian Authority, not only
do they incite violence, but they finan-
cially reward terror, by policy. If you
kill an Israeli or an American, you get
called a martyr. You will have streets
and football stadiums renamed after
you. You and your family will get paid
money.
There are existential threats all
around Israel. To the north, with
Hezbollah, another designated Foreign
Terrorist Organization, they have built
terror tunnels. They have amassed tens
of thousands of rockets on the border
between Lebanon and Israel.
Every year, Hamas mobilizes Pal-
estinians in their Days of Rage to at-
tack Israelis at the border, calling on
people to throw rocks and fire missiles
at Israel, which often result in actual
violence, including death, targeting in-
nocent civilians.
This past May, Hamas fired approxi-
mately 700 rockets into Israel, killing
innocent civilians. Hamas has used in-
cendiary kites and balloons, which
have destroyed some 8,000 acres of
Israeli farms, parks, and forests.
Earlier this year, Hamas carried out
the Salift operation, sending out
operatives to murder Israelis, including
Rabbi Achiad Ettinger, a father of 12.
Where are all the BDS supporters in
the United States, on college cam-
puses, people who are involved in
American politics, those who are at the
United Nations, those who are abroad?
Where is their voice right now? If ev-
erything that they say about their
cause is legitimate and reasonable,
that their concern is one that the en-
tire world should be taking heed of and
caution to, where is their voice con-
demning all the actual violence right
now of Palestinian terrorists mur-
dering innocent Israelis and, in some
cases, Americans?
Taylor Force—the Taylor Force Act
that this Chamber passed and was
signed into law—he was a United
States Military Academy graduate, an
Army veteran, a United States Army
veteran, who was killed. The PA pays
those terrorists and their families to
commit those terrorist acts.
We are here in this Chamber to call
that out for exactly what it is, in bi-
partisan fashion.
I appreciate Chairman ENGEL’s work
at the Foreign Affairs Committee. I see
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.040 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7187
July 23, 2019
Chairman DEUTCH is still here, along
with many other voices around this
Capitol who believe strongly in this ef-
fort on the other side of the aisle. We
need to work together to combat the
BDS movement. This is an important
next step.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time for the purpose
of closing.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, how much
time do I have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ZELDIN)
has 7 minutes remaining. The gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ENGEL) has
41⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, with regard to the BDS
movement, the supporters make terri-
torial claims as it relates to Gaza,
Judea and Samaria, the West Bank.
Let’s clear up the record a little
more on that. Judea and Samaria,
often referred to as the West Bank,
contain disputed territory, not occu-
pied territory. Israel ended up with
this territory after it was attacked, be-
fore there was even a Palestinian Au-
thority. Time and again, the PA has re-
jected peace proposals because they
refuse, publicly and privately, to ac-
cept a Jewish state in Israel. That is on
them. In 2008, Israel offered to with-
draw from 93 percent from Judea and
Samaria.
As for Gaza, Hamas, a designated
Foreign Terrorist Organization, they
are in charge. There is no Israeli occu-
pation there. This small strip of land is
packed out with 1.7 million people liv-
ing in sub-Third World country condi-
tions because of Hamas. As was pointed
out earlier, Hamas refuses humani-
tarian aid, uses women and children as
human shields, calls jihad as an obliga-
tion, and murders innocent civilians.
One of the most important reasons
we are here today is not only making a
strong statement in opposition to the
BDS movement but also to refute all
the lies that are being told out there.
People will speak up to try to justify
the hate that is filling the ranks of the
BDS movement, and they will never
tell you the other 100 percent of the
story. This Chamber today comes to-
gether, Republicans and Democrats,
both sides of the aisle, to make that
powerful statement.
There is a list of victims—we don’t
have enough time to go through it—of
Palestinian violence and terrorism in
2019. Mr. Speaker, 1,355 people have
been killed by Palestinian violence and
terrorism since September of 2000—
1,355 people.
Never will the BDS supporters take
any opportunity to set the record
straight on any of that, but we will
here.
I see that BRAD SCHNEIDER is with us
as well, the main author of the bill.
This is a bipartisan effort that I am
very proud to be part of today.
Mr. Speaker, I thank all of my col-
leagues for speaking today, as well as
Chris Smith and Minority Whip SCA-
LISE. This is something that we are
very passionate about.
We also believe that the strong state-
ment that is going to be made here
today with this vote is not the last step
of this Chamber’s speaking out. I really
hope that we all can work together in
a bipartisan fashion to figure out how
to do something about it, to be able to
pass legislation with teeth.
Today is nothing short of progress,
and it is something for all of us to be
proud of around our country and
around the world because it should be
an American value to stand strong,
shoulder to shoulder with our great
ally, our greatest ally in the Middle
East in Israel. It is a beacon of hope,
freedom, liberty, and opportunity.
Americans, in our day-to-day lives,
don’t even realize just how much we
are using Israeli technology, American
companies that have used Israeli tech-
nology. We probably have used it mul-
tiple times just today.
You can’t boycott Israel and, at the
same exact time, spend your entire day
using Israeli technology. You can’t
boycott Israel and travel to Israel.
We are going to call out the hypoc-
risies that exist. Ultimately, as we
flush this out, let’s work together. This
is about advocacy. It is also about edu-
cation.
When I came to Congress in 2015, hon-
estly, there were a lot of Members of
Congress that, if you asked them,
‘‘Where do you stand on the BDS move-
ment?’’ their answer would have been,
‘‘What is BDS?’’
Now, in 2019, here we are, July 2019,
coming together. We know what BDS
is: Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions
movement. We know it is filled with
anti-Israel hate. We know it is about
delegitimizing Israel. We know that it
is filled with anti-Semitism, from the
founder of BDS to those in the name of
BDS on college campuses from coast to
coast.
I plead with all of my colleagues, if
we can all work together as we move
past this great vote today, that we can
next pass legislation that has teeth in
it.
Mr. Speaker, I thank, again, BRAD
SCHNEIDER, JERRY NADLER, ANN WAG-
NER, the 350 cosponsors, and, hopefully,
everyone today voting ‘‘yes.’’ I thank
lead Republican MICHAEL MCCAUL on
the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
This is a resolution for us all to be
proud of. We should all vote ‘‘yes,’’ tell
all of our constituents about it, and re-
double our efforts to do something
about it right after that vote.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, as the chairman of the
Foreign Affairs Committee, I am really
heartened by the outpouring of support
we have heard from both sides of the
aisle involving the U.S.-Israel relation-
ship and involving the unfair BDS
movement against Israel.
I thank all the people who have spo-
ken in favor of this resolution—the
gentleman from New York (Mr. ZELDIN)
and others who have spoken—because
it shows that, when it comes to support
for the U.S.-Israel relationship, there
really is no difference between Demo-
crats and Republicans.
Israel should not be a political foot-
ball. We support the U.S.-Israel rela-
tionship, and we know that BDS is very
destructive, very unfair, very anti-Jew-
ish, anti-Semitic, and should have no
place in the public spectrum.
I think that this Chamber is getting
together. If we look at the numbers we
bring to the floor today, they really
speak for themselves. Almost 80 per-
cent of the House of Representatives
has cosponsored this resolution.
There are Members not just from dif-
ferent sides of the aisle but from across
the entire political spectrum, from one
end to the other, supporting this reso-
lution, saying the BDS movement is
unfair, that the BDS movement singles
out Israel, that the BDS movement is
really supported by people who want to
see the destruction of the world’s only
Jewish state, and that is not something
that we can stand idly by and watch
happen.
I have never been prouder of this
body—and I have been here for a while
now—than I am tonight. I am proud of
my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle.
Again, I think the reason why we
have that kind of support is clear. Con-
gress supports the U.S.-Israel relation-
ship. We support a two-state solution.
We support the rights enshrined in the
First Amendment.
We know that the global BDS move-
ment threatens the possibility of fu-
ture peace between Israelis and Pal-
estinians. It is that simple.
We know that the global BDS move-
ment threatens what is fair. We know
that the global BDS movement is real-
ly a fraud. It is a fraud. It is Israel-
hating. It is Jew-hating.
We have had enough of that in the
world. Frankly, they should be
ashamed of themselves.
I would like to note that today’s res-
olution is a very powerful rebuke of the
global BDS movement, more powerful
than any particular legislative pro-
posal. What we are saying today, to
those who want to see a peaceful end to
the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, is that
the global BDS movement has no place
here.
Mr. Speaker, I am glad to support
this measure. I urge all Members to do
likewise. Again, I thank my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle. I have never
seen Congress as united as it is on this
resolution, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I support House
Resolution 246, opposing the anti-Semitic
Global Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions—
or BDS—movement and all efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.042 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7188 July 23, 2019
It is important that we clearly state our op-
position to the BDS movement, as this non-
binding resolution with 349 cosponsors before
us does. However, it is even more important
that we take strong legislative actions to de-
fend Israel.
As hateful as this growing movement is,
sadly, it is not new.
Over 40 years ago, the Arab League began
its boycott of Israel. In response to this boy-
cott, Congress passed a law that makes it ille-
gal to participate in foreign boycotts of U.S. al-
lies.
Today, the Global BDS movement seeks to
pressure Israel by using Israel’s participation
in the global economy, in academic ex-
changes, and in cultural activities as leverage.
For example, the BDS movement tries to
pressure recording artists from performing in
Israel.
It tries to keep students from studying
abroad in Israel. It tries to keep consumers
from purchasing Israeli goods.
Not only is the BDS movement antithetical
to the values of openness and exchange
shared by the United States, Israel, and free
democracies all over the world, it is antithetical
to peace.
As threats to U.S. allies, including Israel,
evolve over time, we must update our policies
to effectively stand with our partners. In weak-
ening Israel, the global BDS movement en-
dangers the national security of the United
States.
I introduced a real legislative solution in
January—H.R. 336, the Strengthening Amer-
ica’s Security in the Middle East Act. This bill
has direct policy implications by allowing state
and local governments to adopt laws to divest
public funds from entities that boycott Israel.
Additionally, it would sanction the Assad re-
gime and its backers for their malign activities,
and strengthen our support for Israel and Jor-
dan.
While I support today’s resolution, I regret
that we are not considering H.R. 336 instead.
The Senate companion to H.R. 336, S.1, was
the first bill the Senate considered this Con-
gress, demonstrating how urgent it was.
It passed with robust bipartisan support.
But, neither S.1, nor my House companion
H. R. 336, have received consideration in this
body.
Standing up for Israel has never been a dif-
ficult decision for the United States Congress.
It wasn’t difficult for Senator CHUCK SCHU-
MER when he voted in favor of S.1, and it
wasn’t difficult for over half of the Democrats
and nearly all Republicans in the Senate when
they too supported the bill.
Just as we passed the original anti-boycott
act 40 years ago, we must update our laws to
protect our interests.
When foreign entities foster boycotts against
Israel in the United States, they are interfering
in U.S. policy, and it is appropriate for our
government to respond.
We take a first step today by publicly ac-
knowledging BDS is dangerous and
antiSemitic; but tomorrow we must take real
actions—and advance the real policies in my
bill—to protect Israel and combat the BDS
movement.
I want to thank Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. ZELDIN,
Ms. WAGNER, Mr. NADLER, Chairman ENGEL
and the Foreign Affairs Committee Member-
ship for their bipartisan work to counter this
threat to our friend and ally Israel.
I sincerely hope all Members vote in favor of
this resolution that shows our solidarity with
our friend and ally Israel, and hope we can
vote on my bill this week.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, peaceful dis-
sent and the protesting of injustice are the
right of all Americans guaranteed by the Con-
stitution. It is called freedom of speech. H.
Res. 246 renounces the peaceful promotion of
human rights, self-determination, and justice
on behalf of Palestinian people living under
Israeli military occupation. At the same time,
this resolution completely ignores the
Netanyahu government’s brutality, dehuman-
ization, and subjugation of Palestinian people
at the root of this peaceful movement.
The State of Israel is a sovereign nation, an
ally of the United States, and a military power
that occupies Palestinian lands for the benefit
of Jewish settlers. H. Res. 246 originally
claimed that the use of voluntary boycotts, di-
vestment, and sanctions ‘‘undermines the pos-
sibility of a negotiated solution to the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict.’’ I am pleased that this
language has been removed.
I am also very pleased that resolving clause
3 was added to affirm the Constitutional right
of U.S. citizens to free speech, including ‘‘the
right to protest or criticize the policies of the
United States or a foreign government.’’
Israel cannot be delegitimized by any out-
side movement, it is a nation-state that is
selfgoverned and makes its own laws, its own
policies. Sadly, and I say sadly because I
want peace and security for the Israeli people,
it is the actions of the Netanyahu government
that delegitimizes Israel’s standing in the world
community.
Today’s Washington Post ran a headline:
‘‘Israeli demolition of Palestinian homes pro-
vokes outcry.’’ Is this the action of a nation
seeking peaceful negotiations? Is the annex-
ation of Palestinian lands or the military deten-
tion and torture of Palestinian children an ef-
fort to seek a negotiated peace agreement?
Under Prime Minister Netanyahu, Israel is
engaged in a systemic, violent, and repressive
strategy to annex Palestinian lands and per-
manently displace the Palestinian population,
not seek a negotiated peace or a two-state so-
lution. Shamefully, the President of the United
States and the U.S. ambassador to Israel are
enabling this effort in a reversal of decades of
bipartisan U.S. foreign policy.
Actions by Congress, like passing H. Res.
246, which ignore reality and effectively sup-
ports military occupation, violations of inter-
national humanitarian law, and the subjugation
of the Palestinian population, does not
strengthen Israel, but it does damage the
standing of the U.S. House in the eyes of the
world.
It is time for Congress to exercise real
American leadership that is based on our val-
ues and the belief that Israel deserves peace
and security, and at the same time the Pales-
tinian people deserve justice, equality, and an
end to Israeli repression and occupation. H.
Res. 246 offers nothing but the perpetuation of
the status quo, repression, and conflict.
I am voting to oppose H. Res. 246.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 246, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
b 1615
UNITED STATES-ISRAEL COOPERA-
TION ENHANCEMENT AND RE-
GIONAL SECURITY ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1837) to make improvements to
certain defense and security assistance
provisions and to authorize assistance
for Israel, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1837
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CON-
TENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘United States-Israel Cooperation En-
hancement and Regional Security Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
TITLE I—ENHANCED COOPERATION BE-
TWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND
ISRAEL
Sec. 101. Coordinator of United States-Israel
Research and Development.
Sec. 102. Cooperation on directed energy ca-
pabilities.
Sec. 103. Cooperation on cybersecurity.
Sec. 104. Report on potential benefits and
impact to the United States of
establishing a joint United
States-Israel Cybersecurity
Center of Excellence.
Sec. 105. Cyber diplomacy officer.
Sec. 106. United States Agency for Inter-
national Development Memo-
randum-Israel enhanced co-
operation.
Sec. 107. Cooperative projects among the
United States, Israel, and de-
veloping countries.
Sec. 108. Joint cooperative program related
to innovation and high-tech for
the Middle East region.
Sec. 109. Sense of Congress on Eastern Medi-
terranean energy cooperation.
Sec. 110. Cooperation on other matters.
TITLE II—SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR
ISRAEL
Sec. 201. Findings.
Sec. 202. Statement of policy.
Sec. 203. Contingency plans to provide Israel
with necessary defense articles
and services.
Sec. 204. Waiver for existing or imminent
military threat to Israel.
Sec. 205. Security assistance for Israel.
Sec. 206. Joint assessment of quantity of
precision guided munitions for
use by Israel.
Sec. 207. Transfer of precision guided muni-
tions to Israel.
Sec. 208. Sense of Congress on rapid acquisi-
tion and deployment proce-
dures.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:26 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.035 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7189
July 23, 2019
Sec. 209. Extension of War Reserves Stock-
pile authority.
Sec. 210. Eligibility of Israel for the stra-
tegic trade authorization excep-
tion to certain export control
licensing requirements.
Sec. 211. Extension of loan guarantees to
Israel.
Sec. 212. Definition.
TITLE III—JUSTICE FOR UNITED STATES
VICTIMS OF PALESTINIAN TERRORISM
Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Facilitation of the settlement of
terrorism-related claims of na-
tionals of the United States.
Sec. 303. Modification to consent of certain
parties to personal jurisdiction.
TITLE IV—BUDGETARY EFFECTS
Sec. 401. Determination of budgetary ef-
fects.
TITLE I—ENHANCED COOPERATION BE-
TWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND
ISRAEL
SEC. 101. COORDINATOR OF UNITED STATES-
ISRAEL RESEARCH AND DEVELOP-
MENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President is encour-
aged to designate the Assistant Secretary of
State for the Bureau of Oceans and Inter-
national Environmental and Scientific Af-
fairs to act as Coordinator of United States-
Israel Research and Development (in this
section referred to as the ‘‘Coordinator’’).
(b) AUTHORITIES AND DUTIES.—The Coordi-
nator, in conjunction with the heads of rel-
evant Federal Government departments and
agencies and in coordination with the Israel
Innovation Authority, shall oversee civilian
science and technology programs on a joint
basis with Israel.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
annually thereafter, the Coordinator shall
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a report on the implementation
of this section.
(d) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology of the House of Representatives; and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate.
SEC. 102. COOPERATION ON DIRECTED ENERGY
CAPABILITIES.
(a) AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
upon request of the Ministry of Defense of
Israel and with the concurrence of the Sec-
retary of State, is authorized to carry out re-
search, development, test, and evaluation ac-
tivities, on a joint basis with Israel, to estab-
lish directed energy capabilities that address
threats to the United States, deployed forces
of the United States, or Israel. Any activi-
ties carried out pursuant to such authority
shall be conducted in a manner that appro-
priately protects sensitive information and
the national security interests of the United
States and the national security interests of
Israel.
(2) REPORT.—The activities described in
paragraph (1) may be carried out after the
Secretary of Defense submits to the appro-
priate congressional committees a report
setting forth the following:
(A) A memorandum of agreement between
the United States and Israel regarding shar-
ing of research and development costs for the
capabilities described in paragraph (1), and
any supporting documents.
(B) A certification that the memorandum
of agreement—
(i) requires sharing of costs of projects, in-
cluding in-kind support, between the United
States and Israel;
(ii) establishes a framework to negotiate
the rights to any intellectual property devel-
oped under the memorandum of agreement;
and
(iii) requires the United States Govern-
ment to receive semiannual reports on ex-
penditure of funds, if any, by the Govern-
ment of Israel, including a description of
what the funds have been used for, when
funds were expended, and an identification of
entities that expended the funds.
(b) SUPPORT IN CONNECTION WITH ACTIVI-
TIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
is authorized to provide maintenance and
sustainment support to Israel for the di-
rected energy capabilities research, develop-
ment, test, and evaluation activities author-
ized in subsection (a)(1). Such authority in-
cludes authority to install equipment nec-
essary to carry out such research, develop-
ment, test, and evaluation.
(2) REPORT.—The support described in
paragraph (1) may not be provided until 15
days after the Secretary of Defense submits
to the appropriate congressional committees
a report setting forth a detailed description
of the support to be provided.
(3) MATCHING CONTRIBUTION.—The support
described in paragraph (1) may not be pro-
vided unless the Secretary of Defense cer-
tifies to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees that the Government of Israel will
contribute to such support—
(A) an amount equal to not less than the
amount of support to be so provided; or
(B) an amount that otherwise meets the
best efforts of Israel, as mutually agreed to
by the United States and Israel.
(c) LEAD AGENCY.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall designate an appropriate research
and development entity of a military depart-
ment as the lead agency of the Department
of Defense in carrying out this section.
(d) SEMIANNUAL REPORT.—The Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees on a semiannual basis
a report that contains a copy of the most re-
cent semiannual report provided by the Gov-
ernment of Israel to the Department of De-
fense pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(B)(iii).
(e) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Relations, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs, and the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the Senate.
SEC. 103. COOPERATION ON CYBERSECURITY.
(a) GRANT PROGRAM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary, in ac-
cordance with the agreement entitled the
‘‘Agreement between the Government of the
United States of America and the Govern-
ment of the State of Israel on Cooperation in
Science and Technology for Homeland Secu-
rity Matters’’, dated May 29, 2008 (or suc-
cessor agreement), and the requirements
specified in paragraph (2), shall establish a
grant program at the Department to sup-
port—
(A) cybersecurity research and develop-
ment; and
(B) demonstration and commercialization
of cybersecurity technology.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) APPLICABILITY.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, in carrying out a re-
search, development, demonstration, or com-
mercial application program or activity that
is authorized under this section, the Sec-
retary shall require cost sharing in accord-
ance with this paragraph.
(B) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), the Secretary shall require not
less than 50 percent of the cost of a research,
development, demonstration, or commercial
application program or activity described in
subparagraph (A) to be provided by a non-
Federal source.
(ii) REDUCTION.—The Secretary may reduce
or eliminate, on a case-by-case basis, the
percentage requirement specified in clause
(i) if the Secretary determines that such re-
duction or elimination is necessary and ap-
propriate.
(C) MERIT REVIEW.—In carrying out a re-
search, development, demonstration, or com-
mercial application program or activity that
is authorized under this section, awards shall
be made only after an impartial review of
the scientific and technical merit of the pro-
posals for such awards has been carried out
by or for the Department.
(D) REVIEW PROCESSES.—In carrying out a
review under subparagraph (C), the Sec-
retary may use merit review processes devel-
oped under section 302(14) of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 182(14)).
(3) ELIGIBLE APPLICANTS.—An applicant
shall be eligible to receive a grant under this
subsection if the project of such applicant—
(A) addresses a requirement in the area of
cybersecurity research or cybersecurity
technology, as determined by the Secretary;
and
(B) is a joint venture between—
(i)(I) a for-profit business entity, academic
institution, National Laboratory (as defined
in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005
(42 U.S.C. 15801)), or nonprofit entity in the
United States; and
(II) a for-profit business entity, academic
institution, or nonprofit entity in Israel; or
(ii)(I) the Federal Government; and
(II) the Government of Israel.
(4) APPLICATIONS.—To be eligible to receive
a grant under this subsection, an applicant
shall submit to the Secretary an application
for such grant in accordance with procedures
established by the Secretary, in consultation
with the advisory board established under
paragraph (5).
(5) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish an advisory board to—
(i) monitor the method by which grants are
awarded under this subsection; and
(ii) provide to the Secretary periodic per-
formance reviews of actions taken to carry
out this subsection.
(B) COMPOSITION.—The advisory board es-
tablished under subparagraph (A) shall be
composed of three members, to be appointed
by the Secretary, of whom—
(i) one shall be a representative of the Fed-
eral Government;
(ii) one shall be selected from a list of
nominees provided by the United States-
Israel Binational Science Foundation; and
(iii) one shall be selected from a list of
nominees provided by the United States-
Israel Binational Industrial Research and
Development Foundation.
(6) CONTRIBUTED FUNDS.—Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, the Secretary
may accept or retain funds contributed by
any person, government entity, or organiza-
tion for purposes of carrying out this sub-
section. Such funds shall be available, sub-
ject to appropriation, without fiscal year
limitation.
(7) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of completion of a project for which
a grant is provided under this subsection, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.011 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7190 July 23, 2019
grant recipient shall submit to the Secretary
a report that contains—
(A) a description of how the grant funds
were used by the recipient; and
(B) an evaluation of the level of success of
each project funded by the grant.
(8) CLASSIFICATION.—Grants shall be award-
ed under this subsection only for projects
that are considered to be unclassified by
both the United States and Israel.
(b) TERMINATION.—The grant program and
the advisory board established under this
section terminate on the date that is 7 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c) NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.—No
additional funds are authorized to carry out
the requirements of this section. Such re-
quirements shall be carried out using
amounts otherwise authorized.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘cybersecurity research’’
means research, including social science re-
search, into ways to identify, protect
against, detect, respond to, and recover from
cybersecurity threats;
(2) the term ‘‘cybersecurity technology’’
means technology intended to identify, pro-
tect against, detect, respond to, and recover
from cybersecurity threats;
(3) the term ‘‘cybersecurity threat’’ has
the meaning given such term in section 102
of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing
Act of 2015 (enacted as title I of the Cyberse-
curity Act of 2015 (division N of the Consoli-
dated Appropriations Act, 2016 (Public Law
114–113)));
(4) the term ‘‘Department’’ means the De-
partment of Homeland Security; and
(5) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security.
SEC. 104. REPORT ON POTENTIAL BENEFITS AND
IMPACT TO THE UNITED STATES OF
ESTABLISHING A JOINT UNITED
STATES-ISRAEL CYBERSECURITY
CENTER OF EXCELLENCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State shall submit to the
appropriate congressional committees a re-
port examining the potential benefits and
impact to the United States of establishing a
joint United States-Israel Cybersecurity
Center of Excellence based in the United
States and Israel to leverage the experience,
knowledge, and expertise of institutions of
higher education (as such term is defined in
subsection (a) or (b) of section 101 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)),
private sector entities, and government enti-
ties in the area of cybersecurity and protec-
tion of critical infrastructure (as such term
is defined in subsection (e) of section 1016 of
the Critical Infrastructures Protection Act
of 2001 (42 U.S.C. 5195c; enacted in title X of
the USA PATRIOT Act (Public Law 20 107–
56))).
(b) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives; and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
SEC. 105. CYBER DIPLOMACY OFFICER.
The Secretary of State is encouraged to
appoint a qualified individual to assume the
role of cyber diplomacy officer at the United
States Embassy in Israel.
SEC. 106. UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT MEMO-
RANDUM-ISRAEL ENHANCED CO-
OPERATION.
(a) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It should be the
policy of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development to cooperate with
Israel in order to advance common goals
across a wide variety of sectors, including
energy, agriculture and food security, de-
mocracy, human rights and governance, eco-
nomic growth and trade, education, environ-
ment, global health and water and sanita-
tion.
(b) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—The
Secretary of State, acting through the Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, is authorized to
enter into memoranda of understanding with
Israel in order to advance common goals on
energy, agriculture and food security, de-
mocracy, human rights and governance, eco-
nomic growth and trade, education, environ-
ment, global health and water sanitation
with a focus on strengthening mutual ties
and cooperation with nations throughout the
world.
SEC. 107. COOPERATIVE PROJECTS AMONG THE
UNITED STATES, ISRAEL, AND DE-
VELOPING COUNTRIES.
Section 106(f) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151d) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(f) There are authorized to be appro-
priated $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024 to finance cooperative projects
among the United States, Israel, and devel-
oping countries that identify and support
local solutions to address sustainability
challenges relating to water resources, agri-
culture, and energy storage, including for
the following activities:
‘‘(1) Establishing public-private partner-
ships.
‘‘(2) Supporting the identification, re-
search, development testing, and scaling of
innovations that focus on populations that
are vulnerable to environmental and re-
source-scarcity crises, such as subsistence
farming communities.
‘‘(3) Seed or transition-to-scale funding,
publicity and marketing promotional sup-
port, or mentorship and partnership
brokering support.
‘‘(4) Acceleration of demonstrations or ap-
plications of local solutions to sustainability
challenges, or the further refinement, test-
ing, or implementation of innovations that
have previously effectively addressed sus-
tainability challenges.’’.
SEC. 108. JOINT COOPERATIVE PROGRAM RE-
LATED TO INNOVATION AND HIGH-
TECH FOR THE MIDDLE EAST RE-
GION.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the United States should help foster co-
operation in the Middle East region by fi-
nancing and, where appropriate, cooperating
in projects related to innovation and high-
tech; and
(2) such projects should—
(A) contribute to development and the
quality of life in the Middle East region
through the application of research and tech-
nology; and
(B) contribute to Arab-Israeli cooperation
by establishing strong working relationships
that last beyond the life of such projects.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of
State, acting through the Administrator of
the United States Agency for International
Development, is authorized to seek to estab-
lish a program between the United States,
Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia,
Lebanon, and the West Bank and Gaza Strip
to provide for cooperation in the Middle East
region by financing and, where appropriate,
cooperating in, projects related to innova-
tion and high-tech.
(c) PROJECT REQUIREMENTS.—Each project
carried out under the program established by
subsection (b)—
(1) shall include participation from at least
one entity of Israel and one entity of Egypt,
Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia, Lebanon, and the
West Bank and Gaza Strip; and
(2) should include participation from a
total of three or more such entities to the
maximum extent practicable.
SEC. 109. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON EASTERN
MEDITERRANEAN ENERGY CO-
OPERATION.
It is the sense of Congress that cooperation
between the United States and Israel for the
purpose of research and development of en-
ergy sources would be in the national inter-
ests of not only the United States and Israel,
but also of the other nations in the Eastern
Mediterranean and North Africa with similar
natural gas finds.
SEC. 110. COOPERATION ON OTHER MATTERS.
(a) UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ENERGY CEN-
TER.—There is authorized to be appropriated
to the Secretary of Energy $4,000,000 for each
of the fiscal years 2020, 2021, and 2022 to carry
out the activities of the United States-Israel
Energy Center established pursuant to sec-
tion 917(d) of the Energy Independence and
Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17337(d)).
(b) UNITED STATES-ISRAEL BINATIONAL IN-
DUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FOUN-
DATION.—It is the sense of Congress that
grants to promote covered energy projects
conducted by or in conjunction with the
United States-Israel Binational Industrial
Research and Development Foundation
should continue to be funded at not less than
$2,000,000 annually under section 917(b) of the
Energy Independence and Security Act of
2007 (42 U.S.C. 17337(b)).
(c) UNITED STATES-ISRAEL COOPERATION ON
ENERGY, WATER, HOMELAND SECURITY, AGRI-
CULTURE, AND ALTERNATIVE FUEL TECH-
NOLOGIES.—Section 7 of the United States-
Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2014 (22
U.S.C. 8606) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $2,000,000 for each of
the fiscal years 2020, 2021, and 2022.’’.
(d) ANNUAL POLICY DIALOGUE.—It is the
sense of Congress that the Department of
Transportation and Israel’s Ministry of
Transportation should engage in an annual
policy dialogue to implement the 2016 Memo-
randum of Cooperation signed by the Sec-
retary of Transportation and the Israeli Min-
ister of Transportation.
(e) COOPERATION ON SPACE EXPLORATION
AND SCIENCE INITIATIVES.—The Adminis-
trator of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration shall continue to work with
the Israel Space Agency to identify and co-
operatively pursue peaceful space explo-
ration and science initiatives in areas of mu-
tual interest, taking all appropriate meas-
ures to protect sensitive information, intel-
lectual property, trade secrets, and economic
interests of the United States.
(f) UNITED STATES-ISRAEL BINATIONAL AG-
RICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
FUND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1458(e)(2) of the
National Agricultural Research, Extension,
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C.
3291(e)(2)) is amended—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) include food and nutrition research
and development and the commercialization
of the best practices identified through such
research and development.’’.
(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out subparagraph (C) of section
1458(e)(2) of the National Agricultural Re-
search, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.011 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7191
July 23, 2019
of 1977, as added by paragraph (1)(C),
$7,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2020,
2021, and 2022.
(3) REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to
the appropriate congressional committees a
report on activities of the United States-
Israel Binational Agricultural Research and
Development Fund under section 1458(e) of
the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 (7
U.S.C. 3291(e)).
(B) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this paragraph, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(i) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on Agriculture of the House
of Representatives; and
(ii) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutri-
tion, and Forestry of the Senate.
(g) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COOPERA-
TION RELATING TO DESALINATION TECH-
NOLOGY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the White House Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy shall submit to the appro-
priate congressional committees a report on
research and development cooperation with
international partners, such as the State of
Israel, in the area of desalination technology
as required under section 9(b)(3) of the Water
Desalination Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 10301
note).
(2) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(h) RESEARCH AND TREATMENT OF
POSTTRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER.—It is the
sense of Congress that the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs should seek to explore collabo-
ration between the Mental Illness Research,
Education and Clinical Centers and Centers
of Excellence and Israeli institutions with
expertise in researching and treating
posttraumatic stress disorder.
(i) DEVELOPMENT OF HEALTH TECH-
NOLOGIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be
appropriated to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services $2,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020, 2021, and 2022 to establish a bilat-
eral cooperative program with Israel for the
development of health technologies, includ-
ing health technologies described in para-
graph (2), with an emphasis on collabo-
ratively advancing the use of technology,
personalized medicine, and data in relation
to aging.
(2) TYPES OF HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES.—The
health technologies described in this para-
graph may include technologies such as arti-
ficial intelligence, biofeedback, sensors,
monitoring devices, and kidney care.
(j) OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS OF
THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—It is the sense of Congress
that the Commissioner of the Food and Drug
Administration should seek to explore col-
laboration with Israel through the Office of
International Programs.
(2) REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commissioner, acting through the head
of the Office of International Programs, shall
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a report on the benefits to the
United States and to Israel of opening an of-
fice in Israel for the Office of International
Programs.
(B) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this paragraph, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(i) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of
the House of Representatives; and
(ii) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.
(k) SENSE OF CONGRESS ON UNITED STATES-
ISRAEL ECONOMIC COOPERATION.—It is the
sense of Congress that—
(1) the United States-Israel economic part-
nership has achieved great tangible and in-
tangible benefits to both countries and is a
foundational component of the strong alli-
ance;
(2) science and technology innovations
present promising new frontiers for United
States-Israel economic cooperation, particu-
larly in light of widespread drought, cyberse-
curity attacks, and other major challenges
impacting the United States; and
(3) the President should regularize and ex-
pand existing forums of economic dialogue
with Israel and foster both public and pri-
vate sector participation.
TITLE II—SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR
ISRAEL
SEC. 201. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) On September 14, 2016, the United
States and Israel signed a 10-year Memo-
randum of Understanding reaffirming the
importance of continuing annual United
States military assistance to Israel and co-
operative missile defense programs in a way
that enhances Israel’s security and strength-
ens the bilateral relationship between the
two countries.
(2) The 2016 Memorandum of Understanding
reflected United States support of Foreign
Military Financing (FMF) grant assistance
to Israel over the 10-year period beginning in
fiscal year 2019 and ending in fiscal year 2028.
Such FMF grant assistance would equal $3.3
billion annually, totaling $33 billion.
(3) The 2016 Memorandum of Understanding
also reflected United States support for fund-
ing for cooperative programs to develop,
produce, and procure missile, rocket and pro-
jectile defense capabilities over a 10-year pe-
riod beginning in fiscal year 2019 and ending
in fiscal year 2028 at a level of $500 million
annually, totaling $5 billion.
SEC. 202. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It is the policy of the United States to pro-
vide assistance to the Government of Israel
in order to help enable Israel to defend itself
by itself and develop long-term capacity, pri-
marily through the acquisition of advanced
capabilities that are available from the
United States.
SEC. 203. CONTINGENCY PLANS TO PROVIDE
ISRAEL WITH NECESSARY DEFENSE
ARTICLES AND SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President, acting
through the Secretary of Defense and in con-
sultation with the Secretary of State, shall
establish and update as appropriate contin-
gency plans to provide Israel with defense ar-
ticles and services that are determined by
the Secretary of Defense to be necessary for
the defense of Israel.
(b) CONGRESSIONAL BRIEFING.—Not later
than one year after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, and annually thereafter,
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation
with the Secretary of State, shall brief the
appropriate congressional committees on the
status of the contingency plans required
under subsection (a).
SEC. 204. WAIVER FOR EXISTING OR IMMINENT
MILITARY THREAT TO ISRAEL.
Section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(l) WAIVER FOR EXISTING OR IMMINENT
MILITARY THREAT TO ISRAEL.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Upon receiving informa-
tion that Israel is under an existing or immi-
nent threat of military attack, the President
may waive the requirements of this Act and
direct the immediate transfer to Israel of
such defense articles or services the Presi-
dent determines to be necessary to assist
Israel in its defense against such threat.
Amounts obligated or expended to carry out
this paragraph shall not be subject to any
limitation in law, or provision of any bilat-
eral agreement, relating to the amount of
United States assistance authorized to be
made available to Israel.
‘‘(2) NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.—As soon as
practicable after a transfer of defense arti-
cles or services pursuant to the authority
provided by paragraph (1), the President
shall provide a notification in writing to
Congress of the details of such transfer, con-
sistent with the requirements of section 36 of
this Act.’’.
SEC. 205. SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR ISRAEL.
Section 513(c) of the Security Assistance
Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–280; 114 Stat. 856)
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘2002 and
2003’’ and inserting ‘‘2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 and
2024’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘equal to—
’’ and all that follows and inserting ‘‘not less
than $3,300,000,000.’’; and
(3) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘Funds au-
thorized’’ and all that follows through
‘‘later.’’ and inserting ‘‘Funds authorized to
be available for Israel under subsection (b)(1)
and paragraph (1) of this subsection for fiscal
years 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024 shall be
disbursed not later than 30 days after the
date of the enactment of an Act making ap-
propriations for the Department of State,
foreign operations, and related programs for
the respective fiscal year, or October 31 of
the respective fiscal year, whichever is
later.’’.
SEC. 206. JOINT ASSESSMENT OF QUANTITY OF
PRECISION GUIDED MUNITIONS FOR
USE BY ISRAEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President, acting
through the Secretary of Defense and in con-
sultation with the Secretary of State, is au-
thorized to conduct a joint assessment with
the Government of Israel with respect to the
matters described in subsection (b).
(b) MATTERS DESCRIBED.—The matters de-
scribed in this subsection are the following:
(1) The quantity and type of precision guid-
ed munitions that are necessary for Israel to
combat Hezbollah in the event of a sustained
armed confrontation between Israel and
Hezbollah.
(2) The quantity and type of precision guid-
ed munitions that are necessary for Israel in
the event of a sustained armed confrontation
with other armed groups and terrorist orga-
nizations such as Hamas.
(3) The resources the Government of Israel
can plan to dedicate to acquire such preci-
sion guided munitions.
(4) United States planning to assist Israel
to prepare for the sustained armed con-
frontations described in paragraphs (1) and
(2) as well as the ability of the United States
to resupply Israel in the event of such con-
frontations described in paragraphs (1) and
(2), if any.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 15 days
after the date on which the joint assessment
authorized under subsection (a) is completed,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.011 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7192 July 23, 2019
appropriate congressional committees a re-
port that contains the joint assessment.
(2) FORM.—The report required under para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 207. TRANSFER OF PRECISION GUIDED MU-
NITIONS TO ISRAEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
514 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
U.S.C. 2321h), the President is authorized to
transfer to Israel precision guided munitions
from reserve stocks for Israel in such quan-
tities as necessary for legitimate self-defense
of Israel and is otherwise consistent with the
purposes and conditions for such transfers
under the Arms Export Control Act (22
U.S.C. 2751 et seq.).
(b) CERTIFICATION.—Except in the case of
an emergency as determined by the Presi-
dent, not later than 5 days before making a
transfer under subsection (a), the President
shall certify to the appropriate congressional
committees that the transfer of the precision
guided munitions—
(1) does not affect the ability of the United
States to maintain a sufficient supply of pre-
cision guided munitions;
(2) does not harm the combat readiness of
the United States or the ability of the
United States to meet its commitment to al-
lies for the transfer of such munitions;
(3) is necessary for Israel to counter the
threat of rockets in a timely fashion; and
(4) is in the national security interest of
the United States.
SEC. 208. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RAPID ACQUI-
SITION AND DEPLOYMENT PROCE-
DURES.
It is the sense of Congress that the Presi-
dent should prescribe procedures for the
rapid acquisition and deployment of preci-
sion guided munitions for United States
counterterrorism missions, or to assist an
ally of the United States, including Israel,
that is subject to direct missile threat.
SEC. 209. EXTENSION OF WAR RESERVES STOCK-
PILE AUTHORITY.
(a) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2005.—Subsection (d) of section
12001 of the Department of Defense Appro-
priations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108–287; 118
Stat. 1011) is amended by striking ‘‘after
September 30, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘after Sep-
tember 30, 2025’’.
(b) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1961.—Sec-
tion 514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A)) is
amended by striking ‘‘2013, 2014, 2015, 2016,
2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘2020,
2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025’’.
SEC. 210. ELIGIBILITY OF ISRAEL FOR THE STRA-
TEGIC TRADE AUTHORIZATION EX-
CEPTION TO CERTAIN EXPORT CON-
TROL LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Israel has adopted high standards in the
field of export controls.
(2) Israel has declared its unilateral adher-
ence to the Missile Technology Control Re-
gime, the Australia Group, and the Nuclear
Suppliers Group.
(3) Israel is a party to—
(A) the Protocol for the Prohibition of the
Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or
Other Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods
of Warfare, signed at Geneva June 17, 1925;
and
(B) the Convention on the Physical Protec-
tion of Nuclear Material, adopted at Vienna
on October 26, 1979.
(4) Section 6(b) of the United States-Israel
Strategic Partnership Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C.
8603 note) directs the President, consistent
with the commitments of the United States
under international agreements, to take
steps so that Israel may be included in the
list of countries eligible for the strategic
trade authorization exception under section
740.20(c)(1) of title 15, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, to the requirement for a license for
the export, re-export, or in-country transfer
of an item subject to controls under the Ex-
port Administration Regulations.
(b) REPORT ON ELIGIBILITY FOR STRATEGIC
TRADE AUTHORIZATION EXCEPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall submit to the appro-
priate congressional committees a report
that describes the steps taken to include
Israel in the list of countries eligible for the
strategic trade authorization exception
under section 740.20 (c) (1) of title 15, Code of
Federal Regulations section, as required
under 6(b) of the United States-Israel Stra-
tegic Partnership Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8603
note).
(2) FORM.—The report required under para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 211. EXTENSION OF LOAN GUARANTEES TO
ISRAEL.
Chapter 5 of title I of the Emergency War-
time Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2003
(Public Law 108–11; 117 Stat. 576) is amended
under the heading ‘‘Loan Guarantees to
Israel’’—
(1) in the matter preceding the first pro-
viso, by striking ‘‘September 30, 2020’’ and
inserting ‘‘September 30, 2025’’; and
(2) in the second proviso, by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2025’’.
SEC. 212. DEFINITION.
In this title, the term ‘‘appropriate con-
gressional committees’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives; and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate.
TITLE III—JUSTICE FOR UNITED STATES
VICTIMS OF PALESTINIAN TERRORISM
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Justice for
United States Victims of Palestinian Ter-
rorism Act’’.
SEC. 302. FACILITATION OF THE SETTLEMENT OF
TERRORISM-RELATED CLAIMS OF
NATIONALS OF THE UNITED STATES.
(a) COMPREHENSIVE PROCESS TO FACILITATE
THE RESOLUTION OF ANTI-TERRORISM ACT
CLAIMS.—The Secretary of State, in con-
sultation with the Attorney General, shall,
not later than 30 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act, develop and initiate a
comprehensive process for the Department of
State to facilitate the resolution and settle-
ment of covered claims.
(b) ELEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE PROC-
ESS.—The comprehensive process developed
under subsection (a) shall include, at a min-
imum, the following:
(1) Not later than 45 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Department of
State shall publish a notice in the Federal
Register identifying the method by which a
national of the United States, or a represent-
ative of a national of the United States, who
has a covered claim, may contact the De-
partment of State to give notice of the cov-
ered claim.
(2) Not later than 120 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State, or a designee of the Secretary, shall
meet (and make every effort to continue to
meet on a regular basis thereafter) with any
national of the United States, or a represent-
ative of a national of the United States, who
has a covered claim and has informed the De-
partment of State of the covered claim using
the method established pursuant to para-
graph (1) to discuss the status of the covered
claim, including the status of any settlement
discussions with the Palestinian Authority
or the Palestine Liberation Organization.
(3) Not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
State, or a designee of the Secretary, shall
make every effort to meet (and make every
effort to continue to meet on a regular basis
thereafter) with representatives of the Pales-
tinian Authority and the Palestine Libera-
tion Organization to discuss the covered
claims identified pursuant to paragraph (1)
and potential settlement of the covered
claims.
(c) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The Secretary of
State shall, not later than 240 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, and annually
thereafter for 5 years, submit to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary and the Committee
on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the
Committee on the Judiciary and the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
Representatives a report describing activi-
ties that the Department of State has under-
taken to comply with this section, including
specific updates regarding paragraphs (2) and
(3) of subsection (b).
(d) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) covered claims should be resolved in a
manner that provides just compensation to
the victims;
(2) covered claims should be resolved and
settled in favor of the victim to the fullest
extent possible and without subjecting vic-
tims to unnecessary or protracted litigation;
(3) the United States Government should
take all practicable steps to facilitate the
resolution and settlement of all covered
claims, including engaging directly with the
victims or their representatives and the Pal-
estinian Authority and the Palestine Libera-
tion Organization; and
(4) the United States Government should
strongly urge the Palestinian Authority and
the Palestine Liberation Organization to
commit to good-faith negotiations to resolve
and settle all covered claims.
(e) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘covered claim’’ means any pending action
by, or final judgment in favor of, a national
of the United States, or any action by a na-
tional of the United States dismissed for
lack of personal jurisdiction, under section
2333 of title 18, United States Code, against
the Palestinian Authority or the Palestine
Liberation Organization.
SEC. 303. MODIFICATION TO CONSENT OF CER-
TAIN PARTIES TO PERSONAL JURIS-
DICTION.
(a) AMENDMENT TO TITLE 18.—Section 2334
of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) of
subsection (e)(1) and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) beginning on the date that is 180 days
after the date of enactment of this subpara-
graph, makes, renews, promotes, or advances
any application in order to obtain the same
standing as a member state in the United
Nations or any specialized agency thereof, or
accepts such standing, outside an agreement
negotiated between Israel and the Palestin-
ians; or
‘‘(B) beginning on the date that is 15 days
after the date of enactment of the Justice for
United States Victims of Palestinian Ter-
rorism Act—
‘‘(i) continues to maintain any office,
headquarters, premises, or other facilities or
establishments in the United States; or
‘‘(ii) establishes or procures any office,
headquarters, premises, or other facilities or
establishments in the United States.’’; and
(2) And by inserting after paragraph (2) the
following:
‘‘(3) DEFENDANT DEFINED.—For purposes of
paragraph (1) of this subsection, the term
‘defendant’ means—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.011 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7193
July 23, 2019
‘‘(A) the Palestinian Authority;
‘‘(B) the Palestine Liberation Organiza-
tion;
‘‘(C) any organization or other entity that
is a successor to or affiliated with the Pales-
tinian Authority or the Palestine Liberation
Organization; or
‘‘(D) any organization or other entity—
‘‘(i) identified in subparagraph (A), (B), or
(C); and
‘‘(ii) that self-identifies as, holds itself out
to be, or carries out conduct in the name of,
the ‘State of Palestine’ or ‘Palestine’ in con-
nection with official business of the United
Nations.
‘‘(4) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN ACTIVITIES AND
LOCATIONS.—In determining whether a de-
fendant shall be deemed to have consented to
personal jurisdiction under paragraph (1)(B),
a court may not consider—
‘‘(A) any office, headquarters, premises or
other facility or establishment used exclu-
sively for the purpose of conducting official
business of the United Nations; or
‘‘(B) any activity undertaken exclusively
for the purpose of conducting official busi-
ness of the United Nations.
‘‘(5) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Notwith-
standing any other law (including any trea-
ty), any office, headquarters, premises, or
other facility or establishment within the
territory of the United States that is not
specifically exempted by paragraph (4)(A)
shall be considered to be in the United
States for purposes of clauses (i) and (ii) of
paragraph (1)(B).’’.
(b) PRIOR CONSENT NOT ABROGATED.—The
amendments made by this section do not ab-
rogate any consent deemed to have been
given under section 2334(e) of title 18, United
States Code, as in effect on the day before
the date of enactment of this Act.
TITLE IV—BUDGETARY EFFECTS
SEC. 401. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CARTWRIGHT). Pursuant to the rule, the
gentleman from New York (Mr. ENGEL)
and the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. RESCHENTHALER) each will control
20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 1837.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of the United States-Israel Cooperation
Enhancement and Regional Security
Act.
I want to start by thanking Mr.
DEUTCH and Mr. WILSON for their ex-
traordinary leadership in crafting this
measure. This is another piece of bipar-
tisan legislation that underscores the
vitality and bipartisanship of the U.S.-
Israel relationship.
The centerpiece of this bill is a provi-
sion that writes into law the 10-year
memorandum of understanding Presi-
dent Obama signed with Israel before
he left office. The legislation also en-
hances U.S.-Israel cooperation on a
wide range of issues, from helping vet-
erans confront issues with PTSD, to
advancing space cooperation, to devel-
oping new ways to get clean water.
In addition, the bill advances other
critical priorities. It helps ensure that
the families of American victims of
terrorism will get their day in court, so
they can finally see some justice after
their loved ones were so cruelly taken
from them. And it includes a legal fix
that will restore U.S. assistance to Pal-
estinians that has been cut off in re-
cent months.
When I traveled to the West Bank in
May, I saw the impacts of this funding
cut firsthand. I visited a water treat-
ment system in Jericho that is ready
to go into place, already paid for by the
United States but, because of legisla-
tion Congress passed last year, they
can’t take the tiny extra step needed
to get it up and running.
We also met with people seeking to
enhance tolerance and understanding
between Palestinians and Israelis, ex-
actly the sort of peace-building efforts
we should be supporting, unlike the
BDS movement. These have all had to
stop work due to the assistance cut.
In addition, I met with American
military officials who are deeply con-
cerned about the suspension of security
assistance to the Palestinians and the
implications of that for Israel’s secu-
rity. So I am pleased that the legisla-
tion before us today provides a fix for
this unsustainable situation.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
two pieces that argue that we must re-
store this assistance now.
[From The Hill, Jan. 28, 2019]
CONGRESS MUST MOVE QUICKLY TO FIX THE
ANTI-TERRORISM CLARIFICATION ACT
(By Debra Shushan)
In a perversely ironic turn, a law intended
to aid American victims of international ter-
rorist attacks will strike a serious blow to
counterterrorism cooperation that keeps
Israelis (and Americans visiting Israel) safe.
The Anti-Terrorism Clarification Act
(ATCA) will take effect on February 1. Un-
less it is adequately amended or repealed be-
fore then, the law will damage Israeli na-
tional security and U.S. foreign policy to-
ward the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Time is
short, and Congress must take action.
ATCA was passed with little fanfare, by
unanimous consent in the House and Senate,
and apparently absent an understanding of
its foreign policy implications. The law’s
aim is to assist American victims of inter-
national terrorism in securing, through U.S.
courts, monetary damages from entities al-
leged to have aided and abetted terrorist at-
tacks.
It was the outcome of lawsuits against the
Palestinian Authority and Palestine Libera-
tion Organization (PLO), like Waldman v.
PLO, that drove the most consequential pro-
vision in ATCA. In Waldman, a district court
awarded the plaintiff $655.5 million (triple
the damages suffered), only to have a circuit
court rule on appeal that the court lacked
personal jurisdiction over the PLO. To ad-
dress this perceived flaw, Section 4 of ATCA
stipulates that a defendant consents to per-
sonal jurisdiction if it accepts the types of
aid the U.S. government has given the PA:
most importantly, economic support funds
(ESF) and international narcotics control
and law enforcement (INCLE) aid.
Recognizing that future acceptance of U.S.
assistance could bankrupt the Palestinian
Authority through litigation, Palestinian
Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah informed
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that the
Palestinian Authority will decline U.S. aid
when ATCA takes effect. Comparing the $665
million judgement in Waldman (equivalent
to 13 percent of the Palestinian Authority’s
2018 budget) to $60 million in security fund-
ing it receives from the U.S., its decision was
obviously inevitable.
So, ATCA will not achieve its purpose of
enabling terror victims to collect money
from the Palestinian Authority or PLO
through litigation. Since the Palestinian Au-
thority has foresworn U.S. aid, courts still
won’t have personal jurisdiction over it.
Meanwhile, ATCA will harm Israeli secu-
rity, given an end to INCLE funding for the
Palestinian Authority and the termination
of the U.S. Security Coordinator. Under U.S.
supervision since 2005, the Palestinian Au-
thority Security Forces (PASF) have trans-
formed into a professional and effective enti-
ty that works closely with Israel to main-
tain law and order in Palestinian cities and
foil terrorism. Israeli security chiefs are un-
equivocal about the importance of this secu-
rity coordination. In remarks, to the Israeli
cabinet earlier this month, outgoing Israeli
army chief of staff Lt. Gen. Gadi Eisenkot
urged the government to strengthen the
PASF. Belatedly, the Israeli government has
weighed in with the Trump administration,
asking for an ATCA fix to preserve security
coordination, ‘‘a top priority Israeli national
security interest.’’
ATCA will also undermine U.S. foreign pol-
icy vis-á-vis the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Neither President Trump nor subsequent
presidents will be able to use aid as a tool to
facilitate future Palestinian-Israeli peace.
Meanwhile, as the U.S. Agency for Inter-
national Development prepares to lay off
local staff and abandon nearly completed in-
frastructure projects in the West Bank, the
Palestinian people will suffer. American in-
terests are harmed, too, when worsening Pal-
estinian quality of life fosters extremism
and a hardening of attitudes toward the U.S.
and Israel.
Compounding its deleterious impact, ATCA
may apply to foreign states, impacting allies
in the Middle East (think of Egypt and Jor-
dan) and beyond. It could also apply to hu-
manitarian NGOs.
Members of Congress are working with the
Trump administration on a fix. A number of
options are available. The best choice is rev-
ocation of Section 4, which triggered this
crisis while failing to help terrorist attack
victims. A national security waiver for the
President is another possibility. It is sub-
optimal since President Trump slashed ESF
funding to Palestinians before ATCA and ap-
pears unlikely to reinstate it, though a fu-
ture president could. Exempting only INCLE
funding is better than nothing, but would
transmit the message to Palestinians that
the U.S. cares only about Israeli security
and not their welfare. (They are complemen-
tary; we must care about both.)
If Congress cannot engineer a fix by Janu-
ary 31—a real danger, even likelihood—Con-
gress must at minimum delay ATCA’s imple-
mentation. This time bomb is ticking, and if
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:26 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.011 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7194 July 23, 2019
Congress can’t defuse ATCA in time, it must
at least reset the clock.
[From NPR, Jan. 31, 2019]
OPINION: HERE’S WHY U.S. AID TO
PALESTINIANS NEEDS TO CONTINUE
(By Dana Stroul, Daniel B. Shapiro)
Is U.S. assistance to the Palestinians an
indulgence we can do without? Will its elimi-
nation leave Israelis, Palestinians and U.S.
interests better off? Unless Congress and the
Trump administration act quickly, we are
about to find out.
Since 1993, the United States has provided
more than $5 billion in assistance to the
West Bank and Gaza. This generous program
continued across Republican and Democratic
administrations, with bipartisan Congres-
sional support, despite ups and downs in the
peace process, spikes and drops in violence
and frustrations in Washington and Jeru-
salem with Palestinian leaders.
But the whole enterprise is now in jeop-
ardy.
First, the Trump Administration cut the
entire fiscal year 2017 economic aid program
for the West Bank and Gaza and looks likely
to do the same for fiscal 2018. Now the U.S.
Agency for International Development
(USAID) mission, with no money to spend, is
on the verge of closing down, leaving ongo-
ing projects uncompleted.
Next, the Anti-Terrorism Clarification
Act, which exposes the Palestinian Author-
ity to legal action in U.S. courts if it accepts
any U.S. assistance funds, comes into force
on Feb. 1.
The ATCA’s passage last year prompted
Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Rami
Hamdallah (who resigned Tuesday) to inform
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in a late-
December letter that the Palestinian Au-
thority will no longer accept any U.S. assist-
ance. If carried out, that will end U.S. assist-
ance for the Palestinian Authority Security
Forces, the deliberately under-the-radar and
largely successful U.S. effort to develop
these forces and facilitate effective security
coordination with Israel in the West Bank.
It will also eliminate the role of the U.S.
security coordinator, a three-star general
who oversees the training of the security
forces and serves as a liaison between Israeli
and Palestinian security officials.
Thus far, there has been minimal debate in
Washington over the implications of these
developments on stability in the West Bank
and Gaza and the inextricable link to Israel’s
security. Nor has there been a sober reck-
oning of the very real implications for U.S.
influence.
It’s easy to be cavalier about these pro-
grams, considering the moribund peace proc-
ess, Palestinian leaders who lack legitimacy
with much of the U.S. public, and bouts of
violence. But members of Congress, includ-
ing many of Israel’s strongest supporters on
both sides of the aisle, have long understood
their value.
While oversight has been rigorous, funding
for Palestinian assistance programs has al-
ways flowed with bipartisan support because
it was determined to reinforce Israel’s secu-
rity and provide a measure of U.S. leverage
and influence.
This logic was ratified by the support of
the Israeli government for these programs.
Israeli authorities understood that a break-
down in security, an economic collapse or a
humanitarian crisis in the West Bank would
place an enormous burden on Israel. A crisis
in the West Bank could require the Israel De-
fense Forces to redeploy personnel from
other high-risk areas like the Lebanon bor-
der or the Golan Heights.
Moreover, U.S. assistance has sustained
lines of contact with Palestinian officials.
During flare-ups and crises, this connective
tissue has placed the U.S. in a position to
defuse situations when direct Israeli-Pales-
tinian engagement was too difficult. U.S. Se-
curity Coordinator Lt. Gen. Eric Wendt and
his predecessors have at times been the only
American officials able to bridge both sides
in moments of high tension.
The current funding crisis runs contrary to
clearly expressed Congressional intent. Last
year, large bipartisan majorities passed the
Taylor Force Act, which, by withholding
some U.S. aid, aimed to compel the Pales-
tinian Authority to end, among other things,
its practice of providing payments to fami-
lies of convicted Palestinian terrorists. But
Congress also voted resoundingly to main-
tain key elements of assistance, including
humanitarian aid, people-to-people pro-
grams, medical services and other program-
ming with no direct connection to the Pales-
tinian Authority.
The Israeli government, for its part, was
clear in its support for the Taylor Force
Act’s intent of ending U.S. assistance that
could even indirectly subsidize the Pales-
tinian Authority’s payments to terrorists’
families. But there was never Israeli support
for curtailing the accounts Congress pro-
tected programs acknowledged to maintain a
modicum of stability in the West Bank and
prevent a full-scale humanitarian crisis in
either the West Bank or Gaza.
In other words, the Taylor Force Act’s pas-
sage underscored bipartisan Congressional
support for continuing U.S. assistance to the
Palestinians. Trump officials, who took an
axe to the entire program, citing the Taylor
Force Act, have misinterpreted the meaning
of the law.
The Israeli national security establish-
ment remains painfully aware that it will
face the burden—financial, security, and oth-
erwise—of addressing a full-scale collapse in
the West Bank or Gaza if the U.S. steps away
or loses all influence and credibility with the
Palestinians. And if they lose cooperation
with the Palestinian security forces, Israeli
security forces will find themselves in the
far worse position of needing to directly in-
tervene to confront security threats in Pal-
estinian-populated areas, rather than work-
ing through the U.S.-funded multilateral
construct.
If all parties remain stuck on the current
course, the biggest losers will be innocent
Palestinian civilians and Israel. The winners
are those benefiting from instability and the
opportunity to point to the U.S. as unreli-
able and in retreat from the Middle East:
Hamas, other assorted terrorists and Iran.
To reverse the current course, here are
some steps that the administration and Con-
gress should urgently undertake:
FIX THE ANTI-TERRORISM CLARIFICATION ACT
A straightforward legislative fix is low-
hanging fruit. Congressional and administra-
tion staff recognize that ending U.S. security
assistance to the Palestinian security forces
only helps adversaries and empowers en-
emies. In recent days, Israel belatedly added
its voice, making clear it wants U.S. aid to
the PASF to continue. In fact, Congress and
the administration should go further and
seize the opportunity in this crisis to perma-
nently protect U.S. security assistance to
the Palestinian security forces.
MITIGATE DAMAGE
Walking away from ongoing USAID
projects in the West Bank and Gaza—unfin-
ished roads, incomplete water projects, and
piecemeal humanitarian and education pro-
grams—is a total waste of U.S. taxpayer dol-
lars. Such visible reminders of U.S. abandon-
ment will also inflame local sentiment
against the United States. Congress should
authorize and explicitly appropriate funds to
complete these projects, following a thor-
ough review of the status of U.S. programs in
the West Bank and Gaza.
PASS POSITIVE LEGISLATIVE ALTERNATIVES
Even if traditional assistance programs re-
main blocked, there are creative legislative
proposals that preserve space for U.S. influ-
ence and enjoy bipartisan support. The Pal-
estinian Partnership Fund Act, introduced in
the last Congress, promotes economic devel-
opment by connecting Palestinian entre-
preneurs and companies with counterparts in
the U.S., Israel, and the Middle East. An
International Fund for Israeli-Palestinian
Peace, long advocated by the nonpartisan Al-
liance for Middle East Peace, has enjoyed bi-
partisan support in past Congresses and
would promote people-to-people peace-build-
ing activities by pooling funding from gov-
ernment and private sources. Now is the
time for Congress to approve funding for it.
URGE ISRAELI CLARIFICATION ON U.S.
ASSISTANCE
Members of Congress naturally seek
Israel’s views on the security and economic
consequences of completely shutting down
U.S. assistance programs to the Palestin-
ians. But during the Trump administration,
the answers have been murky. After Israel’s
election in April, Congress should urgently
seek a clear picture of the new government’s
views, as members continue to vote on this
much-debated set of issues.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, this is a
strong bipartisan bill that advances
the U.S.-Israel relationship. I, again,
want to thank Representatives DEUTCH
and WILSON for their leadership, as well
as all the other Members who contrib-
uted to this fine piece of legislation.
I reserve the balance of my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 18, 2019.
Hon. PETER A. DEFAZIO,
Chairman, Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN DEFAZIO: I write in reply
to your letter regarding H.R. 1837, the United
States-Israel Cooperation Enhancement and
Regional Security Act. I appreciate your
willingness to work cooperatively on this
legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure and that your Committee will
forgo action on H.R. 1837 to expedite floor
consideration. I further agree that your
Committee’s inaction regarding the bill will
not waive any future jurisdictional claims
over matters addressed in H.R. 1837 which
fall within your Committee’s Rule X juris-
diction. I will also support the appointment
of Committee of Transportation and Infra-
structure conferees during any House-Senate
conference convened on this legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is include in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:26 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.012 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7195
July 23, 2019
COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND
INFRASTRUCTURE, HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, July 17, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. ENGEL: I write concerning H.R.
1837, the United States-Israel Cooperation
Enhancement and Regional Security Act.
There are certain provisions in this legisla-
tion that fall within the Rule X jurisdiction
of the Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure.
In order to expedite floor consideration of
H.R. 1837, the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure agrees to forgo action on
the bill. However, this is conditional on our
mutual understanding that forgoing consid-
eration of the bill would not prejudice the
Committee with respect to the appointment
of conferees or to any future jurisdictional
claim over the subject matters contained in
the bill or similar legislation that fall within
the Committee’s Rule X jurisdiction. I also
request that you urge the Speaker to name
members of this Committee to any con-
ference committee which is named to con-
sider such provisions.
Please place a copy of this letter and your
response acknowledging our jurisdictional
interest into the committee report on H.R.
1837, and into the Congressional Record dur-
ing consideration of the measure on the
House floor.
Sincerely,
PETER A. DEFAZIO,
Chair.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON,
Chairwoman, Committee on Science, Space and
Technology, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN JOHNSON: I am writing
to you concerning H.R. 1837, the United
States-Israel Cooperation Enhancement and
Regional Security Act. I appreciate your
willingness to work cooperatively on this
legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on Science, Space and Technology under
House Rule X and that your Committee will
forgo action on H.R. 1837 to expedite floor
consideration. I further acknowledge that
the inaction of your Committee with respect
to the bill does not waive any future juris-
dictional claim over the matters contained
in the bill that fall within your jurisdiction.
I will also support the appointment of Com-
mittee on Science, Space and Technology
conferees during any House-Senate con-
ference convened on this legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COM-
MITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND
TECHNOLOGY,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Chairman ELIOT ENGEL,
Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 1837, the ‘‘United
States-Israel Cooperation Enhancement and
Regional Security Act,’’ which was sequen-
tially referred to the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology (‘‘Science Com-
mittee’’) on March 21, 2019.
I agree to work cooperatively on this bill
and the Science Committee will forgo action
on H.R. 1837, in order to expedite floor con-
sideration. This is, however, not a waiver of
future jurisdictional claims by the Science
Committee over this subject matter.
Thank you for agreeing to include our ex-
change of letters in the Congressional
Record. Additionally, thank you for agreeing
to support the appointment of Science Com-
mittee conferees during any House-Senate
conference convened on this legislation,
Sincerely,
EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON,
Chairwoman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. COLLIN C. PETERSON,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN PETERSON: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 1837, the United States-
Israel Cooperation Enhancement and Re-
gional Security Act. I appreciate your will-
ingness to work cooperatively on this legis-
lation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on Agriculture under House Rule X, and that
your Committee will forgo action on H.R.
1837 to expedite floor consideration. I further
acknowledge that the inaction of your Com-
mittee with respect to the bill does not
waive any future jurisdictional claim over
the matters contained in the bill that fall
within your jurisdiction. I will also support
the appointment of Committee on Agri-
culture conferees during any House-Senate
conference convened on this legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE,
Washington, DC, July 22, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman. Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: Thank you for the
opportunity to review the relevant provi-
sions of H.R. 1837, the United States-Israel
Cooperation Enhancement and Regional Se-
curity Act. While the bill was primarily re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs,
the Agriculture Committee received an addi-
tional referral.
I recognize and appreciate your desire to
bring this legislation before the House in an
expeditious manner, and accordingly, I agree
to discharge H.R.1837 from further consider-
ation by the Committee on Agriculture. I do
so with the understanding that by dis-
charging the bill, the Committee on Agri-
culture does not waive any future jurisdic-
tional claim on this or similar matters. Fur-
ther, the Committee on Agriculture reserves
the right to seek the appointment of con-
ferees, if it should be necessary.
I ask that you inset a copy of our exchange
of letters into both the Congressional Record
and the Committee Report during consider-
ation of this measure on the House floor.
Thank you for your courtesy in this mat-
ter. I look forward to continued cooperation
between our respective committees.
Sincerely.
COLLIN C. PETERSON,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. FRANK PALLONE, JR.,
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN PALLONE: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 1837, the United States-
Israel Cooperation Enhancement and Re-
gional Security Act. I appreciate your will-
ingness to work cooperatively on this legis-
lation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on Energy and Commerce under Rule X, and
that your Committee will forgo action on
H.R. 1837 to expedite floor consideration. I
further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the bill that
fall within your jurisdiction. I will also sup-
port the appointment of Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce conferees during any
House-Senate conference convened on this
legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 1837, the United States-
Israel Cooperation Enhancement and Re-
gional Security Act, as amended, which was
additionally referred to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
In recognition of the desire to expedite
consideration of H.R. 1837, the Committee on
Energy and Commerce agrees to waive for-
mal consideration of the bill as to provisions
that fall within the rule X jurisdiction of the
Committee on Energy and Commerce. The
Committee takes this action with the mu-
tual understanding that we do not waive any
jurisdiction over the subject matter con-
tained in this or similar legislation, and that
the Committee will be appropriately con-
sulted and involved as this bill or similar
legislation moves forward so that we may
address any remaining issues within our ju-
risdiction. I also request that you support
my request to name members of the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce to any con-
ference committee to consider such provi-
sions.
Finally, I would appreciate the inclusion of
this letter in the report on the bill and into
the Congressional Record during floor con-
sideration of H.R. 1837.
Sincerely,
FRANK PALLONE, JR.,
Chairman.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:26 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.015 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7196 July 23, 2019
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 1837, the United States-
Israel Cooperation Enhancement and Re-
gional Security Act. I appreciate your will-
ingness to work cooperatively on this legis-
lation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on the Judiciary under House Rule X, and
that your Committee will forgo action on
H.R. 1837 to expedite floor consideration. I
further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the bill that
fall within your jurisdiction. I will also sup-
port the appointment of Committee on the
Judiciary conferees during any House-Senate
conference convened on this legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: This is to advise
you that the Committee on the Judiciary
has now had an opportunity to review the
provisions in H.R. 1837, the ‘‘United States-
Israel Cooperation Enhancement and Re-
gional Security Act,’’ that fall within our
Rule X jurisdiction. I appreciate your con-
sulting with us on those provisions. The Ju-
diciary Committee has no objection to your
including them in the bill for consideration
on the House floor, and to expedite that con-
sideration is willing to forgo action on H.R.
1837, with the understanding that we do not
thereby waive any future jurisdictional
claim over those provisions or their subject
matters.
In the event a House-Senate conference on
this or similar legislation is convened, the
Judiciary Committee reserves the right to
request an appropriate number of conferees
to address any concerns with these or simi-
lar provisions that may arise in conference.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. MARK TAKANO,
Chairman, Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN TAKANO: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 1837, the United States-
Israel Cooperation Enhancement and Re-
gional Security Act. I appreciate your will-
ingness to work cooperatively on this legis-
lation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs under House Rule X, and
that your Committee will forgo action on
H.R. 1837 to expedite floor consideration. I
further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the bill that
fall within your jurisdiction. I will also sup-
port the appointment of Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs conferees during any House-
Senate conference convened on this legisla-
tion.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 22, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. ENGEL: I am writing to you con-
cerning H.R. 1837, the United States-Israel
Cooperation Enhancement and Regional Se-
curity Act. As a result of your having con-
sulted with us on provisions within H.R. 1837
that fall within the jurisdiction of the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, I forego further
consideration of this bill so that it may pro-
ceed expeditiously to the House floor for con-
sideration.
The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs takes
this action with our mutual understanding
that by foregoing consideration of H.R. 1837
at this time, we do not waive any jurisdic-
tion over subject matter contained in this or
similar legislation and that our committee
will be appropriately consulted and involved
as this bill or similar legislation moves for-
ward so that we may address any remaining
issues in our jurisdiction. Further, I request
your support for the appointment of con-
ferees from the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs during any House-Senate conference
convened on this or related legislation.
Please place this letter into the committee
report on H.R. 1837 and into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor to memorialize
our understanding. Thank you for the coop-
erative spirit in which you have worked re-
garding this matter and others between our
respective committees.
Sincerely,
MARK TAKANO,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 19, 2019.
Hon. BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN THOMPSON: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 1837, the United States-
Israel Cooperation Enhancement and Re-
gional Security Act. I appreciate your will-
ingness to work cooperatively on this legis-
lation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on Homeland Security under House Rule X,
and that your Committee will forgo action
on H.R. 1837 to expedite floor consideration.
I further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the bill that
fall within your jurisdiction. I will also sup-
port the appointment of Committee on
Homeland Security conferees during any
House-Senate conference convened on this
legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, July 22, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: I write to you re-
garding H.R. 1837, the ‘‘United States-Israel
Cooperation Enhancement and Regional Se-
curity Act.’’
H.R. 1837 contains provisions that fall
within the jurisdiction of the Committee on
Homeland Security. I recognize and appre-
ciate your desire to bring this legislation be-
fore the House in an expeditious manner and,
accordingly, I will not seek a sequential re-
ferral of the bill. However, agreeing to waive
consideration of this bill should not be con-
strued as the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity waiving, altering, or otherwise affecting
its jurisdiction over subject matters con-
tained in the bill which fall within its Rule
X jurisdiction.
Further, I request your support for the ap-
pointment of Homeland Security conferees
during any House-Senate conference con-
vened on this or similar legislation. I also
ask that a copy of this letter and your re-
sponse be included in the legislative report
on H.R. 1837 and in the Congressional Record
during floor consideration of this bill.
I look forward to working with you as we
prepare to pass this important legislation.
Sincerely,
BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman.
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 1837, the United States-Israel
Cooperation Enhancement and Re-
gional Security Act, of which I am a
cosponsor.
The United States-Israel partnership
is a two-way street. We work together
to further our shared values and inter-
ests. We already collaborate on a wide
range of civil issues, such as energy
and agriculture; and our security co-
operation helps keep both of our coun-
tries safe as we counter threats from a
wide range of terrorist groups, as well
as from Iran. But still there is much
more that we can do together.
I want to thank Mr. DEUTCH and Mr.
WILSON for this comprehensive, bipar-
tisan update to the United States-
Israel partnership to confront the chal-
lenges both countries face in 2019 and
beyond.
H.R. 1837 expands our mutually-bene-
ficial cooperation, identifying several
new or growing areas of cooperation
where we can exchange innovations
and help improve the lives and liveli-
hoods of our people as well as our re-
spective national interests.
Through this bill, the United States
and Israel will be better-positioned to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:26 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.016 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7197
July 23, 2019
cooperate on critical fields like re-
search and development, directed en-
ergy, cybersecurity, international de-
velopment and foreign assistance,
treating post-traumatic stress dis-
order, and developing health tech-
nologies.
In terms of our security partnership
with Israel, the bill authorizes U.S. for-
eign military financing to Israel at $3.3
billion per year through 2024, the same
levels agreed to in the 2016 U.S.-Israel
memorandum. It reauthorizes United
States loan guarantees and extends
War Reserves Stockpile Authority for
Israel.
H.R. 1837 also codifies policies to en-
sure that the United States can trans-
fer precision-guided munitions and
other defense articles to Israel quickly
in the event of an emergency.
We all know that Israel faces threats
on multiple fronts, from Iran, from
Hezbollah, Hamas, and others. These
adversaries aren’t going to call ahead
in the event of an escalation. We need
to be prepared with the appropriate au-
thorities to ensure that if Israel is fac-
ing a protracted or multifront conflict,
that the United States can help.
Mr. Speaker, I yield the remainder of
my time to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. SMITH), my good friend,
and I would ask unanimous consent
that he be allowed to control that
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my good friend for
yielding. I yield myself 2 minutes.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to offer my strong
support for H.R. 1837, the U.S.-Israel
Cooperation Enhancement and Re-
gional Security Act, supported and in-
troduced by Mr. DEUTCH and Mr. WIL-
SON. I thank them for their leadership,
as well as ELIOT ENGEL and MICHAEL
MCCAUL, our ranking member.
Israel is by far our closest ally in the
Middle East with which we share com-
mon values, including a commitment
to democracy and to the rule of law.
Sadly, Israel often comes under at-
tack, at the United Nations and in the
region, both by words and by bullets.
Israel is judged by a double standard by
which real or imagined flaws are mag-
nified, while Israel’s virtues as a robust
democracy are ignored.
Mr. Speaker, we must stand with
Israel, and this bill is a means to
achieve that. Among other things, it
would authorize—and this is the core of
the bill—it would authorize military fi-
nancing for Israel at $3.3 billion per
year, over 10 years, and enhanced co-
operation with our key ally in a host of
other areas from cybersecurity, to ag-
riculture, to assisting veterans.
It is mutually beneficial, allowing us
to access Israel’s knowledge and to
benefit from its leadership in sectors
such as desalinization technology,
which has helped make the desert
bloom, one of the most visually-evi-
dent ways Israel has positively im-
pacted the land.
The bill encourages energy coopera-
tion in the Eastern Mediterranean
which, presumably, includes ongoing
ventures with friendly countries, such
as Greece and Cyprus. In short, the bill
greatly enhances the mutually-bene-
ficial ties which exist between our two
great nations.
This is a good piece of legislation. It
is bipartisan, and I strongly urge my
colleagues to support it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DEUTCH), a valuable member of
the Foreign Affairs Committee, author
of this important bill, and chairman of
the Middle East, North Africa, and
International Terrorism Sub-
committee.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairman ENGEL for yielding the time.
I rise today in support of H.R. 1837,
the U.S.-Israel Cooperation Enhance-
ment and Regional Security Act.
I thank Chairman ENGEL for his sup-
port of this legislation, as well as
Ranking Member MCCAUL, and I am es-
pecially grateful to my friend, Con-
gressman JOE WILSON, for introducing
this bill with me. I also thank the 289
bipartisan cosponsors of this bill.
Today, we send a clear message that
bipartisan support for the U.S.-Israel
relationship, for the security and civil-
ian cooperation between our countries,
and for the ties between the American
and Israeli people, remains strong and
unwavering.
Today, we vote to strengthen and en-
hance this relationship, while also pro-
viding victims of terrorism a rightful
path to justice and restoring much-
needed assistance which contributes to
security and saves the lives of Israelis
and Palestinians.
The security provisions in this bill
reinforces the ways in which the U.S.
guarantees Israel’s right and ability to
defend herself against any and all
threats, in turn, contributing to our
own national security interests in the
region.
By codifying the 2016 10-year memo-
randum of understanding, we advance
security and stability in a volatile re-
gion. But just as our alliance with
Israel is about more than just security,
this bill is about more than just secu-
rity as well.
Our bond with Israel is rooted in our
shared values. Just like this country,
Israel is a vibrant democracy where po-
litical parties from right to left vigor-
ously debate and disagree on politics
and policy.
This bill enhances nonsecurity co-
operation between our two nations; co-
operation that has yielded impactful
and tangible results around the globe
in areas like energy, and water, cyber-
security, health, and agriculture.
It authorizes the United States and
Israel to work together on humani-
tarian and development programs in
developing countries; and it expands
the work that Israel, the Palestinians,
and other Arab states can do together
to promote scientific and technological
advancement and contribute to lasting
regional stability.
And finally, this legislation provides
a long-awaited path to justice for vic-
tims of Palestinian terrorism.
Last year, Congress passed the Anti-
Terrorism Clarification Act, which was
meant to do just that. Unfortunately,
that legislation has not yielded the in-
tended results and, instead, created un-
intended foreign policy consequences.
As a result, the Palestinian Author-
ity refused to accept any U.S. assist-
ance to the West Bank in Gaza, halting
humanitarian programs run by inter-
national NGOs, and even our own
USAID programming could not con-
tinue. The very real impact of these
cuts has been felt on the ground.
I recently led a bipartisan group of
Members to visit a hospital in East Je-
rusalem that provides some of the only
cancer treatments to Palestinians in
the West Bank. That hospital has lost
25 percent of its funding.
Also affected was U.S. funding for the
training of Palestinian Security
Forces. These forces cooperate with the
Israeli Defense Forces to keep Israelis
and Palestinians safe. This program,
run by a U.S. General, saves Pales-
tinian lives and Israeli lives, and it is
currently not receiving funding.
Mr. Speaker, we have a moral obliga-
tion to ensure that Americans injured
or, even worse, killed by terrorism
have a right to seek justice in our
courts. We have a moral obligation, as
well, to provide lifesaving assistance
for those in need. And while this bill
represents a compromise, I believe it
will achieve both of these goals.
Today, we cast a vote to expand rela-
tions with one of our closest allies; a
relationship that is broad and deep;
that highlights the positive impact the
United States and Israel can have in so
many critical areas when we work to-
gether; when we harness our mutual
appreciation for science and education
and technology; and when we work to
advance security in the region.
We do all of these because we know
that whatever the politics and person-
alities, we are stronger as a Nation
when we stand together with our ally,
Israel, in support of security, peace,
and democracy.
I urge my colleagues to stand with
me today and to support this good
piece of legislation.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Puerto Rico (Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN).
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Mr. Speaker, I think this is a
very important bill, and I am proud to
support H.R. 1837, the United States-
Israel Cooperation Enhancement and
Regional Security Act, that will make
our bilateral security and economic co-
operation stronger and more stable
than ever before.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.048 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7198 July 23, 2019
On September 14 of 2016, the U.S. and
Israel signed a memorandum of under-
standing ensuring $33 billion of mili-
tary and strategic support over a 10-
year period.
b 1630
It reaffirmed the importance of con-
tinuing annual U.S. military assistance
to Israel, our cooperative missile de-
fense programs, in addition to other
shared economic and technology inter-
ests.
The bill before us codifies that assist-
ance for the next 10 years, while pro-
viding us with the flexibility to in-
crease that support should Israel be
under an imminent threat of a military
attack.
It strengthens Israel’s qualitative
military edge and advances our col-
laboration on a range of issues, such as
cybersecurity and space exploration, as
well as authorizing $12 million for the
U.S.-Israel Energy Center and, through
USAID, advances our common goals of
promoting agriculture, education, and
trade with other countries around the
world.
As our strongest and most capable
ally in a turbulent region, Israel is an
essential U.S. strategic partner.
Israel is also a target for hostile ac-
tors who call for her destruction. Just
2 months ago, the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad and Hamas terrorist groups
launched over 600 rockets and mortars
at Israeli civilian targets, killing four
and wounding eight. May was Israel’s
deadliest month in almost 2 years.
In addition to the threat coming
from these terrorist groups, Israel
faces a threat of a resurgent Iran,
whose militias and proxies, from Iraq
to Syria to Lebanon, continue to grow
in numbers, weapons, and strength.
Just recently, Chairman DEUTCH and
I heard firsthand from Prime Minister
Netanyahu some of these complex and
serious existential challenges that seek
to undermine our strategic ally.
Mr. Speaker, it is now more impor-
tant than ever that the United States
stand with the democratic Jewish
State of Israel and what she represents,
which is freedom, democracy, and
equality in that region. For that, I en-
courage my colleagues to support this
bill.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume to close.
I want to, first of all, thank the gen-
tlewoman from Puerto Rico (Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN) for her very eloquent
statement and for her deep concern for
the State of Israel. I thank her for that
leadership.
I would also like to thank, in closing,
Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. WILSON, Chairman
ENGEL, Ranking Member MCCAUL, and
the Foreign Affairs Committee mem-
bership for their bipartisan work, and
the staff, to ensure that the United
States and Israel can work together to
respond to shared challenges.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support this legislation, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. SCHNEIDER).
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 1837, the
United States-Israel Cooperation En-
hancement and Regional Security Act.
Israel is our greatest ally in the Mid-
dle East, and we work jointly in a num-
ber of strategic areas. This bill
strengthens our partnership and ex-
pands important economic, scientific,
and security cooperation between the
United States and Israel.
This bill also encourages the United
States to designate a new coordinator
of U.S.-Israel research and develop-
ment and establishes a grant program
on cybersecurity development. It au-
thorizes R&D on issues, including post-
traumatic stress disorder, agriculture,
and the development of health tech-
nologies, as well as vital security as-
sistance in accordance with the 2016
MOU.
It also provides an important fix that
ensures a path to justice for American
victims of terrorism and retains our
ability to provide vital assistance that
promotes security and stability for
both Israelis and Palestinians.
I would like to thank my colleagues,
Mr. DEUTCH and Mr. WILSON, for their
leadership on this important bipartisan
bill.
I urge all my colleagues to vote on
this bill.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
The United States-Israel Cooperation
Enhancement and Regional Security
Act is an excellent bipartisan bill de-
signed to further strengthen the rela-
tionship between Israel and the United
States, give American victims their
day in court, and restore assistance to
the Palestinians.
I strongly support this bill. I urge all
Members to join me in doing so. Again,
this is a bipartisan bill showing, again,
the strong support that the United
States and Israel have for each other.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1837, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PALESTINIAN INTERNATIONAL
TERRORISM SUPPORT PREVEN-
TION ACT OF 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1850) to impose sanctions with re-
spect to foreign support for Palestinian
terrorism, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1850
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Palestinian
International Terrorism Support Prevention
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It shall be the policy of the United
States—
(1) to prevent Hamas, the Palestinian Is-
lamic Jihad, or any affiliate or successor
thereof from accessing its international sup-
port networks; and
(2) to oppose Hamas, the Palestinian Is-
lamic Jihad, or any affiliate or successor
thereof from attempting to use goods, in-
cluding medicine and dual use items, to
smuggle weapons and other materials to fur-
ther acts of terrorism.
SEC. 3. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RE-
SPECT TO FOREIGN PERSONS AND
AGENCIES AND INSTRUMENTAL-
ITIES OF FOREIGN STATES SUP-
PORTING HAMAS, THE PALESTINIAN
ISLAMIC JIHAD, OR ANY AFFILIATE
OR SUCCESSOR THEREOF.
(a) IDENTIFICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter for a period not to
exceed 3 years, the President shall submit to
the appropriate congressional committees a
report that identifies each foreign person or
agency or instrumentality of a foreign state
that the President determines—
(A) knowingly assists in, sponsors, or pro-
vides significant financial or material sup-
port for, or financial or other services to or
in support of, the terrorist activities of any
person described in paragraph (2); or
(B) directly or indirectly, knowingly and
materially engaged in a significant trans-
action with any person described in para-
graph (2).
(2) PERSON DESCRIBED.—A person described
in this paragraph is a foreign person that the
President determines—
(A) is a senior member of Hamas, the Pal-
estinian Islamic Jihad, or any affiliate or
successor thereof;
(B) is a senior member of a foreign ter-
rorist organization designated pursuant to
section 219 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189) whose members di-
rectly or indirectly support the terrorist ac-
tivities of Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad, or any affiliate or successor thereof
by knowingly engaging in a significant
transaction with, or providing financial or
material support for Hamas, the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad, or any affiliate or successor
thereof, or any person described in subpara-
graph (A); or
(C) directly or indirectly, supports the ter-
rorist activities of Hamas, the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad, or any affiliate or successor
thereof by knowingly and materially assist-
ing, sponsoring, or providing financial or ma-
terial support for, or goods or services to or
in support of, Hamas, the Palestinian Is-
lamic Jihad, or any affiliate or successor
thereof, or any person described in subpara-
graph (A) or (B).
(3) FORM OF REPORT.—Each report required
under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in un-
classified form, but may contain a classified
annex.
(4) EXCEPTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The President shall not
be required to identify a foreign person or an
agency or instrumentality of a foreign state
in a report pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) if—
(i) the foreign person or agency or instru-
mentality of a foreign state notifies the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.049 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7199
July 23, 2019
United States Government in advance that it
proposes to engage in a significant trans-
action as described in paragraph (1)(B); and
(ii) the President determines and notifies
the appropriate congressional committees in
a classified form not less than 15 days prior
to the foreign person or agency or instru-
mentality of a foreign state engaging in the
significant transaction that the significant
transaction is in the national interests of
the United States.
(B) NON-APPLICABILITY.—Subparagraph (A)
shall not apply with respect to—
(i) an agency or instrumentality of a for-
eign state which the Secretary of State de-
termines has repeatedly provided support for
acts of international terrorism pursuant to
section 1754(c) of the Export Reform Control
Act of 2018, section 40 of the Arms Export
Control Act, section 620A of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961, or any other provision of
law; or
(ii) any significant transaction described
in paragraph (1)(B) that involves, directly or
indirectly, a foreign state described in clause
(i).
(b) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall im-
pose two or more of the sanctions described
in paragraph (2) with respect to a foreign
person or an agency or instrumentality of a
foreign state identified pursuant to sub-
section (a).
(2) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—The sanctions
referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
(A) The President may direct the Export-
Import Bank of the United States not to give
approval to the issuance of any guarantee,
insurance, extension of credit, or participa-
tion in the extension of credit in connection
with the export of any goods or services to
the foreign person or agency or instrumen-
tality of the foreign state, and the Export-
Import Bank of the United States shall com-
ply with any such direction.
(B) No sales of any defense articles, defense
services, or design and construction services
under the Arms Export Control Act (22
U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) may be made to the for-
eign person or agency or instrumentality of
the foreign state.
(C) No licenses for export of any item on
the United States Munitions List that in-
clude the foreign person or agency or instru-
mentality of the foreign state as a party to
the license may be granted.
(D) No exports may be permitted to the
foreign person or agency or instrumentality
of the foreign state of any goods or tech-
nologies controlled for national security rea-
sons under the Export Administration Regu-
lations, except that such prohibition shall
not apply to any transaction subject to the
reporting requirements of title V of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 413 et
seq.; relating to congressional oversight of
intelligence activities).
(E) The President shall prohibit any
United States financial institution from
making loans or providing any credit or fi-
nancing totaling more than $10,000,000 to the
foreign person or agency or instrumentality
of the foreign state, except that this sub-
paragraph shall not apply—
(i) to any transaction subject to the re-
porting requirements of title V of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 413 et
seq.; relating to congressional oversight of
intelligence activities);
(ii) to the provision of medicines, medical
equipment, and humanitarian assistance; or
(iii) to any credit, credit guarantee, or fi-
nancial assistance provided by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture to support the purchase
of food or other agricultural commodities.
(F)(i) The President may exercise all pow-
ers granted to the President by the Inter-
national Emergency Economic Powers Act
(50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (except that the re-
quirements of section 202 of such Act (50
U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply) to the extent
necessary to block and prohibit all trans-
actions in all property and interests in prop-
erty of a foreign person or agency or instru-
mentality of the foreign state if such prop-
erty and interests in property are in the
United States, come within the United
States, or are or come within the possession
or control of a United States person.
(ii) The penalties provided for in sub-
sections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person
that knowingly violates, attempts to violate,
conspires to violate, or causes a violation of
regulations promulgated under section 6(b)
to carry out clause (i) to the same extent
that such penalties apply to a person that
knowingly commits an unlawful act de-
scribed in section 206(a) of that Act.
(iii) The President may exercise all au-
thorities provided to the President under
sections 203 and 205 of the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1702 and 1704) for purposes of carrying out
clause (i).
(3) EXCEPTION.—The President shall not be
required to apply sanctions with respect to a
foreign person or an agency or instrumen-
tality of a foreign state identified pursuant
to subsection (a) if the President certifies in
writing to the appropriate congressional
committees that—
(A) the foreign person or agency or instru-
mentality of the foreign state—
(i) is no longer carrying out activities or
transactions for which the sanctions were
imposed pursuant to this subsection; or
(ii) has taken and is continuing to take
significant verifiable steps toward termi-
nating the activities or transactions for
which the sanctions were imposed pursuant
to this subsection; and
(B) the President has received reliable as-
surances from the foreign person or agency
or instrumentality of the foreign state that
it will not carry out any activities or trans-
actions for which sanctions may be imposed
pursuant to this subsection in the future.
(c) WAIVER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may waive,
on a case by case basis and for a period of
not more than 180 days, a requirement under
subsection (b) to impose or maintain sanc-
tions with respect to a foreign person or
agency or instrumentality of a foreign state
if the President—
(A) determines that the waiver is in the
national security interest of the United
States; and
(B) not less than 30 days before the waiver
takes effect, submits to the appropriate con-
gressional committees a report on the waiver
and the justification for the waiver.
(2) RENEWAL OF WAIVER.—The President
may, on a case by case basis, renew a waiver
under paragraph (1) for additional periods of
not more than 180 days if the President—
(A) determines that the renewal of the
waiver is in the national security interest of
the United States; and
(B) not less than 15 days before the waiver
expires, submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report on the renewal of
the waiver and the justification for the re-
newal of the waiver.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The authority
to impose sanctions under subsection (b)
with respect to a foreign person or an agency
or instrumentality of a foreign state identi-
fied pursuant to subsection (a) is in addition
to the authority to impose sanctions under
any other provision of law with respect to
foreign persons or agencies or instrumental-
ities of foreign states that directly or indi-
rectly support international terrorism.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) FOREIGN STATE.—The term ‘‘foreign
state’’ has the meaning given such term in
section 1603(a) of title 28, United States
Code.
(2) AGENCY OR INSTRUMENTALITY.—The
term ‘‘agency or instrumentality’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 1603(b) of
title 28, United States Code.
(f) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall
take effect on the date of the enactment of
this Act and apply with respect to activities
and transactions described in subsection (a)
that are carried out on or after such date of
enactment.
SEC. 4. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RE-
SPECT TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS
THAT PROVIDE MATERIAL SUPPORT
FOR THE TERRORIST ACTIVITIES OF
HAMAS, THE PALESTINIAN ISLAMIC
JIHAD, OR ANY AFFILIATE OR SUC-
CESSOR THEREOF.
(a) IDENTIFICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and every 180 days thereafter, the President
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report that identifies
the following:
(A) Each government of a foreign coun-
try—
(i) with respect to which the Secretary of
State determines has repeatedly provided
support for acts of international terrorism
pursuant to section 1754(c) of the Export
Control Reform Act of 2018, section 40 of the
Arms Export Control Act, section 620A of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, or any other
provision of law; and
(ii) with respect to which the President de-
termines has provided direct or indirect ma-
terial support for the terrorist activities of
Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or any
affiliate or successor thereof.
(B) Each government of a foreign country
that—
(i) is not identified under subparagraph
(A); and
(ii) the President determines engaged in a
significant transaction so as to contribute
knowingly and materially to the efforts by
the government of a foreign country de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(i) to provide di-
rect or indirect material support for the ter-
rorist activities of Hamas, the Palestinian
Islamic Jihad, or any affiliate or successor
thereof.
(2) FORM OF REPORT.—Each report sub-
mitted under paragraph (1) shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form but may contain
a classified annex.
(b) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall im-
pose the following sanctions with respect to
each government of a foreign country identi-
fied pursuant to subparagraph (A) or (B) of
subsection (a)(1):
(A) The United States Government shall
suspend, for a period of one year, United
States assistance to the government of the
foreign country.
(B) The Secretary of the Treasury shall in-
struct the United States Executive Director
to each appropriate international financial
institution to oppose, and vote against, for a
period of one year, the extension by such in-
stitution of any loan or financial or tech-
nical assistance to the government of the
foreign country.
(C) No item on the United States Muni-
tions List (established pursuant to section 38
of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C.
2778)) or the Commerce Control List set forth
in Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of title 15,
Code of Federal Regulations, may be ex-
ported to the government of the foreign
country for a period of one year.
(2) EXCEPTIONS.—The President shall not
be required to apply sanctions with respect
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.019 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7200 July 23, 2019
to the government of a foreign country pur-
suant to paragraph (1)—
(A) with respect to materials intended to
be used by United States military or civilian
personnel at military facilities in the coun-
try; or
(B) if the application of such sanctions
would prevent the United States from meet-
ing the terms of any status of forces agree-
ment to which the United States is a party.
(c) IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS
WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS
IDENTIFIED UNDER SUBSECTION (a)(1)(A).—The
President shall impose the following addi-
tional sanctions with respect to each govern-
ment of a foreign country identified pursu-
ant to subsection (a)(1)(A):
(1) The President shall, pursuant to such
regulations as the President may prescribe,
prohibit any transactions in foreign ex-
change that are subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States and in which the govern-
ment of the foreign country has any interest.
(2) The President shall, pursuant to such
regulations as the President may prescribe,
prohibit any transfers of credit or payments
between one or more financial institutions
or by, through, or to any financial institu-
tion, to the extent that such transfers or
payments are subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States and involve any interest of
the government of the foreign country.
(d) WAIVER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may waive,
on a case by case basis and for a period of
not more than 180 days, a requirement under
subsection (b) or (c) to impose or maintain
sanctions with respect to a foreign govern-
ment identified pursuant to subparagraph
(A) or (B) of subsection (a)(1) if the Presi-
dent—
(A) determines that the waiver is in the
national security interest of the United
States; and
(B) not less than 30 days before the waiver
takes effect, submits to the appropriate con-
gressional committees a report on the waiver
and the justification for the waiver.
(2) RENEWAL OF WAIVER.—The President
may, on a case by case basis, renew a waiver
under paragraph (1) for additional periods of
not more than 180 days if the President—
(A) determines that the renewal of the
waiver is in the national security interest of
the United States; and
(B) not less than 15 days before the waiver
expires, submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report on the renewal of
the waiver and the justification for the re-
newal of the waiver.
(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The authority
to impose sanctions under subsection (b) or
(c) with respect to each government of a for-
eign country identified pursuant to subpara-
graph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(1) is in ad-
dition to the authority to impose sanctions
under any other provision of law with re-
spect to governments of foreign countries
that provide material support to foreign ter-
rorist organizations designated pursuant to
section 219 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
(f) TERMINATION.—The President may ter-
minate any sanctions imposed with respect
to the government of a foreign country pur-
suant to subsection (b) or (c) if the President
determines and notifies the appropriate con-
gressional committees that the government
of the foreign country is no longer carrying
out activities or transactions for which the
sanctions were imposed and has provided as-
surances to the United States Government
that it will not carry out the activities or
transactions in the future.
(g) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall
take effect on the date of the enactment of
this Act and apply with respect to activities
and transactions described in subparagraph
(A) or (B) of subsection (a)(1) that are carried
out on or after such date of enactment.
SEC. 5. EXEMPTIONS FROM SANCTIONS UNDER
SECTIONS 3 AND 4 RELATING TO
PROVISION OF HUMANITARIAN AS-
SISTANCE.
(a) SANCTIONS UNDER SECTION 3.—The fol-
lowing activities shall be exempt from sanc-
tions under section 3:
(1) The conduct or facilitation of a trans-
action for the sale of agricultural commod-
ities, food, medicine, or medical devices to a
foreign person described in section 3(a)(2).
(2) The provision of humanitarian assist-
ance to a foreign person described in section
3(a)(2), including engaging in a financial
transaction relating to humanitarian assist-
ance or for humanitarian purposes or trans-
porting goods or services that are necessary
to carry out operations relating to humani-
tarian assistance or humanitarian purposes.
(b) SANCTIONS UNDER SECTION 4.—The fol-
lowing activities shall be exempt from sanc-
tions under section 4:
(1) The conduct or facilitation of a trans-
action for the sale of agricultural commod-
ities, food, medicine, or medical devices to
Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or any
affiliate or successor thereof described in
section 4(a)(1).
(2) The provision of humanitarian assist-
ance to Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad, or any affiliate or successor thereof
described in section 4(a)(1), including engag-
ing in a financial transaction relating to hu-
manitarian assistance or for humanitarian
purposes or transporting goods or services
that are necessary to carry out operations
relating to humanitarian assistance or hu-
manitarian purposes.
SEC. 6. REPORT ON ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN
COUNTRIES TO DISRUPT GLOBAL
FUNDRAISING, FINANCING, AND
MONEY LAUNDERING ACTIVITIES OF
HAMAS, THE PALESTINIAN ISLAMIC
JIHAD, OR ANY AFFILIATE OR SUC-
CESSOR THEREOF.
(a) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall submit to the appro-
priate congressional committees a report
that includes—
(A) a list of foreign countries that support
Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or any
affiliate or successor thereof, or in which
Hamas maintains important portions of its
financial networks;
(B) with respect to each foreign country on
the list required by subparagraph (A)—
(i) an assessment of whether the govern-
ment of the country is taking adequate
measures to freeze the assets of Hamas, the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or any affiliate or
successor thereof within the territory of the
country; and
(ii) in the case of a country the govern-
ment of which is not taking adequate meas-
ures to freeze the assets of Hamas—
(I) an assessment of the reasons that gov-
ernment is not taking adequate measures to
freeze those assets; and
(II) a description of measures being taken
by the United States Government to encour-
age that government to freeze those assets;
(C) a list of foreign countries in which
Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or any
affiliate or successor thereof, conducts sig-
nificant fundraising, financing, or money
laundering activities;
(D) with respect to each foreign country on
the list required by subparagraph (C)—
(i) an assessment of whether the govern-
ment of the country is taking adequate
measures to disrupt the fundraising, financ-
ing, or money laundering activities of
Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or any
affiliate or successor thereof within the ter-
ritory of the country; and
(ii) in the case of a country the govern-
ment of which is not taking adequate meas-
ures to disrupt those activities—
(I) an assessment of the reasons that gov-
ernment is not taking adequate measures to
disrupt those activities; and
(II) a description of measures being taken
by the United States Government to encour-
age that government to improve measures to
disrupt those activities; and
(E) a list of foreign countries from which
Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or any
affiliate or successor thereof, acquires sur-
veillance equipment, electronic monitoring
equipment, or other means to inhibit com-
munication or political expression in Gaza.
(2) FORM.—The report required by para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form to the greatest extent possible, and
may contain a classified annex.
(b) BRIEFING.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
every 180 days thereafter for a period not to
exceed 3 years, the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, and the heads of
other applicable Federal departments and
agencies (or their designees) shall provide to
the appropriate congressional committees a
briefing on the disposition of the assets and
activities of Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad, or any successor or affiliate thereof
related to fundraising, financing, and money
laundering worldwide.
(c) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Financial Services, and the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
of the House of Representatives; and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs, and the Select Committee on
Intelligence of the Senate.
SEC. 7. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
(a) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this Act shall be construed to apply to the
authorized intelligence activities of the
United States.
(b) REGULATORY AUTHORITY.—The Presi-
dent shall, not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, promul-
gate regulations as are necessary for the im-
plementation of this Act.
(c) EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF
GOODS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions authorized
under this Act shall not include the author-
ity or requirement to impose sanctions on
the importation of goods.
(2) GOOD DEFINED.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
man-made substance, material, supply or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
(d) TERMINATION.—This Act shall termi-
nate beginning—
(1) 30 days after the date on which the
President certifies to the appropriate con-
gressional committees that Hamas and the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or any successor
or affiliate thereof—
(A) are no longer designated as a foreign
terrorist organization pursuant to section
219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(8 U.S.C. 1189);
(B) are no longer subject to sanctions pur-
suant to—
(i) Executive Order 12947 (January 23, 1995;
relating to prohibiting transactions with ter-
rorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle
East peace process); and
(ii) Executive Order 13224 (September 23,
2001; relating to blocking property and pro-
hibiting transactions with persons who com-
mit, threaten to commit, or support ter-
rorism); and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.019 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7201
July 23, 2019
(C) meet the criteria described in para-
graphs (1) through (4) of section 9 of the Pal-
estinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006 (22
U.S.C. 2378b note); or
(2) 3 years after the date of the enactment
of this Act,
whichever occurs earlier.
SEC. 8. DEFINITIONS.
Except as otherwise provided, in this Act:
(1) ADMITTED.—The term ‘‘admitted’’ has
the meaning given such term in section
101(a)(13)(A) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(13)(A)).
(2) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means the Committee on For-
eign Affairs of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate.
(3) FOREIGN PERSON.—The term ‘‘foreign
person’’ means—
(A) an individual who is not a United
States person; or
(B) a corporation, partnership, or other
nongovernmental entity which is not a
United States person.
(4) MATERIAL SUPPORT.—The term ‘‘mate-
rial support’’ has the meaning given the
term ‘‘material support or resources’’ in sec-
tion 2339A of title 18, United States Code.
(5) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means an
individual or entity.
(6) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) a United States citizen or an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence to
the United States; or
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
the United States or of any jurisdiction
within the United States, including a foreign
branch of such an entity.
SEC. 9. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. I ask unanimous consent
that all Members have 5 legislative
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks and include in the
RECORD extraneous material on H.R.
1850.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, let me start by thank-
ing Mr. MAST of Florida and Mr.
GOTTHEIMER of New Jersey for their
hard work on this legislation.
The United States designated both
Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad
as foreign terrorist organizations more
than 20 years ago. It is easy to see why:
Hamas is responsible for the deaths of
more than 400 Israelis and at least 25
American citizens. As recently as May
of this year, the group fired hundreds
of rockets from Gaza into southern
Israel, including at Israeli civilian
areas in Tel Aviv. And Palestinian Is-
lamic Jihad is taking credit for a num-
ber of terrorist attacks in Israel, in-
cluding an attack that killed a New
Jersey American student in 1995.
Yet both groups, and particularly
Hamas, still get cash from abroad.
These funds are used to build tunnels
into Israel and launch rockets at civil-
ian populations. It is simply dis-
gusting.
No one benefits from terrorism, Mr.
Speaker: not Israelis, who just want to
live in peace and security; not Pal-
estinians, who want a state of their
own but are exploited by these terror-
ists. A Palestinian state will never be
built on the backs of terrorism.
Israel has the right to defend itself.
The United States will continue to sup-
port that. In the meantime, we must do
everything we can to prevent the loss
of civilian life. That starts with cut-
ting off the money to Hamas and Pales-
tinian Islamic Jihad.
This bill would help do just that. It
would impose new sanctions on those
who support Hamas and Palestinian Is-
lamic Jihad, the deep pockets that are
enabling these groups to wage their
campaigns of violence.
Of course, we don’t want to punish
innocent civilians, so this measure in-
cludes an important exception for hu-
manitarian and medical assistance.
This bill is designed to ensure that peo-
ple in Gaza get what they need and
that Hamas does not.
It is a good, straightforward piece of
legislation. I am glad the House is con-
sidering it today, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES,
Washington, DC, July 22, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing con-
cerning H.R. 1850, the ‘‘Palestinian Inter-
national Terrorism Support Prevention Act
of 2019.’’ In order to permit the H.R. 1850 to
proceed expeditiously to the House Floor, I
agree to forgo formal consideration of the
bill.
The Committee on Financial Services
takes this action to forego formal consider-
ation of H.R. 1850 with our mutual under-
standing that, by foregoing formal consider-
ation of H.R. 1850 at this time, we do not
waive any jurisdiction over the subject mat-
ter contained in this or similar legislation,
and that our Committee will be appro-
priately consulted and involved as this or
similar legislation moves forward. Our Com-
mittee also reserves the right to seek ap-
pointment of an appropriate number of con-
ferees to any House-Senate conference in-
volving this or similar legislation and re-
quest your support for any such request.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding,
and I would ask that a copy of our exchange
of letters on this matter be included in the
Congressional Record during Floor consider-
ation of H.R. 1850.
Sincerely,
MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 22, 2019.
Hon. MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman, Committee on Financial Services,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN WATERS: I am writing
to you concerning H.R. 1850, Palestinian
International Terrorism Support Prevention
Act of 2019. I appreciate your willingness to
work cooperatively on this bill.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on Financial Services under House Rule X,
and that your Committee will forgo action
on H.R. 1850 to expedite floor consideration.
I further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the measure
that fall within your jurisdiction. I will also
support the appointment of Committee on
Financial Services conferees during any
House-Senate conference convened on this
legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the res-
olution. I appreciate your cooperation and
look forward to continuing to work with you
as this measure moves through the legisla-
tive process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 1850, the Palestinian Inter-
national Terrorism Support Prevention
Act of 2019.
In so doing, I first want to note Con-
gressman BRIAN MAST’s great personal
sacrifice in the war against terror and
how inspirational it is for each and
every one of us to see him raise his
voice time and again in this great bat-
tle of our age.
I also want to thank my good friend
from New Jersey (Mr. GOTTHEIMER) for
his lead cosponsorship of this legisla-
tion.
H.R. 1850 would require the President
to report to Congress on those who
knowingly provide financial and mate-
rial support to terror groups such as
Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad,
and then apply sanctions. These groups
in particular have vowed to wipe out
our ally Israel, and their support of
terror is well known.
Beyond that, the legislation would
require a listing of foreign countries
where Hamas and the Palestinian Is-
lamic Jihad engage in fundraising, fi-
nancing, or money laundering, as well
as list those countries which fail to
take adequate measures to freeze the
assets of these known terror groups.
Mr. Speaker, Hamas, a designated
foreign terrorist organization, has
killed over 400 Israelis and 25 Ameri-
cans, rules the Gaza Strip with an iron
fist, and uses its proximity to threaten
Israel with impunity. As a result, the
Israelis live in constant fear of Hamas
rockets, tunnels, and other means of
bringing violence to Israeli citizens.
Earlier this year, in a single week-
end, Hamas fired over 600 rockets into
Israel, killing four civilians, including
an American.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:26 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.019 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7202 July 23, 2019
As part of our close partnership with
Israel, the United States has long
sought to help Israel counter that
threat. We have worked together on de-
velopment of the Iron Dome aerial de-
fense system. We continue to work to-
gether on counter-tunnelling tech-
nology.
And again, now, with this bill, we
will help Israel to counter Hamas and
the Palestinian Islamic Jihad by deny-
ing these groups the use of funds for
their terror operations.
For over a decade, Mr. Speaker, the
executive branch, across multiple ad-
ministrations, has sanctioned many in-
dividuals as well as a select number of
foreign entities that are associated
with Hamas, all under the general au-
thority of broad executive order.
This bill will codify and standardize
those sanctions in statute and require
the administration to comprehensively
assess whether other supporters of
Hamas should be sanctioned who have
thus far remained unaffected by their
support of this terrorist group.
The bill also requires the President
to report on whether foreign govern-
ments are supporting Hamas or the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
Mr. Speaker, we know well that Iran
is the world’s leading state sponsor of
terrorism, and Hamas and the Pales-
tinian Islamic Jihad are among Iran’s
many terrorist beneficiaries. In fact, it
was reported just a few days ago a sen-
ior Hamas delegation was in Tehran.
This legislation will ensure that the
Iranian regime is held to account for
its maligned activity undermining
peace and security in the Middle East.
Bahrain’s Foreign Minister said, last
week, were it not for Iran’s support for
Hamas, there would be a better chance
of achieving peace between Israel and
the Palestinians.
The goal of this legislation is to cut
off Iran’s support for terrorism and,
therefore, make peace more probable.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. GOTTHEIMER).
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in support of H.R. 1850, the
Palestinian International Terrorism
Support Prevention Act, bipartisan
legislation that I was proud to intro-
duce with my good friend and Repub-
lican colleague, Congressman BRIAN
MAST from Florida.
I also thank my good friend, Mr.
SMITH from New Jersey, for his leader-
ship.
I want to thank House Foreign Af-
fairs Committee Chairman ELIOT
ENGEL and Ranking Member MIKE
MCCAUL, who were original cosponsors
of our legislation, for their support and
leadership.
Mr. Speaker, Hamas is a heinous ter-
rorist group responsible for the mur-
ders of innocent American and Israeli
citizens, which has been designated as
a foreign terrorist organization by the
State Department since 1997. It is well
known for firing rockets and digging
terror tunnels into Israel and using
Gazans, including women and children,
as human shields. In fact, in May, ter-
rorist groups like Hamas and PIJ in
Gaza fired more than 600 rockets at
Israel in just 36 hours.
It is critical that the United States
and our allies continue to isolate
Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad
by cutting them off at the source, in-
cluding Iran.
As the world’s leading state sponsor
of terrorism, the Iranian regime pro-
vides more than $70 million annually to
the terrorist group Hamas in Gaza.
b 1645
Just yesterday, Iran’s supreme leader
met with the political deputy chief of
Hamas and renewed Iran’s commitment
to supporting this terrorist organiza-
tion in its armed struggle against
Israel.
Iran is also a principal funder of PIJ,
helping the group amass a stockpile of
more than 8,000 rockets aimed at
Israel, an arsenal even larger than that
of Hamas.
PIJ has also claimed credit for mul-
tiple terrorist attacks in Israel, includ-
ing a gruesome suicide bus bombing in
April 1995 that killed New Jersey stu-
dent Alisa Flatow, a graduate of the
Frisch School in my district in
Paramus. And I will say forever that
her memory should never be forgotten.
H.R. 1850 would require the President
to submit to Congress an annual report
for the next 3 years identifying foreign
entities who assist Hamas, the Pales-
tinian Islamic Jihad, or an affiliate or
successor, and impose at least two or
more crippling sanctions.
This bill would also crack down on
foreign terrorist governments that sup-
port these groups, by suspending U.S.
foreign aid, making it harder for them
to receive loans or technical assist-
ance, and tying up their credit.
This bipartisan bill will strengthen
existing sanctions to weaken these ter-
rorist groups that threaten our ally
Israel, undermine peace, and further
destabilize the Middle East.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to join me in
supporting this critical legislation and
in the fight against terror.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I urge Members to support
the legislation, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 11⁄2
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. SCHNEIDER).
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I
want to thank the chairman for allot-
ting me this time, and commend my
colleagues, Mr. GOTTHEIMER and Mr.
MAST, for bringing this bill.
I rise in support of H.R. 1850 and ap-
plaud the House for taking action to
combat terrorist activity in the Middle
East.
This bill sanctions individuals and
foreign governments that knowingly
and materially assist Hamas and the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad or an affil-
iate or successor entity.
These groups have been designated as
foreign terrorist organizations by the
Department of State since 1997. There
is no disputing that they have and con-
tinue to sow instability and terror, in-
cluding by indiscriminately launching
countless rockets and mortars at
Israel, attacks from subterranean tun-
nels, and even the use of human
shields.
To achieve two states for two peoples
living side by side in peace and secu-
rity, we cannot let extremist voices
control the narrative and we must al-
ways confront these terrorist activi-
ties.
But let me be clear: This bill does not
target the vast majority of Palestinian
people who long for peace. Rather, it
solely goes after Hamas and PIJ and
those who assist their terrorist activi-
ties.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
purposes of closing.
Mr. Speaker, let me again thank our
ranking member, Mr. MCCAUL of Texas,
and our colleagues who worked so hard
on this good, bipartisan measure. I
want to thank Mr. MAST, for whom I
have enormous respect, and I thank
Mr. SMITH, who is always there fight-
ing the good fight and always con-
sistent in saying what he believes.
Let me just say, the actions of
Hamas, of the Palestinian Islamic
Jihad, are a constant danger to inno-
cent Israelis and innocent Palestinians.
They are also a terrible roadblock that
stand in the way of Israelis and Pal-
estinians ever finding peace.
These terrorist groups don’t want
peace. They know that their violent
tactics will never contribute to a
peaceful resolution. They want to see
Israel wiped off the map, plain and sim-
ple.
We need to crack down on them and
we need to crack down on those who
stand behind them in the shadows
quietly fueling their violence that they
carry out.
This bill would give us more tools to
cut off the flow of resources, and that
is why it is so important.
Mr. Speaker, I am happy to support
this bill and I urge all Members to do
the same. I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1850, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Lasky, one of its clerks, announced
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.053 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7203
July 23, 2019
that the Senate has passed without
amendment a bill of the House of the
following title:
H.R. 1327. An act to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund of 2001 through fiscal year 2092, and for
other purposes.
f
CALLING ON GOVERNMENT OF
CAMEROON AND ARMED GROUPS
TO RESPECT THE HUMAN
RIGHTS OF ALL CAMEROONIAN
CITIZENS
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 358) calling on the Gov-
ernment of Cameroon and armed
groups to respect the human rights of
all Cameroonian citizens, to end all vi-
olence, and to pursue a broad-based
dialogue without preconditions to re-
solve the conflict in the Northwest and
Southwest regions.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 358
Whereas many Anglophone Cameroonians
have long felt marginalized by official ac-
tions and policies of the Government of Cam-
eroon, including the abolishment of a federal
form of government, which was the constitu-
tional basis under which English-speaking
Southern Cameroons entered into the union,
and replacing it with a unitary state domi-
nated by the Francophone majority;
Whereas, beginning in late 2016, protests
organized by lawyers, teachers, and students
were violently repressed by the Government
of Cameroon, leading to numerous deaths
and imprisonments, including of journalists,
teachers, lawyers, and an Anglophone judge
on the country’s Supreme Court;
Whereas the conflict escalated in late Sep-
tember and early October 2017, when
Cameroonian security forces brutally
cracked down on peaceful Anglophone civil-
ian demonstrators, resulting in dozens of
deaths and leaving over 100 injured;
Whereas, in 2017, separatists launched a
campaign to pressure school officials in the
Northwest and Southwest Anglophone re-
gions to go on strike as part of a boycott
against the Government of Cameroon, and
reportedly began burning school buildings,
threatening education officials with violence
if they did not comply with a boycott, and
kidnapping for ransom children and teachers
who defied the boycott;
Whereas numerous human rights monitors
have documented armed separatists killing
traditional leaders and targeting civilians,
including women, children, and the elderly,
who are perceived to be supporting or work-
ing with the Government of Cameroon, and
reports indicate that armed separatists have
killed scores of security force personnel;
Whereas the security forces of the Govern-
ment of Cameroon have attacked medical fa-
cilities and health workers in the Northwest
and Southwest regions;
Whereas numerous credible reports from
human rights monitors, including the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human
Rights, have documented the excessive use of
force by government security forces against
Cameroonian civilians living in the
Anglophone regions, including the burning of
villages, the use of live ammunition against
protestors, arbitrary arrest and detention,
torture, sexual abuse, and killing of civil-
ians, including women, children, and the el-
derly;
Whereas the Department of State has ex-
pressed serious concern over the manner in
which the government has used force to un-
lawfully restrict the rights to free expression
and peaceful protest that are protected
under the Cameroonian Constitution and
international law;
Whereas the government has charged jour-
nalists, social activists, and members of po-
litical opposition parties with terrorism-re-
lated crimes and prosecuted them in mili-
tary tribunals;
Whereas the Government of Cameroon ar-
rested opposition leader Maurice Kamto and
roughly 150 members of the Cameroon Ren-
aissance Movement party following peaceful
protests on January 26, 2019, charging them
with crimes that could result in the death
penalty and handling their cases at the Mili-
tary Tribunal even though they are civilians;
Whereas the Government of Cameroon con-
tinued to place bans on Cameroon Renais-
sance Movement’s attempts to hold peaceful
protests, and civil society reported that se-
curity forces interfered with MRC registra-
tion processes in Yaoundé, Douala, and
Bafoussam in February 2019;
Whereas the Government of Cameroon has
repeatedly restricted freedoms of expression
by shutting down the internet, harassing and
detaining journalists, refusing licenses to
independent media, and intensifying polit-
ical attacks against the independent press;
Whereas the United Nations Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs stated
in April 2019 that more than 530,000 people
were internally displaced in areas affected
by the Anglophone conflict;
Whereas the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees reports that
more than 32,000 Cameroonian refugees have
registered in Nigeria;
Whereas the Department of State has ex-
pressly called on the Government of Cam-
eroon to respect the rights, including the
right to due process, of 47 Cameroonians
forcibly returned in January 2018 from Nige-
rian custody to Cameroonian authorities,
many of whom had reportedly submitted
asylum claims in Nigeria; and
Whereas ten of the 47 Cameroonians forc-
ibly returned from Nigeria now face charges
before a military court punishable by the
death penalty, while the other thirty-seven
reportedly remain in detention without
charge: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) strongly condemns the abuses com-
mitted in Cameroon’s Anglophone regions by
the Government of Cameroon security forces
and armed groups, including extrajudicial
killings and detentions, the use of force
against nonviolent civilians and protestors,
and violations of the freedoms of press, ex-
pression, and assembly;
(2) affirms that the United States con-
tinues to hold the Government of Cameroon
responsible for upholding the rights of all
citizens, regardless of political views or be-
liefs or the regions in which they reside, in
accordance with Cameroon’s international
obligations and Cameroon’s own Constitu-
tion;
(3) urges all parties, including political op-
position groups, to exercise restraint and to
ensure that protests remain peaceful;
(4) urges the Government of Cameroon to—
(A) initiate broad-based dialogue without
preconditions and make a credible, full faith
effort to work with religious and community
leaders in the Anglophone region to address
grievances and seek nonviolent solutions to
resolve conflict and constitutional reforms
that would protect minority concerns, such
as reconstituting a Federal system;
(B) follow through on the initiatives devel-
oped to address grievances, including the
Commission of Bilingualism and
Multiculturalism, the Ministry of Decen-
tralization, and the National Commission for
Disarmament, Demobilization, Reintegra-
tion, that currently offer no visible evidence
of having played a constructive role in re-
solving the crisis;
(C) respect the fundamental rights of all
Cameroonian citizens, including political ac-
tivists and journalists;
(D) ensure that any security operations are
conducted in accordance with international
human rights standards, including efforts to
ensure security forces only use force under
appropriate circumstances;
(E) transparently investigate all allega-
tions of human rights violations committed
in the Anglophone regions and take the nec-
essary measures to prevent arbitrary deten-
tion, torture, enforced disappearances,
deaths in custody, and inhumane prison con-
ditions;
(F) promptly charge or release all those de-
tained in the context of the Anglophone cri-
sis, including the Cameroonians forcibly re-
turned from Nigeria, and ensure that any fu-
ture detainees are treated with due process,
in line with Cameroon’s penal code;
(G) allow unfettered access to humani-
tarian and health care workers in accordance
with humanitarian principles of humanity,
neutrality, impartiality, and independence;
(H) release the leaders and members of the
Cameroon Renaissance Movement party who
were arrested following their peaceful pro-
tests, and ensure that this party, like others,
can participate unfettered in upcoming mu-
nicipal, parliamentary, and regional elec-
tions;
(I) release human rights defenders, civil so-
ciety activists, political prisoners, journal-
ists, trade unionists, teachers, and any other
citizens who have been arbitrarily arrested
and detained without trial or charge;
(J) ensure that detainees are treated fairly
and humanely, with proper judicial pro-
ceedings, including a registry of those de-
tained by the Cameroonian security forces,
and with full access to legal resources; and
(K) ensure that Cameroon’s antiterrorism
legislation is used only to prosecute offenses
that would be considered acts of terrorism
under international legal standards, and
cease to use this legislation to sanction ac-
tivities that are protected by national and
international guarantees of freedom of ex-
pression, peaceful assembly, and association
with others; and
(5) urges the separatist groups to—
(A) engage with Cameroonian government
officials, as well as civil society and reli-
gious leaders, in a broad-based dialogue
without preconditions to peacefully express
grievances and credibly engage in nonviolent
efforts to resolve the conflict;
(B) immediately stop committing human
rights abuses, including killings of civilians,
use of child soldiers, torture, kidnapping,
and extortion;
(C) end the school boycott immediately
and cease attacks on schools, teachers, and
education officials, and allow for the safe re-
turn of all students to class;
(D) end incitement to violence and hate
speech on the part of the diaspora; and
(E) immediately release all civilians ille-
gally detained or kidnapped in the
Anglophone Northwest and Southwest re-
gions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.026 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7204 July 23, 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 358.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
measure.
I want to start by thanking Ms. BASS
and Mr. SMITH for bringing forward
this resolution, which calls on the Gov-
ernment of Cameroon and armed
groups to respect the human rights of
all Cameroonian citizens, to end all vi-
olence, and to pursue a broad-based
dialogue without preconditions to re-
solve the conflict in the anglophone re-
gions of Cameroon.
Since October 2017, the region has
been mired in conflict, with both the
Government of Cameroon and armed
separatists fighting one another and
perpetrating human rights abuses.
While armed actors refuse to pursue
a negotiated settlement to the conflict,
innocent civilians continue to suffer.
According to UNICEF, more than 80
percent of the schools in the
anglophone regions of Cameroon re-
main closed, putting at risk the future
prospects of children who are being de-
nied access to education. In addition,
1.3 million people, including approxi-
mately 650,000 children, are in need of
humanitarian assistance.
This resolution urges the Govern-
ment of Cameroon to respect the fun-
damental rights of all Cameroonian
citizens and follow through on initia-
tives developed to address grievances
in the anglophone region. It also urges
separatist groups to engage with
Cameroonian government officials,
civil society, and religious leaders to
express grievances and engage in ef-
forts to resolve the conflict and to stop
committing human rights abuses and
inciting violence.
For several months, the Swiss Gov-
ernment has been attempting to medi-
ate a peaceful resolution to this crisis,
and I am pleased this resolution dem-
onstrates Congress’ strong support for
a negotiated settlement.
Mr. Speaker, I am glad to support
this resolution, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H. Res. 358, calling on the Govern-
ment of Cameroon and armed groups to
respect fundamental human rights and
pursue dialogue to resolve the crisis in
the anglophone region of that country.
Mr. Speaker, I especially want to
thank Congresswoman KAREN BASS,
the chairwoman of the Africa, Global
Health, Global Human Rights, and
International Organizations Sub-
committee, of which I serve as the
ranking member, for this resolution. It
is a bipartisan resolution, and, again, I
thank her for her leadership.
Mr. Speaker, I would note that in the
last Congress, I chaired a hearing on
this Cameroon crisis as it was fes-
tering, seeking a way forward for
peace. Sadly, that effort and all efforts
made by the international community
have been elusive thus far.
The conflict in Cameroon has its
roots in long-simmering tensions be-
tween that country’s francophone ma-
jority and the anglophone minority,
concentrated in the northwest and
southwest regions.
In 2016, protests by anglophone
teachers and lawyers over
marginalization and the lack of gov-
ernment services were met with a
heavy-handed response. The govern-
ment failed to genuinely address those
legitimate grievances, which further
inflamed tensions.
Brutal fighting between government
security forces and local armed groups
who called for separatism continues.
Today, there are over 500,000 dis-
placed persons in the anglophone re-
gion.
Mr. Speaker, entire communities
have been burned to the ground. Hu-
manitarian convoys struggle to reach
local populations or are even blocked
and attacked by armed groups. Over
half of the health facilities and hos-
pitals have been damaged and forced to
close. Children have been out of school
for over 2 years.
According to the U.S. Department of
State’s Human Rights Report on Cam-
eroon from 2018: ‘‘Government security
forces were widely believed to be re-
sponsible for disappearances of sus-
pected anglophone separatists, with re-
ports of bodies dumped far from the
site of the killings to make identifica-
tion difficult.’’
This, in turn, is fueling resentment
and separatist violence.
This resolution reiterates the U.S.
position that all parties must imme-
diately cease fighting and come to the
negotiating table without pre-
conditions. The Swiss-led mediation
process is a hopeful step in that direc-
tion, which deserves support.
I would also note the critical role
that has been played by the Catholic
church, in particular Cardinal Tumi, in
trying to reach common ground, and
the need to support such efforts.
Hopefully, by weighing in, Congress
can help promote the cause of peace
and justice in the Republic of Cam-
eroon.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this resolution, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I have no
other speakers, and I yield myself the
balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I again want to thank
Ms. BASS and Mr. SMITH for their hard
work. Again, as I mentioned before,
Mr. SMITH is always working very, very
hard to be on the side of justice.
For too long, the people in Cam-
eroon’s anglophone region have been
marginalized by the Cameroonian Gov-
ernment, and since 2017, conflict be-
tween the government and separatists
have brought chaos and fear to those
living in the region.
This resolution supports a negotiated
settlement to the conflict that respects
the basic human rights of its citizens,
so Cameroon can become a country
that is more peaceful and stable.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
join me in supporting this bipartisan
piece of legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 358.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PROVIDING BENEFITS INFORMA-
TION IN SPANISH AND TAGALOG
FOR VETERANS AND FAMILIES
ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2943) to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to make all fact
sheets of the Department of Veterans
Affairs in English and Spanish, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2943
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Providing Bene-
fits Information in Spanish and Tagalog for
Veterans and Families Act’’.
SEC. 2. FACT SHEETS.
(a) LANGUAGES.—The Secretary of Veterans
Affairs shall make versions of all fact sheets of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in English,
Spanish, and Tagalog.
(b) WEBSITE.—The Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs shall establish and maintain a publicly
available website of the Department of Veterans
Affairs that contains links to all fact sheets of
the Veterans Benefits Administration, Veterans
Health Administration, and of the National
Cemetery Administration. The website shall be
accessible by a clearly labelled hyperlink on the
homepage of the Department.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs shall submit a report to Con-
gress regarding fact sheets described in sub-
section (a) and details of the Language Access
Plan of the Department of Veteran Affairs. The
report shall include the following:
(1) What the Secretary determines constitutes
a fact sheet of the Department for purposes of
this Act.
(2) How such fact sheets are utilized and dis-
tributed other than on and through the website
of the Department.
(3) How such Language Access Plan is com-
municated to veterans, family members of vet-
erans, and caregivers.
(4) The roles and responsibilities of patient
advocates in the coordination of care for vet-
erans with limited English proficiency, family
members of such veterans, and caregivers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.057 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7205
July 23, 2019
(5) Other demographic information that the
Secretary determines appropriate regarding vet-
erans with limited English proficiency.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. BILIRAKIS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
2943, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
b 1700
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of Mr. CISNEROS’ bill, H.R. 2943, as
amended, which would direct the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to provide
all VA fact sheets in English, Spanish,
and Tagalog.
One of my chief priorities as chair of
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs is
to remove barriers that stand between
veterans and their benefits. A language
barrier should not prevent veterans
from accessing the benefits they
earned, and the burden should not be
placed on veterans to request and wait
for the VA to provide a translator.
Mandating that fact sheets be pro-
vided in Spanish and Tagalog will
break down a significant barrier that
stands in between Latinx and Filipino
veterans and their VA benefits.
Mr. CISNEROS’ bill, H.R. 2943, as
amended, mandates that all fact sheets
be available in English, Spanish, and
Tagalog. Our veterans answered the
call to serve from places around the
world, including the Philippines and
Puerto Rico, where English is not the
predominant language. There are com-
munities across the U.S., including in
my district, where Spanish is com-
monly spoken and understood. This fix
is easy; it does not come at an in-
creased cost; and it is the right thing
to do.
The Department of Veterans Affairs
produces fact sheets that explain many
VA programs and benefits. The VA fact
sheets provide key facts, such as eligi-
bility criteria, documents needed to
help support claims, and links to ap-
propriate application forms. These fact
sheets explain the process for getting a
VA-guaranteed home loan, applying for
disability compensation, using GI Bill
benefits, and obtaining burial benefits
for veterans and their surviving family
members.
Brochures and fact sheets explain VA
healthcare benefits to veterans and
caregivers. These fact sheets also ad-
vise veterans on the supporting docu-
mentation they need to help them
apply for benefits so they are correctly
identified as eligible or their claims
are successfully adjudicated.
During the codel I led to Puerto Rico
this past weekend, I met with veterans
who told me they are not receiving in-
formation on VA programs, and when
they do receive information, it is in
English, not Spanish. The one veteran
who received a brochure on the MIS-
SION Act in Spanish said it was incom-
plete compared to the English mate-
rials.
This disparity should not exist. Vet-
erans, regardless of the language they
speak or where they live, should be
able to understand how to access their
benefits easily.
I ask my colleagues to help our vet-
erans who have done so much to serve
our country and join me in supporting
H.R. 2943, as amended.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I commend the
chairman for bringing these bills for-
ward in committee. I also commend
the Speaker of the House for putting
these bills on the agenda today, as well
as the majority leader and the minor-
ity leader. These are very important
bills.
I rise today to support H.R. 2943, as
amended.
This bill, which is sponsored by Rep-
resentative GIL CISNEROS of California,
would require the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs to make all fact sheets
available in English, Spanish, and Ta-
galog.
During the markup of this bill, the
committee adopted an amendment that
Ranking Member ROE offered to fur-
ther require the VA to post all fact
sheets on a clearly identifiable, easily
accessible location on the VA’s website
and require the VA to report to Con-
gress on the Department’s language-ac-
cess plan to assist veterans with lim-
ited English proficiency.
This would ensure that the entirety
of our veteran population, as well as
their families and caregivers, are able
to access and comprehend important
information about VA benefits easily.
It would also ensure that any barriers
to care that might exist for veterans
with limited English skills, Madam
Speaker, are identified and broken
down.
I am grateful to Representative
CISNEROS for introducing this bill, and
I am proud to support it today.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this
bill, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. CISNEROS), my good
friend and a member of the Veterans’
Affairs Committee who is also a vet-
eran himself, the author of this legisla-
tion.
Mr. CISNEROS. Madam Speaker, I
thank Chairman TAKANO for his leader-
ship on this issue and for working with
me to ensure this bill passed out of
committee on a bipartisan basis. I also
thank the gentleman from Florida for
his support on this bill.
Madam Speaker, it is an honor to
rise today to ask my colleagues for
their support on my bill, H.R. 2943, the
Providing Benefits Information in
Spanish and Tagalog for Veterans and
Families Act.
So many veterans have come from
Puerto Rico, as well as the Philippines.
The VA actually does have a hospital
both in Puerto Rico and in the Phil-
ippines. This legislation would direct
the VA Secretary to make all Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs fact sheets
available in English, Spanish, and Ta-
galog.
According to the U.S. Census, as of
July 1, 2017, the U.S. Hispanic popu-
lation is approximately 59 million peo-
ple, making up 18 percent of the Na-
tion’s total population, making people
of Hispanic origin the Nation’s largest
ethnic or racial minority. The U.S.
Census has also reported that Filipino
Americans make up the third-largest
AAPI subgroup, with an estimated 4
million people living in the United
States.
With those changing demographics
trending toward a more racially and
ethnically diverse majority, the vet-
eran population is diversifying at simi-
lar rates. The share of veterans who
are Hispanic is expected to nearly dou-
ble.
During my time in service, many of
my proud brothers and sisters in arms
were of Filipino descent.
With Spanish and Tagalog as the
first language of an increasing number
of veterans and their families, and our
significant strategic national security
footprint in Puerto Rico and the Phil-
ippines, it is important that fact sheets
offered by the VA are made available
to everyone.
This bill would serve as an initial
step in ensuring veterans and their
families with limited English pro-
ficiency have full access and informa-
tion on VA services, without burden or
barriers.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in support of my bill
to ensure we do not overlook veterans
and their families who may need these
important fact sheets.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I
am prepared to close, and I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, this is a very impor-
tant bill. We were just overseas and
met with the troops, and we had quite
a few servicemembers from Puerto
Rico. I would like to say that most of
them spoke perfect English, but they
may not. They should have access to
all the information in their first lan-
guage.
Madam Speaker, I urge the passage
of this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I am
also prepared to close, and I yield my-
self the balance of my time to render
my final comments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:06 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.021 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7206 July 23, 2019
Our veterans and their survivors de-
serve the best care possible. The VA
benefits application process can be con-
fusing. Congress has taken action to
reduce confusion and ease the applica-
tion process.
I remember when, only a few years
ago, initial claims were taking more
than a year. Today, initial disability
claims are being completed in less than
160 days. This is, in part, due to
streamlining the application process
and providing more information to vet-
erans.
As I learned during the codel to Puer-
to Rico, in emergencies like Hurricane
Maria, veterans need to know how the
VA can help them prepare for the next
storm. They need to know that they
can get additional supplies of medica-
tion. Veterans need to know where to
go in an emergency when communica-
tions are disrupted. They also need to
know how to apply for assistance and
emergency benefits after a disaster
like Hurricane Maria because these dis-
asters will happen again.
The VA fact sheet on natural disas-
ters, which tells veterans and their
families which website to go to and
where to call when their benefits are
interrupted due to natural disasters, is
only available in English. Yet, both the
Philippines and Puerto Rico experience
natural disasters like hurricanes, ty-
phoons, and earthquakes.
Mandating that VA fact sheets are
made available in more than one lan-
guage is yet another example of ways
we can eliminate barriers for our vet-
erans, streamline the application proc-
ess, and help them get to the right re-
sources when there is an emergency.
Providing fact sheets in Tagalog and
Spanish could even save lives.
Madam Speaker, I wholeheartedly
support H.R. 2943, as amended, and,
again, I ask my colleagues to join me
in support of this bill.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida). The question is on the
motion offered by the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 2943, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to direct the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to make all
fact sheets of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs in English, Spanish, and
Tagalog.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
HELPING EXPAND AND LAUNCH
TRANSITIONAL HEALTH FOR
WOMEN VETERANS ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2942) to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to carry out the
Women’s Health Transition Training
pilot program through at least fiscal
year 2020, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2942
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Helping Expand
and Launch Transitional Health for Women
Veterans Act’’ or ‘‘HEALTH Act’’.
SEC. 2. ENCOURAGEMENT OF PARTICIPATION IN
WOMEN’S HEALTH TRANSITION
TRAINING PILOT PROGRAM.
(a) DURATION.—The Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs shall carry out the Women’s Health Tran-
sition Training pilot program (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘pilot program’’) until at least
September 30, 2020.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than September 30,
2020, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs shall jointly submit to the
appropriate congressional committees a report
on the pilot program that includes the fol-
lowing:
(1) For the period since the commencement of
the pilot program—
(A) the number of women members by military
department (with respect to Department of the
Navy, separately for the Navy and Marine
Corps) who participated in the pilot program;
(B) the number of courses held under the pilot
program; and
(C) the locations at which such courses were
held, and the number of seats available and the
number of participants at each such location.
(2) With respect to the number of members
who participated in the pilot program as speci-
fied under paragraph (1)—
(A) the number who enrolled in the health
care system established under section 1705(a) of
title 38, United States Code; and
(B) the number who attended at least one
health care appointment at a medical facility of
the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(3) Data relating to—
(A) satisfaction with courses held under the
pilot program;
(B) improved awareness of health care serv-
ices administered by the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs; and
(C) any other available statistics regarding
the pilot program.
(4) A discussion of regulatory, legal, or re-
source barriers to—
(A) making the pilot program permanent to
enable access by a greater number of women
members at locations throughout the United
States;
(B) offering the pilot program online for
women members who are unable to attend
courses held under the pilot program in person;
and
(C) the feasibility of automatically enrolling
pilot program participants in the health care
system established under section 1705(a) of title
38, United States Code.
(c) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate congressional committees’’ means the
Committees on Veterans’ Affairs and the Com-
mittees on Armed Services of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. BILIRAKIS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
2942, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, women veterans are
the fastest growing demographic with-
in the veteran population yet underuti-
lize VA healthcare resources. This is
primarily due to misperceptions about
eligibility and available resources.
Many women leaving the military
may not realize that they are eligible
to use VA services, nor that VA offers
extensive gender-specific care, such as
mammography; prenatal, maternity,
and infertility care; and mental
healthcare that addresses complex
trauma, including military sexual
trauma, otherwise known as MST, and
combat-related post-traumatic stress
disorder, or PTSD.
The VA and U.S. Air Force Women’s
Health Transition Training pilot pro-
gram works to address issues com-
monly experienced by women veterans
when accessing VA care. This success-
ful improvement to the Transition As-
sistance Program, or the TAP, is joint-
ly run by the USAF and VA.
Transitioning women servicemembers
can attend an additional day of TAP to
learn about women’s healthcare, coun-
seling, and social services available at
the VA to ensure that they receive a
warm handoff between the Department
of Defense and the Veterans Adminis-
tration.
Mr. CISNEROS’ bill would expand the
Women’s Health Transition Training
pilot program to more locations and
authorizes the program through the
end of fiscal year 2020.
This great legislation has my full
support.
Madam Speaker, although women are
the fastest growing cohort of veterans,
women veterans are less likely to seek
care and services at VA. This bill aims
to address that and make the VA more
accessible and responsive to women
veterans.
Madam Speaker, this pilot program
educates transitioning servicewomen
about VA’s healthcare services. The
data collected from this pilot program
can be applied to the Transition Assist-
ance Program to better meet the needs
of all transitioning servicemembers.
Madam Speaker, I thank Mr.
CISNEROS for his hard work on this leg-
islation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 2942, as amended, the Help-
ing Expand and Launch Transitional
Health, or HEALTH, for Women Vet-
erans Act.
I thank and congratulate Representa-
tive CISNEROS on this very good bill,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.062 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7207
July 23, 2019
and I thank the chairman and the
ranking member for bringing this bill
forward.
b 1715
Women are joining the armed serv-
ices in record numbers, Madam Speak-
er, and are an important part of the
military and veteran communities. In
recognition of the brave services these
women are providing our country, it is
incumbent on us to ensure that they
are aware of the many benefits afforded
to them.
Unfortunately, far too many women
veterans are unaware of the healthcare
services available for women through
the Department of Veterans Affairs
Veterans Health Administration. That
is why VA and the Air Force partnered
together to create a Women’s Health
Transition Training pilot program.
The pilot program provides service-
women who are on the verge of leaving
the military with information about
the care they may be eligible to receive
from VA, how to enroll in VA, and how
to successfully transition to civilian
life. In short, it empowers women to
make informed decisions about their
healthcare by educating them about
the benefits available.
As of June 5, there have been 50 pilot
sessions, Madam Speaker, and the
women who have attended those ses-
sions have reported a 98 percent satis-
faction rate.
The Helping Expand and Launch
Transitional Health for Women Vet-
erans Act would extend the Women’s
Health Transition Training pilot pro-
gram through fiscal year 2020 to ensure
that women leaving the military con-
tinue to benefit from it.
This bill is sponsored, again, by Rep-
resentative Gil Cisneros from Cali-
fornia, and I thank the gentleman for
his work. It is a very, very important
bill.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this
bill, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. CISNEROS), a veteran
himself, the author of this legislation,
and a member of the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee.
Mr. CISNEROS. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman for yielding, and I
again want to thank the gentleman
from Florida for his support on this bill
as well.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank
Chairman TAKANO and Ranking Mem-
ber ROE of the House Veterans’ Affairs
Committee for working with me to en-
sure my bill passed out of committee
on a bipartisan basis.
Today, I rise to ask my colleagues for
their support on my bill, H.R. 2942, the
Helping Expand and Launch Transi-
tional Health for Women Veterans Act,
introduced with my colleague and fel-
low veteran, Congresswoman CHRISSY
HOULAHAN.
As a Navy veteran, one of my top pri-
orities is ensuring that active service-
members transitioning into the civil-
ian world are connected to the VA sys-
tem and provided the best education
and tools needed to succeed.
Despite being the fastest growing co-
hort in our military community, many
servicewomen face unique challenges
with their VA benefits. Studies have
shown that women veterans, on aver-
age, connect with the VA nearly 3
years after military service, which can
result in higher rates of physical and
mental health issues. In a male-domi-
nated VA system, it is not surprising
why women veterans often report that
they are uncomfortable seeking
women-specific care.
My bill would require the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to extend an
ongoing initiative with the Air Force
and the Transition Assistance Pro-
gram, which educates transitioning
servicewomen about women’s
healthcare at the VA.
Specifically, the bill would mandate
an extension of the program across all
military service branches and require a
report on the feasibility of making it
permanent. Participants of this pilot
program report an increased likelihood
to use VA healthcare and have shown
higher rates of confidence with the VA.
It is time our women servicemembers
and veterans receive the care they
need, and this bill will do just that. I
urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
port of my bill to ensure that, when
servicewomen transition to civilian
life, they are provided with the infor-
mation that will help them navigate
their VA benefits in a commonsense
way.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I
have no other speakers, and I am pre-
pared to close.
I want to say that this is an out-
standing bill. I am glad we worked on
this bill because we have a lot of
women veterans who need this, and I
want to make it permanent. So, again,
let’s pass this bill as soon as possible
and get it to the Senate.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I am
also prepared to close.
I will say in my final remarks that I
urge all of my colleagues to support
our women veterans by joining me in
passing this very important legisla-
tion, H.R. 2942, as amended, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2942, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
RYAN KULES SPECIALLY ADAPT-
IVE HOUSING IMPROVEMENT
ACT OF 2019
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 3504) to amend title 38,
United States Code, to provide for im-
provements to the specially adapted
housing program and educational as-
sistance programs of the Department
of Veterans Affairs, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3504
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Ryan Kules
Specially Adaptive Housing Improvement
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PRIORITY IN AWARD OF SPECIALLY
ADAPTED HOUSING GRANTS TO SE-
RIOUSLY ILL VETERANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2101 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(d) PRIORITY FOR SERIOUSLY ILL VET-
ERANS.—(1) In providing assistance under
this section, the Secretary shall give pri-
ority to seriously ill veterans.
‘‘(2) In this section, the term ‘seriously ill
veteran’ shall have the meaning given such
term by the Secretary.’’.
(b) DEFINITION OF SERIOUSLY ILL VET-
ERAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—By not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall—
(A) determine the meaning of the term ‘‘se-
riously ill veteran’’ for purposes of sub-
section (d) of section 2101 of title 38, United
States Code, as added by subsection (a); and
(B) submit to the Committees on Veterans’
Affairs of the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives the meaning of such term as so
determined.
(2) APPLICABILITY.—The definition of ‘‘seri-
ously ill veteran’’ as determined under para-
graph (1) shall apply for purposes of such
subsection (d) beginning on the date that is
30 days after the date on which the Secretary
submits to the Committees on Veterans’ Af-
fairs of the Senate and House of Representa-
tives the definition of such term as so deter-
mined.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
October 1, 2020, and apply with respect to as-
sistance provided on or after that date.
SEC. 3. INCREASE IN AMOUNTS OF ASSISTANCE
PROVIDED.
(a) INCREASE OF NUMBER OF GRANTS PER
VETERAN.—Section 2102(d)(3) of such title is
amended by striking ‘‘three’’ and inserting
‘‘six’’.
(b) INCREASE IN NUMBER OF APPLICATIONS
AUTHORIZED TO BE APPROVED.—Section
2101(a)(4) of such title is amended by striking
‘‘30 applications’’ and inserting ‘‘120 applica-
tions’’.
(c) INCREASE IN MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF AS-
SISTANCE FOR ADAPTATION TO VETERAN’S RES-
IDENCE.—Section 2102(b)(2) of such title is
amended by striking ‘‘$12,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$19,733’’.
(d) INCREASE IN AGGREGATE AMOUNT OF AS-
SISTANCE FOR ACQUISITION OF HOUSING WITH
SPECIAL FEATURES.—Section 2102(d)(1) of
such title is amended by striking ‘‘$63,780’’
and inserting ‘‘$98,492’’.
(e) INCREASE IN AGGREGATE AMOUNT OF AS-
SISTANCE FOR ADAPTATIONS TO VETERANS’
RESIDENCES.—Section 2102(d)(2) of such title
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.064 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7208 July 23, 2019
is amended by striking ‘‘$12,756’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘$19,733’’.
(f) EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICATION.—The
amendments made by this section shall take
effect on October 1, 2020. The amendments
made by subsections (c) and (d) shall apply
with respect to individuals who have not re-
ceived the maximum amount of assistance
under section 2101 of title 38, United States
Code, before such date.
SEC. 4. PROVISION OF ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS OF
SPECIALLY ADAPTED HOUSING AS-
SISTANCE FOR CERTAIN VETERANS.
Section 2102 of such title is amended by
adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(f)(1) Notwithstanding the aggregate
amounts specified in subsection (d), a cov-
ered veteran may apply for and receive an
additional amount of assistance under sub-
section (a) or (b) of section 2101 of this title
in an amount that does not exceed half of
the amount specified in subsection (d).
‘‘(2) In this subsection, a covered veteran is
a veteran who—
‘‘(A) is described in section 2101(a)(2) of
this title;
‘‘(B) first receives assistance under this
chapter on or after October 1, 2020;
‘‘(C) as of the date of the veteran’s applica-
tion for assistance under paragraph (1), most
recently received assistance under this chap-
ter more than ten years before such date;
and
‘‘(D) lives in a home that the Secretary de-
termines does not have adaptations that are
reasonably necessary because of the vet-
eran’s disability.’’.
SEC. 5. IMPROVEMENT TO WORK-STUDY ALLOW-
ANCE PROGRAM.
(a) PAYMENT OF ALLOWANCE.—Subsection
(a) of section 3485 of title 38, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Individ-
uals’’ and inserting ‘‘In accordance with
paragraph (4), individuals’’;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), and
(6) as paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), respec-
tively; and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(4)(A) The Secretary shall carry out this
section by providing to educational institu-
tions an annual amount for the institution
to use in paying work-study allowance under
paragraph (1) to individuals enrolled at the
institution.
‘‘(B) With respect to an educational insti-
tution that participated in the work-study
program under this section during the aca-
demic year beginning August 1, 2018, the Sec-
retary shall determine the annual amount to
provide to the educational institution under
subparagraph (A) as follows:
‘‘(i) For the academic year beginning Au-
gust 1, 2020, the amount shall be the total
amount the Secretary paid under this sec-
tion to individuals enrolled at such edu-
cational institution during the academic
year beginning August 1, 2018.
‘‘(ii) Except as provided by subparagraph
(D)(ii), for each academic year beginning on
or after August 1, 2021, the amount shall be
the total amount the educational institution
paid under this section for work-study allow-
ance to individuals enrolled at such edu-
cational institution during the previous aca-
demic year in which individuals participated
in the work-study program.
‘‘(C) With respect to an educational insti-
tution that did not participate in the work-
study program under this section during the
academic year beginning August 1, 2018, the
Secretary shall determine the annual
amount to provide to the educational insti-
tution under subparagraph (A) as follows:
‘‘(i) For the first academic year in which
the educational institution participates in
the work-study program beginning on or
after August 1, 2020, the amount shall be an
amount the Secretary determines appro-
priate based on amounts provided to similar
educational institutions pursuant to sub-
paragraph (B).
‘‘(ii) Except as provided by subparagraph
(D)(ii), for each academic year occurring
after the academic year specified in clause
(i), the amount shall be the total amount the
educational institution paid under this sec-
tion for work-study allowance to individuals
enrolled at such educational institution dur-
ing the previous academic year in which in-
dividuals enrolled at such educational insti-
tution participated in the work-study pro-
gram.
‘‘(D)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), if
the Secretary provides an annual amount to
an educational institution under subpara-
graph (B) or (C) that is more than the total
amount the educational institution pays to
individuals under paragraph (1), the edu-
cational institution shall return to the Sec-
retary the unpaid amount and the Secretary
shall transfer such amount into the general
fund of the Treasury.
‘‘(ii) If the annual amount provided to an
educational institution under subparagraph
(B) or (C) is more, but less than 25 percent
more, than the total amount the educational
institution pays to individuals under para-
graph (1), and the educational institution
plans to participate in the work-study pro-
gram under this section during the subse-
quent academic year, the educational insti-
tution may retain the amount of the over-
payment if the educational institution noti-
fies the Secretary of the amount of the over-
payment and the intention of the edu-
cational institution to retain such amount.
Any amount retained by an educational in-
stitution under this clause may only be used
by the educational institution to provide
work-study allowance to individuals enrolled
at the educational institution.
‘‘(iii) At any time an educational institu-
tion may request the Secretary to increase
the annual amount that the Secretary pro-
vides the educational institution under sub-
paragraph (B) or (C).
‘‘(E) Pursuant to section 3690(c), section
3693, and other provisions of chapter 36 of
this title, the Secretary shall ensure that
educational institutions carry out the work-
study allowance program in compliance with
this section.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subsection
(e)(1) of such section is amended by striking
‘‘subsection (a)(4)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection
(a)(5)’’.
(c) APPLICATION.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply with respect to a
quarter, semester, or term, as applicable,
commencing on or after August 1, 2020.
SEC. 6. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR FRY
SCHOLARSHIP TO CHILDREN AND
SPOUSES OF CERTAIN DECEASED
MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (b) of section
3311 of title 38, United States Code, is amend-
ed—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (10) as para-
graph (12); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (9) the fol-
lowing new paragraphs (10) and (11):
‘‘(10) An individual who is the child or
spouse of a person who, on or after Sep-
tember 11, 2001, dies in line of duty while
serving on duty other than active duty as a
member of the Armed Forces.
‘‘(11) An individual who is the child or
spouse of a member of the Selected Reserve
who dies on or after September 11, 2001—
‘‘(A) from a service-connected disability;
and
‘‘(B) not later than four years after the
date of the last discharge or release of that
member from active duty or active duty for
training.’’.
(b) APPLICABILITY DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) apply with respect to
a quarter, semester, or term, as applicable,
commencing on or after August 1, 2020.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Subsection (f) of such section is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘paragraph (9)’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘paragraphs (9), (10),
and (11)’’.
(2) Section 3322 of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (e), by striking both ‘‘sec-
tions 3311(b)(9) and 3319’’ and inserting ‘‘sec-
tion 3319 and paragraph (9), (10), or (11) of
section 3311 of this title’’;
(B) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘section
3311(b)(9)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (9), (10),
or (11) of section 3311 of this title’’; and
(C) in subsection (h)(2), by striking ‘‘either
section 3311(b)(9) or chapter 35’’ and inserting
‘‘either chapter 35 or paragraph (9), (10), or
(11) of section 3311’’.
SEC. 7. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN PREPARATORY
COURSES AS PROGRAMS OF EDU-
CATION FOR PURPOSES OF DEPART-
MENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS EDU-
CATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 33 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 3315A the following new sec-
tion:
‘‘§ 3315B. Preparatory courses for licensure,
certification, or national tests
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—An individual entitled
to educational assistance under this chapter
shall also be entitled to payment for a pre-
paratory course for a licensing or certifi-
cation test that is required or used to enter
into, maintain, or advance in employment in
a predetermined and identified vocation or
profession.
‘‘(b) AMOUNT.—The amount of educational
assistance payable under this chapter for a
course described in subsection (a) is the less-
er of—
‘‘(1) the fee charged for the course; or
‘‘(2) the amount of entitlement available to
the individual under this chapter at the time
of payment for the course under this section.
‘‘(c) CHARGE AGAINST ENTITLEMENT.—The
number of months of entitlement charged an
individual under this chapter for a course de-
scribed in subsection (a) shall be pro-rated
based on the actual amount of the fee
charged for the course relative to the rate
for 1 month payable—
‘‘(1) for the academic year beginning on
August 1, 2020, $1,460; or
‘‘(2) for an academic year beginning on any
subsequent August 1, the amount for the pre-
vious academic year beginning on August 1
under this subsection, as increased by the
percentage increase equal to the most recent
percentage increase determined under sec-
tion 3015(h).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such chapter is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to section 3315A the following new item:
‘‘3315B. Preparatory courses for licensure,
certification, or national
tests.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
3532(g) of title 38, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or a pre-
paratory course described in section 3315B(a)
of this title’’ after ‘‘or national test pro-
viding an opportunity for course credit at in-
stitutions of higher learning described in
section 3501(a)(5) of this title’’; and
(2) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by inserting
‘‘or preparatory course’’ after ‘‘test’’ every-
where it appears.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall apply with re-
spect to months beginning after the date of
the enactment of this Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.024 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7209
July 23, 2019
SEC. 8. ADJUSTMENT OF LOAN FEES.
Section 3729(b)(2) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by striking the loan fee
table and inserting the following:
‘‘Type of loan
Active duty
veteran
Reservist
Other
obligor
(A)(i) Initial loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling
with 0-down, or any other initial loan described in section 3710(a) other than with
5-down or 10-down (closed on or after October 1, 2004, and before January 1, 2020)
2.15 2.40 NA
(A)(ii) Initial loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling
with 0-down, or any other initial loan described in section 3710(a) other than with
5-down or 10-down (closed on or after January 1, 2020, and before October 1, 2027)
2.30 2.30 NA
(A)(iii) Initial loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling
with 0-down, or any other initial loan described in section 3710(a) other than with
5-down or 10-down (closed on or after October 1, 2027, and before October 1, 2029)
2.15 2.15 NA
(A)(iv) Initial loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling
with 0-down, or any other initial loan described in section 3710(a) other than with
5-down or 10-down (closed on or after October 1, 2029)
1.40 1.40 NA
(B)(i) Subsequent loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwell-
ing with 0-down, or any other subsequent loan described in section 3710(a) (closed
on or after October 1, 2004, and before January 1, 2020)
3.30 3.30 NA
(B)(ii) Subsequent loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwell-
ing with 0-down, or any other subsequent loan described in section 3710(a) (closed
on or after January 1, 2020, and before October 1, 2027)
3.60 3.60 NA
(B)(iii) Subsequent loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a
dwelling with 0-down, or any other subsequent loan described in section 3710(a)
(closed on or after October 1, 2027, and before October 1, 2029)
3.30 3.30 NA
(B)(iv) Subsequent loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a
dwelling with 0-down, or any other subsequent loan described in section 3710(a)
(closed on or after October 1, 2029)
1.25 1.25 NA
(C)(i) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with 5-
down (closed before January 1, 2020)
1.50 1.75 NA
(C)(ii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with 5-
down (closed on or after January 1, 2020, and before October 1, 2027)
1.65 1.65 NA
(C)(iii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with 5-
down (closed on or after October 1, 2027, and before October 1, 2029)
1.50 1.50 NA
(C)(iv) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with 5-
down (closed on or after October 1, 2029)
0.75 0.75 NA
(D)(i) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with 10-
down (closed before January 1, 2020)
1.25 1.50 NA
(D)(ii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with 10-
down (closed on or after January 1, 2020, and before October 1, 2027)
1.40 1.40 NA
(D)(iii) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with
10-down (closed on or after October 1, 2027, and before October 1, 2029)
1.25 1.25 NA
(D)(iv) Loan described in section 3710(a) to purchase or construct a dwelling with 10-
down (closed on or after October 1, 2029)
0.50 0.50 NA
(E) Interest rate reduction refinancing loan 0.50 0.50 NA
(F) Direct loan under section 3711 1.00 1.00 NA
(G) Manufactured home loan under section 3712 (other than an interest rate reduc-
tion refinancing loan)
1.00 1.00 NA
(H) Loan to Native American veteran under section 3762 (other than an interest
rate reduction refinancing loan)
1.25 1.25 NA
(I) Loan assumption under section 3714 0.50 0.50 0.50
(J) Loan under section 3733(a) 2.25 2.25 2.25’’.
SEC. 9. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS TO ASSIST BLIND VET-
ERANS WHO HAVE NOT LOST USE OF
A LEG IN ACQUIRING SPECIALLY
ADAPTED HOUSING.
Section 2101 of title 38, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(2)(B)(ii)—
(A) in the matter preceding subclause (I),
by striking ‘‘due to—’’ and inserting ‘‘due to
blindness in both eyes, having central visual
acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye with
the use of a standard correcting lens. For the
purposes of this clause, an eye with a limita-
tion in the fields of vision such that the
widest diameter of the visual field subtends
an angle no greater than 20 degrees shall be
considered as having a central visual acuity
of 20/200 or less.’’; and
(B) by striking subclauses (I) and (II); and
(2) in subsection (b)(2)—
(A) by striking subparagraph (A); and
(B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and
(C) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respec-
tively.
SEC. 10. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. BILIRAKIS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
3504, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, the Veterans’ Af-
fairs Committee is proud to bring to
the floor H.R. 3504, as amended, the
Ryan Kules Specially Adaptive Hous-
ing Improvement Act of 2019, which is
named after Army veteran Ryan Kules.
Madam Speaker, we are honored to
have Ryan with us today.
Ryan’s vehicle was struck by an ex-
plosive device in 2005, which took the
lives of Sergeant Jerry Mills and Ser-
geant Donald Hasse, and took Ryan’s
right arm and left leg.
He was able to use the VA’s Specially
Adapted Housing program to modify
his house to suit his needs and the
needs of his wife and children. How-
ever, the program simply didn’t pro-
vide enough assistance, leaving Ryan
and his family owing more than $90,000
out of pocket for improvements.
The VA’s Specially Adapted Housing
program offers grants to servicemem-
bers and veterans with certain severe
service-connected disabilities. The
grants assist with building, remod-
eling, or purchasing an adapted home.
However, portions of the program don’t
reflect the needs of today’s veterans,
which is why I am proud of our work on
the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee
to make the SAH program work for to-
day’s veterans.
H.R. 3504, as amended, does this by
prioritizing grants for seriously ill vet-
erans, doubling the cap on the total
number of grants issued to a veteran,
increasing the total applications au-
thorized, and increasing the maximum
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:26 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.024 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7210 July 23, 2019
benefit for up to 50 percent of the cost
of a specially adapted home.
In addition, this legislation doesn’t
stop there. H.R. 3504, as amended, in-
cludes legislation from Representative
LURIA regarding expanding the SAH
program to cover blind veterans.
I was shocked to learn that the exist-
ing SAH program only covers blind vet-
erans who also have lost a limb. H.R.
3504, as amended, includes Representa-
tive LURIA’s Housing Access for Blind
Veterans Act.
I heard from a blind veteran in
Ponce, Puerto Rico, last weekend
about some of the challenges that he
faces. As Puerto Rico continues to re-
build after Hurricane Maria, allowing
disabled veterans, including veterans
with visual impairments, to apply for
Specially Adapted Housing grants can
help repair and improve their homes
and lives.
I thank the gentlewoman for her
work and Ranking Member ROE’s sup-
port.
Also, H.R. 3504, as amended, includes
Representative SABLAN’s GI Bill Access
to Career Credentials Act. This legisla-
tion expands the GI Bill to cover pre-
paratory courses for professional tests,
allowing veterans to more easily ob-
tain career credentials.
Finally, H.R. 3504, as amended, in-
cludes a modernization of the VA’s
work-study program, streamlining the
payment process to make work-study
programs easier for veterans to partici-
pate in.
I thank Ranking Member BILIRAKIS
and Chairman LEVIN for bringing this
legislation to the committee, fully paid
for.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 3504, as amend-
ed, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to rise
today in support of my bill, H.R. 3504,
as amended, the Ryan Kules Specially
Adaptive Housing Improvement Act of
2019.
Our highest calling as a committee is
to empower those who have been in-
jured in defense of our country to live
independent and productive lives.
The Specially Adapted Housing pro-
gram, or SAH grant program, is one
way we do that, and this bill makes
several needed improvements to that
program.
SAH grants are awarded to certain
severely injured servicemembers and
veterans to help them adapt their
homes to increase their comfort and
independence. It is a quality of life
issue, Madam Speaker.
SAH grants can be used to make all
kinds of home adaptations, including
installing grab bars, wheelchair ramps
and lifts, lowering countertops, and
widening hallways and doorways.
My bill would make needed improve-
ments to this program and provide
prioritization when processing SAH
grants for veterans with serious ill-
nesses like ALS.
It would also double the number of
times a veteran can use an SAH grant
and increase the base amount of fund-
ing available to veterans by 15 percent.
Finally, this bill would authorize VA
to provide additional funding for vet-
erans 10 years after they use their SAH
grants to make additional home im-
provements as they age. So, of course,
they might want to get into a bigger
house because their families grow, and
they should have that opportunity to
do so.
This bill also includes H.R. 3640, the
Housing Access for Blind Veterans Act,
which was introduced last week by
Representative ROE and Representative
ELAINE LURIA from Virginia, the chair
of the Subcommittee on Disability As-
sistance and Memorial Affairs, to pro-
vide additional SAH funding to vet-
erans who are legally blind. It is so im-
portant that we do this.
I am proud to have named this bill
after my friend Ryan Kules, an Army
veteran, and I had the privilege of
meeting him today and his wonderful
family. It is a beautiful family.
On November 29, 2005, while he was
serving in Iraq, Ryan’s vehicle was
struck by an improvised explosive de-
vice, an IED, and Ryan sustained mul-
tiple injuries, including the loss of his
leg and arm. He is a true hero, Madam
Speaker.
Those injuries made him eligible for
the SAH grant program following his
separation from service. Many of the
ideas in this bill came from Ryan’s own
experiences with the SAH program.
I am grateful to Ryan for his service,
for his continued advocacy, and for al-
lowing us to use his name for this im-
portant legislation.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank the
Wounded Warriors Project and the Par-
alyzed Veterans of America for their
help with crafting this bill, as well as
my friend and chairman, Representa-
tive MIKE LEVIN from California, who is
the cosponsor of this bill and who does
an outstanding job in committee,
where we work in a bipartisan fashion.
b 1730
Madam Speaker, this bill also in-
cludes the text of H.R. 3535, the GI Bill
Work Study Improvement Act. This
bill was introduced by my friend, Rep-
resentative RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Representative SUSIE LEE of Nevada,
and Ranking Member ROE of Tennessee
to improve VA’s workstudy program.
The idea for this bill came from the
student veterans and school officials
who attended a GI Bill forum that Rep-
resentative DAVIS had, and Representa-
tive ROE was in attendance, of course.
He is the ranking member of the full
committee.
I commend Representative DAVIS for
taking the concerns of his student vet-
erans’ constituents to heart and acting
to address them by improving the way
that those payments are made to eligi-
ble GI beneficiaries. The best ideas
come from the people, Madam Speaker,
as you know.
This would entail changes to the cur-
rent process where the student vet-
erans are paid workstudy benefits by
VA to a new process where student vet-
erans are paid directly by their school.
This makes sense. This will be done by
block granting workstudy money to
schools allowing them to administer
the payments to student veterans. This
will improve timeliness and accuracy
of payments to student veterans.
Finally, H.R. 3504, as amended, also
includes the text of my bill, H.R. 2221,
the Fry Scholarship Improvement Act,
which would expand eligibility for the
Fry Scholarship to certain survivors of
members of the National Guard and
Reserve. Representative ANDY BARR
worked on this bill as well, and he was
a great advocate. Of course, he is an
advocate for the National Guard and
Reserve, Madam Speaker. The current
Fry Scholarship provides post 9/11 GI
Bill benefits to surviving spouses and
dependent children of servicemembers
who have died while on Active Duty.
I would like to thank the Tragedy
Assistance Program for Survivors, or
TAPS, for bringing this idea to our at-
tention and again Chairman LEVIN for
being an original cosponsor of this bill.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this
important piece of legislation today.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. ROD-
NEY DAVIS).
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I thank my good
friend from Florida (Mr. BILIRAKIS), the
chair, Mr. TAKANO, and also Dr. ROE,
the ranking member and former chair
of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, for
all the work they do for our veterans.
It was at a meeting with Dr. ROE in
Springfield, Illinois, last summer that
he heard from my constituents who
represented the 13 colleges that I am
blessed to represent in central Illinois.
They got together, and they talked
about the GI Bill Work Study Improve-
ment Act language that is included in
this bill right now.
Section 5 of this bill contains our im-
provement language, and I really want
to thank SUSIE LEE, my colleague. I
want to thank Dr. ROE again and my
colleague, MIKE BOST, from Illinois be-
cause this legislation creates a block
grant program to disburse the funding
that would normally be used by the VA
to administer their workstudy pro-
gram.
We heard from the college adminis-
trators. It wasn’t going well as is; they
were leaving veterans behind. They
didn’t know if the students were going
to be able to enroll, and the colleges
didn’t know when they were going to
get the money. This is a fix that came
directly from listening to the people
who are serving our veterans at our
educational institutions.
This is what bipartisanship looks
like. It is an idea that comes from peo-
ple who are affected, and those who are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.067 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7211
July 23, 2019
affected are our heroes who protect our
great Nation. This change is necessary,
this change is bipartisan, and this
change is long overdue. I want to
thank everybody again for working on
this bill.
Madam Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote
on this bill.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I want to just add
that I hear an equal number of names
mentioned from both sides of the aisle
who have contributed to the content of
this bill. This is what bipartisanship
looks like. I am very proud that we
have brought this bill out of committee
on a unanimous basis and that I have
heard each side mention multiple
names of Members who have contrib-
uted language to this bill.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time to
close.
This is a great bill named after a
great American hero. We need to pass
this bill. I want to thank the leader-
ship of the chairman and the ranking
member for bringing it to the floor.
Again, we have got to get this done
for our heroes. We have got to get it to
the Senate and pass it as soon as pos-
sible because it is so badly needed. I ap-
preciate it very much. I thank the staff
for their support.
Madam Speaker, I encourage Mem-
bers to vote positive on this particular
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I am very proud of
this moment that we have chosen as
Members of the House to move forward
legislation that addresses adaptive
housing for veterans who have truly
been heroic. I can’t think of a single
American who would stand in the way
or would criticize Members of our body
for addressing such an urgent need.
I want to congratulate all the Mem-
bers who have done an even greater
honor to the person for whom this bill
is named by addressing issues related
to the workstudy program, by increas-
ing the availability of benefits to our
veterans in their educational process.
Madam Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to join me in passing H.R. 3504,
as amended, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, I rise in sup-
port of H.R. 3504, which includes my bipar-
tisan bill, the GI Bill Access to Career Creden-
tials Act. The GI Bill Access to Career Creden-
tials Act allow veterans to use their GI Bill
benefits to cover the cost of approved pre-
paratory courses for professional license and
certification exams.
Covering these courses under the GI Bill will
give veterans and their eligible family mem-
bers greater ability to enter careers that re-
quire government-recognized licenses and
certifications, such as in-demand careers in
health and technology.
This is not the first time Congress has ex-
panded GI bill benefit to cover non-tuition ex-
penses. Over the last 75 years, we have
broadened the GI bill to cover college admis-
sions test fees, admissions test preparatory
courses, and the exam fees for licenses and
certifications.
And, while more than 5,700 GI Bill students
over the last year and a half used their license
and certification exam fees reimbursement
benefit, the courses designed to help them
pass these tests were not reimbursable. That
makes no sense. Not all students pass these
exams on the first attempt. If we really want to
help our veterans become licensed and cer-
tified for demanding careers, let us help them
prepare to pass the necessary tests.
Let us help them join the more than 25 mil-
lion veterans and veteran family members who
the GI Bill has helped achieve their edu-
cational and career goals.
My GI Bill Access to Career Credentials Act
is supported by the Veterans of Foreign Wars,
National Guard Association, Enlisted Associa-
tion of the National Guard, AMVETS, National
Military Family Association, Association of the
U.S. Army, Military Order of the Purple Heart,
Fleet Reserve ‘Association, Reserve Officers
Association and Paralyzed Veterans of Amer-
ica.
I ask my colleagues to support this meas-
ure, as well, and H.R. 3504 of which it is a
part.
H.R. 3504 expands the VA’s Specially
Adapted Housing grant program to reach more
veterans who need assistance and improves
the Fry Scholarship program to cover more
spouses and children of fallen
servicemembers.
Again, I ask my colleagues to support H.R.
3504.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3504, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
VENEZUELA TPS ACT OF 2019
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 549) to designate
Venezuela under section 244 of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act to per-
mit nationals of Venezuela to be eligi-
ble for temporary protected status
under such section, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 549
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Venezuela
TPS Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DESIGNATION FOR PURPOSES OF GRANT-
ING TEMPORARY PROTECTED STA-
TUS.
(a) DESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section
244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(8 U.S.C. 1254a), Venezuela shall be treated as
if it had been designated under subsection
(b)(1)(C) of that section, subject to the provi-
sions of this section.
(2) PERIOD OF DESIGNATION.—The initial pe-
riod of the designation referred to in para-
graph (1) shall be for the 18-month period be-
ginning on the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(b) ALIENS ELIGIBLE.—As a result of the
designation made under subsection (a), an
alien who is a national of Venezuela is
deemed to satisfy the requirements under
paragraph (1) of section 244(c) of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1254a(c)), subject to paragraph (3) of such sec-
tion, if the alien—
(1) has been continuously physically
present in the United States since the date
of the enactment of this Act;
(2) is admissible as an immigrant, except
as otherwise provided in paragraph (2)(A) of
such section, and is not ineligible for tem-
porary protected status under paragraph
(2)(B) of such section; and
(3) registers for temporary protected status
in a manner established by the Secretary of
Homeland Security.
(c) CONSENT TO TRAVEL ABROAD.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Home-
land Security shall give prior consent to
travel abroad, in accordance with section
244(f)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1254a(f)(3)), to an alien who is
granted temporary protected status pursu-
ant to the designation made under sub-
section (a) if the alien establishes to the sat-
isfaction of the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity that emergency and extenuating cir-
cumstances beyond the control of the alien
require the alien to depart for a brief, tem-
porary trip abroad.
(2) TREATMENT UPON RETURN.—An alien re-
turning to the United States in accordance
with an authorization described in paragraph
(1) shall be treated as any other returning
alien provided temporary protected status
under section 244 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1254a).
(d) FEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to any other
fee authorized by law, the Secretary of
Homeland Security is authorized to charge
and collect a fee of $360 for each application
for temporary protected status under section
244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act
by a person who is only eligible for such sta-
tus by reason of subsection (a).
(2) WAIVER.—The Secretary of Homeland
Security shall permit aliens to apply for a
waiver of any fees associated with filing an
application referred to in paragraph (1).
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL) and
the gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
CLINE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Florida.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.069 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7212 July 23, 2019
all Members may have 5 legislative
days to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Florida?
There was no objection.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of H.R. 549, the Venezuela TPS Act
of 2019. This vitally important bill will
provide help and support to those who
cannot return to their home country of
Venezuela.
Years-long political and economic
turmoil in Venezuela has resulted in
the world’s fastest growing migration,
staggering poverty, and chronic short-
ages of medicine. Millions of Ven-
ezuelans are malnourished, and the
United Nations estimates that 7 mil-
lion people are in need of humanitarian
assistance. Four million Venezuelans
have been forced from their home.
Most have remained in the region in
neighboring countries, but tens of
thousands are here in the United
States seeking refuge. It is long past
time to grant temporary protected sta-
tus for Venezuelans currently living in
the United States.
My district has one of the largest
Venezuelan populations in the Nation,
and I understand very well the crisis in
Venezuela.
I came to this country from Ecuador
when I was 14 years old, having seen
firsthand the damage that authori-
tarian and corrupt leaders in South
America have caused their countries. I
have good friends and family who are
still there suffering in Maracaibo and
in Caracas. They are desperate. I can
hear it in their voices every time they
update me on the crisis.
In Miami I have met with reporters
who have had to flee their home be-
cause a free press does not exist in
Venezuela. Just yesterday, more roll-
ing blackouts hit the country jeopard-
izing the lives of hospital patients and
sending the country into pure dark-
ness.
Even if Nicolas Maduro, the leader of
this brutal narco-regime, were to leave
today and the legitimate President,
Juan Guaido, were to be sworn in, ex-
traordinary and temporary conditions
exist that would prevent Venezuelans
from returning safely. Maduro’s regime
has plunged Venezuela into catas-
trophe.
The poverty rate in Venezuela is
soaring, and the nation’s health system
is near collapse. Just imagine, nearly
one-third of Venezuelan physicians
have fled the country, and an astound-
ing 79 percent of hospitals are experi-
encing shortages in supplies to assist
the country’s mounting medical needs.
This dire situation is only exacerbated
by massive food and water shortages.
Malnutrition is widespread, especially
among children and pregnant women.
Frequent nationwide blackouts con-
tribute to the deterioration of already
impoverished communities. This is one
of the worst humanitarian crises that
we have seen in the Western Hemi-
sphere.
One thing is clear: we have to help
our Venezuelan brothers and sisters in
the United States. These conditions in
Venezuela warrant a designation of
TPS, and through H.R. 549, Congress
will take this necessary action.
I commend my colleagues, Rep-
resentatives DARREN SOTO and MARIO
DIAZ-BALART for introducing this bill. I
thank Representatives DONNA SHALALA
and DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and
Chairwoman LOFGREN of the Sub-
committee on Immigration and Citi-
zenship and Chairman NADLER of the
Judiciary Committee for their support
and hard work in helping move this bill
forward.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support the Venezuela TPS
Act of 2019, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, we stand in soli-
darity with the people of Venezuela,
and I share many of the comments of
the gentlewoman from Florida, but I
must rise in opposition to H.R. 549.
H.R. 549 statutorily designates Ven-
ezuela for inclusion in the broken pro-
gram known as Temporary Protective
Status. Pursuant to the Immigration
and Nationality Act, the Secretary of
DHS can designate a country for TPS if
there are circumstances that would
prevent the safe return of aliens to
that country or if a country is tempo-
rarily unable to adequately handle the
return of its nationals.
When DHS does so, nationals of the
designated country who are inside the
United States on the date of the des-
ignation, whether legally or illegally,
may apply to stay here and receive em-
ployment authorization. DHS has esti-
mated there are 270,000 such Ven-
ezuelan nationals currently in the
United States, over 100,000 of whom are
here illegally.
TPS is usually initially designated
for a period of 18 months and then re-
designated in 18-month increments
after the Secretary reviews the condi-
tions in the country to determine
whether the conditions for the initial
TPS designation continue. If the Sec-
retary determines the country no
longer meets the conditions for the
TPS designation, the Secretary is re-
quired by law to terminate the designa-
tion. There are currently over 415,000
TPS recipients from 10 different coun-
tries in the United States.
Despite the fact Congress intended
TPS to be a temporary protection, over
time it has become a permanent, auto-
matically renewed status with some
countries being designated for TPS for
decades.
For instance, Honduras was initially
designated for TPS back in 1999 due to
Hurricane Mitch which struck the
country in October of 1998. Somalia
was initially designated in September
of 1991 based on armed conflict.
The current administration applied
the law under section 244 of the INA re-
garding mandatory termination of TPS
designation if the conditions no longer
exist, and terminated TPS for Sudan,
Nicaragua, Haiti, and El Salvador. The
DHS Secretary gave those populations
at least 12 months to wind down and
prepare for departure, but a lawsuit
was filed, and activist Federal courts
issued an injunction.
I oppose H.R. 549, but do not do so
lightly. There is no doubt that the peo-
ple of Venezuela are suffering. They are
in a dire situation as a result of the so-
cialist policies of long-time President
Hugo Chavez and his successor Nicolas
Maduro.
b 1745
But I hold out hope for a regime
change in Venezuela, and I know the
administration is watching this situa-
tion closely.
If Congress is, nevertheless, inclined
to statutorily designate Venezuela for
TPS, we should not do so without re-
forming the process to ensure renewal
is not a rubber stamp; otherwise, we
risk being in the same position we are
currently in regarding other TPS des-
ignations. No other administration will
terminate it, and 25 years from now,
Members of Congress will call for green
cards for Venezuelans here on TPS.
Another concern is two Federal cir-
cuits, the sixth and the ninth, have
held the mere grant of TPS is an ad-
mission for purposes of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act. The effect of
those rulings is that TPS holders who
were meant to be here temporarily can
now get a green card pursuant to fam-
ily or employment-based petition even
if they entered the country illegally.
Also problematic is the fact that the
fee for a TPS application is statutorily
capped at $50.
Last week, the Immigration and Citi-
zenship Subcommittee held a hearing
regarding the long wait times for proc-
essing immigration benefits applica-
tions. Large volume is the biggest driv-
er of longer processing times, but there
is also not enough money to hire addi-
tional staff. Since it is a fee-funded
agency, U.S. Citizenship and Immigra-
tion Services should be allowed to set
the fee commensurate with the cost of
application adjudication, which is obvi-
ously more than the mere $50.
Lastly, I must point out the glaring
hypocrisy of designating a country for
temporary protective status after the
majority recently passed H.R. 6, which
created a green card path for 417,000
aliens in the country on temporary
protected status. If the majority had
its way, Congress would amend the INA
to remove the word ‘‘temporary’’ from
the TPS statute and just start handing
over green cards immediately.
Madam Speaker, I oppose H.R. 549. I
urge my colleagues to do the same, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, I appreciate the concerns Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.071 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7213
July 23, 2019
CLINE has brought up, but I would like
to remind him that the Immigration
and Nationality Act and this bill pro-
vide the authority to terminate TPS
for Venezuelans, and Venezuelans,
right now, are clearly eligible.
TPS was created specifically for the
situations that we are seeing. TPS was
created to address situations where ex-
traordinary and temporary conditions
in a country prevent its nationals from
returning safely.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Florida (Mr. SOTO),
my colleague.
Mr. SOTO. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from Florida.
In 2016, Olyn Itriago escaped the evil
Maduro tyranny in Venezuela. She re-
ceived death threats, including a failed
attempt on her life. Her brother, how-
ever, was captured and tortured by the
Venezuelan National Guard. The
crime? Supporting the opposition
party.
Olyn is now one of my constituents
in Orlando, with her daughters and her
husband. She is active with our local
groups, advocating for freedom in Ven-
ezuela. She holds on to hope of return-
ing home one day soon.
Another one of my newest constitu-
ents, Selene Vargas, was diagnosed
with cancer in 2017. Due to the short-
ages of medicine, food, and lack of
functioning quality hospitals in Ven-
ezuela, all caused by Nicolas Maduro’s
destruction of the economy, she moved
to Orlando to continue her cancer
treatment. Selene hopes to beat can-
cer, return to Venezuela, and see her
family again.
Like Olyn and Selene, hundreds of
thousands of Venezuelans in the United
States fear for their lives. They ask for
our compassion until the horror ends.
Our bipartisan Venezuela TPS Act
would protect all eligible Venezuelan
nationals from deportation. It allows
them to contribute to our American
economy, all while they continue to
work to fix Venezuela.
The world is now witness to the ruth-
less oppression, starvation, and human
rights abuses of Maduro’s rule. The ad-
ministration has been a loud voice con-
demning Maduro.
Vice President MIKE PENCE said, dur-
ing a visit to Florida recently, that the
White House is discussing TPS. Sec-
retary of State Mike Pompeo also men-
tioned TPS protections could be de-
cided ‘‘in the near future.’’
Today, the House has a chance to ful-
fill those promises. Senators MARCO
RUBIO and BOB MENENDEZ are leading
this bipartisan effort in the Senate as
well.
Granting Venezuelans TPS is one of
the most bipartisan immigration acts
each of us as a Member of Congress can
take right now. I plead with Members
on both sides of the aisle to take this
opportunity to come together to do the
right thing.
It is our moral responsibility to sup-
port these brave Venezuelans and their
families who are already citizens here
in the United States. This is the next
step to helping the people and to re-
storing freedom and the rule of law in
Venezuela.
Madam Speaker, I urge all my col-
leagues in the House to vote for the
bill.
‘‘For a free Venezuela,’’ ‘‘Por una
Venezuela libre.’’
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DIAZ-BALART).
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Madam Speaker,
I first commend my colleague from
central Florida (Mr. SOTO), for his lead-
ership and his perseverance.
I want to also thank my colleagues
from south Florida, many of whom are
here today in support of this important
piece of legislation.
Look, I know that there are concerns
about an immigration system that is
absolutely broken in this country, and
it is. I know that there are concerns
about even the TPS system. I get that.
But we have to take a step back.
What we are dealing with here is a
very specific, unique situation, which
is why Congress today will have this
opportunity to vote on it.
You know the situation. You have
heard the situation about the humani-
tarian crisis in Venezuela. Over 3 mil-
lion people have fled Venezuela because
what was the wealthiest country in
South America, because of the radical
socialist policies of the two last dicta-
torships, now has become among the
poorest, where people don’t have access
to any basic issues of—whether it is
healthcare or even food, medicine.
You know all that, but, you see,
there is something else: The extreme
repression that is taking place in Ven-
ezuela, that is the real reason people
are fleeing. That is the reason that
Venezuelans are dying. That is the rea-
son that the heroes in Venezuela have
hit the streets. That is the reason why
this young leader, President Guaido,
has come to the forefront leading these
heroic people.
And this administration has recog-
nized that fact. This administration—
and I am so grateful—has applied tough
sanctions against the dictatorship, has
shown great solidarity with the people
of Venezuela.
So I ask you, let’s not confuse this
with all of the issues of immigration
and the broken immigration system.
Really, with what is going on in Ven-
ezuela, should we be sending Ven-
ezuelans back to that dictatorship, or
could Congress act in a very specific
circumstance to give them the ability
to stay here, at least while this dicta-
torship, this horrific situation is tak-
ing place in Venezuela?
That is what we are dealing with. Not
the horrors of complications or the
messed up parts of the immigration
system which has got issues, obviously.
It is this very specific issue.
Again, thanking, particularly, my
colleague, Mr. SOTO, I would just urge
my colleagues in the House to take a
step back. These are specific cir-
cumstances dealing with this dictator-
ship in Venezuela. The administration
has shown solidarity, Congress now has
the opportunity to do the same.
Madam Speaker, I ask for a ‘‘yes’’
vote.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Florida (Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ), my colleague.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to urge
the House to pass the Venezuela TPS
Act of 2019, which would grant Ven-
ezuelan nationals urgently needed tem-
porary protective status in the United
States of America.
The Maduro regime has perpetrated
egregious human rights abuses, inflict-
ing an economic and humanitarian cri-
sis on the people of Venezuela. Ven-
ezuelans fleeing starvation, violence,
and political persecution have sought
refuge in the United States.
My district has the largest Ven-
ezuelan population in the U.S. So many
of my south Florida neighbors know
the brutality of the Maduro regime
firsthand and fled here seeking safety.
The stories are heartbreaking: chil-
dren kidnapped from playgrounds; fam-
ily members dying of hunger, violence,
and lack of medicine; individuals who
were jailed for speaking out against
the government; businesses con-
fiscated.
Extending TPS will ensure Ven-
ezuelans are shielded from the immi-
nent danger of deportation and can ob-
tain work permits.
President Trump has called the
Maduro regime a ‘‘nightmare of pov-
erty, hunger, and death.’’ He said in
June that he was looking ‘‘very seri-
ously at extending TPS to Venezuela.’’
But a recent letter from the USCIS
stated the administration is simply
‘‘monitoring’’ the situation in Ven-
ezuela, something it has done for
months.
There was no commitment to extend
TPS to Venezuela, and in the mean-
time, this administration continues to
deport Venezuelan nationals, sending
them back to the nightmare of the
Maduro regime.
This cannot wait any longer. It is
past time we support the Venezuelan
community and recognize the urgency
of extending them TPS.
President Trump could grant TPS to
Venezuelans today. He doesn’t need
congressional action. So amidst his in-
action, the House of Representatives
will take action today to protect our
neighbors and friends, because their
lives are on the line.
I urge my colleagues to vote for this
legislation to ensure that Venezuelans
are granted this essential protection,
and I say ‘‘Vive Venezuela.’’
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from Florida for her
remarks and for her sharing the con-
cerns of the president for the socialist
regime of Maduro.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.072 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7214 July 23, 2019
I would note that there are very few
detained noncriminal Venezuelans with
removal orders, and there is no mecha-
nism currently in place for directly re-
moving aliens to Venezuela.
Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Puerto Rico
(Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN).
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Madam Speaker, I rise in support
of H.R. 549, the Venezuela TPS Act, in-
troduced by the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. SOTO), my friend.
Madam Speaker, I am a proud co-
sponsor of this bill, essentially allow-
ing Venezuelan nationals living in the
United States to be eligible for tem-
porary protected status. This status
will extend travel authorization, allow
lawful employment, and, ultimately,
prevent their removal from the United
States.
The crisis in Venezuela is dire.
In April, I had the opportunity to
travel to Colombia with other Members
of Congress to visit a humanitarian aid
center on the border with Venezuela. I
saw firsthand the appalling conditions
that our Latin American brothers and
sisters are enduring, and believe me, it
is worse than anyone can imagine.
The hunger and the need experienced
in the country are unprecedented and
heartbreaking. Over 90 percent of the
population is living in poverty; 7 mil-
lion people need humanitarian assist-
ance; and diseases that have been pre-
viously eradicated have, unfortunately,
returned.
To make matters worse, there is a
shortage of 85 percent of necessary
medicines to treat those diseases on
the ground, while infant mortality
rates have increased by 30 percent and
maternal mortality rates have in-
creased by an alarming 60 percent.
This is unacceptable, Madam Speak-
er.
The main obstacle at hand lies in the
hands of Nicolas Maduro and his ruth-
less dictatorship. He is holding the peo-
ple of Venezuela hostage, depriving
them of basic human rights.
Additionally, the number of Ven-
ezuelans migrating to Puerto Rico has
doubled since the crisis began and can
be expected to continue increasing as
long as Maduro remains in power.
I will continue working to move this
bill so that Venezuelans can have a
temporary safe haven in our country,
where they can live freely.
Madam Speaker, I do understand
that the House needs to do something
about this, and I urge my colleagues to
do the same and support this bill.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Florida (Ms. SHALALA),
my colleague.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
rise in strong support of this lifesaving
bipartisan legislation to designate
temporary protective status for Ven-
ezuelans.
Maduro’s evil regime has plunged
Venezuela into catastrophe. The once-
thriving country is in free fall, with
Venezuelans now suffering from the
largest economic, political, and hu-
manitarian crisis in the entire hemi-
sphere.
Just in 2018, nearly 30,000 Ven-
ezuelans applied for asylum in the
United States, becoming the number
one country of origin for asylum claim-
ants.
b 1800
Many Venezuelans have come to
south Florida, where they have con-
tributed so much to our diverse com-
munity. In my district, there are ap-
proximately 17,000 Venezuelan-born
residents.
My constituents cannot safely re-
turn. A recent U.N. report detailed the
shocking government abuses, including
extrajudicial killings at the hands of
Maduro’s death squads.
Simply stated, granting TPS for Ven-
ezuelans is the right thing to do.
TPS has bipartisan support in the
House and in the Senate. We now have
an opportunity to take real action to
support those who have fled the crisis
caused by the illegitimate, inhumane
Maduro regime.
Madam Speaker, I thank my Florida
colleagues on both sides of the aisle, as
well as our colleague from Puerto Rico
(Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN), for their work
on this important legislation. I strong-
ly urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote.
Vive Venezuela.
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for her remarks
against the socialist regime of Maduro
as well.
Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentleman from Alabama (Mr.
BROOKS).
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Madam
Speaker, let’s be clear: Venezuela is
one of the most natural-resources-rich
nations on the planet, and for oil, in
the top five in reserves in the world.
The problem with Venezuela is not
its people, other than that they made
mistakes in whom they elected. The
problem is not the lack of resources,
which should empower those people to
be wealthy. Rather, the problem in
Venezuela is the self-inflicted adoption
of socialism.
Let’s be clear about the economic
havoc that is now occurring in Ven-
ezuela. We have starvation. In one re-
cent study, the average adult over a
year’s period of time had a weight loss
in excess of 20 pounds because they
could not get the calories needed to
sustain their body weight. Riots have
resulted.
Inflation a few years ago was over
1,000 percent. Today, we have estimates
that inflation in Venezuela is as high
as 10 million percent. Of course, the
currency is worthless and becoming
more so.
Venezuela, as a country, has been
brought to its knees by the adoption of
socialism. I find it ironic that so many
in America now advocate the suppres-
sion of free enterprise and the liberty
on which it is based, and the replace-
ment of free enterprise and liberty
with socialism and the dictatorial na-
ture that is inherent in the adoption of
socialist practices. Venezuela is an ex-
cellent example of why America must
never go socialist.
I want to emphasize one thing: While
Maduro has been in charge of Ven-
ezuela, Maduro is not the cause of the
economic hardship that is now being
faced in Venezuela. Rather, it is the
people’s adoption of socialism.
Let’s go to H.R. 549 and how it re-
lates to what I have just said.
This bill proposes a tsunami of people
coming to our country who are ill-
equipped to support themselves.
Let’s put that into the perspective of
where we are as a nation. We just blew
through the $22 trillion debt mark ear-
lier this year. This year, we are look-
ing at a roughly $900 billion deficit.
A deal has been reached that will
only increase our deficit by $2 trillion
over the next 2 years, pushing our debt
up to $22 trillion. This is money we do
not have, have to borrow to get, and
can’t afford to pay back.
How does that relate to H.R. 549?
Well, let me share some numbers with
you: Sixty percent of households with a
lawful immigrant in them are on wel-
fare, living off the hard work of others.
Seventy percent of illegal alien house-
holds are on welfare, living off the hard
work of others here in the United
States of America.
Quite frankly, Madam Speaker, the
United States of America can no longer
afford to be the world’s orphanage for
children and adults alike. We have to
get our own house in order, and this
legislation helps to increase that dis-
order by increasing our deficit and
debt, making it less manageable and
further risking debilitating insolvency
and the bankruptcy of a great Nation.
Madam Speaker, I ask for opposing
H.R. 549, and that is how I will vote.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, just a couple of quick re-
sponses to my colleague, Mr. BROOKS.
The only thing that I do agree with
is, yes, we do have to put our own
house in order. We have an executive in
disarray at this moment.
I think that maybe the gentleman is
ill-informed. The people of Venezuela
did not elect the narco-regime, the au-
thoritarian, dictatorial leader who is
Nicolas Maduro. They had fraudulent
elections in May 2018.
Please do not insult the people in
Venezuela, who are suffering, who have
no food, who have no access to medi-
cine. We have seen the worst humani-
tarian crisis in this hemisphere, and it
was not because Venezuelans elected
him. Actually, he held fraudulent elec-
tions. The interim, legitimate Presi-
dent is Juan Guaido.
But we are not going to see a tsu-
nami of Venezuelans coming to this
country. This bill applies only and spe-
cifically to the Venezuelans who are al-
ready residing in the United States.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from Florida (Mr.
DEUTCH), my colleague.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.073 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7215
July 23, 2019
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I
strongly support H.R. 549, the Ven-
ezuela TPS Act.
The situation in Venezuela is dire. It
is outrageous, Madam Speaker, that
some in this Chamber would blame the
horrific situation in Venezuela on the
people of Venezuela. It is the Maduro
regime that is committing horrific
human rights abuses.
People are being killed and tortured.
The media has been censored. Oppo-
nents of the regime have been impris-
oned. The economy is failing. Food is
scarce. Essential medicines cannot be
found.
The mass corruption and poverty
have forced more than 4 million people
to flee the country for their lives.
I have witnessed desperate Ven-
ezuelans crossing the border into Co-
lombia in need of food. I spoke with
families who traveled hours and hours
to Cucuta for one meal for their chil-
dren. I saw warehouses filled with food
and humanitarian assistance that
Maduro refuses to allow in to help his
people.
The dreadful living conditions, ex-
treme violence, and persecution war-
rant extending TPS to Venezuelans liv-
ing in the United States.
We must stand with the Venezuelan
people, the legitimate government of
President Juan Guaido, and the return
of freedom and democracy. For right
now, passing this bill will ensure Ven-
ezuelans in the U.S. are protected from
being deported to life-threatening con-
ditions.
Madam Speaker, this bill will save
lives. I urge my colleagues to support
it.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, may I inquire how much time
is remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Florida has 6 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from Vir-
ginia has 5 minutes remaining.
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Florida (Mrs. MURPHY),
my colleague.
Mrs. MURPHY. Madam Speaker, I
support this bipartisan bill to extend
temporary protected status to Ven-
ezuela.
There are over 400,000 Venezuelans
living in the United States, and more
than half live in Florida. About 200,000
of these men and women would receive
TPS if this bill becomes law. They
could work legally, pay taxes, and con-
tribute to our economy for a period of
time, without living in fear of deporta-
tion.
Venezuela is in absolute crisis, and
making Venezuelans in the U.S. go
home right now is immoral. In many
cases, it could be a death sentence.
Requiring people who have sought
refuge in America to return to a failed
state violates our core values as a na-
tion.
Let me be clear: Passing TPS is a
critical step, but it seeks to treat the
symptom of a disease rather than try-
ing to cure the disease itself. The dis-
ease is the cruel, undemocratic, and in-
competent regime of Nicolas Maduro.
For Venezuela to prosper and for the
U.S. to protect its national security,
the Maduro regime must go. America
should work with its allies in the re-
gion and use all elements of our na-
tional power to support the Venezuelan
patriots who are fighting to reclaim
their country from the regime that has
destroyed it.
Then, and only then, will Venezuela
be sufficiently stable and safe so these
proud Venezuelans can return to the
country they love.
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
As was said earlier, there are very
few detained noncriminal Venezuelans
with removal orders, and there is no
mechanism currently in place for di-
rectly removing aliens to Venezuela.
Madam Speaker, we stand with the
people of Venezuela in their fight
against the socialist regime of Nicolas
Maduro.
We recognize that only through
change in leadership and a change in
direction will Venezuela change course
and begin to rebound, in terms of
adopting economic reforms and aban-
doning the socialist policies of the
Maduro regime.
We stand with the people, and we
stand ready to embrace the newly
elected President, should he take con-
trol of the country.
But this bill, H.R. 549, is a bill that is
simply not appropriate for the cir-
cumstances right now. This broken
TPS system that we have would not be
sufficient to accommodate the hun-
dreds of thousands of Venezuelans who
would seek to use it.
Suffice it to say, it is similar to help-
ing people by throwing them a raft full
of holes.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote against H.R. 549, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
In response to Mr. CLINE’s concern,
once again, TPS is the law of the land.
It is under section 244 of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act. All we are
asking is to place Venezuela as a coun-
try that is designated under TPS in
this bill.
We are talking about people who are
suffering. We cannot send them back to
a humanitarian emergency.
We wrote a letter to the Trump ad-
ministration, asking them to grant
TPS for Venezuelans. They have the
ability to do so at the administrative
level right now, but they have refused.
They say they are supportive of Ven-
ezuelans, but I seriously question that
when they disagree with the impor-
tance of granting TPS for the thou-
sands of Venezuelans living in this
country today. We cannot send them
back to a brutal regime, to a regime
that is actually killing its own citi-
zens.
I would like to express my support
for H.R. 549. There is, as I mentioned,
widespread poverty and shortages of
food and water. The government is in
disarray, and we can’t wait any longer.
We have to help our Venezuelan broth-
ers and sisters in the United States,
and this bill accomplishes just that.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
support H.R. 549. We must do it, ‘‘lo
tenemos que hacer.’’ This is the mo-
ment.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL) that the House sus-
pend the rules and pass the bill, H.R.
549, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Madam
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
b 1815
HONORING AMERICAN VETERANS
IN EXTREME NEED ACT OF 2019
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2938) to exempt from the calcula-
tion of monthly income certain bene-
fits paid by the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs and the Department of
Defense, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2938
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Honoring
American Veterans in Extreme Need Act of
2019’’ or the ‘‘HAVEN Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF CURRENT MONTHLY IN-
COME.
Section 101(10A) of title 11, United States
Code, is amended by striking subparagraph
(B) and inserting the following:
‘‘(B)(i) includes any amount paid by any
entity other than the debtor (or in a joint
case the debtor and the debtor’s spouse), on
a regular basis for the household expenses of
the debtor or the debtor’s dependents (and in
a joint case the debtor’s spouse if not other-
wise a dependent); and
‘‘(ii) excludes—
‘‘(I) benefits received under the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.);
‘‘(II) payments to victims of war crimes or
crimes against humanity on account of their
status as victims of such crimes;
‘‘(III) payments to victims of international
terrorism or domestic terrorism, as those
terms are defined in section 2331 of title 18,
on account of their status as victims of such
terrorism; and
‘‘(IV) any monthly compensation, pension,
pay, annuity, or allowance paid under title
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.075 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7216 July 23, 2019
10, 37, or 38 in connection with a disability,
combat-related injury or disability, or death
of a member of the uniformed services, ex-
cept that any retired pay excluded under this
subclause shall include retired pay paid
under chapter 61 of title 10 only to the extent
that such retired pay exceeds the amount of
retired pay to which the debtor would other-
wise be entitled if retired under any provi-
sion of title 10 other than chapter 61 of that
title.’’.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CLAY). Pursuant to the rule, the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE) and the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. CLINE) each will control 20
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Rhode Island.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and to include ex-
traneous material on the bill under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island?
There was no objection.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
The overriding principle of the bank-
ruptcy system is to give people who are
overwhelmed with unmanageable debt
a fresh start through meaningful finan-
cial relief.
The Bankruptcy Code, either directly
or indirectly, affects millions of Ameri-
cans, and all types of businesses, from
large to small.
The system is supposed to work for
everyone, from consumer debtors and
small business owners, to family farm-
ers, servicemembers, and veterans, and
give them a new pathway to economic
prosperity. But as we have heard dur-
ing a recent oversight hearing held by
the Subcommittee on Antitrust, Com-
mercial, and Administrative Law, the
bankruptcy system is not working.
In light of these concerns, the House
Judiciary Committee unanimously
passed four bipartisan pieces of legisla-
tion to address this concern. These in-
clude H.R. 2938, the Honoring American
Veterans in Extreme Need Act of 2019,
or the HAVEN Act. This legislation,
which has been championed by my col-
league on the committee, Congress-
woman LUCY MCBATH, addresses a fun-
damental unfairness in current bank-
ruptcy law that affects veterans receiv-
ing disability benefits.
Although Social Security benefits
are not treated as income for purposes
of the Bankruptcy Code’s means test,
veterans’ disability benefits do con-
stitute income under this test, even
though, much like Social Security,
these benefits are a lifeline to many of
its recipients and are otherwise pro-
tected from seizure by creditors.
By counting such benefits as income,
many veterans become ineligible for
the more immediate discharges avail-
able under Chapter 7 and, instead, they
are steered into Chapter 13, which re-
quires a debtor to make payments to
creditors pursuant to a 3- to 5-year
plan before he or she can receive a dis-
charge.
H.R. 2938 corrects this obvious in-
equity. It would treat certain veterans’
disability benefits paid by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs and the De-
partment of Defense the same as Social
Security payments under the Bank-
ruptcy Code’s means test.
I urge my colleagues to support this
commonsense legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I speak in support of the bill, and I
want to thank the gentleman from
Rhode Island for his leadership on this
issue.
We should all honor and support
America’s veterans and their families.
The HAVEN Act does that by making
sure disability and death benefits re-
ceived by veterans and their families
receive special protection during the
difficult process of bankruptcy.
I also want to thank the gentle-
woman from Georgia for her leadership
on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Georgia (Mrs. MCBATH), the author of
the legislation.
Mrs. MCBATH. Mr. Speaker, I am so
pleased to bring the HAVEN Act to a
vote on the House floor today; and I
thank Chairman NADLER, our sub-
committee chair; Mr. CICILLINE, my
Republican cosponsor; Mr. STEUBE, and
all the cosponsors who supported the
expeditious passage of this bill. I want
to thank the veterans and the advo-
cates for putting their support behind
this legislation as well.
I introduced the HAVEN Act to sup-
port veterans facing significant finan-
cial hardship. No one wants to turn to
bankruptcy. It is a path toward debt
relief that carries serious financial
consequences.
But it is an important option for
those with the most serious financial
circumstances, and we must make sure
our bankruptcy system is serving our
veterans. These servicemembers de-
serve an opportunity to get back on
their feet with dignity.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I would
simply state that the HAVEN Act
makes the Bankruptcy Code work bet-
ter and more fairly for our Nation’s
veterans and those who depend on
them; so I encourage my colleagues to
support the bill.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I urge
my colleagues to pass the HAVEN Act,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2938, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERV-
ISTS DEBT RELIEF EXTENSION
ACT OF 2019
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3304) to exempt for an additional
4-year period, from the application of
the means-test presumption of abuse
under chapter 7, qualifying members of
reserve components of the Armed
Forces and members of the National
Guard who, after September 11, 2001,
are called to active duty or to perform
a homeland defense activity for not
less than 90 days, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3304
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National
Guard and Reservists Debt Relief Extension
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVISTS DEBT
RELIEF AMENDMENT.
Section 4(b) of the National Guard and Re-
servists Debt Relief Act of 2008 (Public Law
110–438; 122 Stat. 5000) is amended by striking
‘‘11-year’’ and inserting ‘‘15-year’’.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Rhode Island (Mr. CICILLINE) and the
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Rhode Island.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the bill under con-
sideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island?
There was no objection.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.025 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7217
July 23, 2019
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Under current law, National Guard
members and reservists who serve on
active duty are, like other active-duty
servicemembers, exempt from the
Bankruptcy Code’s means test, which
determines whether a debtor’s income
is too high to have all of his or her
debts erased in bankruptcy.
Unless otherwise exempted, service-
members and veterans must complete
the required forms and submit the
specified paperwork to satisfy the
Bankruptcy Code’s means test.
This requirement even applies to
servicemembers who have returned to
the United States from active service
and, thus, no longer receive combat
pay. Under the means test, a service-
member must calculate his or her in-
come based on the average monthly in-
come that he or she received during the
six months preceding the filing date of
the bankruptcy case, rather than the
debtor’s actual income, which may be
less because of the debtor’s noncombat
status.
H.R. 3304, the National Guard and Re-
servists Debt Relief Extension Act of
2019 responds to this concern. This leg-
islation would extend for 4 years the
temporary authorization exempting
certain qualifying reserve component
members of the Armed Services and
National Guard members from the
Bankruptcy Code’s means test.
This critical protection for National
Guard members and reservists must be
extended before it expires at the end of
the year. H.R. 3304 was unanimously
passed out of the Judiciary Committee
by voice vote.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bipartisan legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of the bill and I want
to thank the gentleman from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. CICILLINE) and the gentleman
from Tennessee (Mr. COHEN), the spon-
sor, for his support of this important
legislation which would provide Na-
tional Guard members, Armed Services
reservists, and their families continued
flexibility to qualify for greater debt
relief in bankruptcy.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. COHEN), the sponsor of the
bill.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, this is an
important bill for reservists and Na-
tional Guardsmen who protect our
country in times of war. We are in the
longest war of our Nation’s history.
The bankruptcy bill of 2005 was a bad
bill that made it more difficult for peo-
ple to claim bankruptcy; hurt guards-
men and reservists whose bases are of-
tentimes surrounded by payday lend-
ers, and they become subject to large
loans in difficult times while in serv-
ice, having to even file bankruptcy, let
alone, respond to debts that they incur
on behalf of the American people.
But I want to thank Mr. CLINE, a
great American, and supporter of re-
servists and people serving our coun-
try, our National Guard and reservists.
For being a cosponsor, Representative
MADELEINE DEAN of Pennsylvania, and
TIM BURCHETT, an outstanding Ten-
nessean and a volunteer for joining me
in reintroducing this bill.
I would like to thank all the Na-
tional Guard and reservists who pro-
tect us, both here and abroad.
I ask for unanimous passage.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I urge my
colleagues to support this important
legislation, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I urge
my colleagues on both sides of the aisle
to pass this important legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3304, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
SMALL BUSINESS
REORGANIZATION ACT OF 2019
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3311) to amend chapter 11 of title
11, United States Code, to address reor-
ganization of small businesses, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3311
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Small Busi-
ness Reorganization Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REORGANIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS
DEBTORS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 11 of title 11,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER V—SMALL BUSINESS
DEBTOR REORGANIZATION
‘‘§ 1181. Inapplicability of other sections
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Sections 105(d), 1101(1),
1104, 1105, 1106, 1107, 1108, 1115, 1116, 1121,
1123(a)(8), 1123(c), 1127, 1129(a)(15), 1129(b),
1129(c), 1129(e), and 1141(d)(5) of this title do
not apply in a case under this subchapter.
‘‘(b) COURT AUTHORITY.—Unless the court
for cause orders otherwise, paragraphs (1),
(2), and (4) of section 1102(a) and sections
1102(b), 1103, and 1125 of this title do not
apply in a case under this subchapter.
‘‘(c) SPECIAL RULE FOR DISCHARGE.—If a
plan is confirmed under section 1191(b) of
this title, section 1141(d) of this title shall
not apply, except as provided in section 1192
of this title.
‘‘§ 1182. Definitions
‘‘In this subchapter:
‘‘(1) DEBTOR.—The term ‘debtor’ means a
small business debtor.
‘‘(2) DEBTOR IN POSSESSION.—The term
‘debtor in possession’ means the debtor, un-
less removed as debtor in possession under
section 1185(a) of this title.
‘‘§ 1183. Trustee
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—If the United States
trustee has appointed an individual under
section 586(b) of title 28 to serve as standing
trustee in cases under this subchapter, and if
such individual qualifies as a trustee under
section 322 of this title, then that individual
shall serve as trustee in any case under this
subchapter. Otherwise, the United States
trustee shall appoint 1 disinterested person
to serve as trustee in the case or the United
States trustee may serve as trustee in the
case, as necessary.
‘‘(b) DUTIES.—The trustee shall—
‘‘(1) perform the duties specified in para-
graphs (2), (5), (6), (7), and (9) of section 704(a)
of this title;
‘‘(2) perform the duties specified in para-
graphs (3), (4), and (7) of section 1106(a) of
this title, if the court, for cause and on re-
quest of a party in interest, the trustee, or
the United States trustee, so orders;
‘‘(3) appear and be heard at the status con-
ference under section 1188 of this title and
any hearing that concerns—
‘‘(A) the value of property subject to a lien;
‘‘(B) confirmation of a plan filed under this
subchapter;
‘‘(C) modification of the plan after con-
firmation; or
‘‘(D) the sale of property of the estate;
‘‘(4) ensure that the debtor commences
making timely payments required by a plan
confirmed under this subchapter;
‘‘(5) if the debtor ceases to be a debtor in
possession, perform the duties specified in
section 704(a)(8) and paragraphs (1), (2), and
(6) of section 1106(a) of this title, including
operating the business of the debtor;
‘‘(6) if there is a claim for a domestic sup-
port obligation with respect to the debtor,
perform the duties specified in section 704(c)
of this title; and
‘‘(7) facilitate the development of a consen-
sual plan of reorganization.
‘‘(c) TERMINATION OF TRUSTEE SERVICE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the plan of the debtor
is confirmed under section 1191(a) of this
title, the service of the trustee in the case
shall terminate when the plan has been sub-
stantially consummated, except that the
United States trustee may reappoint a trust-
ee as needed for performance of duties under
subsection (b)(3)(C) of this section and sec-
tion 1185(a) of this title.
‘‘(2) SERVICE OF NOTICE OF SUBSTANTIAL
CONSUMMATION.—Not later than 14 days after
the plan of the debtor is substantially con-
summated, the debtor shall file with the
court and serve on the trustee, the United
States trustee, and all parties in interest no-
tice of such substantial consummation.
‘‘§ 1184. Rights and powers of a debtor in pos-
session
‘‘Subject to such limitations or conditions
as the court may prescribe, a debtor in pos-
session shall have all the rights, other than
the right to compensation under section 330
of this title, and powers, and shall perform
all functions and duties, except the duties
specified in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of sec-
tion 1106(a) of this title, of a trustee serving
in a case under this chapter, including oper-
ating the business of the debtor.
‘‘§ 1185. Removal of debtor in possession
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—On request of a party in
interest, and after notice and a hearing, the
court shall order that the debtor shall not be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.081 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7218 July 23, 2019
a debtor in possession for cause, including
fraud, dishonesty, incompetence, or gross
mismanagement of the affairs of the debtor,
either before or after the date of commence-
ment of the case, or for failure to perform
the obligations of the debtor under a plan
confirmed under this subchapter.
‘‘(b) REINSTATEMENT.—On request of a
party in interest, and after notice and a
hearing, the court may reinstate the debtor
in possession.
‘‘§ 1186. Property of the estate
‘‘(a) INCLUSIONS.—If a plan is confirmed
under section 1191(b) of this title, property of
the estate includes, in addition to the prop-
erty specified in section 541 of this title—
‘‘(1) all property of the kind specified in
that section that the debtor acquires after
the date of commencement of the case but
before the case is closed, dismissed, or con-
verted to a case under chapter 7, 12, or 13 of
this title, whichever occurs first; and
‘‘(2) earnings from services performed by
the debtor after the date of commencement
of the case but before the case is closed, dis-
missed, or converted to a case under chapter
7, 12, or 13 of this title, whichever occurs
first.
‘‘(b) DEBTOR REMAINING IN POSSESSION.—
Except as provided in section 1185 of this
title, a plan confirmed under this sub-
chapter, or an order confirming a plan under
this subchapter, the debtor shall remain in
possession of all property of the estate.
‘‘§ 1187. Duties and reporting requirements of
debtors
‘‘(a) FILING REQUIREMENTS.—Upon electing
to be a debtor under this subchapter, the
debtor shall file the documents required by
subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 1116(1)
of this title.
‘‘(b) OTHER APPLICABLE PROVISIONS.—A
debtor, in addition to the duties provided in
this title and as otherwise required by law,
shall comply with the requirements of sec-
tion 308 and paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5), (6),
and (7) of section 1116 of this title.
‘‘(c) SEPARATE DISCLOSURE STATEMENT EX-
EMPTION.—If the court orders under section
1181(b) of this title that section 1125 of this
title applies, section 1125(f) of this title shall
apply.
‘‘§ 1188. Status conference
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), not later than 60 days after
the entry of the order for relief under this
chapter, the court shall hold a status con-
ference to further the expeditious and eco-
nomical resolution of a case under this sub-
chapter.
‘‘(b) EXCEPTION.—The court may extend the
period of time for holding a status con-
ference under subsection (a) if the need for
an extension is attributable to cir-
cumstances for which the debtor should not
justly be held accountable.
‘‘(c) REPORT.—Not later than 14 days before
the date of the status conference under sub-
section (a), the debtor shall file with the
court and serve on the trustee and all parties
in interest a report that details the efforts
the debtor has undertaken and will under-
take to attain a consensual plan of reorga-
nization.
‘‘§ 1189. Filing of the plan
‘‘(a) WHO MAY FILE A PLAN.—Only the
debtor may file a plan under this subchapter.
‘‘(b) DEADLINE.—The debtor shall file a
plan not later than 90 days after the order
for relief under this chapter, except that the
court may extend the period if the need for
the extension is attributable to cir-
cumstances for which the debtor should not
justly be held accountable.
‘‘§ 1190. Contents of plan
‘‘A plan filed under this subchapter—
‘‘(1) shall include—
‘‘(A) a brief history of the business oper-
ations of the debtor;
‘‘(B) a liquidation analysis; and
‘‘(C) projections with respect to the ability
of the debtor to make payments under the
proposed plan of reorganization;
‘‘(2) shall provide for the submission of all
or such portion of the future earnings or
other future income of the debtor to the su-
pervision and control of the trustee as is nec-
essary for the execution of the plan; and
‘‘(3) notwithstanding section 1123(b)(5) of
this title, may modify the rights of the hold-
er of a claim secured only by a security in-
terest in real property that is the principal
residence of the debtor if the new value re-
ceived in connection with the granting of the
security interest was—
‘‘(A) not used primarily to acquire the real
property; and
‘‘(B) used primarily in connection with the
small business of the debtor.
‘‘§ 1191. Confirmation of plan
‘‘(a) TERMS.—The court shall confirm a
plan under this subchapter only if all of the
requirements of section 1129(a), other than
paragraph (15) of that section, of this title
are met.
‘‘(b) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding section
510(a) of this title, if all of the applicable re-
quirements of section 1129(a) of this title,
other than paragraphs (8), (10), and (15) of
that section, are met with respect to a plan,
the court, on request of the debtor, shall
confirm the plan notwithstanding the re-
quirements of such paragraphs if the plan
does not discriminate unfairly, and is fair
and equitable, with respect to each class of
claims or interests that is impaired under,
and has not accepted, the plan.
‘‘(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—For purposes
of this section, the condition that a plan be
fair and equitable with respect to each class
of claims or interests includes the following
requirements:
‘‘(1) With respect to a class of secured
claims, the plan meets the requirements of
section 1129(b)(2)(A) of this title.
‘‘(2) As of the effective date of the plan—
‘‘(A) the plan provides that all of the pro-
jected disposable income of the debtor to be
received in the 3-year period, or such longer
period not to exceed 5 years as the court may
fix, beginning on the date that the first pay-
ment is due under the plan will be applied to
make payments under the plan; or
‘‘(B) the value of the property to be distrib-
uted under the plan in the 3-year period, or
such longer period not to exceed 5 years as
the court may fix, beginning on the date on
which the first distribution is due under the
plan is not less than the projected disposable
income of the debtor.
‘‘(3)(A)(i) The debtor will be able to make
all payments under the plan; or
‘‘(ii) there is a reasonable likelihood that
the debtor will be able to make all payments
under the plan; and
‘‘(B) the plan provides appropriate rem-
edies, which may include the liquidation of
nonexempt assets, to protect the holders of
claims or interests in the event that the pay-
ments are not made.
‘‘(d) DISPOSABLE INCOME.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘disposable income’
means the income that is received by the
debtor and that is not reasonably necessary
to be expended—
‘‘(1) for—
‘‘(A) the maintenance or support of the
debtor or a dependent of the debtor; or
‘‘(B) a domestic support obligation that
first becomes payable after the date of the
filing of the petition; or
‘‘(2) for the payment of expenditures nec-
essary for the continuation, preservation, or
operation of the business of the debtor.
‘‘(e) SPECIAL RULE.—Notwithstanding sec-
tion 1129(a)(9)(A) of this title, a plan that
provides for the payment through the plan of
a claim of a kind specified in paragraph (2)
or (3) of section 507(a) of this title may be
confirmed under subsection (b) of this sec-
tion.
‘‘§ 1192. Discharge
‘‘If the plan of the debtor is confirmed
under section 1191(b) of this title, as soon as
practicable after completion by the debtor of
all payments due within the first 3 years of
the plan, or such longer period not to exceed
5 years as the court may fix, unless the court
approves a written waiver of discharge exe-
cuted by the debtor after the order for relief
under this chapter, the court shall grant the
debtor a discharge of all debts provided in
section 1141(d)(1)(A) of this title, and all
other debts allowed under section 503 of this
title and provided for in the plan, except any
debt—
‘‘(1) on which the last payment is due after
the first 3 years of the plan, or such other
time not to exceed 5 years fixed by the court;
or
‘‘(2) of the kind specified in section 523(a)
of this title.
‘‘§ 1193. Modification of plan
‘‘(a) MODIFICATION BEFORE CONFIRMATION.—
The debtor may modify a plan at any time
before confirmation, but may not modify the
plan so that the plan as modified fails to
meet the requirements of sections 1122 and
1123 of this title, with the exception of sub-
section (a)(8) of such section 1123. After the
modification is filed with the court, the plan
as modified becomes the plan.
‘‘(b) MODIFICATION AFTER CONFIRMATION.—
If a plan has been confirmed under section
1191(a) of this title, the debtor may modify
the plan at any time after confirmation of
the plan and before substantial consumma-
tion of the plan, but may not modify the
plan so that the plan as modified fails to
meet the requirements of sections 1122 and
1123 of this title, with the exception of sub-
section (a)(8) of such section 1123. The plan,
as modified under this subsection, becomes
the plan only if circumstances warrant the
modification and the court, after notice and
a hearing, confirms the plan as modified
under section 1191(a) of this title.
‘‘(c) CERTAIN OTHER MODIFICATIONS.—If a
plan has been confirmed under section 1191(b)
of this title, the debtor may modify the plan
at any time within 3 years, or such longer
time not to exceed 5 years, as fixed by the
court, but may not modify the plan so that
the plan as modified fails to meet the re-
quirements of section 1191(b) of this title.
The plan as modified under this subsection
becomes the plan only if circumstances war-
rant such modification and the court, after
notice and a hearing, confirms such plan, as
modified, under section 1191(b) of this title.
‘‘(d) HOLDERS OF A CLAIM OR INTEREST.—If
a plan has been confirmed under section
1191(a) of this title, any holder of a claim or
interest that has accepted or rejected the
plan is deemed to have accepted or rejected,
as the case may be, the plan as modified, un-
less, within the time fixed by the court, such
holder changes the previous acceptance or
rejection of the holder.
‘‘§ 1194. Payments
‘‘(a) RETENTION AND DISTRIBUTION BY
TRUSTEE.—Payments and funds received by
the trustee shall be retained by the trustee
until confirmation or denial of confirmation
of a plan. If a plan is confirmed, the trustee
shall distribute any such payment in accord-
ance with the plan. If a plan is not con-
firmed, the trustee shall return any such
payments to the debtor after deducting—
‘‘(1) any unpaid claim allowed under sec-
tion 503(b) of this title;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.029 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7219
July 23, 2019
‘‘(2) any payment made for the purpose of
providing adequate protection of an interest
in property due to the holder of a secured
claim; and
‘‘(3) any fee owing to the trustee.
‘‘(b) OTHER PLANS.—If a plan is confirmed
under section 1191(b) of this title, except as
otherwise provided in the plan or in the
order confirming the plan, the trustee shall
make payments to creditors under the plan.
‘‘(c) PAYMENTS PRIOR TO CONFIRMATION.—
Prior to confirmation of a plan, the court,
after notice and a hearing, may authorize
the trustee to make payments to the holder
of a secured claim for the purpose of pro-
viding adequate protection of an interest in
property.
‘‘§ 1195. Transactions with professionals
‘‘Notwithstanding section 327(a) of this
title, a person is not disqualified for employ-
ment under section 327 of this title, by a
debtor solely because that person holds a
claim of less than $10,000 that arose prior to
commencement of the case.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
subchapters at the beginning of chapter 11 of
title 11, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER V—SMALL BUSINESS DEBTOR
REORGANIZATION
‘‘1181. Inapplicability of other sections.
‘‘1182. Definitions.
‘‘1183. Trustee.
‘‘1184. Rights and powers of a debtor in pos-
session.
‘‘1185. Removal of debtor in possession.
‘‘1186. Property of the estate.
‘‘1187. Duties and reporting requirements of
debtors.
‘‘1188. Status conference.
‘‘1189. Filing of the plan.
‘‘1190. Contents of plan.
‘‘1191. Confirmation of plan.
‘‘1192. Discharge.
‘‘1193. Modification of plan.
‘‘1194. Payments.
‘‘1195. Transactions with professionals.’’.
SEC. 3. PREFERENCES; VENUE OF CERTAIN PRO-
CEEDINGS.
(a) PREFERENCES.—Section 547(b) of title
11, United States Code, is amended by insert-
ing ‘‘, based on reasonable due diligence in
the circumstances of the case and taking
into account a party’s known or reasonably
knowable affirmative defenses under sub-
section (c),’’ after ‘‘may’’.
(b) VENUE OF CERTAIN PROCEEDINGS.—Sec-
tion 1409(b) of title 28, United States Code, is
amended by striking ‘‘$10,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$25,000’’.
SEC. 4. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
(a) TITLE 11.—Title 11, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in section 101—
(A) in paragraph (51C), by inserting ‘‘and
has not elected that subchapter V of chapter
11 of this title shall apply’’ after ‘‘is a small
business debtor’’; and
(B) in paragraph (51D)—
(i) in subparagraph (A)—
(I) by striking ‘‘or operating real property
or activities incidental thereto’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘single asset real estate’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘for a case in which’’ and
all that follows and inserting ‘‘not less than
50 percent of which arose from the commer-
cial or business activities of the debtor;
and’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting a semicolon;
(II) by striking ‘‘does not include any
member’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘does
not include—
‘‘(i) any member’’; and
(III) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) any debtor that is a corporation sub-
ject to the reporting requirements under sec-
tion 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m, 78o(d)); or
‘‘(iii) any corporation that—
‘‘(I) is subject to the reporting require-
ments under section 13 or 15(d) of the Securi-
ties Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m,
78o(d)); and
‘‘(II) is an affiliate of a debtor.’’;
(2) in section 103—
(A) by redesignating subsections (i)
through (k) as subsections (j) through (l), re-
spectively; and
(B) by inserting after subsection (h) the
following:
‘‘(i) Subchapter V of chapter 11 of this title
applies only in a case under chapter 11 in
which a small business debtor elects that
subchapter V of chapter 11 shall apply.’’;
(3) in section 322(a), by inserting ‘‘1183,’’
after ‘‘1163,’’;
(4) in section 326—
(A) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘, other
than a case under subchapter V of chapter
11’’ after ‘‘7 or 11’’; and
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘sub-
chapter V of chapter 11 or’’ after ‘‘In a case
under’’;
(5) in section 347—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘1194,’’ after ‘‘726,’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘subchapter V of chapter
11,’’ after ‘‘chapter 7,’’; and
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘1194,’’
after ‘‘1173,’’;
(6) in section 363(c)(1), by inserting ‘‘1183,
1184,’’ after ‘‘1108,’’;
(7) in section 364(a), by inserting ‘‘1183,
1184,’’ after ‘‘1108,’’;
(8) in section 523(a), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘1192’’
after ‘‘1141,’’;
(9) in section 524—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘1192,’’
after ‘‘1141,’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘1192,’’
after ‘‘523,’’;
(B) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ‘‘1192,’’
after ‘‘1141,’’; and
(C) in subsection (d), by inserting ‘‘1192,’’
after ‘‘1141,’’;
(10) in section 557(d)(3), by inserting ‘‘1183,’’
after ‘‘1104,’’;
(11) in section 1102(a), by striking para-
graph (3) and inserting the following:
‘‘(3) Unless the court for cause orders oth-
erwise, a committee of creditors may not be
appointed in a small business case or a case
under subchapter V of this chapter.’’; and
(12) in section 1146(a), by inserting ‘‘or
1191’’ after ‘‘1129’’.
(b) TITLE 28.—Title 28 United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in section 586—
(A) in subsection (a)(3), by inserting ‘‘(in-
cluding subchapter V of chapter 11)’’ after
‘‘7, 11’’;
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘sub-
chapter V of chapter 11 or’’ after ‘‘cases
under’’ the first place it appears;
(C) in subsection (d)(1), by inserting ‘‘sub-
chapter V of chapter 11 or’’ after ‘‘cases
under’’ each place that term appears; and
(D) in subsection (e)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘sub-
chapter V of chapter 11 or’’ after ‘‘cases
under’’;
(ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘sub-
chapter V of chapter 11 or’’ after ‘‘cases
under’’ each place that term appears; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) In the event that the services of the
trustee in a case under subchapter V of chap-
ter 11 of title 11 are terminated by dismissal
or conversion of the case, or upon substan-
tial consummation of a plan under section
1183(c)(1) of that title, the court shall award
compensation to the trustee consistent with
services performed by the trustee and the
limits on the compensation of the trustee es-
tablished pursuant to paragraph (1) of this
subsection.’’;
(2) in section 589b—
(A) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ‘‘sub-
chapter V of chapter 11 and’’ after ‘‘cases
under’’; and
(B) in subsection (d)—
(i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘subchapter V of chapter 11
and’’ after ‘‘trustees under’’; and
(ii) in the undesignated matter following
paragraph (8), by inserting ‘‘subchapter V of
chapter 11 and’’ after ‘‘cases under’’; and
(3) in section 1930(a)(6)(A), by inserting ‘‘,
other than under subchapter V,’’ after ‘‘chap-
ter 11 of title 11’’.
SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Act and the amendments made by
this Act shall take effect 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 6. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Rhode Island (Mr. CICILLINE) and the
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Rhode Island.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the bill under con-
sideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island?
There was no objection.
Mr. CICILLINE. I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
H.R. 3311, the Small Business Reorga-
nization Act of 2019, is legislation that
I introduced with the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. CLINE), to make a series
of reforms to current bankruptcy law,
which would streamline the financial
reorganization of small businesses.
Small, locally-owned businesses are
the economic lifeblood of our commu-
nities. But according to the Small
Business Administration, only about 20
percent of small businesses survive
after their first year.
It is essential that our bankruptcy
system does not punish entrepreneur-
ship and investment by foreclosing op-
portunities for small businesses to fi-
nancially reorganize.
This gap in the Bankruptcy Code is
primarily due to the fact that this
process was designed with large, com-
plex corporations in mind, and does not
include adequate protections or safe-
guards for small businesses.
H.R. 3311 addresses this shortcoming
by requiring the appointment of a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.029 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7220 July 23, 2019
trustee to monitor these cases and giv-
ing cases greater flexibility to approve
small business reorganization plans in
a fair and equitable manner.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R.
3311, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of the bill. I want to
thank the gentleman from Rhode Is-
land for his leadership on this issue.
The bankruptcy system is a critical
component of our economy. It provides
an important step, an important safety
net for households and entrepreneurs
when they need a fresh start. It also
stabilizes and encourages lending, be-
cause it is a tried-and-true way for
creditors to recover as much as feasible
when things go wrong for borrowers.
It is particularly important that the
Bankruptcy Code work for small busi-
nesses. Small business owners are the
backbone of communities across our
country. It is their risk-taking that
drives the creation of new jobs in
America. When they need the Bank-
ruptcy Code’s help to reorganize their
debts and keep their businesses going,
the Bankruptcy Code should be there
as a tool to help them.
That is why I am particularly happy
that the House today considers the
Small Business Reorganization Act.
This important bill offers long-needed
reform of Chapter 11 in the Bankruptcy
Code to help small businesses, and I am
proud to introduce it, along with
Chairman CICILLINE.
I want to thank the full committee
chairman, Chairman NADLER, and
Ranking Member, Mr. COLLINS, for
their support for this legislation and
for being original cosponsors this term.
Mr. Speaker, this bill promises to fi-
nally make Chapter 11 work for the en-
trepreneurs whose small businesses are
critical to life in communities across
this Nation, and I encourage all my
colleagues to support the bill.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, in clos-
ing, I am proud to have introduced
H.R. 3311, the Small Business Reorga-
nization Act of 2019 with the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. CLINE), and I thank
him for his strong leadership on this
issue, as well as the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. COLLINS).
This bipartisan legislation was
unanimously approved by the Judici-
ary Committee and will address gaps in
our bankruptcy system to provide fi-
nancial relief to small businesses.
This legislation is supported by the
nonpartisan National Bankruptcy Con-
ference, as well as the American Bank-
ruptcy Institute. I urge my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle to pass H.R.
3311.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3311, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1830
LET EVERYONE GET INVOLVED IN
OPPORTUNITIES FOR NATIONAL
SERVICE ACT
Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill (S.
504) to amend title 36, United States
Code, to authorize The American Le-
gion to determine the requirements for
membership in The American Legion,
and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 504
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Let Every-
one Get Involved in Opportunities for Na-
tional Service Act’’ or the ‘‘LEGION Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND SENSE OF CONGRESS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) Since the end of World War II, the Fed-
eral Government has designated specific pe-
riods of war, the dates of which are impor-
tant for qualification for certain benefits or
membership in veterans organizations estab-
lished by Congress.
(2) In between those recognized periods of
war, during so-called peacetime eras, the
United States military has been involved in
not fewer than 12 known eras, which are un-
recognized by the United States Government
as periods of war, resulting in numerous
United States personnel combat casualties.
(3) Those 12 unrecognized war eras oc-
curred at the direction of the then President
of the United States, with full knowledge
and consent of the then Congress.
(4) The first of those 12 unrecognized war
eras involving active United States military
personnel was the Greek Civil War, fought in
Greece from 1946 to 1949 between the army of
the Government of Greece, supported by ac-
tive military personal of the United States
and the United Kingdom, and the Demo-
cratic Army of Greece, the military branch
of the Communist Party of Greece.
(5) During the Greek Civil War, one mem-
ber of the Armed Forces of the United States
sacrificed his life in service to the United
States, and five others suffered non-combat
deaths.
(6) The second of those unrecognized war
eras involving active United States military
personnel was the Chinese Civil War, which
occurred during the aftermath of World War
II.
(7) During the Chinese Civil War, the
United States military equipped, trained,
transported, and supplied the Kuomintang-
led Government of the Republic of China
with approximately $4,430,000,000 in its re-
sistance to the Communist Party of China.
(8) During the Chinese Civil War, 14 mem-
bers of the Armed Forces of the United
States sacrificed their lives in service to the
United States, 150 non-combatants of the
United States lost their lives in the war, and
51 were wounded, resulting in 215 United
States military casualties.
(9) The third unrecognized war era involv-
ing active United States military personnel
is known as the Cold War.
(10) The Cold War was a period spanning
from approximately 1947 until 1991 when the
Soviet Union collapsed.
(11) Although no direct large-scale mili-
tary fighting occurred between the mili-
taries of the United States and the Soviet
Union, active United States military per-
sonnel served in multiple regional conflicts
during the Cold War, resulting in the deaths
of not fewer than 32 members of the Armed
Forces who sacrificed their lives in service
to the United States and not fewer than 12
additional casualties.
(12) The fourth unrecognized war era in-
volving active United States military per-
sonnel is known as the China Cold War.
(13) The China Cold War started when the
Kuomintang-led Government of the Republic
of China retreated to the island of Taiwan
and lasted until 1972, after President Richard
Nixon conducted a landmark state visit to
China.
(14) During the military operations of the
China Cold War, not fewer than 16 members
of the Armed Forces of the United States
sacrificed their lives in service to the United
States.
(15) The fifth unrecognized war era involv-
ing active United States military personnel
was the Lebanon Crisis of 1958, which in-
volved more than 14,000 United States per-
sonnel and resulted in the death of one mem-
ber of the Armed Forces who sacrificed his
life in service to the United States and five
non-combat deaths.
(16) The sixth unrecognized war era involv-
ing active United States military personnel
was the Bay of Pigs invasion in April 1961.
(17) The Bay of Pigs invasion was a failed
military invasion of Cuba undertaken by a
United States military group sponsored by
the Central Intelligence Agency that re-
sulted in not fewer than one death of a mem-
ber of the Armed Forces who sacrificed his
life in service to the United States and 19
non-combat deaths.
(18) The seventh unrecognized war era in-
volving active United States military per-
sonnel was the Cuban Missile Crisis, which
took place between October 16 and October
28, 1962.
(19) The Cuban Missile Crisis directly re-
lated to homeland protection against the de-
ployment of a Soviet ballistic missile in
Cuba.
(20) During the Cuban Missile Crisis, one
member of the Armed Forces sacrificed his
life in service to the United States and 19
others died as non-combatants.
(21) The eighth unrecognized war era in-
volving active United States military per-
sonnel was the Dominican Civil War in 1965.
(22) Operations during the Dominican Civil
War resulted in the deaths of 27 members of
the Armed Forces who sacrificed their lives
in service to the United States, 20 non-com-
bat-related deaths, and 283 wounded.
(23) The ninth unrecognized war era involv-
ing active United States military personnel
was the Iran Hostage Crisis, which lasted
from November 4, 1979, through January 20,
1981.
(24) The Iran Hostage Crisis involved mili-
tary intervention by the United States
which resulted in the deaths of 8 members of
the Armed Forces who sacrificed their lives
in service to United States.
(25) The tenth unrecognized war era involv-
ing active United States military personnel
was the Salvadoran Civil War.
(26) The Salvadoran Civil War lasted more
than 12 years, through the terms of two Pres-
idential administrations of the United
States, and resulted in the deaths of 22 mem-
bers of the Armed Forces who sacrificed
their lives in service to the United States, 15
non-combat deaths, and 35 other casualties.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.083 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7221
July 23, 2019
(27) The 11th unrecognized war era involv-
ing active United States military personnel
started on April 5, 1986, when the La Belle
discotheque in West Berlin, Germany, was
bombed, killing two United States soldiers
and wounding 79 other members of the
Armed Forces, which triggered what became
known as the Libyan Conflict.
(28) The military operations of the Libyan
Conflict included numerous air strikes by
United States military forces and resulted in
the deaths of two members of the Armed
Forces who sacrificed their lives in service
to the United States.
(29) The Libyan Conflict led to the 12th un-
recognized war era involving active United
States military personnel, known collec-
tively as the Persian Gulf Conflicts, which
lasted from July 24, 1987, through September
26, 1988.
(30) The Persian Gulf Conflicts involved
United States military missions to protect
Kuwaiti-owned oil tankers which represented
the largest United States naval convoy oper-
ation since World War II.
(31) The Persian Gulf Conflicts resulted in
numerous military operations and the deaths
of not fewer than 39 members of the Armed
Forces who sacrificed their lives in service
to the United States and 31 wounded.
(32) Since the armistice that ended the hos-
tilities of the Korean War on January 31,
1955, nearly 100 active United States military
personnel have sacrificed their lives in serv-
ice to the United States in South Korea, and
more than 132 people of the United States
have been wounded in-country.
(33) Since January 1, 1947, through all of
the unrecognized war eras involving active
United States military personnel, not fewer
than 778 combat and non-combat members of
the Armed Forces have sacrificed their lives
in service to the United States and not fewer
than 797 have been wounded.
(34) Since January 1, 1947, the unrecognized
war eras involving active United States mili-
tary personnel who were wounded and killed
serving their country were administered
under orders from the commander in chief
and with the consent of Congress, proving
that the United States has been conducting
deadly wartime service to protect the coun-
try consistently since December 7, 1941.
(35) Eligibility for membership in The
American Legion is determined by Congress
through the establishment of specific dates
of declared and officially recognized hos-
tilities in which United States military per-
sonnel are on active service.
(36) The American Legion provides invalu-
able services to its members and supports
the community of veterans who sacrificed in
service of the United States.
(37) Membership in The American Legion
allows veterans to engage in public service
activities, such as supporting Boys and Girls
State and Nation, youth mentorship pro-
grams, and benefit assistance, career fairs,
and employment assistance for veterans.
(38) The American Legion has gone on
record as supporting the 12 unrecognized war
eras involving active United States military
personnel since the beginning of World War
II.
(39) The American Legion has aided, as-
sisted, and comforted the families of the men
and women who were called to serve or vol-
unteered to serve during all of the unrecog-
nized war eras and continues to provide sup-
port to veterans of those eras.
(40) The American Legion has commended
the heroic actions of all military personnel
who risked their lives in defense of freedom
during each of the unrecognized war eras in-
volving active United States military per-
sonnel.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that, in accordance with the his-
tory, tradition, and purposes of The Amer-
ican Legion, it is fair, proper, and reasonable
that the privilege of membership in The
American Legion should be extended to all
military personnel who served on active
military duty during all of the unrecognized
war eras involving active United States mili-
tary personnel.
SEC. 3. ELIGIBILITY FOR MEMBERSHIP IN THE
AMERICAN LEGION.
Section 21703 of title 36, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘dur-
ing any period from—’’ and all that follows
through the end of clause (vii) and inserting
the following: ‘‘during—
‘‘(i) the period from April 6, 1917, through
November 11, 1918; or
‘‘(ii) any time after December 7, 1941; or’’;
and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘or
time’’ after ‘‘a period’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘or time’’
after ‘‘that period’’.
SEC. 4. NONDISCRIMINATION WITH RESPECT TO
THE REQUIREMENTS FOR HOLDING
A STAFF POSITION IN THE AMER-
ICAN LEGION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 217 of title 36,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 21704 the following new section:
‘‘§ 21704A. Nondiscrimination
‘‘The requirements for holding a staff posi-
tion in the corporation may not discriminate
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or
national origin.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such chapter is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to section 21704 the following new item:
‘‘21704A. Nondiscrimination.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. CORREA) and the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the bill under con-
sideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of S. 504, the Let Everyone Get In-
volved Opportunities for National Serv-
ice Act, or the LEGION Act. This bi-
partisan bill will expand the eligibility
for American Legion membership to in-
clude honorably discharged veterans
who have served in unrecognized con-
flicts.
The American Legion was chartered
by Congress in 1919. Since then, The
American Legion has grown to become
the Nation’s largest veteran service or-
ganization, with more than 2 million
members. In Orange County alone, The
American Legion is home to nearly
8,000 members.
For millions of veterans The Legion
has offered a community of support.
Sadly, not all veterans are eligible to
join The American Legion. Currently,
only veterans who serve during periods
of declared hostilities are eligible.
Over the past decades, military per-
sonnel have served during at least 12
unofficial combat operations. They
also deserve to be members of The Le-
gion, and this bill will allow veterans
who have honorably served in our
Armed Forces during the Cuban Missile
Crisis, the Libyan conflict, and other
recognized conflicts to join The Le-
gion.
I urge my House colleagues to sup-
port this legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I rise today in support of S. 504, the
LEGION Act, and I want to thank my
colleague, the gentleman from Cali-
fornia, for his leadership on this issue.
I am proud to stand here today in sup-
port of our Nation’s veterans.
One hundred years ago, Congress
chartered The American Legion be-
cause it recognized, as our veterans re-
turned home from World War I, we
must provide for them. The American
Legion has advocated for our veterans,
servicemembers, and their commu-
nities ever since.
In the last century, The American
Legion has grown to nearly 2 million
members around the world. The group
is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indi-
ana, and has 13,000 offices, including
one in every State, advocating to State
and Federal officials.
The American Legion now provides
thousands of dollars in scholarships to
help students attend college, and
grants for the study, prevention, and
treatment of various diseases.
They have also been at the forefront
of the fight to improve mental health
services for all, but particularly for our
troops who struggle as they return
home.
Beyond The American Legion’s rich
national history, it has held a special
place in my home State of Virginia for
many decades. The American Legion
Department of Virginia was also char-
tered in 1919, with 91 local posts and
several thousand members. In the in-
tervening century, it has grown to 212
posts and over 33,000 Legionnaires, and
it provides a variety of services to vet-
erans and their families.
Today’s legislation makes necessary
amendments to The American Legion
charter to include all existing members
and opens it to all future members of
the Armed Forces who are honorably
discharged, separated, or continue to
serve. It provides future flexibility to
enable The American Legion to con-
tinue to provide opportunities for our
servicemen and -women. It also enables
The American Legion to serve the next
generation.
I would like to thank Congressman
CORREA again for his partnership on
this legislation and his support of The
American Legion and our servicemen
and -women.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.030 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7222 July 23, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleagues for their support of this
process, and, once again, I ask for their
support of this legislation.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
CORREA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 504.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
DELBENE). Proceedings will resume on
questions previously postponed. Votes
will be taken in the following order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
Agree to H. Res. 246;
Pass H.R. 549;
Pass H.R. 3304; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
OPPOSING GLOBAL BOYCOTT, DI-
VESTMENT, AND SANCTIONS
MOVEMENT TARGETING ISRAEL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and agree to
the resolution (H. Res. 246) opposing ef-
forts to delegitimize the State of Israel
and the Global Boycott, Divestment,
and Sanctions Movement targeting
Israel, as amended, on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, as
amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 398, nays 17,
answered ‘‘present’’ 5, not voting 12, as
follows:
[Roll No. 497]
YEAS—398
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jeffries
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—17
Blumenauer
Carson (IN)
Dingell
Garcı́a (IL)
Grijalva
Jayapal
Lee (CA)
Massie
McCollum
Moore
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pingree
Pocan
Rush
Tlaib
Watson Coleman
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—5
Amash
Bass
Davis, Danny K.
Huffman
Johnson (GA)
NOT VOTING—12
Abraham
Armstrong
Gianforte
Gohmert
Gonzalez (TX)
Graves (MO)
Moulton
Richmond
Roby
Ryan
Stewart
Wilson (FL)
b 1904
Messrs. GARCÍA of Illinois and CAR-
SON of Indiana changed their vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mses. GARCIA of Texas, BONAMICI,
Messrs. ROUDA, YOUNG, HOLLINGS-
WORTH, PAYNE, and COX of Cali-
fornia changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’
to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
resolution, as amended, was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
VENEZUELA TPS ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 549) to designate Venezuela
under section 244 of the Immigration
and Nationality Act to permit nation-
als of Venezuela to be eligible for tem-
porary protected status under such sec-
tion, and for other purposes, as amend-
ed, on which the yeas and nays were or-
dered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL) that the House sus-
pend the rules and pass the bill, as
amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 268, nays
154, not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 498]
YEAS—268
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Bacon
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:26 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.086 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7223
July 23, 2019
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rodgers (WA)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
NAYS—154
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gibbs
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Stauber
Steube
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Wright
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Gianforte
Gohmert
Graves (MO)
Moulton
Richmond
Roby
Ryan
Stewart
Wilson (FL)
b 1918
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
changed his vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So (two-thirds not being in the af-
firmative) the motion was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
f
NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERV-
ISTS DEBT RELIEF EXTENSION
ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 3304) to exempt for an addi-
tional 4-year period, from the applica-
tion of the means-test presumption of
abuse under chapter 7, qualifying mem-
bers of reserve components of the
Armed Forces and members of the Na-
tional Guard who, after September 11,
2001, are called to active duty or to per-
form a homeland defense activity for
not less than 90 days, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 417, nays 1,
not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 499]
YEAS—417
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.032 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7224 July 23, 2019
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—1
Amash
NOT VOTING—14
Abraham
Carson (IN)
Gianforte
Gohmert
Graves (MO)
Khanna
King (NY)
McNerney
Moulton
Richmond
Roby
Ryan
Stewart
Wilson (FL)
b 1929
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. KING of New York. Madam Speaker,
had I been present, I would have voted YEA
on Roll Call No. 499.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 397, REHABILITATION FOR
MULTIEMPLOYER PENSIONS ACT
OF 2019; PROVIDING FOR CONSID-
ERATION OF H.R. 3239, HUMANI-
TARIAN STANDARDS FOR INDI-
VIDUALS IN CUSTOMS AND BOR-
DER PROTECTION CUSTODY ACT;
PROVIDING FOR PROCEEDINGS
DURING THE PERIOD FROM JULY
29, 2019, THROUGH SEPTEMBER 6,
2019; AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
Mrs. TORRES of California, from the
Committee on Rules, submitted a priv-
ileged report (Rept. No. 116–178) on the
resolution (H. Res. 509) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 397) to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to create a Pension Rehabilitation
Trust Fund, to establish a Pension Re-
habilitation Administration within the
Department of the Treasury to make
loans to multiemployer defined benefit
plans, and for other purposes; providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3239)
to require U.S. Customs and Border
Protection to perform an initial health
screening on detainees, and for other
purposes; providing for proceedings
during the period from July 29, 2019,
through September 6, 2019; and for
other purposes, which was referred to
the House Calendar and ordered to be
printed.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, I urge
the Speaker and majority leader to im-
mediately schedule this bill to protect
babies born alive and to stop blocking
this most basic responsibility we have.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman is not recognized for debate.
f
EXPRESSING CONDOLENCES TO
THE FAMILIES OF BOEING 737
MAX ACCIDENT VICTIMS
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to extend my sincere condo-
lences to the families who lost loved
ones in the Boeing 737 MAX tragedies.
One life lost in any accident is one too
many, and Congress has a duty to take
steps to ensure that future tragedies do
not occur.
Last week Mr. Paul Njoroge and Mr.
Michael Stumo, who lost loved ones in
this tragedy testified before the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infra-
structure on how they believe aviation
safety can be improved. I commend
them for having the courage to testify
before the committee under such dif-
ficult circumstances.
I personally met with Mr. Stumo and
his wife, Nadia, who lost their daugh-
ter, Samya, in the Ethiopian Airlines
tragedy. I cannot begin to imagine the
grief that they are experiencing. As a
father of three, it terrifies me to think
of harm coming to my children, and I
would do anything to prevent it.
Madam Speaker, I am committed to
a thorough investigation of the 737
MAX airplane to ensure it is safe be-
fore airlines resume commercial
flights.
f
THE LEGACY OF APOLLO
(Mr. BAIRD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BAIRD. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to celebrate the 50th anniversary
of Apollo 11 and the triumph of the
human spirit. On July 16, 1969, three
Americans boarded a rocket at Ken-
nedy Space Center on Merritt Island,
Florida. When they lifted off a few
hours later with a flight path toward
the unthinkable, humanity was
changed forever. Millions of men,
women, and children were inspired
watching the extraordinary events un-
fold over the next 4 days as humanity
took these first steps on the Moon.
Fellow Purdue University alumnus
Neil Armstrong’s words: ‘‘That is one
small step for man, one giant leap for
mankind’’ will forever define that mo-
ment in history. The successful jour-
ney to the Moon brought with it a tre-
mendous sense of triumph and pride.
Our Nation found a bold, common goal
that we reached through American in-
genuity and determination.
This is the spirit that carries us for-
ward in exploration and innovation
today. Right now we are looking at re-
turning to the Moon within the next 5
years and eventually landing on Mars.
Madam Speaker, what has been pre-
viously unheard of is now being thrust
into the scope of reality.
It is our responsibility to keep tak-
ing giant leaps to challenge what is
perceived as impossible, and I look for-
ward to the next chapter of American
space exploration.
f
RETIREES HAVE EARNED THEIR
PENSIONS
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, this
week marks a heroic milestone for mil-
lions of America’s retirees as the House
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.033 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7225
July 23, 2019
finally considers the Butch Lewis Act.
This bill moves America one step clos-
er to restoring its broken pension
promises to 1,300,000 pensioners across
our Nation.
Today I met with another 50 retirees
from trucking firms, candy manufac-
turers, miners, and others in Ohio
whose futures are at risk in their gold-
en years. Their top concern is eco-
nomic security.
I heard the stresses they have en-
dured since receiving letters threat-
ening pension cuts of up to 70 percent
of their earned pensions. Worry be-
tween family members, increased sui-
cides amongst pensioner friends, anx-
iety and growing health concerns. This
isn’t the retirement hardworking
Americans earned.
Valorie Shapler, a retired Roadway
Express truck driver, is suffering from
brain cancer. She is fighting for her life
daily, and why should she have to
worry about the pension cuts that she
earned?
Vicki Bailey, a widow of a trucker,
raised their family but already strug-
gles to survive on her spousal benefits
that were cut in half with her hus-
band’s passing, and she has her own
health issues to worry about.
Jim Baumgartner asked for a prayer.
How can Congress ignore the pleas of
millions of hardworking Americans?
Pensions have afforded millions of re-
tired middle-class people some eco-
nomic security in their retirement
years. Please let our colleagues join us
in broad bipartisan passage of the
Butch Lewis Act tomorrow.
f
HONORING DR. DAKEYAN CHA DRE
GRAHAM AS FLORIDA’S 2020
TEACHER OF THE YEAR
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Dr. Dakeyan Graham
for being selected as Florida’s Teacher
of the Year. He was chosen out of more
than 176,000 teachers to receive Flor-
ida’s highest award for public edu-
cators.
Known affectionately by his students
as Dr. Dre, he has long been driven by
music. He played the saxophone in the
marching band at King High School;
and he went on to study music edu-
cation, earning a bachelor’s degree
from the University of Florida and a
doctorate from the University of South
Florida.
He returned to King High School as
an educator where he teaches his stu-
dents music in the same room where he
learned to play.
He has worked at the school for more
than a decade and now serves as the di-
rector of bands and instrumental stud-
ies. As part of this award, Dr. Graham
will spend 1 year as an education am-
bassador where he will work to raise
public awareness of other exceptional
teachers, provide learning opportuni-
ties to educators, and recruit future
teachers.
Dr. Graham has dedicated his career
to serving his students, and this award
shows he sets an example not only to
his students but to us all.
f
COMMEMORATING PASTOR R. L.
ROGERS
(Mr. VEASEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. VEASEY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the life of Pas-
tor R. L. Rogers, a good friend, a man
of God, a community leader, father,
and husband. Pastor Rogers
transitioned from labor to eternal re-
ward this past weekend.
Pastor Rogers attended high school
in south Texas before graduating from
the Southwestern Theological Semi-
nary in Fort Worth. Pastor Roger’s
time in seminary started his journey in
faith and helping our community that
expanded over five decades.
Pastor Rogers was the founder and
the only pastor for 53 years of the Har-
vey Avenue Baptist Church, a place of
worship that is a cornerstone in the
Fort Worth community. That was only
the beginning of his accomplishments.
Pastor Rogers was also an avid vol-
unteer for important causes like men-
toring the youth in our community and
serving as a chaplain at the Tarrant
County Jail. He was also a nationally
known evangelist, a pastor, and Gospel
preacher.
Pastor Rogers was a pillar in the
community spending his 53 years
teaching and encouraging the word of
God. It was an honor to know Pastor
Rogers and just to know the legacy
that he has left behind in our commu-
nity.
My heartfelt condolences to his fam-
ily. We thank you for sharing Pastor
Rogers with us in the Fort Worth com-
munity for so long.
f
RECOGNIZING ED LOMASNEY OF
THE BURTCHVILLE FIRE DE-
PARTMENT
(Mr. MITCHELL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize Ed Lomasney
for his 60 years of dedicated service to
the Burtchville, Michigan, fire depart-
ment.
Mr. Lomasney became a firefighter
following in the footsteps of his father,
who helped found the Burtchville Fire
Department. Over the last 60 years, Ed
has served as a volunteer firefighter
and has been instrumental in growing
the firehouse through his time, re-
sources, and mentorship.
In addition to volunteering with the
fire department, Ed worked and retired
from DTE Energy. He is a devoted hus-
band to his wife, Mary Nell, and loving
father to their three children.
For six decades, Ed has been a main-
stay of the department, and he will be
missed by all. Although Ed may be re-
tiring from the fire department, we all
know he will remain involved in the
community to make an impact on all
of Burtchville.
Madam Speaker, I join the
Burtchville community in thanking
him for his dedication and his 60 years
of service and wish him the best in his
retirement.
f
MISS NEW JERSEY 2019
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker, a
few weeks ago, 28 young, impressive
women shared their talents in the Miss
New Jersey competition. The competi-
tion has been around for almost 100
years and since that time has evolved
into a fantastic celebration of some of
the best young individuals in south
Jersey.
The Miss New Jersey competition
was the first to offer a talent category,
and this past year the competition fo-
cused even more on aptitude and intel-
lect over outward appearance. This
year the candidates were able to em-
phasize their individual styles and
their individual passions, and all of the
young women spoke about different so-
cial impact initiatives that mattered
greatly to them.
One of my wonderful spring interns,
Alyssa Rodriguez, placed in the top 11
with her platform of social media
awareness. She made south Jersey so
very proud. Miss Jade Glab of Belmar,
New Jersey, was crowned Miss New
Jersey with her platform of healthy
children, strong America.
We are proud of all the contestants
and the intellect and the compassion
they bring to all of their communities,
and I am most proud of our contestants
from south Jersey.
f
b 1945
WAYCROSS AREA COMMUNITY
THEATER
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the
Waycross Area Community Theater for
all of its work to support local theater
while preserving historical structures
in the First Congressional District of
Georgia. Using local talent to provide
live family friendly musicals, this com-
munity theater is truly a gem.
Since 1913, theater has played a large
role in the social scene of Waycross,
with the Ritz Theater hosting operas
there. Noted as one of Georgia’s ‘‘finest
theater’’ structures, the Ritz Theater
transitioned over time into showing
only movies and then, finally, going
dormant.
Now, the Waycross Area Community
Theater maintains the historic art
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.094 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7226 July 23, 2019
deco-style theater with its live produc-
tions, and their work has not gone un-
noticed. Aside from the crowded audi-
ences, the Fox Theater has awarded
grants to the Community Theater over
the last 2 years to help preserve the
historic Ritz Theater.
Thank you to all who perform shows,
attend musicals, and preserve the won-
derful theater culture in Waycross,
Georgia.
f
FEDERAL TRIO PROGRAMS
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 3800, the Educational Opportu-
nities and Success Act, the bill intro-
duced last week by my colleague Rep-
resentative WARREN DAVIDSON of Ohio.
Madam Speaker, H.R. 3800 seeks to
address a common, yet preventable,
issue impacting students from low-in-
come families and first-generation col-
lege students. In recent years, appli-
cants to the Department of Education’s
Upward Bound program found them-
selves stuck in financial limbo when
their grant applications were rejected
due to clerical errors, some errors as
insignificant as using the wrong font.
This is unacceptable. I was proud to
cosponsor H.R. 3800, a bill that reau-
thorizes the TRIO programs for 5 addi-
tional years.
I am also proud to work with my col-
leagues across the aisle to support this
commonsense legislation that eases the
administrative burdens during the ap-
plication process.
TRIO programs like Upward Bound
are critical in ensuring disadvantaged
students have a shot at turning the
dream of a college education into a re-
ality, and H.R. 3800 has my full sup-
port.
f
CONSENSUS RULE SUBVERTED
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, it has now been 6 leg-
islative days since H.R. 553, the Mili-
tary Surviving Spouses Equity Act,
was denied a standalone vote.
Democrat leadership subverted their
own rules and prevented a vote on this
bipartisan legislation, which now has
371 cosponsors, over 86 percent of the
Members of the Congress.
Under new rules in this Congress,
H.R. 553 qualified for the Consensus
Calendar, a provision for bills to re-
ceive a standalone vote. An article pub-
lished in The Hill stated today: ‘‘The
new rule keeps top House leaders from
squelching any bill that has at least 290
cosponsors, or two-thirds of the House
membership.’’
Sadly, the Democrats did just that.
They targeted and removed H.R. 553
from the Consensus Calendar.
Democrat leadership should bring
this bill to the floor. The time is now
to give these rightly deserved benefits
to the surviving spouses of service-
members and finally end the widow’s
tax.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
CONGRATULATIONS TO GARY
JOHN ALEKNAVICH ON HIS RE-
TIREMENT
(Mr. SOTO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SOTO. Madam Speaker, tonight,
I would like to honor Gary John
Aleknavich and congratulate him on
his upcoming retirement.
Gary John Aleknavich is a U.S. Navy
veteran, labor leader, maintenance
foreman, journeyman mechanic, and
certified welder by trade. He has re-
ceived a certificate of achievement for
completing courses at the Florida
International University Center for
Labor Research and Studies.
After serving in the U.S. Navy from
1976 to 1979, Gary was hired by Florida
Power and Light, and then went on to
become an apprenticeship mechanic at
the Florida Port Everglades Power
Plant. In 1984, he became a journeyman
mechanic at the St. Lucie Nuclear
Power Plant, and later became a me-
chanical certified welder and a nuclear
maintenance foreman.
He has held various positions within
his local union of the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, in-
cluding treasurer, executive board
member, job steward, System Council
U–4 delegate, and national convention
committee delegate, and served as the
Florida Electrical Worker Associa-
tion’s vice president and executive
board member.
Gary has been a member of IBEW
since 1980 and even started the process
to establish and train IBEW officers
and members in the IBEW Code of Ex-
cellence training program. He soon be-
came System Council U–4, assistant
business manager of IBEW System
Council U–4, and was later elected to
serve as business manager in 2005,
where he ran unopposed for four addi-
tional 3-year terms and will retire next
month.
There is no question that Gary John
Aleknavich has been a leader in his
community and a public servant, and
one of labor’s strongest members.
Madam Speaker, for that, we thank
him.
f
34TH ANNUAL PARK AND
RECREATION MONTH
(Mr. WESTERMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate our Nation’s
parks.
This July marks the 34th annual
Park and Recreation Month, a celebra-
tion highlighting the incredible oppor-
tunities and benefits that park and
recreation agencies provide to their
communities.
I, like many Arkansans, grew up en-
joying everything that the Natural
State has to offer. From hiking and
hunting in its forests, to swimming,
fishing, and boating on its crystal-clear
lakes and rivers, outdoor recreation is
an essential part of life for the families
of my State. Some of my favorite
memories of life were made outside in
the beautiful outdoors of Arkansas,
and I am blessed to still be making
similar memories today.
Our park and recreation agencies are
an important part of our history and
offer much to the quality of our future.
Theodore Roosevelt once said: ‘‘It is an
incalculable added pleasure to anyone’s
sum of happiness if he or she grows to
know, even slightly and imperfectly,
how to read and enjoy the wonder-book
of nature.’’
As a forester and lifelong lover of na-
ture, the wonder-book of nature has al-
ways been fascinating to me, and I
hope to motivate people to get out and
enjoy the natural beauty around them.
In the words of the fictional sitcom
character Leslie Knope, ‘‘America is
awesome.’’ I encourage everyone to go
outside with friends and family to
enjoy all the awesomeness our parks
have to offer.
f
CONGRATULATIONS TO ALLEN
INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT
ON BEING NAMED THE DISTRICT
OF DISTINCTION
(Mr. TAYLOR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today
I rise to congratulate Allen Inde-
pendent School District for being
named a District of Distinction by Dis-
trict Administration Magazine.
Allen ISD serves thousands of stu-
dents grades K through 12 in a rapidly
growing community. In an effort to
meet growing needs of the community,
Allen ISD launched a STEAM Center to
provide a unique learning environment
to help foster an interest in STEAM
amongst students. The brand-new facil-
ity offers students hands-on learning
experiences ranging from indoor robot-
ics labs to outdoor discovery gardens.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
in the House of Representatives to join
me today in congratulating Allen ISD,
their staff, parents, and students for
being named District of Distinction
and commend them on their dedication
to cultivating a passion in students for
learning more about science, tech-
nology, engineering, art, and mathe-
matics.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.096 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7227
July 23, 2019
DELEGITIMIZING THE STATE OF
ISRAEL AND OPPOSING THE BDS
MOVEMENT
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, to-
night we voted on a resolution oppos-
ing efforts to delegitimize the State of
Israel and oppose the Global Boycott,
Divestment, and Sanctions, BDS,
Movement targeting Israel.
I am a cosponsor of this resolution,
but the House should also be voting on
legislation to combat these efforts to
undermine one of our strongest allies,
like the Senate did when they passed a
bill to authorize State or local govern-
ments to divest assets from entities de-
ploying BDS against Israel.
But, unfortunately, Democrat leader-
ship refuses to let us vote on this bill
in the House for fear of fractures with-
in their own party. Just last week, one
of their Members actually introduced
legislation that supports this hate-
fueled BDS movement, even drawing
disgraceful comparisons between boy-
cotting Israel now and boycotting Nazi
Germany in the 1930s and 1940s.
Let’s not forget that the United
States and Israel have a long history of
working together to achieve stability
in the Middle East, the inventions they
work on together, and they remain one
of our strongest and most loyal allies
today.
Our actions in this Chamber need to
unequivocally support that relation-
ship and the lone beacon of freely
elected government that is Israel in
the Middle East.
As Golda Meir put it:
We will only have peace when they love
their children more than they hate us.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
WEXTON). The Chair would inform the
House that, pursuant to H. Res. 497, the
Speaker has certified to the United
States Attorney for the District of Co-
lumbia the refusal of William P. Barr
and Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., to produce doc-
uments to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
f
MAKE IT IN AMERICA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. GARAMENDI) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
majority leader.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker,
given all of the talk that is going on
and the investigations and questions
about deficits and the like, I thought it
would be useful today to start this dis-
cussion, which I will spend most of the
evening talking about American manu-
facturing, but I often want to start
these discussions with some sense of
value: What is our goal? What are we
trying to accomplish here?
I keep going back to FDR. At the
height of the Great Depression, he said:
‘‘The test of our progress is not wheth-
er we add more to the abundance of
those who have much; it is whether we
provide enough for those who have too
little.’’
And so, last week, the House of Rep-
resentatives—the Democrats, that is,
and maybe just a few Republicans—
voted to increase the minimum wage
across this Nation so that, over the
next 5 years, the minimum wage would
rise from, I guess, just over $7 an hour
to $15 dollars an hour—not a jump im-
mediately, but over time increase it.
Why do we do that? Well, we are for
the people.
That is our goal: for the people; and
keeping in mind what FDR said: It is
not about whether we add more to
those who have much, but, rather,
what we do for those who have little.
And so we raise the minimum wage.
Why? Because those people who are
making $7 an hour across this Nation,
they have very, very little, in fact, so
little that they cannot have both food
and shelter.
And, of course, we talk about
healthcare and our goal to expand
healthcare to every American so they
have insurance, so that the worrying
about how they would be paying for
their hospital visit or their doctor is
set aside and they are able to get the
care that they need to lead a healthy
and productive life.
That is our goal. We are for the peo-
ple, and we are going to address this in
so many, many ways.
b 2000
One of the ways that we want to ad-
dress it is to make sure that America
remains a strong manufacturing coun-
try.
Many, many years ago in California,
I was looking at how to keep the Cali-
fornia economy going, and we hit upon
the five keys for a successful economy:
First of all, a great education system
so that your workers are well educated
and can handle the questions of the day
and the tasks of tomorrow;
Secondly, that there be strong re-
search, and, from that research, you
build tomorrow’s things. Sometimes
that is an app. Sometimes it is a com-
puter. Sometimes it is a ship or per-
haps a car, an autonomous vehicle, a
drone, whatever, so that your research
then moves on into things that you
make, and, that is, the manufacturing.
That is the creation of wealth.
Some time ago, I was visiting one of
the wineries in my district in Cali-
fornia, and I was talking about this
Make It In America Agenda in manu-
facturing. And, finally, the owner got
up from behind the desk, and he said:
Come. I want to talk to you.
We walked outside and out to his
winery, and he said: You know what
this is?
I said: Yeah. It is a winery.
He said: No. This is a manufacturing
facility. I take grapes, and I turn them
into some of the finest wine in the
world. So, when you talk about Make
It In America, guess what. I am mak-
ing it in America.
So, it includes all of these things,
putting a tomato into a can, into a bot-
tle of ketchup. But what we are going
to talk about tonight is something far
more than that.
I want to really not so much talk
about these gentlemen and ladies, but
to use them as an example of what
America used to make. These gentle-
men, three of them, are World War II
merchant mariners.
This is an effort we have now under
way to provide these mariners, who
had the highest death rate of any unit
in the armed services during World War
II, a Congressional Gold Medal. We now
have nearly 300 Members of this House
who are signed on to that so that they
will get a Congressional Gold Medal.
But this is not about their gold
medal; it is about what they were able
to do.
America, during the World War II pe-
riod, was the manufacturing center of
the world. And we made ships—lit-
erally, thousands and thousands of
ships—that these gentlemen and so
many like them sailed the oceans, pro-
vided the material, the personnel to
fight that war.
When we met and took this picture,
they asked me: Why is it that America
doesn’t build ships anymore?
I said: Oh, but we build naval ships;
we build aircraft carriers; we build de-
stroyers; we build many other kinds of
naval ships.
They said: No. No. That is not what
we are talking about. We are talking
about the ships that sail the high seas.
Why doesn’t America make those
ships?
And I said: We can. We can if we
write the laws in the proper way to en-
courage the shipbuilding industry and,
just as important, the cargo to go on
those ships.
Now, it happens that America is in
the midst of a great energy revolu-
tion—the green energy, no doubt about
it. We are talking about every kind of
green energy, from wind to solar,
biofuel and biomass, and on and on.
And we are doing that.
But, simultaneously, America, over
the last decade, has become a major de-
veloper and supplier of petroleum prod-
ucts: oil, as a result of fracking in the
Bakken area and Texas, California, on-
shore, offshore. We are a major oil pro-
ducer.
And, simultaneously, we are also a
major producer of natural gas. All of
these energy supplies, whether they are
the green energy or the petroleum en-
ergy, are a strategic national asset.
And, as these gentlemen told me: Our
ships, during World War II, were a stra-
tegic national asset. We had oil tank-
ers, we had cargo vessels, all of them
built in America and with American
mariners.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.098 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7228 July 23, 2019
We, the mariners, we were a strategic
asset. And a lot of us died. Our ships
were a strategic asset, and the oil that
we sent around the world was also a
strategic asset.
So, where are we today? Are we mak-
ing ships? Nope. We are not. But we
could.
So, this last week, Senator ROGER
WICKER—my colleague in the Senate, a
Republican from the Gulf Coast—and I
introduced, for the second Congress,
the Energizing the American Ship-
building Act, taking a strategic na-
tional asset, our petroleum and natural
gas, and welding it together with the
shipbuilding industry, which gives us
the strategic ships that we need to
move our military around the world
and to provide the energy that they
need.
So, the Energizing the American
Shipbuilding Act is now introduced in
the Senate, for the second session, last
year and again this time around with
the new session of Congress.
What we will do is to address this
problem: We could buy ships that are
made in China, Japan, and Korea, or we
can make them in America. If we make
the ships in America, we will provide
thousands of jobs, not only in the ship-
yards and the steel industry and the
aluminum industry, but also the mari-
time suppliers, the men, the factories
here in the United States that build
the pumps, build the engines—the elec-
trical engines, the big diesel engines—
that are in these ships or the LNG en-
gines that are in these ships, and all of
the electronics.
That entire array of equipment that
goes into a ship could be built in Amer-
ica if the Energizing the American
Shipbuilding Act were to become law.
So, how does it work? Pretty simple.
It simply requires that our strategic
national asset, the petroleum and the
natural gas, be exported on American-
built ships with American mariners—
not all of it, just a small percentage of
it, 15 percent of the oil and 10 percent
of the natural gas, which will be
liquified natural gas on American-built
ships.
What does that mean? That means
that American shipyards that are now
producing zero commercial oil tankers
and zero LNG carriers would, over the
next 13 to 15 years, build upwards of 40
ships: 25 to 30 LNG tankers and 10 to 15
oil tankers.
Thousands of jobs would be created
in American shipyards, and that stra-
tegic national asset, the shipyards
themselves, would be able to continue
to operate here in the United States.
They would continue to be able to have
the skilled workforce and, simulta-
neously, be better prepared to compete
for the U.S. naval ships, giving the
American taxpayer a strategic advan-
tage, more competition in the ship-
yards, more competition when it comes
time to build our naval vessels.
There is another aspect of this that I
want to bring to your attention. Be-
yond the shipbuilding and the Ener-
gizing the American Shipbuilding Act,
there is the rest of manufacturing here
in the United States.
About 8 years ago, when I first came
to Congress, we were looking at this
issue based upon my time in California,
and we decided, together with STENY
HOYER, who is now our majority leader,
that we should establish the Make It In
America program. We have been work-
ing on this for 8 years now, and we are
looking at different pieces of legisla-
tion over time to encourage the manu-
facturing here in the United States.
One of the ways we can do this—and
we are not going to go into the Presi-
dent’s tariffs right now, but we are
going to go at it in a little different
way. Here is just an example of about
what happened almost a decade ago.
In California, it was time to build the
new San Francisco Bay Bridge. The bid
went out. The State of California went
out to bid on this thing for the steel in
the bridge.
At that time, a Chinese company de-
cided that they wanted to enter the
market. Very specialized steel in this
bridge in the San Francisco area, so
they wanted to enter the market, and
they produced a bid that was 10 percent
lower than an American steel com-
pany.
China got the bid. What did they get?
Not only did they get the job; they got
a new steel mill, one of the most ad-
vanced in the world, and they also had
some over 3,000 jobs in China.
At the very same time, New York
was building the Tappan Zee Bridge.
They said, no, we are only going to buy
American steel, and so they did, total
cost, $3.9 billion.
In California, total cost, $3.9 billion
over the estimated cost. Why? Because
the Chinese steel had problems, the
welds and other problems with the
steel.
Not in New York. They came in on
the bid, and there were 7,700 American
jobs in the steel industry and in the
manufacturing and engineering—just.
An example, not current today, but
certainly current nearly a decade ago.
But this is what happens when our
laws or our governments decide that
we are going to make it in America, we
are going to produce the steel, we are
going to build the bridges here in the
United States.
So, building on this idea, we have
now introduced in both the Senate and
the House another Make It In America
piece of legislation. This legislation is
authored in the Senate by Senator
TAMMY BALDWIN and here in the House
by me.
It basically says that all of this talk
about infrastructure, which is criti-
cally important, that that infrastruc-
ture, if it is an American taxpayer dol-
lar that is being used to build that in-
frastructure—whether that is a power
line or a highway or a sanitation sys-
tem or a water system or an airport—
if there is a Federal dollar involved,
that we make it in America.
It simply applies to all types of infra-
structure. When American taxpayer
dollars are being used, that that infra-
structure—the steel, the pipe, the elec-
tronics, the other elements that are in
that infrastructure—that they be made
in America.
So it is part of our Make It In Amer-
ica agenda that we have been working
on all these years, and we are going to
apply it wherever we see an oppor-
tunity. If it is in the steel industry for
bridges and infrastructure, you bet.
You bet, we are going to make sure
that it is made in America.
Many of these laws already exist. A
couple of years ago, we were able to
raise the percentage of American con-
tent by a couple of percentage points
to about, if I recall, about 65 percent on
certain infrastructure projects. But we
want to extend that beyond.
And why not go the whole way? Let’s
make it all in America. If it is a tax-
payer dollar, 100 percent American
made. That is our goal. So our Make It
in America agenda goes forward from
here.
I am going to end with putting this
one back up again because this has an
opportunity to be a very, very impor-
tant part. The steel in the ships, the
pumps, the pipes, the electronics, the
propellers, the drive shaft, the en-
gines—all of those things—can be made
in America if we have a national policy
that simply says the export of a stra-
tegic national asset, oil and gas, that
that be on American-built ships. Not
all of it, 10 percent, 15 percent, 40 ships
over the next 15 years or so when the
Energizing the American Shipbuilding
Act becomes law.
b 2015
We are looking for support. We have
broad support right now, both Repub-
lican and Democratic, with Senator
WICKER from Mississippi and Senator
CASEY from Pennsylvania. On this side,
about 30 of my colleagues, Democratic
and Republican, have signed up in sup-
port of this legislation.
It has great potential. It has great
potential, but not so much for these
mariners. They are all in their nineties
right now. Hopefully, we will be able to
get them a Congressional Gold Medal.
For tomorrow’s mariners, for those
men and women who will be on ships
that will supply the necessary mate-
rial, oil, gas, or whatever for our mili-
tary around the world, and will partici-
pate in the annual commerce of goods
and services that are being transported
in and out of America, that next gen-
eration of mariners will have the ships,
jobs, and cargo.
For the People, once again, we are
constantly looking for different laws,
different ways in which we can advance
the well-being of the American public.
If it is healthcare, we are looking to
lower costs. If it is education, we want
to make sure that the cost of college
education is affordable. If it has to do
with jobs, we are looking for ways to
make that happen by requiring that
your tax dollars be spent on American-
made equipment, by requiring that a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.099 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7229
July 23, 2019
small percentage of the export of a pre-
cious national resource be on Amer-
ican-built ships with American sailors.
I want all of us to keep in mind that
there are things that public policy can
do to improve the well-being of every
American. Our For the People policy
includes all of these elements, and we
draw your attention to that.
I am looking to my colleagues for
continued support on these two pieces
of legislation that we will be working
on in this session.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
SUPPORT INCREASED DOMESTIC
ENERGY PRODUCTION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. DUNCAN) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the mi-
nority leader.
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, we
are here tonight, as the House Energy
Action Team, to discuss the numerous
economic, national security, and envi-
ronmental benefits of the American en-
ergy renaissance.
The HEAT team will never be sup-
portive of policies that increase elec-
tricity prices for consumers, favor for-
eign-based production over domestic,
and deter the development and con-
struction of energy infrastructure.
Due to policies that incentivize pri-
vate investment and production, the
United States has become the global
leader in natural gas and oil producing,
as well as refining. This has given us
the ability to export energy to our
friends, allies, and countries that want
to import U.S. energy.
Energy Secretary Rick Perry re-
cently said, ‘‘The United States is not
just exporting energy. We are export-
ing freedom.’’ I couldn’t agree more.
There is no national security without
energy security. We understand that in
the House Energy Action Team.
Looking at this graph, in 2018, U.S.
crude oil production exceeded 11 mil-
lion barrels per day, surpassing Russia
as the world’s largest crude oil pro-
ducer. The U.S. produced 12.16 million
barrels per day of crude in April 2019.
I was just out in North Dakota, in
the Bakken. I am amazed at the pro-
duction going on in that little corner
of the world. I say ‘‘little,’’ but the
Bakken is huge. It is a tremendous re-
source for the Nation.
In fact, we are producing more oil
and natural gas in the Bakken in North
Dakota and Montana than they are in
the country of Venezuela, which is
known for its natural resources, known
for its oil production. They are pro-
ducing more in the Bakken.
Robust domestic energy production
is essential to global leadership in the
United States. According to the U.S.
Energy Information Institute, natural
gas and oil supplied about two-thirds of
American energy used in 2016.
Oil and gas will continue to be a
prominent source of energy. The En-
ergy Information Institute estimates
that fossil fuels will account for nearly
70 percent of the country’s energy used
by 2050.
The goal should be to produce, de-
velop, or make fossil fuels available
cleaner through private sector innova-
tion, not regulation. That should be
the goal, private sector innovation, not
the heavy boot of government telling
the innovators what they should or
should not do. The innovators are actu-
ally making things cleaner. We are
producing a lot, and we are exporting a
lot.
One thing I applaud President Trump
for doing is challenging Chancellor
Merkel and Germany to lessen their de-
pendence on a foreign source of energy,
in this case, not the Arab states, Saudi
Arabia, or others, but lessen their de-
pendence on Russia. A lot of Europe,
Eastern Europe and Western Europe,
get their energy from Russia, Gazprom
and Rosneft, which support Vladimir
Putin.
By lessening Europe’s dependence on
Russia for their energy, Russia is no
longer an influencer. It can’t turn the
spigot on and off to influence political
policy in Europe.
Europe still has to meet its energy
needs. It can do that looking west to
the United States through our export
of LNG, liquefied natural gas put on
ships, sent to Europe, and off-loaded to
provide the natural gas and energy se-
curity for our friends and allies over-
seas to lessen their dependence on Rus-
sia.
Exports of U.S. LNG are set to rise 72
percent this year, as compared to 2018.
Russia is just a gas station
masquerading as a country, but they
are providing that natural gas to Eu-
rope. They use their levers of influence,
turning that spigot on and off to affect
policy not only in Eastern Europe but
in Western Europe. Those policies and
those pipelines continue to be built to
provide that natural gas.
We need to provide that from this
country. We have an abundance. We
have an abundance of oil, too. We are
now an exporter of oil.
If we look at what the U.S. energy
sector has been able to do during this
American energy renaissance, it will
show that we are a leader in energy
production and energy technology. We
can help other countries around the
globe to meet their energy needs with
our technology as well.
Madam Speaker, we have a great
group of House Energy Action Team
members who want to talk about what
is going on, maybe in their States,
maybe things they know about in this
Nation. I know RICK ALLEN wants to
talk about nuclear power and what is
going on in Georgia. I know BRUCE
WESTERMAN wants to talk about what
is going on in Arkansas. We have so
many others.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Arkansas (Mr.
WESTERMAN) to talk about what is
going on in his part of the world.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker,
I thank the gentleman, my friend from
South Carolina (Mr. DUNCAN), for yield-
ing.
Madam Speaker, I want us to take a
moment to reflect tonight, reflect
where our country has been and where
our country is going. I think about my
grandparents who grew up in a home
that didn’t even have electricity, didn’t
have running water. Even my parents
were young when they got electricity
in their home.
Madam Speaker, it was just 150 years
ago when the main source of energy in
this country was wood fuel. We have
come a long way in this country. We
have seen a better way of life. We have
seen nicer things because of the tech-
nology and innovation that we have
had in this country.
Our energy policy should be the same
energy policy that got us to where we
are today because we have a bright fu-
ture ahead. That energy policy is sim-
ply to provide the cleanest energy pos-
sible for the lowest cost possible.
We shouldn’t discriminate against
energy sources. Energy is energy. It is
carbon atoms. It is hydrogen. It is the
energy that we have that we convert to
things like electrical energy. Just be-
cause one energy is viewed as dirtier
than another energy doesn’t mean
that, someday, that energy can’t be
clean energy.
If we look at recent developments, it
wasn’t long ago that natural gas was
an expensive form of energy. It wasn’t
in abundant supply. Through tech-
nology, we have been able to release
vast amounts of natural gas across our
country.
As a matter of fact, we are seeing a
lot of coal plants converted to natural
gas, not because of regulatory require-
ments but because of the economic
benefits of burning natural gas, clean
natural gas. We know the control tech-
nologies to get very high combustion
rates and also the ability to capture
the NOX, or nitrous oxides, that are re-
leased from burning natural gas.
It wasn’t that long ago that we didn’t
think we had enough natural gas. Be-
cause of great technology, we can expe-
rience an environment here in the
United States where our carbon emis-
sions are actually dropping.
We shouldn’t punish one energy
source over another energy source. We
should strive to use technology to
make energy as low-cost and as clean
as possible.
We can do this, whether it is renew-
ables, solar, wind, biomass. All of those
are valid sources of energy that we can,
hopefully, learn how to capture, to dis-
tribute in a manner that people can
enjoy all across the country in a way
that gives consumers reliable supplies
at a low cost.
With this, we will see our economy
continue to grow. We will see our qual-
ity of life improve. It is really not
something that should be partisan or
that we should argue about, simply to
provide energy at a low cost.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.101 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7230 July 23, 2019
Let’s look at transportation fuel.
Some are in favor of doing away with
all fossil fuels in transportation. What
would that do to our environment?
If we look at global emissions across
the world, the United States is respon-
sible for 15 percent of carbon emissions
throughout the world. If we look at
that a little bit closer and break it
down on transportation fuels, transpor-
tation fuels account for 27 percent of
carbon emissions in the United States.
Twenty-seven percent of 15 percent is
only about 4 percent.
If we did away with all gasoline, all
diesel fuels, got rid of all combustion
engines, if we did away with jet fuel,
with ships, if we took fossil fuels out of
every form of transportation in the
United States, it would wreak havoc on
our economy. It would wreak havoc on
our way of life. But it would reduce
global carbon emissions only by around
4 percent.
There is a better, smarter way to do
that. Let’s take the abundant energy
that we have. Let’s apply our wonder-
ful research facilities, the great minds
and innovators that we have in Amer-
ica. We can figure out how to use all of
our energy sources in a low-cost, clean
way. We can all continue to experience
a brighter future ahead.
I thank my colleague for hosting this
time tonight where we can, hopefully,
get some of the facts and common
sense about energy out on the table.
Just remember, as low-cost and as
clean as possible, that is a winning for-
mula for American energy.
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Arkansas
(Mr. WESTERMAN). He was out in North
Dakota with me. One thing we saw
with natural gas and oil being produced
out there, and the understanding of a
need for infrastructure in this country,
gas utilities the United States added
over 730,000 miles of pipeline to serve
almost 220 million more customers.
At the same time, methane emissions
have fallen 70 percent, 75 percent, and
CO2 emissions from U.S. power systems
are at their lowest level since 1985.
Pipelines are the safest way to trans-
port natural gas, but some parts of the
country refuse to accept this reality.
For example, New England has mora-
toriums on natural gas extraction, and
the inability to construct a pipeline
caused an increase in electricity prices.
These policies are just asinine and need
to change.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. KEVIN
HERN), a freshman Member of Congress
and a leader on the House Energy Ac-
tion Team. We will hear about what is
going on in his great State of Okla-
homa.
b 2030
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
Madam Speaker, I would like to thank
my colleague for yielding me a few
minutes here to talk about the energy
dominance in our country, and tonight
we are celebrating American excellence
and innovation in a field absolutely es-
sential to the future of our country:
energy.
There is a lot to be debated and ar-
gued on, but the crux of the matter is
that energy independence—better yet,
energy dominance—is the only path-
way to a stable, fruitful, successful
American economy.
We use energy every day. We power
our homes, our offices, our cars, our
phones, and our devices. All of this
uses energy in a different way. Since
energy is such a pervasive need in our
society, it should be a top priority in
Congress.
Completely cutting our energy
sources like clean coal, which we have
relied on for centuries, is simply not
the answer. Making drastic, astronom-
ical changes to our economy and way
of life are simply not feasible, let alone
rational.
My district is home to the oil and gas
sector. One in five jobs in Oklahoma
are supported by the oil and natural
gas industry. Every new direct oil and
gas job supports more than two addi-
tional jobs statewide. The average
Oklahoma oil and natural gas worker
makes more than $94,000 per year.
Not only is Oklahoma’s energy sector
a major job creator and economic stim-
ulator, but it is also a nationwide lead-
er in oil production and innovation in
the industry.
In 2017, Oklahoma was the Nation’s
sixth largest crude oil producing State.
As of last year, we had five operable pe-
troleum refineries with a combined
daily processing capacity of over half a
million barrels per day, accounting for
almost 3 percent of the U.S. total.
More than a dozen of the country’s 100
largest gas fields are located in Okla-
homa.
These are things to be celebrated, not
criticized. If you were to listen to some
of our colleagues across the aisle, you
would think oil and gas are the enemy.
That is not the case at all. Oil and gas
are the foundation to build on.
Renewable energy like wind and solar
are great, and I agree that we need to
continue investing in them and re-
searching how to improve them, but
they are not a replacement for oil and
gas. The future of energy in our coun-
try is dependent on an all-of-the-above
approach. All of these energy sources
can and should work together to make
America successful and energy domi-
nant on the world stage.
I look forward to working with my
colleagues on HEAT this year to find
out energy solutions that play to our
country’s strengths as well as incor-
porate the innovation that new tech-
nologies provide.
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I tell
you, in Oklahoma, they know energy. I
think one of the first wells ever drilled
in the United States of America was
over in Oklahoma. And another place
they know a lot about energy is down
on the Gulf Coast in my adopted State
of Louisiana.
The gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
GRAVES) knows energy, and they have
got a lot going on in The Pelican State.
I yield to the gentleman from Lou-
isiana.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
South Carolina for hosting this event
tonight.
Madam Speaker, this is really impor-
tant because it impacts every single
American. Energy is one of those per-
vasive issues that, if you drive a car, if
you ride in a taxi, if you take public
transit, if you have a house or you have
an apartment, you have to pay the en-
ergy bills. It affects every single one of
us.
Madam Speaker, we have options be-
fore us. We can choose to go down this
path of ignoring the energy abundance
that the United States has; we can
pivot in this direction of blindly seek-
ing these lofty goals or ambitions with-
out any technological basis, without
any basis in infrastructure or reality;
or we can move in a direction where we
can produce American energy, and we
can produce it safely and we can
produce it affordably.
Madam Speaker, let’s go down the
paths of what these options look like.
If you look back in 2011, Madam
Speaker, one half of this Nation’s trade
deficit, one half of it was attributable
to us importing energy from other
countries—one half. That means that
we are sending hundreds of billions of
dollars, hundreds of thousands of jobs,
we are sending them, we are empow-
ering them in countries like Iran, in
countries like Venezuela and other
Middle Eastern and African nations in
many cases, Madam Speaker, that
don’t share our values. They are taking
those dollars and coming back and di-
rectly challenging American interests
around the globe.
This doesn’t make sense. You don’t
arm those who wish harm upon you.
But that is what our energy policy was
back in 2011. Again, one half of this Na-
tion’s trade deficit attributable to us
importing energy.
Now, more recently, Madam Speaker,
you have seen folks who have come in
and said: Hey, we want to migrate to
no fossil fuels whatsoever.
Think about it. If you were running a
business and if your greatest asset was
this abundance of American natural
gas, of oil, of coal, think about if that
is what your asset was and if you had
this objective of achieving environ-
mental sensitivities or this objective of
reducing our emissions and providing
more clean energy solutions, would you
just go and say: Look, we are just
going to ignore all these resources?
No. You would develop technologies
on carbon capture and storage, on uti-
lization to where you could take that
resource and you could actually mar-
ket it and make products from it or
you could sequester it. That way you
can continue to have a robust econ-
omy; you can continue to have afford-
able energy; you can continue to have
American jobs without harming our
economy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.102 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7231
July 23, 2019
Now, Madam Speaker, when you look
at the option that some have chosen
where they have chosen we are going
on an aggressive renewable strategy,
let’s look at the State of California
where you have double or triple the
cost of electricity as you have in my
home State of Louisiana—double or
triple.
On top of that, Madam Speaker, look
at what the State of California has
done. They have increased—increased—
imports of oil from countries like
Saudi Arabia and others, increased
their dependence upon foreign energy,
exporting jobs, exporting untold dol-
lars to these other economies. It is fas-
cinating.
Let’s go over to the Northeast,
where, recently, you have seen them
object to transmission sitings, object
to natural gas pipelines. Madam
Speaker, what they have done there, in
doing so, they had to burn heating oil
to warm the homes in the winter, one
of the least efficient means of emis-
sions. They had to import gas from
Russia—from Russia—putting who
knows how many dollars in Vladimir
Putin’s hands to challenge U.S. inter-
ests around the globe.
Madam Speaker, these strategies are
flawed. By rejecting some of these poli-
cies of the past, by pursuing the U.S.
energy dominance agenda, we have
been able to reduce emissions in the
United States more than the next 12
countries combined, while continuing
to have a robust economy, some of the
lowest unemployment rates we have
seen in decades, and ensuring that the
United States can export energy like
we are doing with liquified natural gas
right now to 35 countries, rather than
being dependent upon those other na-
tions.
We have two choices, Madam Speak-
er. I urge American energy dominance.
I want to thank, again, the gen-
tleman from South Carolina for yield-
ing.
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for his comments.
Natural gas is being produced in this
country in a tremendous amount, so
much so, that we can export it any-
where in the world. But those on the
other side are refusing to accept the re-
ality of the benefits of natural gas. In
fact, Berkeley, California, is the first
American city to ban natural gas from
being used in new homes and busi-
nesses, being banned from being used in
new homes and businesses to heat and
cook in their homes, probably banning
transportation fuels, as well.
Natural gas is affordable for so many
Americans, and I can tell you what.
When Americans go to the pump, they
are conscientious about the price be-
cause the money they put in that tank
could be the difference in discretionary
income they could use for other things.
When you help keep energy prices
down, not only transportation fuels,
but energy prices through the elec-
tricity generation in this country—
folks over in Georgia understand elec-
trical generation. In fact, they are
building the Nation’s only nuclear
power plant over in Augusta, Georgia.
I yield to the gentleman from Savan-
nah, Georgia, to talk a little bit about
that.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding, and I thank the gentleman for
hosting this here tonight.
This is extremely important, and the
House Energy Action Team and the
Members who have spoken here and the
Members who will continue to speak
play an important role in making sure
that we get this message out, because,
Madam Speaker, I am here to join my
colleagues in discussing America’s en-
ergy resurgence and to bring to light
the many developments and advances
that have been made in our Nation, and
there are many. Lots of developments,
lots of advances have been made in our
Nation.
We are in the midst of an economic
boom. We all know that. We know that
our economy is booming. We know that
we have seen record low unemployment
rates and that we have seen growing
incomes. Simply put, jobs are being
created and people are going back to
work. As we look to the Nation’s en-
ergy needs and output, people will
often forget about how energy costs
impact both people and the economy.
I have always said that I subscribe to
the all-of-the-above type of energy
strategy, and I do; and I think it is ex-
tremely important for a number of dif-
ferent reasons, not the least of which is
to make sure that we in America have
energy independence, to make sure
that we have affordable energy, that
we never put ourselves in the position
that I can remember us being in in the
late seventies, where we were depend-
ent and were literally held over the
barrel, if you will, by other nations for
our energy needs.
We as a nation benefit from lower en-
ergy costs, meaning our monthly home
energy bills are lower and the costs to
do business are lower. Lower costs
translate into the ability of companies
to invest in their businesses and in
their employees.
American energy independence has
been crucial to the growth we have
seen since the recession. There is also
significant investment by companies
across the United States to be good
stewards of their communities.
Yes, it can be done. Yes, we can have
energy independence. Yes, we can be
good stewards of our communities.
We are seeing significant invest-
ments in new, cleaner technologies,
taking old and inefficient plants off-
line, looking to energy efficiency and
actively managing emissions. As has
been mentioned by other speakers, we
have done a great job in America of de-
creasing our emissions and still keep-
ing our economy growing. There is a
lot to be said for that.
Carbon management has really
caught on for a number of employers,
and the technology that can make it
more effective is very promising. For
instance, there are companies actively
looking to pull carbon from the air, to
sequester it into the ground through
direct air capture. This technology
continues to develop and to mature.
There are also important carbon cap-
ture systems being developed in my
home district. We are seeing incredibly
efficient turbines being built that
produce much lower emission numbers
than similar products or plants.
In addition, I have the honor of serv-
ing on the Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee, and we have done quite a bit of
work addressing the regulatory issues
that would prevent these innovative
and new technologies from coming to
market. We are doing everything that
we can to get the government out of
the way.
I have always said that the greatest
innovators, the greatest scientists are
right here in the United States of
America, and they are. That is why I
look toward the future with great an-
ticipation, because I think this is going
to be a great opportunity for us as
Americans.
I look at renewable energy. I look at
everything that is going to be done in
the way of energy production, and I see
America leading the way, and it is im-
portant the Federal Government not be
an obstacle, not be a barrier to that.
As more regulatory hurdles are put
up, the costs increase. That is why we
focus on innovation and technology,
new ideas and making sure that the
private sector has the ability to ex-
plore these opportunities.
As I mentioned earlier, there are
countless examples of employers seek-
ing new options to reduce their impact
on their communities and looking to
ways to be good stewards. In manufac-
turing alone, companies are looking at
how to turn those challenges of reduc-
ing consumption into new opportuni-
ties.
While one side of industry is looking
at that, the energy sector is also in-
vesting in researching ways to become
more efficient and effective when it
comes to reducing emissions and ex-
panding their energy mix.
Madam Speaker, if you want to see a
country that can innovate, if you want
to see a country that can lead, you
look to the United States of America.
Again, that is why I am so excited
about the future of our energy produc-
tion.
Just up the river from my district,
Plant Vogtle has the only two nuclear
units under construction in the United
States. For a nation that once devel-
oped and dominated the nuclear sector,
we have lagged behind direct competi-
tors.
As the largest carbon-free source of
power in the world, it makes sense to
move forward with developing next-
generation technology that can lower
costs. Nuclear energy is an area we can
and should continue to once again have
a leading role in the world.
Whether it is nuclear, more efficient
equipment, carbon capture, or some
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.104 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7232 July 23, 2019
other form of energy, now is our
chance to really drill down and focus
on the innovation and technology de-
velopment that is needed.
I join my colleagues here on the
HEAT team as we continue to work to-
wards policy solutions to these issues
facing our country.
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I
want to thank the gentleman from
Georgia, and he was one of the first
members of the House Energy Action
Team. He comes from the Energy and
Commerce Committee, working with
me alongside some others on the HEAT
team.
I want to applaud Whip SCALISE for
allowing the House Energy Action
Team to be reformulated, give us a
chance to talk, communicate directly
with the American people about Amer-
ican energy renaissance, American en-
ergy issues.
b 2045
I would like to recognize the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. OLSON). Before
I do, I will say that one of the biggest
honors I have had in my life came this
year when Governor Abbott made me
an honorary Texan. So I am proud to
stand alongside my fellow Texan, PETE
OLSON from Texas, to talk about what
is going on in the great State there.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. OLSON).
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I thank
my dear friend from South Carolina for
those kind words about being an hon-
orary Texan. We Texans take no of-
fense to the comments he gave to the
gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
GRAVES) about that being his home
away from home, with all the ties be-
tween South Carolina and Texas.
The Battle of the Alamo commander,
William Barret Travis, who died for our
freedom, came from South Carolina.
Two football players who would take
our Houston Texans to the Super Bowl,
Jadeveon Clowney and Deshaun Wat-
son, are products of South Carolina.
I am happy to join my friend and the
HEAT team tonight to talk about the
American energy renaissance.
Texans like to call this the era of
America crushing OPEC’s monopoly
and finally tearing down Mr. Putin’s
wall of energy control over former So-
viet Union states, nations like Estonia.
My wife and I went there about 2
years ago on a Baltic cruise. We saw
happy, happy people, like people in
that picture.
As my friend knows, that is a mer-
chant vessel called Independence. It
has been loaded with liquefied natural
gas from Sabine Pass, Louisiana, by a
company known as Cheniere, our first
LNG port plant in American history.
Two years ago, that ship pulled up in
the capital of Estonia. As you can see,
thousands and thousands of people
waved flags and said welcome to Esto-
nia, American liquefied natural gas,
because they know that is not just a
product. That is their freedom from
Mr. Putin’s autonomy and brutality.
They know we exported liquid Amer-
ican freedom to Estonia.
In contrast, our port in Houston is 52
miles long. If I got five people to walk
out and see a tanker pull up, that
would be huge. Our battleship, the USS
Texas, is over 100 years old. She is
about to be moved to be repaired, to be
moored permanently, at Galveston Is-
land. If I got 10 people, maybe 20, to
watch our battleship be moved, that
would be awesome.
Those people came out in droves be-
cause they know their control by Mr.
Putin is over.
Let’s talk about a great new ally
called India. Their Prime Minister, Mr.
Modi, is coming to Houston September
22. I have met the man four times.
They are a growing economy of 1.4 bil-
lion people. They have our values.
They have a problem with their en-
ergy. They have none that they can use
in a clean, efficient manner. They have
a lot of coal, but coal is dirty. They
have no natural gas. They have no fos-
sils, no oil.
They can’t have a pipeline deliver
those products to their nation. Coming
from the west, that pipeline has to go
through Iran and Pakistan, enemies.
To the north are the Himalaya moun-
tains. If you could get a pipeline over
an 18,000-foot elevation, God bless you.
That is the eighth wonder of the world.
To the east is a place in the world that
is falling apart, Bangladesh.
Their only solution to have cleaner
air and energy independence is Amer-
ican LNG coming via the sea, a ship.
One showed up last year loaded with
LNG, again from Sabine Pass.
We signed a contract, private sector
to private sector, in India to deliver
14.4 megatons of LNG to India for over
20 years. That means there is no way
we, the government, can get involved
here in America or India. It is private
sector to private sector freedom.
Finally, Madam Speaker, to my
friend, I have to brag about Texas. Lib-
eral friends want to address climate
change with carbon capture. We are
okay with that, but it must be viable
in our economy, and it must be viable
in a free market.
A company back home called NRG
has a power plant 10 miles from my
house called the Parish Power Plant.
Parish generates energy from eight
sources, four natural gas and four coal
generators.
Wanting to improve their business
and make the air cleaner, make more
money, and help out the world, on
their own, they reached out to a Japa-
nese company to build a carbon cap-
ture system that grabs over 92 percent
of CO2 up one of the coal stacks. But
that technology was very, very expen-
sive, over $1 billion.
Our friends want energy to swallow
that product and bury that money in
the ground, that captured carbon in
the ground. That means you will bury
$1 billion in the ground.
How can clean energy do that? By
passing those rates on to the rate-
payer. Unacceptable.
What did they do? They grabbed that
CO2, and they have a pipeline that goes
85 miles southeast to an old, depleted
oil field. It is like fracking fluid. That
CO2 puts more pressure, so oil comes
out, and we sell it in the market. It is
viable.
In short, LNG dominance by America
makes my home State of Texas great;
it makes America greater; and it
makes the whole world the greatest it
can be.
Drill, baby, drill. Frack, baby, frack.
Export, baby, export.
Madam Speaker, I thank my friend
for the time.
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
OLSON) for being here tonight.
We hear a lot about the Green New
Deal. That proposal is based solely on
solar, wind, and hydropower in an ef-
fort to drastically cut carbon emissions
across the country. In my State of
South Carolina, we have seven reactors
that produce 95 percent of the State’s
emission-free electricity, 53 percent of
our total electricity costs.
I want to show a graph really quickly
before I introduce the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. ALLEN).
This graphic shows the magnitude of
one nuclear reactor and compares the
capacity factors of one reactor, rated
at 1,154 megawatts, to wind turbines.
To match one reactor, it takes 2,077
windmills. Yes, there are 2,077 wind-
mills on this graph, and 2,077 would be
needed.
Think about the amount of acreage
that it would take just to put the wind-
mills up to meet the electricity gen-
erated from one nuclear reactor.
I mentioned earlier the State of
Georgia is building the only nuclear re-
actor being built in this country right
now, and that is down at Vogtle in Au-
gusta, Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. ALLEN), from
Augusta, and I am sure he is going to
talk about nuclear energy.
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I thank
my friend from South Carolina (Mr.
DUNCAN) for chairing this Special Order
tonight.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to be a
member of this House Energy Action
Team. It is a special coalition of Mem-
bers of Congress who are focused on en-
ergy policy. I was honored to be se-
lected as the nuclear subteam leader.
This will allow me to do my part to ad-
vance our nuclear energy priorities
through Congress and allow America to
remain a dominant player in the global
nuclear industry.
The theme for this Special Order is
the American energy renaissance.
I have to tell you, after President
Trump took office, the war on energy
and the war on business was over. It
was like flipping on a light switch.
America was open for business again,
and the American people responded. We
have the best economy in the world.
Since then, we have continued to in-
vest in our own energy resources and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.106 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7233
July 23, 2019
have successfully made the United
States energy independent. Who would
have thought that 10 years ago?
Georgia’s 12th Congressional District
is on the front line of the American en-
ergy renaissance, with the first two
new nuclear reactors being built in the
United States in the past 30 years at
Plant Vogtle.
Just in March, I had the opportunity
to be with Secretary of Energy Rick
Perry to see the placement of the top
of the Unit 3 containment vessel, truly
a historic moment.
There is Secretary Perry, and there
is the setting of the top of that vessel.
Finishing construction on these two
units means that Americans can still
do big things. I look forward to Units 3
and 4 coming online soon.
Nuclear energy plays an important
role in Georgia’s energy portfolio, as it
accounts for more than a quarter of all
power generated and is the only clean
air source that can produce large
amounts of electricity around the
clock.
Georgia 12 is also home to all of
Georgia’s nuclear capabilities, with
four nuclear reactors, two already on-
line at Plant Vogtle and two at Plant
Hatch. These facilities currently em-
ploy almost 2,000 people, year-round,
high-skilled employees.
The construction of Units 3 and 4 at
Plant Vogtle is the largest construc-
tion project in Georgia, with more than
8,000 workers onsite.
When we talk about clean energy in
this country, we don’t need out-of-
touch, costly socialist policies like the
Green New Deal that would devastate
the best economy in the world. We are
talking about unleashing private-sec-
tor innovation, like nuclear power.
According to the Nuclear Energy In-
stitute, Georgia’s nuclear energy facili-
ties alone avoid more than 21 million
metric tons of carbon dioxide emis-
sions each year, the equivalent of more
than 4.4 million passenger cars.
It is of the utmost importance that
we ensure these nuclear plants con-
tinue to provide energy in a safe, reli-
able, and affordable manner.
Georgia has been selected 6 years in a
row as the best State to locate your
business. A big reason for that is our
low energy costs.
Overall, I believe we must continue
to pursue a proactive, responsible, and
all-of-the-above energy policy that will
benefit hardworking Americans and
lower the cost of energy in this Nation.
The House Energy Action Team will
continue to be laser-focused on con-
tinuing America’s energy renaissance,
and I am so glad to be a part of it.
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I ap-
preciate the gentleman’s comments,
and I thank him for leading the group
down to look at that nuclear reactor.
Madam Speaker, it was cold this win-
ter up in Michigan. Had it not been for
fossil fuels, a lot of folks would have
had a hard time.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. WALBERG)
to talk about his role on the Energy
and Commerce Committee and here on
the House Energy Action Team.
Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from South Caro-
lina (Mr. DUNCAN) for yielding.
Often during that polar vortex, I
thought of South Carolina and some-
times wished that I could enjoy the
warm breezes.
Madam Speaker, as a member of the
House Energy Action Team as well as a
proud member of the Energy and Com-
merce Committee serving on the En-
ergy Subcommittee, I rise today about
an important subject we have been
talking about here, and that is Amer-
ican energy security and independence.
Madam Speaker, like many of my
colleagues, I understand the impor-
tance of being a good steward of our
environment. As an avid outdoorsman,
a proud representative of the energy
district of the Great Lakes State, a dis-
trict that has wind, solar, nuclear,
hydro, and coal power, along with nat-
ural gas, we have it all there. But I
want my children and my grand-
children to experience the same beau-
tiful world that I have experienced. In
fact, Madam Speaker, I want them to
experience even better.
We can do that in the use of our en-
ergy as well, but we are not going to
get there through socialist policies like
the Green New Deal that will cause en-
ergy prices to skyrocket and commit,
really, a fraud on the American people.
b 2100
Instead, we should focus on solutions
that spur innovation and encourage in-
vestments in new technologies that
support these goals while keeping a re-
liable, resilient grid. These invest-
ments are happening now, but the tran-
sition needs to happen in an orderly
way that doesn’t hinder economic
growth or the security of our country.
One step we can take right now is to
update our energy policies for the 21st
century. The energy landscape looks
totally different than it did 40 years
ago. Energy resources are abundant in-
stead of scarce. It is a more diverse
market than ever before, and it will
continue.
With that in mind, I introduced H.R.
1502, the PURPA Modernization Act.
The bill simply increases competition
and reforms outdated regulations from
the 1970s, so that consumers are not
burdened with unnecessary costs on
their utility bills coming from stale,
outdated green energy regulations.
We also can’t forget that an all-of-
the-above energy approach will con-
tinue to utilize safe, clean, and resil-
ient nuclear-based power, like that pro-
duced at the Fermi plants in my dis-
trict.
Getting new technologies, like ad-
vanced carbon capture, out of a lab and
into the market is also crucial. This
past winter, we saw the importance of
baseload power when temperatures in
Michigan and other places in the north
plummeted to lower than 40 degrees
below zero.
I would point my colleagues to bipar-
tisan legislation that I helped intro-
duce last week with my friend and col-
league from Texas, Representative
CRENSHAW, which would provide a
jump-start to those innovative tech-
nologies at commercial scale.
In closing, Madam Speaker, let’s get
to work on legislating, not political
messaging. The American people sent
us here to work on solutions that im-
pact their pocketbooks and, yes, also
promote their pursuit of happiness.
That is what America is about:
unleashing American energy. And
bringing down prices for families we
represent is certainly an important
crucial discussion to have.
Madam Speaker, I thank the chair-
man tonight for leading this.
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker,
America watching tonight will see that
we have got a lot of great leaders in
Congress that understand energy, and
they come from a lot of different
States.
The State of Arkansas produces oil,
produces coal, produces a lot of bio-
mass, and produces hydroelectric. They
also produce a lot of ducks. I enjoy
going to Arkansas and hunting.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Arkansas (Mr. HILL) to
talk about what is going on in his
great State.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I thank my friend from South
Carolina for yielding. He is welcome in
the beautiful rice country of Arkansas
to hunt ducks this fall at any time. I
appreciate his leadership of the Sports-
men’s Caucus, the largest bipartisan
caucus we have here in the House, and
all of the good work it does in wildlife
conservation and conservation of our
public lands, so I thank my friend for
that.
It is true, I appreciate also his work
in the House Energy Action Team and
that of our whip, STEVE SCALISE of
Louisiana. And that is because we all
are talking tonight about the impor-
tance of energy to our economy, the
importance of energy to our families,
and how that has to be balanced in the
world of public policy.
Madam Speaker, in 2018, crude oil
was the world’s number one export
product. Last year, the U.S. accounted
for 98 percent of global growth in oil
production. Since the Congress lifted
the 40-year ban on oil exports in 2015,
U.S. production continues to set
records, and, just last month set a new
all-time high of exporting 3.3 million
barrels of crude per day.
Lifting the ban has filled pipelines
and sparked a surge of investment
across this land in new shipping infra-
structure around the U.S.
Total crude imports have also
dropped significantly as we rely now
more on domestic production and that
production produced by our friends in
Canada. Likewise, exporting clean nat-
ural gas is a leading export of the
United States.
South Korea is now the largest buyer
of American clean natural gas, Madam
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.108 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7234 July 23, 2019
Speaker. That is cleaning up their
skies, lowering their carbon emissions,
and cutting their trade imbalance with
the United States.
Exporting more gas, exporting more
oil, and lifting the ban has allowed us
to be an energy leader in the world. We
are no longer second fiddle to the Gulf,
to Saudi Arabia, or to Russia. This
comes as the United States is leading
the world also, Madam Speaker, in re-
ducing global climate or carbon emis-
sions. Between 2000 and 2014, the United
States reduced emissions more than 18
percent.
On the contrary, the world’s largest
carbon emitters, like China and India,
continue to have no policy to reduce
their emissions, despite having the
lowest marginal cost to do that. In the
EU and the United States, it is very ex-
pensive for us to lower carbon emis-
sions per unit. But, when you are a
major carbon polluter, such as India
and China, the marginal cost to clean
up their action is so much cheaper.
Instead, China is building 300 new
coal plants, and not a single country in
the EU is on target to meet their car-
bon reduction goals. These countries
must do more to be competitive with
us on the efforts we are taking here in
the U.S.
Like my friends from Georgia and
South Carolina, I am a strong sup-
porter of nuclear energy because it is
the cleanest, most green form of base
power generation. In Arkansas, we get
about 19 percent of our electricity gen-
erated from nuclear.
And I support the idea of better and
more effective ways to store nuclear
waste, which we have talked about and
tried to pass in this House. Any discus-
sion of eliminating carbon emissions
must include nuclear energy.
We also must invest in longer battery
life technologies and lowering barriers
towards solar cell innovation. The fu-
ture of clean energy rests with har-
nessing the power of the Sun and being
able to store that power cheaply and
portably. No one, Madam Speaker, is
doing more research on that than the
United States. We are spending over
$550 million a year on advanced energy
research to make our country even
more energy competitive.
So, I believe, like many of my col-
leagues, we need to pursue an all-of-
the-above energy strategy that will
lead us to a cleaner, less carbon-de-
pendent world without forcing Amer-
ican families and Arkansas families to
bear the burden of flawed policies like
the Green New Deal or the Paris cli-
mate accord.
Madam Speaker, I thank my friend
from South Carolina for this time, for
his leadership, and I look forward to
working with him on these issues in
the years to come.
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I
thank all of the members of the House
Energy Action Team for coming to the
floor tonight and communicating with
the American people about the Amer-
ican energy renaissance.
When our constituents think about
cost of energy, a lot of times their first
thoughts are transportation fuel. How
much is it going to cost them to fill up
the tank? Is there going to be enough
money left over after their transpor-
tation fuel costs to feed the family,
buy groceries, maybe do improvements,
and other things that American fami-
lies spend money on.
But one of the factors in energy cost
is what you pay for that electricity and
what do our manufacturers pay for
that electricity? Where does that elec-
tricity get generated? And, most im-
portantly, will it be a 24-7, 365-day
baseload power supply always on,
available when they want to manufac-
ture that next BMW in Greer, South
Carolina, or that next Boeing aircraft
in Charleston, or the next component
that goes in one of those manufactured
all over the country.
We take for granted in this Nation
that we do have a 24-7, 365-day baseload
power supply always on, and it is trans-
mitted over tremendous infrastructure,
but that infrastructure needs to be im-
proved. We need pipelines to transfer
and transmit the natural gas that is
being produced and the oil that is being
produced in places like Texas, Lou-
isiana, Arkansas, and Oklahoma. But
also the wind power that is generated
wherever wind is generated and solar
power wherever solar power is gen-
erated, there has to be transmission
lines to get that power to the grid so
that it can be used.
So as we have the conversation in
America about all of the above—and
one thing the House Energy Action
Team is about is all of the above; we
like wind, solar, and hydro, it is all
groovy—but we know what works, and
that is nuclear power and that is hydro
and fossil fuels, supplemented by the
alternative fuels that are coming on-
line.
We have got the GrayMatter
innovators and entrepreneurs in this
country to meet some of the things
that Mr. HILL talked about: the battery
capacity. And that is there to store
that power to be used when needed,
when it is generated by wind and solar.
It is intermittent to store that power,
it’s generated when the Sun is shining
and generated when the wind is blow-
ing, and it is stored to be used at night
or when the wind isn’t blowing. Nu-
clear power always runs, and natural
gas always runs. These are components
of this debate that we need to talk
about.
Madam Speaker, I appreciate Mem-
bers of the House Energy Action Team
coming to the floor and talking with
America with so much passion about
American energy to meet the needs of
our constituents, but at an affordable
price that helps our constituents meet
their budgets.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the topic
of this Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from South Carolina?
There was no objection.
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I ap-
preciate the opportunity for this Spe-
cial Order, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
DECORUM ON HOUSE FLOOR
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. HILL)
for 30 minutes.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, today I rise to reflect on the
recent acts of Speaker PELOSI and
other Members of the majority last
week on the House floor, it was a clear
and egregious violation of the rules of
the House that transpired.
House Members are expected to speak
respectfully of their fellow Members of
Congress and of the President of the
United States, a precedent that goes
back to the very first Congress about
conduct on the floor of the House.
Citing Jefferson’s Manual, the first
American book on parliamentary pro-
cedure, ‘‘References to racial or other
discrimination on the part of the Presi-
dent are not in order.’’
Last week, Speaker PELOSI clearly
violated Chapter 29, Section 65.6 of Jef-
ferson’s Manual. The House parliamen-
tarian ruled her speech violated the
rules forbidding personal attacks on
the House floor against the President.
Sadly, the majority then voted to ig-
nore the rules in order to justify the
Speaker’s breaking of our rules.
Madam Speaker, how do we expect
the American people to follow the laws
we pass in this Chamber when we don’t
even follow the rules that we place on
ourselves?
I call on the majority to put par-
tisanship and pointless attacks aside
and get back to the real work that will
move our great country forward.
CRISIS IN SYRIA
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to, once again,
speak out about the crisis in Syria.
The director general of the Organiza-
tion for the Prohibition of Chemical
Weapons recently reported that traces
of a nerve agent or poison gas byprod-
uct were discovered late last year at
Syria’s Scientific Studies and Research
Center.
Even though we were assured by the
Obama administration that the Rus-
sians would remove all the chemical
weapons in Syria, this report is not
surprising. For some, photos of dead
bodies in the streets littered with chil-
dren, victims of barrel bombing, or as-
phyxiated by sarin gas just weren’t
enough.
Now we have a United Nations re-
port. The United Nations reports that,
since May, fighting in Idlib Province
has forced 300,000 Syrians to flee their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.109 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7235
July 23, 2019
homes and thousands more continue to
die from Assad’s butchering.
Madam Speaker, when will this
House finally grow weary of 8 years of
Assad’s treachery: more than 570,000
dead, 200,000 imprisoned, and nearly 12
million dislocated?
The House must act.
Speaker PELOSI well knows, this
House, under Republican leadership,
passed the Caesar Syria Civilian Pro-
tection Act three times over the past
three Congresses, only to have it
bogged down in the Senate.
b 2115
Now, Madam Speaker, the tables are
turned. Leader MCCONNELL passed S. 1
in February, and we in the House must
finally act with expedition and pass the
House version of S. 1, which is H.R. 336,
to end this step back into darkness,
stop the torture and murder of thou-
sands, and move to convict Assad and
his henchmen of war crimes.
ANTI-BDS RESOLUTION
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to talk about H.
Res. 246, a resolution stating Congress’
opposition to the ongoing efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel in the
Global Boycott, Divestment, and Sanc-
tions Movement, or BDS, targeting
Israel.
H. Res. 246 passed this House today.
Let me get one thing clear, though.
BDS is anti-Semitic at its core, and it
seeks to delegitimize and isolate our
ally Israel.
I am a strong supporter and I cospon-
sored H. Res. 246, but this is not the
piece of anti-BDS legislation that we
should have considered on the floor of
this House this week. We should not be
letting the majority off the hook by
passing a nonbinding House resolution.
H. Res. 246 does not take tangible ac-
tion to combat the BDS movement, nor
does it have any teeth in it.
Instead, we should be considering and
passing H.R. 336, the Strengthening
America’s Security in the Middle East
Act, which is the House version of S. 1.
This legislation, Madam Speaker,
passed the Senate in February by an
overwhelming, bipartisan vote of 77–23.
H.R. 336 includes the Combating BDS
Act, which allows a State or local gov-
ernment to divest its assets from enti-
ties using BDS against Israel. This bill
includes other important provisions for
U.S. and Israel security assistance.
Why won’t Speaker PELOSI bring this
overwhelmingly bipartisan bill to the
House floor? Well, the reason they are
avoiding this bill in favor of a toothless
resolution is because the majority
party in this House is hopelessly di-
vided on what should be a common-
sense issue. Imagine House Democrats
hopelessly divided about anti-Semi-
tism—sad.
Resolutions serve an important pur-
pose in this House, but at other times,
we need legislative action. This is the
time for legislative action. We should
be changing the Federal law to no
longer allow entities to use BDS to at-
tack the only democracy and our
greatest ally in the Middle East.
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA AGREEMENT
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise in support of the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement,
known as USMCA. I congratulate the
Trump administration for successfully
updating the 1994 North American Free
Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, and en-
hancing the benefits to Arkansans in
the form of expanded export sales and
growth in jobs.
USMCA modernizes and rebalances
the 25-year-old NAFTA, including a
21st century approach to digital trade,
intellectual property rights, and cross-
border data flows.
In Arkansas, trade with Mexico and
Canada alone supports over 100,000 jobs,
and this highlights the need to pre-
serve and strengthen our North Amer-
ican trading relationship.
USMCA is a big win across the board.
We will have stronger growth, more ex-
ports, more jobs, and rising wages. This
agreement results in a more level play-
ing field for American workers, farm-
ers, ranchers, and businesses.
Madam Speaker, Canada has ap-
proved it. Mexico has passed the ena-
bling legislation for it and has ap-
proved this treaty. Now it is time for
Speaker PELOSI to bring the USMCA to
the floor and seek approval of this
House.
RELIGIOUS FREEDOM MINISTERIAL
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to thank Sec-
retary of State Mike Pompeo and Am-
bassador-at-Large for Religious Free-
dom Sam Brownback for hosting the
2019 Ministerial to Advance Religious
Freedom.
This second ministerial on religious
freedom makes the protection of reli-
gious freedom around the world a pri-
ority for this administration. This
global conclave demonstrates that the
United States proudly stands for reli-
gious liberty and tolerance so that ev-
eryone from all nations can worship
freely and without discrimination.
I agree with former President Ronald
Reagan when he addressed the United
Nations General Assembly in 1986 by
saying: ‘‘Respect for human rights is
not social work; it is not merely an act
of compassion. It is the first obligation
of government and the source of its le-
gitimacy.’’
It is through this obligation of serv-
ice to our fellow man that we can make
our societies better for our children
and all future generations yet to be
born.
AMERICAN TAEKWONDO ASSOCIATION
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the
American Taekwondo Association and
the roughly 20,000 people who gathered
in Little Rock for the 2019 Worlds ATA
Martial Arts competition just last
week.
ATA is celebrating its golden anni-
versary this year with 50 years of inter-
national training. This organization
was founded in 1969 and relocated to
Little Rock in 1977, citing similarities
between the State’s landscape and that
of South Korea.
My friend, Mrs. Sun Cha Lee, is the
chairman of the board for ATA Martial
Arts and is committed to changing
lives through martial arts and her phi-
lanthropy.
As a fellow member of the Rotary
Club of Little Rock, Mrs. Lee embodies
the motto of ‘‘service above self’’ and
continues to lead their scholarship
foundation that has provided over $1
million to deserving students.
Mrs. Lee and ATA’s cultural addition
to Little Rock’s story has made and in-
delible impact on Arkansas citizens
and communities.
I would like to extend gratitude and
congratulations to Mrs. Lee on reach-
ing this memorable milestone. I wish
her and all of ATA much continued
success for generations to come.
EAGLE BANK ANNIVERSARY
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate
Eagle Bank and Trust Company on its
100th anniversary. Eagle Bank has been
serving customers since 1919 and has
grown into 13 full-service bank loca-
tions.
Eagle Bank was the vision of Harry
Hastings, Jr., who applied for a bank
charter for the First State Bank of
Sherwood in 1964, eventually becoming
Eagle Bank and Trust Company in 1988.
In 2012, the bank merged with Heber
Springs State Bank, which received its
original bank charter in 1919 and was
originally known as Arkansas National
Bank of Heber Springs. The bank sur-
vived the Great Depression and the 2008
recession, never closing its doors on its
customers.
Today, Cathy Hastings Owen, daugh-
ter of Harry Hastings, operates Eagle
Bank and Trust Company. In 2018, she
became the 128th chairman of the Ar-
kansas Bankers Association and is the
first woman to lead that important or-
ganization.
I would like to extend my congratu-
lations to the Hastings family and
Eagle Bank and Trust Company, and I
wish the company much continued suc-
cess for generations to come.
FLOODING—PREVENTION, PREPARATION, AND
CLEANUP
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize three
Faulkner County, Arkansas, Scouting
units that helped fill sandbags in prep-
aration for the historic flooding that
occurred in Arkansas just in the past
few weeks.
Pack 444, Troop 444, and Troop 644,
all of the First United Methodist
Church in Vilonia, volunteered to help
our communities in need. This group
who filled sandbags included children
in elementary school and up to high
school-aged teens.
Arkansans began filling sandbags on
May 22, and more than 65,000 sandbags
have been filled by volunteers from
across our State. Sandbagging helps di-
vert water from peoples’ homes and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.111 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7236 July 23, 2019
was an effective way to prevent and re-
duce the flood damage from these his-
toric floods.
I thank the Scouting units of First
United Methodist Church and all of
those who volunteered their time to
help those affected by this historic
flooding.
CONGRATULATING FORD OVERTON
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, today I want to rise and con-
gratulate and thank my very good
friend, Ford Overton, for his selfless
service to the State of Arkansas.
Ford served on the Arkansas Game
and Fish Commission for 7 years, in-
cluding serving as chairman in his final
year. His term just expired on July 1.
As a graduate of the University of
Arkansas at Fayetteville, his love for
the outdoors has always been evident,
especially his interest in fishing and
preservation of habitat.
While on the commission, Ford
worked with wildlife biologists and
lawmakers to ensure that future gen-
erations of Arkansans will be able to
continue to enjoy the healthy wildlife
populations with which we are so abun-
dantly blessed. He successfully inspired
many young Arkansans to enjoy the
great hunting and fishing opportunities
all across our State.
Ford’s service to the State of Arkan-
sas and to wildlife conservation will
not be forgotten, and I join all Arkan-
sans in congratulating Ford on his in-
fectious passion and leadership
throughout the State.
RECOGNIZING THE HEROIC ACTS OF TROY
BRASWELL, SR.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the
heroic acts of Mr. Troy Braswell, Sr., a
World War II veteran, for his remark-
able service to our country.
Troy grew up in Louisiana, and after
graduating from high school, he joined
the Navy to serve his country. He was
only 17 years old, and his role was that
of a powderman.
During his service, Troy served on
the USS Mississippi, survived a kami-
kaze attack, and, afterwards, con-
tracting tuberculosis. He was told by a
doctor that he had but 6 months to
live.
He overcame and survived these chal-
lenges, and after his military service,
Troy located to Arkansas in 1945. In
1952, he graduated from the University
of Central Arkansas, then called Ar-
kansas State Teachers College. Troy
turned 93 years old earlier this year
and currently resides in Hot Springs
Village.
Troy’s sacrifice for Arkansas and for
America will not be forgotten, and I
join all Arkansans in thanking him for
his bravery and his dedication to our
State and our country.
RECOGNIZING VICTORY MISSION BIBLE TRAINING
CENTER
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Vic-
tory Mission Bible Training Center’s
grand opening and ribbon cutting ear-
lier this month in Center Ridge, Ar-
kansas.
Victory Mission Bible Training Cen-
ter is an 8- to 10-month residential dis-
cipleship training program catering to
those who struggle with problems such
as alcoholism and addiction. It is
strictly donation-based and available
to people of all ages who need this im-
portant assistance.
I want to congratulate the resident
director, Ms. Jennifer Jones, herself a
graduate of the program. She was
homeless and struggled with alcohol
and drug addiction before entering this
important program.
Since 1960, over 24,000 people have
been treated by Mission Teens centers,
and 89 percent of their graduates report
that they are doing well. Several have
gone into the ministry or now help at
one of the 20 centers across the United
States.
Alcoholism and addiction are power-
ful diseases, and I am grateful to the
Center Ridge community for the open-
ing of the Victory Mission Bible Train-
ing Center and their worthwhile invest-
ment in the health of our citizens and
their community.
b 2130
HONORING DR. EDITH IRBY JONES
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Dr.
Edith Irby Jones, a civil rights leader
and the first African American grad-
uate at the University of Arkansas for
Medical Sciences. Dr. Jones recently
passed away at the age of 91.
Dr. Jones became a distinguished
physician on the national stage and ac-
complished many firsts for African
Americans and women. She was the
first African American woman to in-
tern in the State of Arkansas, the first
to intern at Baylor College of Medicine
Affiliated Hospital, and the first fe-
male president of the National Medical
Association.
As a child, Dr. Jones experienced the
deaths of her father and sister and suf-
fered from rheumatic fever that left
her temporarily unable to walk or at-
tend school. Despite her hardships, she
went on to become the first African
American female resident at Baylor
and was one of the founders of Mercy
Hospital in Houston.
When Dr. Jones wasn’t practicing
medicine, she was in schools and
churches, advocating for racial equal-
ity. She later became an advocate for
underprivileged patients and earned an
award for volunteerism and community
service by the American College of
Physicians.
She also has been inducted into both
the University of Arkansas College of
Medicine Hall of Fame and the inau-
gural group of women inducted into the
Arkansas Women’s Hall of Fame.
I honor Dr. Jones for her determina-
tion, dedication, and contributions to
civil rights and enriching the lives of
countless Arkansans and Americans.
She was a role model and a friend to
many across our State. I extend my re-
spect, affection, and prayers to her
friends, family, and loved ones.
CONGRATULATING ANNE MARIE DORAMUS
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate
Anne Marie Doramus on her recent ap-
pointment to the Arkansas Game and
Fish Commission, becoming the first
woman so appointed as a full-term
commissioner.
A graduate of the University of Ar-
kansas at Fayetteville, her interest in
the outdoors has always been evident,
especially duck hunting and bass fish-
ing in southeast Arkansas. She is a
founding member of the Arkansas Out-
door Society, a group of young adults
passionate about conservation and the
outdoors.
Commissioner Doramus, with leader-
ship and passion for conservation, will
be a great asset to the commission over
the next 7 years. She embodies the tal-
ent of the next generation of leaders
who will be protecting and promoting
our great outdoors.
I join all Arkansas in congratulating
Anne Marie and wish her much success
throughout her term as a commis-
sioner.
CONGRATULATING CAMP ROCKEFELLER
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate
Arkansas’ Camp Rockefeller for being
recognized, once again, as a nationally
accredited camp by the Boy Scouts of
America National Camp Accreditation
Program.
BSA’s National Camp Accreditation
Program recognizes camps that provide
a fun, high-quality, and safe program
consistent with the Boy Scouts of
America brand and what the public ex-
pects from scouting.
Camp Rockefeller successfully com-
pleted a review of over 200 standards
related to the safety and quality of the
program, including campgrounds, prop-
erties, and the well-being of every
camper, leader, and visitor. Over the
years, Camp Rockefeller has shown
continuous improvement in all areas.
Camp Rockefeller is located within
Gus Blass Scout Reservation. Each
year, thousands of scouts from across
the country enjoy this beautiful part of
Arkansas and are given the oppor-
tunity to participate in hiking, fishing,
climbing, camping, and other outdoor
activities.
As a fellow scout, I am proud of these
high standards that are being set at
Camp Rockefeller. On behalf of all Ar-
kansans, congratulations, and we look
forward to following your continued
success in the years to come.
CONGRATULATING CONWAY FOR RECYCLING
AWARD
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate
the Conway Department of Sanitation
in the city of Conway, Arkansas, on
being named the 2019 Recycling Edu-
cation Program of the Year by the Ar-
kansas Recycling Coalition. This award
honors an agency or association that
has made a significant contribution to
the advancement of waste reduction,
recycling, and sustainability across our
State in the past year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.113 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7237
July 23, 2019
Conway was selected for this award
as a result of its outstanding public
education and community outreach ef-
fort. This involved talking with more
than 2,700 community members of all
ages from schools, daycares, churches,
homeowner associations, universities,
and more.
Recycling is a component of making
the environment a cleaner place, con-
serving materials, saving energy, and
reducing the size of our landfills.
I extend my congratulations to the
Conway Department of Sanitation and
the entire city of Conway for its worth-
while commitment to our environment
and our natural resources.
CONGRATULATING FAIRFIELD BAY ON TOP 100
PLANNED COMMUNITIES HONOR
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate
Fairfield Bay, Arkansas, on being
named the Best of the Best Top 100
Planned Communities in America by
ideal-LIVING Magazine. The Best of
the Best honors those areas and com-
munities that deserve special recogni-
tion for their outstanding qualities, fa-
cilities, and programs.
Fairfield Bay began as a planned
community 40 years ago and has grown
into an ideal family recreation destina-
tion. It was chosen from hundreds of
nominations from North America and
Central America.
A huge congratulations to the com-
munity, to the residents of Fairfield
Bay, and to Mayor Wellenberger on
achieving this recognition. I look for-
ward to following the Fairfield Bay
community as it continues to grow in
the years to come.
RECOGNIZING JOURNALISM AWARDEES
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize two
central Arkansas journalists who re-
ceived the Golden 50 Service Awards
from the Arkansas Press Association
for a half-century in journalism.
Larry Miller, from Morrilton, Arkan-
sas, is the editor of the Conway County
Petit Jean Country Headlight news-
paper.
Frank Fellone of Little Rock was
also recognized and is a former Arkan-
sas Democrat-Gazette deputy editor
and now an independent journalist.
I also congratulate David Bailey,
managing editor of the Arkansas Dem-
ocrat-Gazette, on receiving the Arkan-
sas Press Association Freedom of Infor-
mation Award.
I congratulate these men who exem-
plify the spirit and dedication behind
the mission of these awards and our
First Amendment, and I wish them
continued success in the years to come.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
SENATE ENROLLED JOINT
RESOLUTIONS SIGNED
The Speaker announced her signa-
ture to enrolled joint resolutions of the
Senate of the following titles:
S.J. Res 36.—Joint Resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and the
Italian Republic of certain defense articles
and services.
S.J. Res. 37.—Joint Resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
export to the United Arab Emirates, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, and the Republic of France of
certain defense articles and services.
S.J. Res. 38.—Joint Resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
export to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland of certain defense articles
and services.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I move that the House do now
adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 9 o’clock and 35 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Wednesday, July 24, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
h
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 34, the Energy and Water Research Integration Act of 2019,
as amended, would have no significant effect on direct spending or revenues, and therefore, the budgetary effects of such
bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 549, the Venezuela TPS Act of 2019, as amended, for printing in the
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 549
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ................................................................................................................................................................... 0 265 298 135 140 133 123 120 103 101 101 971 1,519
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1837, the United States-Israel Cooperation Enhancement and
Regional Security Act, as amended, would have no significant effect on direct spending or revenues, and therefore, the
budgetary effects of such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1850, the Palestinian International Terrorism Support Pre-
vention Act of 2019, would have no significant effect on direct spending or revenues, and therefore, the budgetary effects
of such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 2938, the
HAVEN Act, would have no significant
effect on direct spending or revenues,
and therefore, the budgetary effects of
such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 3304, the
National Guard and Reservists Debt
Relief Extension Act of 2019, would
have no significant effect on direct
spending or revenues, and therefore,
the budgetary effects of such bill are
estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 3311, the
Small Business Reorganizing Act of
2019, would have no significant effect
on direct spending or revenues, and
therefore, the budgetary effects of such
bill are estimated as zero.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:26 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23JY7.114 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7238 July 23, 2019
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, the attached estimate of
the costs of H.R. 3504, the Ryan Kules
Specially Adaptive Housing Improve-
ment Act of 2019, as amended, for print-
ing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 3504
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ................................................................................................................................................................... 0 3 29 ¥47 ¥56 ¥38 ¥36 ¥36 ¥32 62 65 ¥109 ¥86
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1732. A letter from the Director, Office of
the Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
final rules — Revisions to Prohibitions and
Restrictions on Proprietary Trading and Cer-
tain Interests in, and Relationships With,
Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds [Re-
lease no:. BHCA-6; File no.: S7-30-18] (RIN:
3235-AM43) received July 17, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
1733. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Indian Country: Air Quality
Planning and Management; Federal Imple-
mentation Plan for the Kalispel Indian Com-
munity of the Kalispel Reservation, Wash-
ington; Redesignation to a PSD Class I Area
[EPA-R10-OAR-2017-0347; FRL-9996-67-Region
10] received July 16, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
1734. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s direct final rule — Massachusetts: Final
Approval of State Underground Storage
Tank Program Revisions, Codification, and
Incorporation by Reference [EPA-R01-UST-
2018-0085; FRL-9996-56-Region 1] received July
16, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
1735. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s direct final rule — Oregon: Final Ap-
proval of State Underground Storage Tank
Program Revisions, Codification and Incor-
poration by Reference [EPA-R10-UST-2019-
0191; FRL-9996-69-Region 10] received July 16,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
1736. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Approval and Promulgation
of Implementation Plans; Colorado; Revi-
sions to Regulation Number 4, Sale and In-
stallation of Wood-Burning Appliances and
the Use of Certain Wood Burning Appliances
During High Pollution Days [EPA-R08-OAR-
2019-0054; FRL-9995-93-Region 8] received July
16, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
1737. A communication from the President
of the United States, transmitting notifica-
tion that the national emergency with re-
spect to transnational criminal organiza-
tions, originally declared in Executive Order
13581 on July 24, 2011, is to continue in effect
beyond July 24, 2019, pursuant to 50 U.S.C.
1622(d); Public Law 94-412, Sec. 202(d); (90
Stat. 1257) (H. Doc. No. 116—50); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs and ordered to be
printed.
1738. A letter from the Acting Architect,
Architect of the Capitol, transmitting the
semiannual report of disbursements for the
operations of the Architect of the Capitol for
the period of January 1, 2019, through June
30, 2019, pursuant to 2 U.S.C. 1868a(a); Public
Law 113-76, div. I, title I, Sec. 1301(a); (128
Stat. 428) (H. Doc. No. 116—51); to the Com-
mittee on House Administration and ordered
to be printed.
1739. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic
Zone Off Alaska; Prohibit Directed Fishing
for American Fisheries Act Program and
Crab Rationalization Program Groundfish
Sideboard Limits in the BSAI and GOA
[Docket No.: 180327320-8999-02] (RIN: 0648-
BH88) received July 17, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1740. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary final rule — Fisheries of the North-
eastern United States; Golden Tilefish Fish-
ery; 2019 Specifications [Docket No.:
180808738-8738-01] (RIN: 0648-XG417) received
July 17, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1741. A letter from the Acting Deputy As-
sistant Administrator for Regulatory Pro-
grams, NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration, transmitting the Administra-
tion’s final rule — Fisheries of the Carib-
bean, Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic;
Permit Renewal Applications [Docket No.:
171128999-8999-02] (RIN: 0648-BH43) received
July 17, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1742. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — International Fisheries; Pacific Tuna
Fisheries; Fishing Restrictions for Fish Ag-
gregating Devices in the Eastern Pacific
Ocean [Docket No.: 180716668-8668-01] (RIN:
0648-BI37) received July 17, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1743. A letter from the Assistant Adminis-
trator for Regulatory Affairs, NMFS, Office
of Sustainable Fisheries, National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, transmit-
ting the Administration’s final rule — Fish-
eries of the Northeastern United States; At-
lantic Deep-Sea Red Crab Fishery; 2019 At-
lantic Deep-Sea Red Crab Specifications
[Docket No.: 160920861-8999-04] (RIN: 0648-
XE900) received July 17, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1744. A letter from the Assistant Director,
Office of Policy, Executive Office of Immi-
gration Review, Department of Justice,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Board of Immigration Appeals: Affirmance
Without Opinion, Referral for Panel Review,
and Publication of Decisions as Precedents
[EOIR Docket No.: 159; AG Order No.: 4478-
2019] (RIN: 1125-AA58) received July 17, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
1745. A letter from the Acting Deputy Di-
rector, Executive Office for Immigration Re-
view, Department of Justice, transmitting
the Department’s interim final rule — Asy-
lum eligibility and Procedural Modifications
[EOIR Docket No.: 19-0504; A.G. Order No.:
4488-2019] (RIN: 1125-AA91) received July 17,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
1746. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of Class E
Airspace, Boulder City, NV [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0816; Airspace Docket No.: 18-AWP-
7] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received July 18, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
1747. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No.: 31259;
Amdt. No.: 3858] received July 18, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1748. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — IFR Altitudes; Miscella-
neous Amendments [Docket No.: 31264;
Amdt. No.: 547] received July 18, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1749. A letter from the the Clerk of the
House of Representatives, transmitting the
annual compilation of financial disclosure
statements filed by the members of the
board of the Office of Congressional Ethics
for the period between January 1, 2018, and
December 31, 2018, pursuant to Clause 3 of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.041 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7239
July 23, 2019
House Rule XXVI (H. Doc. No. 116—49); to the
Committee on Ethics and ordered to be
printed.
1750. A letter from the Regulations Policy
Coordinator, Office of Regulations Policy
and Management, Office of the Secretary,
Department of Veterans Affairs, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Approval
Criteria for Rates Charged for Community
Residential Care (RIN: 2900-AP63) received
July 18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
1751. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Serv-
ices, Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Re-
vision of Requirements for Long-Term Care
Facilities: Arbitration Agreements [CMS-
3342-F] (RIN: 0938-AT18) received July 17,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly
to the Committees on Ways and Means and
Energy and Commerce.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 2942. A bill to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to carry out the Women’s
Health Transition Training pilot program
through at least fiscal year 2020, and for
other purposes; with an amendment (Rept.
116–166, Pt. 1). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 1307. A bill to
provide for an online repository for certain
reporting requirements for recipients of Fed-
eral disaster assistance, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. 116–167, Pt. 1). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 549. A bill to designate Venezuela
under section 244 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to permit nationals of Ven-
ezuela to be eligible for temporary protected
status under such section, and for other pur-
poses; with an amendment (Rept. 116–168).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 2938. A bill to exempt from the cal-
culation of monthly income certain benefits
paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs
and the Department of Defense (Rept. 116–
169). Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 3304. A bill to exempt for an addi-
tional 4-year period, from the application of
the means-test presumption of abuse under
chapter 7, qualifying members of reserve
components of the Armed Forces and mem-
bers of the National Guard who, after Sep-
tember 11, 2001, are called to active duty or
to perform a homeland defense activity for
not less than 90 days (Rept. 116–170). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 3311. A bill to amend chapter 11 of
title 11, United States Code, to address reor-
ganization of small businesses, and for other
purposes (Rept. 116–171). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 3409. A bill to
authorize appropriations for the Coast
Guard, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–172). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 3375. A bill to amend the
Communications Act of 1934 to clarify the
prohibitions on making robocalls, and for
other purposes; with an amendment (Rept.
116–173). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 2507. A bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize
certain programs under part A of title XI of
such Act relating to genetic diseases, and for
other purposes; with an amendment (Rept.
116–174). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 2035. A bill to amend title
XXIX of the Public Health Service Act to re-
authorize the program under such title relat-
ing to lifespan respite care; with an amend-
ment (Rept. 116–175). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 776. A bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize the
Emergency Medical Services for Children
program (Rept. 116–176). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 1058. A bill to reauthorize
certain provisions of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act relating to autism, and for other pur-
poses; with amendments (Rept. 116–177). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
Mrs. TORRES of California: Committee on
Rules. House Resolution 509. Resolution pro-
viding for consideration of the bill (H.R. 397)
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
to create a Pension Rehabilitation Trust
Fund, to establish a Pension Rehabilitation
Administration within the Department of
the Treasury to make loans to multiem-
ployer defined benefit plans, and for other
purposes; providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 3239) to require U.S. Customs and
Border Protection to perform an initial
health screening on detainees, and for other
purposes; providing for proceedings during
the period from July 29, 2019, through Sep-
tember 6, 2019; and for other purposes (Rept.
116–178). Referred to the House Calendar.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committees on Small Business and Fi-
nancial Services discharged from fur-
ther consideration. H.R. 1307 referred
to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committees on Armed Services dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 2942 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself
and Ms. ADAMS):
H.R. 3876. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to ensure the solvency of
the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund by ex-
tending the excise tax on coal; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. YARMUTH (for himself and Mr.
NEAL):
H.R. 3877. A bill to amend the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985, to establish a congressional budget
for fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to temporarily
suspend the debt limit, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Budget, and
in addition to the Committees on Rules, and
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself and
Mrs. DINGELL):
H.R. 3878. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to clarify the process for reg-
istrants to exercise due diligence upon dis-
covering a suspicious order, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. HAALAND (for herself, Mr.
CURTIS, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. STEWART,
Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr.
NEGUSE, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, and Mr. LAMALFA):
H.R. 3879. A bill to modify the procedures
for issuing special recreation permits for cer-
tain public land units, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. DELGADO (for himself and Mr.
JOYCE of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 3880. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow the deduction for
health insurance costs in computing self-em-
ployment taxes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Ms. FRANKEL (for herself, Mrs.
WAGNER, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. HIMES, and Mr.
WEBER of Texas):
H.R. 3881. A bill to amend section 214(c)(8)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act to
modify the data reporting requirements re-
lating to nonimmigrant employees, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms.
FRANKEL, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Ms. HAALAND, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Ms. NORTON, Ms. DELAURO, Ms.
CASTOR of Florida, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Ms. TITUS, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. DEAN,
Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. LOFGREN, Mrs.
DINGELL, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mr. MOULTON, and Ms. MATSUI):
H.R. 3882. A bill to amend the Ted Stevens
Olympic and Amateur Sports Act to provide
pay equity for amateur athletes and other
personnel; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and
Mr. BISHOP of Utah):
H.R. 3883. A bill to establish the Commis-
sion on Intergovernmental Relations of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:26 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23JY7.000 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7240 July 23, 2019
United States to facilitate the fullest co-
operation, coordination, and mutual ac-
countability among all levels of government,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Ms. LEE
of California, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
JEFFRIES, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. GAETZ,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
CORREA, Ms. DEAN, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. TED LIEU of California, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Mr. EVANS, Ms. GABBARD,
Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms.
WATERS, and Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN):
H.R. 3884. A bill to decriminalize and
deschedule cannabis, to provide for reinvest-
ment in certain persons adversely impacted
by the War on Drugs, to provide for
expungement of certain cannabis offenses,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Energy and Commerce, Agri-
culture, Education and Labor, Ways and
Means, Small Business, Natural Resources,
and Oversight and Reform, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. GABBARD:
H.R. 3885. A bill to amend the Bank Hold-
ing Company Act of 1956 to defer part of the
compensation of senior employees of large
bank holding companies (and their subsidi-
aries) for 10 years, to use such deferred
amounts to pay any civil or criminal fines
that may be levied on the bank holding com-
pany (or subsidiary), and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. MCADAMS (for himself and Mr.
HOLLINGSWORTH):
H.R. 3886. A bill to amend the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002 to provide a temporary ex-
emption for low-revenue issuers from certain
auditor attestation requirements; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. CLYBURN (for himself, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. KHANNA, and Ms.
CLARKE of New York):
H.R. 3887. A bill to discharge the qualified
loan amounts of each individual, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, and in addition to the
Committees on Ways and Means, and the Ju-
diciary, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mrs. RODGERS of Washington (for
herself and Mr. MCNERNEY):
H.R. 3888. A bill to required the Adminis-
trator of the National Highway Traffic Safe-
ty Administration to conduct a study on
motor vehicle safety and impaired driving,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. ROUDA (for himself and Mr.
MEADOWS):
H.R. 3889. A bill to amend the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy Reauthorization
Act of 1998 to make technical corrections; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
and in addition to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. BUCSHON (for himself and Mrs.
DINGELL):
H.R. 3890. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to provide funds to address
motor vehicle safety and impaired driving,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. HARDER of California (for him-
self and Mr. REED):
H.R. 3891. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to make college affordable
and accessible; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 3892. A bill to amend the Workforce
Innovation and Opportunity Act to award
competitive grants for the purpose of devel-
oping, offering, improving, and providing
educational or career pathway programs for
workers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 3893. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish a program that
awards grants to State coalitions that build
or expand career pathways programs in
schools within the State, and to direct the
Secretary of Education to establish a pro-
gram that awards grants to eligible agencies
to carry out career pathways programs; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 3894. A bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act to prohibit sew-
age dumping into the Great Lakes, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. VARGAS (for himself, Mr.
PETERS, Mrs. DAVIS of California, and
Mr. LEVIN of California):
H.R. 3895. A bill to provide for a general
capital increase for the North American De-
velopment Bank, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself and Mr.
FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 3896. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to provide that only citizens or
nationals of the United States may operate
trains within the United States that origi-
nate in Mexico; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
H.R. 3897. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to increase the monthly hous-
ing stipend under the Post-9/11 Educational
Assistance Program for individuals who pur-
sue programs of education solely through
distance learning on more than a half-time
basis; to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BOST (for himself and Ms.
FINKENAUER):
H.R. 3898. A bill to require the Corps of En-
gineers to consider benefits to navigation to
be gained by certain projects, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for him-
self and Mr. GOSAR):
H.R. 3899. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to modify the procedure
to designate a foreign state, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 3900. A bill to amend the Children’s
Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 to
strengthen protections relating to the online
collection, use, and disclosure of personal in-
formation of children and minors, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. CASE, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, and Mr.
TAKANO):
H.R. 3901. A bill to amend the Education
Sciences and Reform Act of 2002 to include
racial subgroups in IPEDS data, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself and Mr.
HILL of Arkansas):
H.R. 3902. A bill to provide standards for
physical condition and management of hous-
ing receiving assistance payments under sec-
tion 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 3903. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the dollar limi-
tation on the exclusion for employer-pro-
vided dependent care assistance; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina:
H.R. 3904. A bill to amend titles 23 and 49,
United States Code, to repeal wage require-
ments applicable to laborers and mechanics
employed on Federal-aid highway and public
transportation construction projects; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, and in addition to the Committee
on Education and Labor, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for him-
self, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. MOORE, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WILD, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. NORTON, and Mr.
ROSE of New York):
H.R. 3905. A bill to amend title VII of the
Social Security Act to require the President
to transmit the annual budget of the Social
Security Administration without revisions
to Congress, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. JAYAPAL:
H.R. 3906. A bill to prohibit the expansion
of immigration detention facilities, to im-
prove the oversight of such facilities, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, and Mr.
WALKER):
H.R. 3907. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish the Insider
Threat Program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security.
By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Mr.
COOPER, and Mr. YOHO):
H.R. 3908. A bill to increase the long-term
fiscal accountability of direct spending legis-
lation; to the Committee on the Budget, and
in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Ms.
BASS, and Mr. BACON):
H.R. 3909. A bill to amend subpart 2 of part
B of title IV of the Social Security Act to
authorize grants to eligible entities to de-
velop and implement statewide or tribal
post-adoption and post-legal guardianship
mental health service programs for all chil-
dren who are adopted or placed in legal
guardianship, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. LEWIS (for himself, Mr. LAR-
SON of Connecticut, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. EVANS,
Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
SUOZZI, and Ms. SÁNCHEZ):
H.R. 3910. A bill to amend title XI of the
Social Security Act to improve access to
care for all Medicare and Medicaid bene-
ficiaries through models tested under the
Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innova-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23JY7.100 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7241
July 23, 2019
By Mr. LEWIS (for himself and Mr.
SMITH of Nebraska):
H.R. 3911. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act and the Bipartisan
Budget Act of 2018 to expand and expedite ac-
cess to cardiac rehabilitation programs and
pulmonary rehabilitation programs under
the Medicare program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. LEWIS (for himself and Mr.
BUCHANAN):
H.R. 3912. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to increase awareness,
expand preventative services, and improve
care for individuals with end stage renal dis-
ease, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 3913. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Education to provide grants for education
programs on the history of the treatment of
Italian Americans during World War II; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 3914. A bill to apologize for the treat-
ment of Italian Americans during World War
II; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LUCAS (for himself, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, Mr. BAIRD, Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Ohio, Mr. BACON, and Mr.
WOODALL):
H.R. 3915. A bill to amend the America
COMPETES Act to reauthorize the Advanced
Research Projects Agency-Energy, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. LUJÁN (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. COLE, and Ms. MCCOL-
LUM):
H.R. 3916. A bill to provide for a study on
the protection of Native American seeds and
traditional foods, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Agriculture, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on Energy and Com-
merce, and Natural Resources, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. MATSUI (for herself, Ms.
DELAURO, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. RUSH,
Mr. PASCRELL, Ms. WILD, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. RYAN, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Ms. TLAIB, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY of New York, Mr. ROSE of New
York, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. LYNCH, Ms. DEGETTE, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. COHEN, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Ms. MENG, Mr. MORELLE,
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. FRANKEL, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
ESHOO, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. CRIST, Ms. SHALALA,
Mr. SIRES, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr.
BERA, Mr. PETERS, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. BROWNLEY
of California, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. AGUILAR, Ms.
WEXTON, Ms. DELBENE, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. KILDEE):
H.R. 3917. A bill to prohibit the use of funds
for the 2026 World Cup unless the United
States Soccer Federation provides equitable
pay to the members of the United States
Women’s National Team and the United
States Men’s National Team; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. MENG (for herself, Ms. MOORE,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. CARSON of Indi-
ana, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. WELCH, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. COSTA, Mr. SUOZZI,
Ms. NORTON, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. RUSH, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. LEE of California,
Mr. DEFAZIO, and Mr. BLUMENAUER):
H.R. 3918. A bill to protect the health and
safety of children in immigration detention,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Homeland Security, and Finan-
cial Services, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. MOULTON (for himself and Mr.
GRAVES of Louisiana):
H.R. 3919. A bill to require research in
coastal sustainability and resilience, to en-
sure that the Federal Government continues
to implement and advance coastal resiliency
efforts, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, and in addition
to the Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself and Mr.
CICILLINE):
H.R. 3920. A bill to prohibit agreements be-
tween employers that directly restrict the
current or future employment of any em-
ployee; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PERRY:
H.R. 3921. A bill to require an institution of
higher education to file a disclosure report
with the Secretary of Education whenever
such institution receives a gift from or en-
ters into a contract with a foreign source,
the value of which is $50,000 or more, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Ms. PRESSLEY:
H.R. 3922. A bill to establish American op-
portunity accounts, to modify estate and gift
tax rules, to reform the taxation of capital
income, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 3923. A bill to require Federal agen-
cies to address environmental justice, to re-
quire consideration of cumulative impacts in
certain permitting decisions, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Natural Resources, Transportation
and Infrastructure, and the Judiciary, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SUOZZI (for himself and Mr.
REED):
H.R. 3924. A bill to provide for the treat-
ment of a pharmacy counter refusal as a cov-
erage determination under Medicare part D;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. TONKO (for himself and Mr.
MCKINLEY):
H.R. 3925. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to prohibit States re-
ceiving Federal medical assistance for medi-
cation-assisted treatment under Medicaid
from imposing utilization control policies or
procedures with respect to such treatment,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. VISCLOSKY:
H.R. 3926. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 in order to improve the
service obligation verification process for
TEACH Grant recipients, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. RASKIN:
H. Res. 507. A resolution affirming the va-
lidity of subpoenas duly issued and inves-
tigations undertaken by any standing or per-
manent select committee of the House of
Representatives pursuant to authorities del-
egated by the Constitution and the Rules of
the House of Representatives; to the Com-
mittee on Rules.
By Mr. BAIRD (for himself, Mr. HOL-
LINGSWORTH, Mr. PENCE, Mr. BANKS,
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. CARSON
of Indiana, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY, and Mr. BUCSHON):
H. Res. 508. A resolution honoring the 50th
anniversary of the return of the Indiana
Rangers; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for
himself and Mr. KEATING):
H. Res. 510. A resolution affirming United
States support to the countries of Ukraine,
Georgia, and Moldova in their effort to re-
tain political sovereignty and territorial in-
tegrity; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for her-
self, Mr. LEVIN of California, Mr.
PETERS, and Mr. VARGAS):
H. Res. 511. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the Department of the Navy should take a
leading role in the mitigation of cross-border
spills, discharges, and debris in the Tijuana
River that impact national security inter-
ests of the United States; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
By Mr. RASKIN (for himself and Mr.
MEADOWS):
H. Res. 512. A resolution calling for the
global repeal of blasphemy, heresy, and apos-
tasy laws; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. RASKIN (for himself and Mr.
ARMSTRONG):
H. Res. 513. A resolution recognizing the
vital importance of democracy in the United
States and encouraging State and local gov-
ernments to aide citizens in reflecting on the
contributions of democracy to a more free
and stable world; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for her-
self, Mr. FOSTER, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
HASTINGS, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. MCNER-
NEY, Mr. SIRES, and Mr. SABLAN):
H. Res. 514. A resolution committing to
elevate the voices, leadership, and needs of
communities that face systemic barriers in
the effort to end sexual violence and support
all survivors of sexual violence and gender-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23JY7.100 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7242 July 23, 2019
based violence, including immigrant sur-
vivors, survivors who are incarcerated, sur-
vivors with disabilities, survivors of color,
American Indian or Alaska Native survivors,
survivors of child sexual abuse, and lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and
intersex survivors; to the Committee on the
Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee
on Education and Labor, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
112. The SPEAKER presented a memorial
of the Legislature of the State of Utah, rel-
ative to House Joint Resolution 15, urging
Congress to pass the Daylight Act; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
113. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Utah, relative to Senate Concur-
rent Resolution 1, urging Congress to extend
Medicaid coverage beyond 15 days for serv-
ices provided in certain settings to adults
with serious mental illness; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
114. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Utah, relative to House Concur-
rent Resolution 5, urging the federal govern-
ment to pursue policies that allow for easier
reduction of excess forest fuel loads; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
115. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Utah, relative to Senate Concur-
rent Resolution 9, declaring support for the
negotiated settlement agreement of federal
reserved water rights claims between rep-
resentatives of the Navajo Nation, the
United States, and the state of Utah; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
116. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Utah, relative to House Joint
Resolution 21, reaffirming the equal polit-
ical, civil, and religious rights and privileges
granted by the Utah Constitution for both
men and women; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
117. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Utah, relative to Senate Joint
Resolution 9, requesting the Congress of the
United States call a convention of the states
to propose amendments to the Constitution
of the United States; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
118. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Utah, relative to House Joint
Resolution 7, requesting the Congress of the
United States call a convention of the states
to propose amendments to the Constitution
of the United States; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
119. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Utah, relative to Senate Concur-
rent Resolution 7, urging the President of
the United States and Congress to remove
barriers that prohibit the medical cannabis
industry from legally accessing banking
services; jointly to the Committees on En-
ergy and Commerce and the Judiciary.
120. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Utah, relative to House Resolu-
tion 3, urging a humane response to the hu-
manitarian crises at the U.S.-Mexico border;
jointly to the Committees on the Judiciary
and Homeland Security.
121. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Utah, relative to House Concur-
rent Resolution 3, requesting that Congress
allow states to regulate certain switcher lo-
comotive emission standards; jointly to the
Committees on Transportation and Infra-
structure and Energy and Commerce.
122. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Utah, relative to House Joint
Resolution 14, encouraging Utah’s state and
congressional delegations to continue sup-
porting legislation and practices that en-
hance electrical grid security against nat-
ural, accidental, or intentional occurrences,
including disruption from electromagnetic
pulses, that could potentially interrupt reli-
able electricity services; jointly to the Com-
mittees on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture and Energy and Commerce.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia:
H.R. 3876.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. YARMUTH:
H.R. 3877.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1; Article 1,
Section 8, Clause 2; Article 1, Section 8,
Clause 18; and Article 1, Section 9, Clause 7
of the U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. MCKINLEY:
H.R. 3878.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
Section 8—Powers of Congress. To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 3879.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 and Article IV, Section
3
By Mr. DELGADO:
H.R. 3880.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States
By Ms. FRANKEL:
H.R. 3881.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the Constitution.
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 3882.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 3883.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 3884.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clauses 1, 3, and 18 of
the Constitution of the United States.
By Ms. GABBARD:
H.R. 3885.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The U.S. Constitution including Article 1,
Section 8.
By Mr. MCADAMS:
H.R. 3886.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CLYBURN:
H.R. 3887.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mrs. RODGERS of Washington:
H.R. 3888.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes;
By Mr. ROUDA:
H.R. 3889.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. BUCSHON:
H.R. 3890.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. 1, Sec. 8, Clause 3
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 3891.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 3892.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 3893.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 3894.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
‘‘To make all Laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States, or in any
Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. VARGAS:
H.R. 3895.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
(1) To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Im-
posts and Excises, to pay the Debts and pro-
vide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States; but all Duties,
Imposts and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States, as enumer-
ated in Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the
U.S. Constitution;
(2) To regulate commerce with foreign na-
tions, and among the several states, and with
the Indian tribes, as enumerated in Article 1,
Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S. Constitution;
(3) To make all laws necessary and proper
for executing powers vested by the Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
as enumerated in Article I, Section 8, Clause
18 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 3896.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, United States Con-
stitution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:37 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23JY7.100 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7243
July 23, 2019
By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
H.R. 8897.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to Article I,
Section 8, Clause 1 of the Constitution of the
United States and Article I, Section 8,
Clause 7 of the Constitution of the United
States.
Article I, section 8 of the United State
Constitution, which grants Congress the
power to raise and support an Army; to pro-
vide and maintain a Navy; to make rules for
the government and regulation of the land
and naval forces; and provide for organizing,
arming, and disciplining the militia.
By Mr. BOST:
H.R. 3898.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3.
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama:
H.R. 3899.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 3900.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have power to . . . provide for the
. . . general welfare of the United States
. . .’’;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: The Congress
shall have power ‘‘To regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes;’’ and
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have power ‘‘To make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof.’’
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 3901.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. 1, Sec. 8: ‘‘The Congress shall have
Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Im-
posts and Excises, to pay the Debts and pro-
vide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States’’
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 3902.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 3903.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
As described in Article 1, Section 1 ‘‘all
legislative powers herein granted shall be
vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.’’
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina:
H.R. 3904.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
H.R. 3905.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States of America
By Ms. JAYAPAL:
H.R. 3906.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 3907.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18—To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. KINZINGER:
H.R. 3908.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 Clause 18
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 3909.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 3910.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 3911.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 3912.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 3913.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 To make all
laws that shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into execution the foregoing pow-
ers, and all powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof.
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 3914.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 To make all
laws that shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into execution the foregoing pow-
ers, and all powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof.
By Mr. LUCAS:
H.R. 3915.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8,
Clause 18:
‘‘The Congress shall have Power . . . To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, of in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Mr. LUJÁN:
H.R. 3916.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. MATSUI:
H.R. 3917.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 3918.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. MOULTON:
H.R. 3919.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 3920.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. PERRY:
H.R. 3921.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. PRESSLEY:
H.R. 3922.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 3923.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution
By Mr. SUOZZI:
H.R. 3924.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 3925.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. VISCLOSKY:
H.R. 3926.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 34: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 40: Ms. JUDY CHU of California and Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 93: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 96: Ms. LEE of California and Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 153: Mr. DUNN.
H.R. 196: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 295: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 307: Mr. DESJARLAIS.
H.R. 336: Ms. CHENEY and Mr.
FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 388: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 485: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 500: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 586: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 587: Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mrs.
DEMINGS, and Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 593: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 598: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:37 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.054 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7244 July 23, 2019
H.R. 616: Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
BUDD, Mr. GOODEN, and Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 641: Mr. MEEKS and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 645: Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs. BUSTOS, and Mr.
PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 649: Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 728: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois and Mr.
WALDEN.
H.R. 757: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 776: Mr. SABLAN.
H.R. 848: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 913: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 943: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MAST, and
Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 959: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 1002: Mr. BERA and Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1004: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 1058: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. SABLAN, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Ohio, and Ms. KENDRA S. Horn
of Oklahoma.
H.R. 1098: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 1175: Mr. TAKANO, Mr. PAYNE, and Mr.
SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 1201: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1266: Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 1301: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1309: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Mr. NADLER, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
PANETTA, and Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 1374: Mr. LONG, Mr. WENSTRUP, and
Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 1375: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 1383: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 1444: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 1530: Mr. HOLDING and Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 1534: Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 1550: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1554: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1572: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1597: Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr. JEFFRIES,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, and Mr.
MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1601: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1605: Mr. BAIRD and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1619: Mr. BISHOP of Utah.
H.R. 1622: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 1628: Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 1643: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 1682: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 1692: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1695: Mr. BRINDISI and Mr. KELLER.
H.R. 1727: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 1762: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 1773: Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr. STANTON,
Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. VAN DREW,
Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. WALDEN, Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington, Mr. HUNTER, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
MEUSER, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. NEWHOUSE, and
Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 1785: Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 1811: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 1824: Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 1837: Ms. BASS, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Ms.
Velázquez, and Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 1873: Mr. WOMACK and Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 1911: Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 1922: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 1923: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 1925: Ms. STEFANIK, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, and Mr.
ZELDIN.
H.R. 1943: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 1966: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 1978: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 1980: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Ms.
GRANGER, Mr. MAST, Mrs. MILLER, Mr. TIP-
TON, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. KIM,
Ms. PLASKETT, Mr. DELGADO, Ms. SCHRIER,
and Mr. LONG.
H.R. 2000: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2035: Mr. SABLAN.
H.R. 2072: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 2075: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, Mr. KIL-
DEE, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. SMITH
of Washington, and Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 2086: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut.
H.R. 2112: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 2146: Mr. SIRES and Mr. VEASEY.
H.R. 2148: Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 2156: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2191: Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 2200: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2218: Ms. ADAMS and Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 2250: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 2258: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Mr. ROGERS of Alabama.
H.R. 2279: Mr. HARRIS and Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 2293: Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. KENNEDY, and Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 2328: Mr. CORREA and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2382: Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
BALDERSON, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
NEAL, and Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 2405: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 2415: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, and Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 2441: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2442: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 2445: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 2468: Mr. KINZINGER, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr. ENGEL, and
Mr. BARR.
H.R. 2471: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 2482: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2489: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 2498: Mr. EMMER.
H.R. 2504: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 2577: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2593: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 2653: Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mr.
YARMUTH, Ms. Craig, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Mr. VEASEY, and Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 2693: Mr. HARDER of California and Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 2711: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 2741: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2775: Mr. SCHIFF and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 2778: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2788: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER and Mr.
MARSHALL.
H.R. 2808: Ms. MENG, Mr. NEAL, and Mr.
BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2850: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 2912: Mrs. RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 2923: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. SAR-
BANES, and Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2938: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2975: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 2977: Ms. MENG, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 3000: Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 3036: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3040: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 3047: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 3073: Mr. NORCROSS and Mrs. MILLER.
H.R. 3077: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. KILDEE, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. STANTON, Mr.
LANGEVIN, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. CICILLINE, and
Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 3080: Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 3104: Mr. MOOLENAAR, Ms. MENG, Mr.
TIMMONS, and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 3119: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 3128: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 3165: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Mrs.
MCBATH.
H.R. 3195: Ms. CRAIG and Mr. NORCROSS.
H.R. 3206: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 3212: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 3224: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 3254: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 3262: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 3275: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 3281: Mr. VEASEY.
H.R. 3282: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 3289: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 3303: Mr. KILDEE and Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 3315: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 3319: Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 3350: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. ALLRED, Mr.
DIAZ-BALART, Mr. NEGUSE, and Ms. KENDRA
S. HORN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 3356: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 3366: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3369: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
SLOTKIN, and Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 3374: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 3375: Mr. LAMB, Mr. JOHNSON of South
Dakota, Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. KEVIN HERN of
Oklahoma, Mr. GOSAR, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. KELLER, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
CLAY, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
JEFFRIES, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, and Mr.
GARAMENDI.
H.R. 3400: Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 3436: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 3447: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3456: Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. ADAMS, and Mr. SWALWELL of
California.
H.R. 3458: Mr. CURTIS and Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 3461: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 3464: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 3465: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 3473: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mr. RUP-
PERSBERGER.
H.R. 3493: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 3502: Mr. STANTON and Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 3503: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3510: Mr. COLE, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
KATKO, and Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 3525: Mr. SUOZZI and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 3529: Mr. HURD of Texas and Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 3562: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 3570: Mr. CLAY, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Mr. YARMUTH, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
and Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 3575: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 3589: Mr. SCALISE.
H.R. 3597: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 3609: Mr. PETERS, Ms. HAALAND, and
Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 3623: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 3627: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 3660: Mr. MOULTON, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. RUIZ,
Mr. CRIST, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. LYNCH, Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
and Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 3662: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 3665: Mr. BUDD and Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire.
H.R. 3668: Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mr. RASKIN, and Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 3669: Mr. TAYLOR and Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 3670: Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
WELCH, and Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H.R. 3699: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 3725: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 3731: Mr. KENNEDY and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 3735: Mr. HARDER of California and Ms.
HILL of California.
H.R. 3739: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 3742: Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana, and Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 3743: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 3778: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mr. COHEN, and Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 3779: Mr. RICHMOND and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 3783: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 3788: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 3794: Mr. VAN DREW, Ms. TORRES
SMALL of New Mexico, Mr. KILDEE, and Ms.
TITUS.
H.R. 3799: Mr. VEASEY.
H.R. 3808: Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
LIPINSKI, and Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 3809: Mr. PAYNE and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 3815: Ms. PORTER and Ms. CLARKE of
New York.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:37 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.045 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7245
July 23, 2019
H.R. 3816: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 3819: Ms. NORTON, Ms. WILD, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. HASTINGS, and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 3820: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 3828: Mr. WOMACK, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
WALTZ, and Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 3837: Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 3838: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 3839: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3853: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 3862: Mr. RUSH, Mr. TAKANO, and Ms.
NORTON.
H.R. 3868: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 3873: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 3874: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.J. Res. 35: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, and Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.J. Res. 48: Mr. BERA.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mr. KIM and Mr. JOYCE of
Pennsylvania.
H. Res. 23: Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. GUEST, and
Mr. SCHRADER.
H. Res. 33: Mr. EVANS.
H. Res. 177: Mr. BUCSHON.
H. Res. 189: Ms. HAALAND, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Ms. PORTER, Mr. KHANNA, and Ms. TORRES
SMALL of New Mexico.
H. Res. 233: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H. Res. 246: Mr. RICHMOND and Mrs.
RADEWAGEN.
H. Res. 300: Mr. GALLEGO.
H. Res. 326: Mr. SCHNEIDER, Ms. FRANKEL,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, and Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ.
H. Res. 358: Mrs. WALORSKI and Mr. TAY-
LOR.
H. Res. 374: Mr. COLLINS of Georgia.
H. Res. 379: Mr. CORREA and Mr. SWALWELL
of California.
H. Res. 439: Mr. WALTZ.
H. Res. 452: Mr. CISNEROS.
H. Res. 493: Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. GAETZ,
Mr. BANKS, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr.
HICE of Georgia, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr.
KING of Iowa, Mr. WRIGHT, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. BABIN, Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana, and Mr. MCHENRY.
H. Res. 496: Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, and Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H. Res. 502: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Mr.
GRIJALVA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:37 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY7.050 H23JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S4983
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JULY 23, 2019 No. 124
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Lord of the harvest, we continue to
seek You, for we desire to please You.
You, O God, are our light and salva-
tion, so we refuse to be afraid. As our
lawmakers seek to walk with integrity,
provide them with a harvest of truth,
justice, and righteousness. May they
cultivate such ethical consistency that
their words will be undergirded by
right actions.
Lord, keep them aware of Your con-
tinued presence as they find in You
fullness of joy. Show them the path to
life, as You guide them to Your desired
destination.
We pray in Your merciful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask to speak as in morning business for
1 minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NOMINATION OF MARK T. ESPER
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
the United States of America has the
mightiest military in the world to pro-
tect our freedoms and to guarantee
peace around the world. That is why it
is so important to keep check on the
Pentagon’s financial ledgers. Tax-
payers expect their money to be spent
wisely, and it is our job in Congress to
make sure that money is spent wisely.
I am glad Secretary Esper has said he
will work with whistleblowers to stop
wasteful spending and to prevent more
spare parts rip-offs. These are things
that have been of interest to me over
the last several decades with the de-
fense budget. I met with Secretary
Esper, and I believe he has his heart in
the right place to help us accomplish
these goals.
He has also indicated he will
prioritize getting a clean audit of our
military services and an opinion that
can be certified because the 2010 law
that all the audits ought to be certified
was not met by 2017, and they are still
not done. How can you follow the
money if it can’t be audited?
Our men and women in uniform de-
serve no less than to make sure every
dollar in the Defense Department is
spent wisely.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The
majority leader is recognized.
f
BUDGET AGREEMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
yesterday the administration informed
congressional leaders that Secretary
Mnuchin, White House Chief of Staff
Mulvaney, and Acting OMB Director
Vought reached a deal with Speaker
PELOSI to prevent a government-fund-
ing crisis and deliver on President
Trump’s top priorities.
The agreement secures the most im-
portant priority of the Republican con-
ference. In fact, in my view, it is the
most important obligation of the en-
tire Congress; that is, securing the re-
sources we need to provide for the com-
mon defense. This deal does it.
Over the past 21⁄2 years, Republicans
in Congress have worked with the
President to stop and reverse the de-
cline in the strength and readiness of
our Armed Forces. After years of insuf-
ficient funding that hurt readiness and
tied commanders’ hands, Congress and
President Trump have secured badly
needed funding increases to rebuild and
modernize the U.S. military.
There is still more work ahead. The
progress we have made remains ten-
uous. America’s adversaries are not
taking their foot off the gas anytime
soon, so we can’t either. We have to
keep up the momentum. This agree-
ment provides the stability of funding
our military deserves and requires.
Thanks to tough negotiating by the
Trump administration, this deal deliv-
ers for the security of our Nation. It
delivers for our men and women in uni-
form. It protects the progress of the
last 2 years and provides the fuel for
further progress. That is the bottom
line.
The nature of divided government
means this certainly isn’t the agree-
ment Republicans would have written
all by ourselves; for example, I will
never understand why our Democratic
colleagues treat funding the U.S.
Armed Forces like a Republican pri-
ority that somehow needs to be
matched up with additional spending
that Democrats like in order to make
it palatable for them. It seems to me
every one of us, both sides, should
jump at the chance to fund defense ade-
quately.
Alas, that is not a mystery that is
going to be solved for me in the imme-
diate future. The fact is, the Federal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY6.000 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4984 July 23, 2019
Government is coming up with urgent
deadlines with respect to the debt limit
and beginning the appropriations proc-
ess.
The full faith and credit of the
United States cannot be in question.
The last thing Americans need is for
Washington to throw a big wrench in
this red-hot economy that is creating
historic levels of job opportunities and
growing their take-home pay, and so
faced with our Democratic colleagues’
reluctance, the Trump administration
took the high road. They did what
needed to be done for our Armed Forces
and veterans and negotiated a success-
ful deal. In fact, compared to current
law, the administration has secured a
larger increase for defense spending
than for nondefense. Let me say that
again: a larger increase for defense
than for nondefense compared to cur-
rent law.
What is more, the administration
successfully kept leftwing poison pills
and policy riders far away from this
agreement. We know some of the far
left have been hankering to claw back
the Hyde amendment protections or
cut away at reprogramming authori-
ties and flexibility that Presidents
rightly possess. I applaud the fact that
no leftwing riders like that were al-
lowed into the deal.
This is the deal that was necessary to
continue rebuilding our national de-
fense after years of neglect, and it is
the deal that was possible in divided
government. I am proud to join Presi-
dent Trump in support of it, and I will
be proud to support it when the Senate
votes on the agreement before we ad-
journ at the end of this month.
f
NOMINATION OF MARK T. ESPER
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
in the meantime, this body has other
significant business to complete for the
American people. Most immediately, in
just a few hours, we will be confirming
a new Secretary of Defense. The vote
to advance Dr. Mark Esper’s nomina-
tion yesterday afternoon came in at 85
to 6. That is precisely the kind of over-
whelming bipartisan vote that is called
for in this circumstance.
The nominee is beyond qualified. His
record of public service is beyond im-
pressive. His commitment to serving
our servicemembers is beyond obvious.
The need for a Senate-confirmed Sec-
retary of Defense is beyond urgent. I
urge every one of my colleagues to vote
to confirm our next Secretary of De-
fense later today.
f
9/11 VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
that isn’t the only important task we
will tackle on a bipartisan basis today.
In just a few hours, the Senate will at-
tend to an important subject we have
never failed to address; that is, the
September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund.
I know my colleagues don’t need any
extended lecture from me about the
solemn commitments this program
represents: commitments to the fire-
fighters, police officers, and all the
first responders who rushed selflessly
toward the World Trade Center just
moments after the attacks began, to
the first responders and workers who
reported for duty days or even weeks
later, putting their health at serious
risk to help others, commitments to
those who responded to the Pentagon
and in Shanksville, PA, as well, and in
the cases where injury or illness has al-
ready claimed the lives of those heroes,
commitments to the surviving fami-
lies.
Congress can never repay these men,
women, and families for their sac-
rifices, but we can do a small part to
make our heroes whole. That is why
the Senate has never failed to attend
to the fund before. We are not about to
do so now.
I had the honor of meeting with a
group of first responders and advocates
several weeks back. They gave me the
badge of Luis Alvarez, a New York Po-
lice Department bomb squad detective
who was terminally ill and has since
tragically passed away.
It was my honor to receive it. It was
my honor to reiterate that the Sen-
ate’s ironclad commitment to getting
this done was never in doubt. I told the
first responders I wanted the Senate to
address this prior to the August recess,
and today we will do so. It will be my
honor later today to vote for the fund-
ing and ensure this fund is secure. I
urge my colleagues to do the same.
f
HONG KONG
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on one final matter, in recent weeks, I
have spoken about our Nation’s re-
newed competition with other great
powers, like Russia and China. Despite
decades of efforts to welcome these na-
tions into a peaceful, prosperous, and
fair international system, we are con-
stantly reminded that these nations
have their own design on the future. In
their visions, foundational principles of
sovereignty, freedom, human rights,
and a rules-based international order
tend to take a backseat to power poli-
tics and the pursuit of hegemony.
The Chinese Communist Party, for
example, is working to extend its con-
trol and influence everywhere from
Taiwan to Cambodia, to Laos, to
Burma, to Hong Kong, as we have seen
recently. The tools and tactics may dif-
fer but the goal is the same: Beijing
wants to bend its neighbors to its will.
Earlier this month, after historic
protests, Hong Kong’s Government hit
pause on legislation that would have
further eroded its autonomy and in-
vited more meddling from the main-
land, but victory for freedom and au-
tonomy is not yet assured. The bill in
question has been suspended, but it
hasn’t been totally withdrawn.
Hong Kong’s people, emboldened by
this rare victory over Beijing’s creep-
ing influence, have continued to exer-
cise their freedom of assembly to re-
claim the rights, privileges, and auton-
omy slowly sliced away in recent years
by the PRC.
Protests continue and with them
countervailing pressures from authori-
ties beholden to Beijing. Increasingly
brutal police tactics and pro-mainland
vigilantes are drawing blood in an ef-
fort to intimidate Hongkongers back
into submission.
Hong Kong’s autonomous govern-
ance, political freedoms, and stable
rule of law has been a crucial pre-
condition of its tremendous growth and
prosperity. U.S. firms have invested
tens of billions in Hong Kong’s econ-
omy because they trust the autono-
mous region’s political climate, inde-
pendent judicial system, and degree of
independence from Beijing.
By contrast, international firms are
currently pulling back from China due
to concerns about corruption, autoc-
racy, intellectual property rights vio-
lations, and state-sponsored corporate
espionage.
At a time when China faces slowing
growth, Beijing should seek to emulate
Hong Kong, not engulf Hong Kong and
remake it in the image of the Chinese
Communist Party.
The PRC has long been working hard
under the surface to increase its influ-
ence and power. In Hong Kong, like in
so many other areas, China has used
this approach that experts have called
‘‘hide and bide’’—hiding their inten-
tions and biding their time, slowly slic-
ing away resistance, building leverage,
and encroaching, one step at a time.
In the case of Hong Kong, Beijing and
its agents have overreached, but they
are recalculating—postponing action
on this legislation while biding time to
resume the encroachment.
This is not just a matter of the peo-
ple of Hong Kong. The PRC’s treatment
of Hong Kong—just like its treatment
of the Uighurs or Tibetans that Beijing
claims as citizens—is an indicator of
how Chinese rulers will behave abroad.
All nations who trade with the PRC
should be watching the drama unfold-
ing on the streets of Hong Kong.
The world is watching and won-
dering: If a government cannot respect
the basic rights of people it claims as
its own citizens, why on Earth would it
be trusted to respect the rights and in-
terests of its neighbors, its trading
partners, or the companies that invest
in its economy?
As we all know, the people of Hong
Kong have been carrying the banner for
decades. I am proud to say that here in
the United States, we have been
marching alongside them the entire
way. Back in 1992, I was proud to au-
thor the U.S.-Hong Kong Policy Act
and helped codify America’s stance on
the special status of Hong Kong.
So on the 70th anniversary of the
PRC and the 30th anniversary of the
Tiananmen Square massacre, I am
grateful the administration and Con-
gress, on a bipartisan basis, are reex-
amining America’s relationship with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.002 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4985
July 23, 2019
the PRC. I am grateful for the bipar-
tisan work my colleagues have done on
this important issue, and I am con-
fident Congress will continue to hold
hearings and stay vigilant on the sub-
ject of autonomy and democracy in
Hong Kong, as well as China’s overall
strategy and its implications for the
United States, our allies, and the en-
tire world.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
last Friday, I went with a group of Sen-
ate Democrats to visit several deten-
tion centers at our southern border, in-
cluding the Border Patrol facility in
McAllen and processing centers at
Donna and Ursula, TX. The searing ac-
counts about the conditions endured by
the migrant families are true. We saw
overcrowding. We heard migrants tell
us they are unable to brush their teeth,
shower, call their families, or access
feminine hygiene products. We saw
children in soiled clothing, caged and
expressionless. It is heartbreaking—the
thousand-smile stares on the faces of
toddlers where smiles and laughter
should have been. It breaks your heart
and makes your blood boil all at once.
But we saw something else. I am al-
ways looking for the positive. We saw a
much better model employed by a non-
profit Catholic Charities center, run by
Sister Norma Pimentel. There, families
had access to medicine, food, and show-
ers as their asylum cases were being
processed in an orderly fashion. These
people were being treated humanely,
and they were following the law.
Sister Norma told us that the gov-
ernment could replicate this model.
She explained that if ICE reinstated
the Family Case Management Pro-
gram, we could see as high as 99-per-
cent compliance with immigration
court orders without the need for ex-
panded detention and overcrowding.
What a difference that could make.
Sister Norma showed us that we can
treat these migrants with respect and
decency without sacrificing border se-
curity or law and order. The two are
not mutually exclusive. That is such
an important point. You can have both
humane treatment and rule of law.
Anyone who says that we must choose
between treating these people hu-
manely and enforcing our laws is offer-
ing a false choice. We can do both, and
we can follow the model of Catholic
Charities all along the border.
That is why Democrats have been
pushing to restart and infuse more dol-
lars into alternatives to detention de-
spite Republican objections. The Fam-
ily Case Management Program, cou-
pled with a Democratic bill to address
the treatment of children—a bill that
Senators MERKLEY, FEINSTEIN, DURBIN,
and I have sponsored, as well as many
others—over 30 other Democrats, I be-
lieve—would both improve the condi-
tions at the detention centers and en-
sure that families comply with our im-
migration laws.
I would say one more thing about
these kids and the parents. They are
not criminals. I asked Mark Morgan,
who is certainly known as a hard-liner
on immigration: What percentage of
these kids and parents are criminals?
It is a very small percentage. At one
point, it was said that 96 percent—and
at another point 98 percent—are not
criminals. They are the same people
our grandparents or our great-grand-
parents or our great-great-grand-
parents were, who sought safety and a
decent life in America. Their children
and their grandchildren—on my fa-
ther’s side I am one of the grand-
children, and on my mother’s side I am
one of the great-great-grandchildren—
have done good things for America
throughout the country. That is what
America is all about. These people are
not fleeing to break the law. They are
not fleeing to traffic drugs. They are
fleeing because the gangs down there
have told the parents: We will rape
your daughter, we will murder your
son, and we will burn your house if you
don’t do what we want. They are flee-
ing for the safety, the beauty, and the
opportunity of America, which genera-
tions since the 1600s have done and
have made this country great.
We need to return to a rational dis-
cussion about the reality on the
ground, and that includes a discussion
about the root causes of immigration.
Again, when the President says Ameri-
cans should know that all of these peo-
ple arriving at our borders are crimi-
nals trying to game the law, he should
know who they are. As I said, Mark
Morgan, his own CBP Commissioner,
admitted as much to our congressional
delegation on Friday when we ques-
tioned him. The vast majority of fami-
lies are fleeing unimaginable violence
and degradation in their countries. So
let’s get at the root causes of this, in-
stead of just tweeting and going on TV
and ranting, which people have done.
First, allow migrants to apply for
asylum inside their own countries. Sec-
ond, hire more immigration judges to
reduce the backlog in cases at the bor-
der. Third, provide security assistance
to these Central American countries to
help them crack down on the vicious
gangs and drug cartels that cause so
many to flee in the first place.
This is a rational thing to do. I think
most Americans, regardless of their
ideology, regardless of their party, re-
gardless of their political position,
would support this. But the Trump ad-
ministration has now pledged to end
the security assistance to Central
American countries. That is counter-
productive. It is boneheaded because it
is going to cause more people to flee.
Unfortunately, it is been typical of the
President’s approach. This morning,
the President tweeted and bragged
about how he has cut off funding to
Guatemala 9 months ago. It is counter-
productive. That means more—not
fewer—people at our borders, plain and
simple.
In my experience, I have not seen the
President be serious about dealing with
immigration. He has used the issue; he
riles up his base without telling them
the truth, making them think they are
all criminals—I see this on FOX News
all the time as well—demeaning immi-
grants, who are what America is all
about, inflaming racial tensions, and
stoking fear.
So we in Congress, Democrats and
Republicans, should take the lead and
develop a way forward, a real way that
will solve the problems at the border in
a way that complies with humanity,
the American way, and the rule of law.
f
BUDGET AGREEMENT
Madam President, on a different sub-
ject, yesterday, four congressional
leaders in the Trump administration
reached a bipartisan agreement that
will strengthen our national security
and clear the way for important invest-
ments in America’s middle-class—in-
vestments in healthcare, education,
childcare, veterans, cancer research,
and more.
First and foremost, I am pleased to
report that in this deal, Democrats
have finally found a way to end the
threat of sequester permanently. The
arbitrary and draconian limits of the
sequester have hammered our ability
to invest in working Americans for too
long. There are large forces pushing
the middle class around—globalization
and automation—and the only answer,
because most of our international com-
panies haven’t really made the effort
at least until now, is government pro-
viding ladders—ways out, ways in, and
ways up—so that average middle-class
people can maintain that great Amer-
ican dream, which means, simply put,
if you work hard, you will be doing bet-
ter 10 years from now than you are
doing today, and your kids will still be
doing better than you. We need those
kinds of programs—education, infra-
structure, healthcare, and childcare—
to make this happen; otherwise, these
big economic forces are going to con-
tinue to push the middle-class and poor
people around. The wealthy—they will
do fine, even though this Republican
Party and this administration seem to
make them their first choice. Look at
that tax cut.
So this is a good thing. It means that
the shadow of sequestration, the inabil-
ity of the government to provide lad-
ders so that middle-class people can
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.003 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4986 July 23, 2019
deal with the big forces pushing them
around, will no longer hover over our
work on the Federal budget.
Not only did we permanently end
that devastating sequester, which, by
the way, the military hated, as well as
people who wanted help on the domes-
tic side—it slashed them as well. Gen-
eral Mattis was fanatic, almost, in a
good way about this. I miss him. But
we Democrats did this in an extraor-
dinary fashion.
The agreement includes a significant
increase in funding for critical domes-
tic priorities, including an increase in
the domestic budget authority that
even exceeds the increase in defense by
$10 billion over the next 2 years. For
those counting, yesterday’s deal means
that Democrats have secured over $100
billion in funding increases for domes-
tic programs since President Trump
took office. At the same time, it en-
sures that our military is prepared to
keep Americans safe around the world.
This $100 billion sounds abstract. But
let me tell you what it means: more
funding to the States for opioid treat-
ment. The States are desperate for
more help. Young people are dying of
these horrible drugs. Treatment works.
I held in my arms a father from Buf-
falo whose son had served in Iraq, had
PTSD, and then got hooked on opioids
when he came back here. Finally, the
kid hit bottom. He said: Dad, I want to
go to a treatment center.
Unfortunately, there was a 23-week
waiting period, and the young man
killed himself in the 22nd week. The fa-
ther cried in my arms, a big steel
worker with tattoos and everything
else. He was devastated, as anybody
else would be over the loss of a child.
Now there will be more money for that.
This is not abstract.
What about fixing VA hospitals?
What about more money to help edu-
cate our kids properly? What about
some money to make the burden of col-
lege less great, as heavy as it is? What
about money for climate and clean en-
ergy? What about money for infra-
structure and transportation? That
$100 billion is not abstract. It is for all
of these things. It is going to mean jobs
for the American people. It is going to
mean ladders up for the American peo-
ple. It is going to mean some hope for
the American people.
I know that on the other side some
on the right will say: This increases
the deficit. Just a year ago they voted
to increase the deficit by $1.5 trillion—
now, maybe $2 trillion—with a deep tax
cut, the overwhelming part of which
went to the wealthiest people in Amer-
ica. So don’t start hollering ‘‘deficit’’
when it comes to helping the middle
class when you are willing to deepen
the deficit when it comes to helping
the wealthy. Of course, now, part of
this is that the debt ceiling will be ex-
tended until the summer of 2021, pre-
serving the full faith and credit of the
United States.
Looking forward, I think we have
laid the groundwork for legislation
that will hopefully avoid another
senseless and harmful government
shutdown. The House will now move
quickly to put this agreement up for a
vote, and then the Senate can follow
suit and send it to the President’s
desk. I was glad to see that the Presi-
dent tweeted—I believe it was
tweeted—and put out a statement that
he supports this agreement.
f
9/11 VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, fi-
nally, there is something we can vote
on today at long, long last—the 9/11
Victim Compensation Fund for those
brave heroes who rushed to the Towers
on 9/11. The light at the end of the tun-
nel of what has been a very long and
sometimes very dark time is now only
a few hours away. We have waited too
long to settle this matter. Too many
people have put up bipartisan road-
blocks along the road.
Now we are here, about to exit the
tunnel and guarantee once and for all
that the heroes who rushed to the Tow-
ers 18 years ago will no longer have to
worry about compensation for their
families when they are gone. These
men and women, many of them sick,
some of them gravely so, will not have
to return to Congress anymore to fight
for the compensation they always
should have been given. They will be
able to go home, tend to their illnesses,
their family members, and their
friends. That is what they always
wanted to do—just take care of them-
selves, their families, and their friends
who got sick from the poisonous stuff
that was in the air right after 9/11,
when, bravely, these men and women
rushed to the Towers. That is what we
want. We have waited too long.
Now, we are going to have a few
amendment votes first, and I warn my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle: If
you vote for these amendments, you
will, at best, delay the bill but, at
worst, kill it. Neither is a good choice,
neither is a palatable choice, and nei-
ther is an acceptable choice. Let’s de-
feat these amendments. I believe they
will be defeated. Then, let’s pass the
bill overwhelmingly.
This body has come together to help
veterans time and again. These people
are just like veterans, and 9/11 seemed
like a war. I was there. I was there the
next day. I was in Washington the day
it happened. In a time of war, these
brave people selflessly risked their
lives and rushed to the Towers to de-
fend our freedom, just like our soldiers
do and just like our armed services do.
So we should sign this bill into law.
Now, I will have more to say on the
matter before and after the vote, about
what this means, and thanking the
many people, particularly the first re-
sponders—names like Zadroga, Pfeifer,
and Alvarez—who made this happen.
Until then, let me just say it is hard
for me to express how much I am look-
ing forward to passing this bill here
today.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
NEVER FORGET THE HEROES:
JAMES ZADROGA, RAY PFEIFER,
AND LUIS ALVAREZ PERMANENT
AUTHORIZATION OF THE SEP-
TEMBER 11TH VICTIM COM-
PENSATION FUND ACT
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of H.R. 1327, which
the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 1327) to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund of 2001 through fiscal year 2092, and for
other purposes.
NOMINATION OF MARK T. ESPER
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, later
this morning we will be voting on the
nomination of Mark Esper to be Sec-
retary of Defense. Dr. Esper is an out-
standing choice. I don’t need to tell
anyone how essential the position of
Secretary of Defense is to our national
security. The Secretary of Defense is
key to ensuring that our Nation is pre-
pared to meet and defeat any threat.
Dr. Esper has the experience, the
knowledge, and the character for the
job. He has an illustrious resume: West
Point grad, Gulf war veteran, Bronze
Star recipient, Rifle Company com-
mander, a total of 10 years on Active
Duty, and an additional 11 in the Na-
tional Guard and Army Reserve.
In addition to his practical military
and leadership experience, he has ex-
tensive experience on the policy side of
things as well. He has a master’s de-
gree from the John F. Kennedy School
of Government at Harvard and a doc-
torate in public policy from George
Washington University here in the Na-
tion’s Capital. He worked as a senior
professional staff member on the Sen-
ate Foreign Relations Committee and
the Governmental Affairs Committee,
as policy director for the House Armed
Services Committee, and as national
security adviser to former Senate Ma-
jority Leader Bill Frist. He also served
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.004 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4987
July 23, 2019
as a Deputy Assistant Secretary of De-
fense during the George W. Bush ad-
ministration, and during the Trump
administration, of course, he has
served as Secretary of the Army.
As Army Secretary, he has driven
budget reform and Army moderniza-
tion, supported Defense cooperation
with our allies, and supervised the
most significant reorganization of the
Army in 45 years. His character and his
expertise have won him respect from
both sides of the aisle.
The Democratic junior Senator from
Virginia recently described Dr. Esper
as ‘‘a person of sound character and
moral courage’’ and encouraged his col-
leagues to support Dr. Esper’s nomina-
tion.
Reacting to Dr. Esper’s appointment
as Acting Defense Secretary, the
Democratic chairman of the House
Armed Services Committee noted that
the Department of Defense would ben-
efit from Dr. Esper’s leadership.
Dr. Esper was confirmed as Secretary
of the Army by an overwhelming bipar-
tisan majority, and his nomination as
Defense Secretary was reported out of
the Senate Armed Services Committee
with nearly unanimous support. I look
forward to seeing a similarly strong bi-
partisan vote for his confirmation later
today.
In November 2018, the bipartisan Na-
tional Defense Strategy Commission
released a report warning that our
readiness had eroded to the point
where we might struggle to win a war
against a major power like China or
Russia. The Commission noted that we
would be especially vulnerable if we
were called on to fight a war on two
fronts.
Rebuilding our military and equip-
ping it to meet 21st century threats has
to be a priority. I was encouraged yes-
terday by the fact that the budget deal
arrived at by the administration and
Speaker PELOSI prioritizes money for
our military. While it is not a perfect
piece of legislation, it will ensure that
we are able to keep rebuilding our mili-
tary and deliver on-time funding for
our men and women in uniform.
During his confirmation hearing, Dr.
Esper revealed his clear understanding
of what needs to be done on the na-
tional security front: modernize and re-
build our military; ensure that we are
prepared for a new era of great-power
competition while maintaining our
ability to confront terrorist organiza-
tions and rogue nations; cultivate our
relationship with our allies; and sup-
port our men and women in uniform,
who sacrifice so much to keep our Na-
tion safe and free.
I am confident that Dr. Esper will be
an outstanding Secretary of Defense,
and I look forward to supporting his
nomination later today.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
NOMINATION OF STEPHEN M. DICKSON
Ms. CANTWELL. Madam President, I
rise today to speak in opposition to the
nomination of Stephen Dickson to be
the next Administrator of the FAA.
I have said that it is very important
that in this day and age, when it comes
to aviation, safety must always be our
top priority. We considered Mr.
Dickson’s nomination, his record, and
the ongoing case of a whistleblower re-
taliation, and given all of that, it is
clear to me that he is not the right per-
son for the safety culture we need
today at the FAA.
It is distressing to me that Mr.
Dickson advanced out of committee on
just a party-line vote. We have never
had a partisan vote on an FAA nomi-
nee in the past, and I believe we should
have found consensus on the nominee
for the FAA given all the concerns the
public has about flying safety.
The reason why I oppose Mr. Dickson
is from what I understood, after the
hearing, from First Officer Karlene
Petitt, who has a Ph.D. in aviation
safety and is an experienced pilot over
40 years and happens to be one of my
constituents. At a hearing, we basi-
cally understood that no one was hold-
ing Mr. Dickson accountable for ac-
tions that he took against her at Delta
Airlines.
Back in 2010, she was a pilot on an
A330 flight. She had seen a crash of an
A330 plane—tragically, an Air France
plane in the Atlantic Ocean. She had
also heard comments from those in the
Delta executive team that if you have
a concern about safety, say something.
So she thought she was doing just that.
As part of what she thought was im-
portant information following these
A330 incidents, she said she had con-
cern about pilot training when it came
to potential automation and failures of
making sure that they were giving
enough rest time to pilots. She ob-
served that there were issues she
thought were putting both her and pas-
sengers at risk.
So what did she do? She did what all
employees, we hope, would do. She in-
formed her superiors and suggested
possible solutions. She was persistent
and wanted to make sure that these
recommendations were met with by the
leadership of the organization—Mr.
Dickson and his second-in-command,
Jim Graham. Some of the concerns she
raised about inadequate pilot training
and not enough pilot rest were things
that you thought would have maybe
gotten her recognized for the great
contribution to a safety culture that is
so necessary today in an age of more
and more automation. Whether you are
talking about an automobile or an air-
plane, it is essential that automation
and training go hand in hand.
Instead of Officer Petitt getting the
attention she deserved, the company
sent her for a mandatory psychiatric
evaluation. Can you imagine a whistle-
blower bringing up concerns as a pilot
flying for many years and instead of
being paid attention to, being sent for
a psychiatric evaluation?
Just a few months after Officer
Petitt raised her concerns, that is ex-
actly what happened. Delta and Mr.
Dickson removed her from duty and re-
quired her to undergo a mental health
evaluation, forcing her to protect her
career and her reputation.
The psychiatrist Mr. Dickson’s team
handpicked to examine Ms. Petitt had
his own problems of serious red flags
and retaliatory threats. For example,
the doctor cited that just because Offi-
cer Petitt had three kids, a job, and
helped her husband with his career, she
must be manic. I don’t know about the
Presiding Officer, but to me it just
sounds like being an American woman
today, juggling many things.
The psychiatrist even had the nerve
to ask when the first officer was pump-
ing breast milk for her children. That
is the kind of questioning the officer
had to answer.
The good news is that there are laws
on the books that protect people in
these kinds of incidents when they are
a whistleblower and they have been re-
taliated against.
Later, a panel of eight doctors from
the Mayo Clinic and another inde-
pendent doctor came to the opposite
conclusion of this psychiatrist, stating
that Officer Petitt had no mental
issues and that she should continue to
fly as she had done for many years.
It is very unfortunate that this situa-
tion arose, but it is more unfortunate
that Mr. Dickson was not evenhanded
about it when his nomination came be-
fore the committee. It is standard oper-
ating procedure in the U.S. Senate to
ask nominees this question: Have you
or any business or nonprofit that you
have been associated with been in-
volved as a party to an administrative
agency, criminal, or civil litigation?
Why do we want to know that? We
want to know of any kind of deroga-
tory information about a nominee
whom we are about to entrust with the
public confidence through the U.S.
Senate. We want to know whether
there have been any issues and whether
that trust has been misplaced. Instead
of answering that question, he did not
bring up this incident at Delta.
I don’t know of any nominee before
the Commerce Committee who, having
failed to disclose this kind of informa-
tion, then moved forward after it was
brought up. That is right. The only rea-
son we knew about this incident is not
because of his requirement to disclose
it and his failure to disclose it but be-
cause, during the hearing when every-
body heard all of this glowing informa-
tion, a whistleblower came forward to
explain to members of the committee
that this incident took place and ex-
actly what had happened to her in her
career as she tried to raise important
issues.
When Mr. Dickson was asked for fur-
ther information about this lawsuit
and why he didn’t disclose it, he went
on to minimize his involvement, saying
that it amounted to essentially one
meeting with the pilot; however, a re-
view of written records, emails, deposi-
tions, and other materials showed that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.006 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4988 July 23, 2019
Mr. Dickson was more involved than
just one meeting.
We all want our officials to show a
commitment to safety, establishing
rules and a culture that protects the
flying public. That is one reason Cap-
tain Sullenberger has come out against
this nominee. He knows that when it
comes to creating a culture of safety,
it has to start at the top, and we have
to listen to people like the pilots who
are showing concerns today about the
Boeing 737 MAX. We should listen to
them and the inspector general on
what types of processes should be put
in place to resolve the challenges we
face as we integrate more automation.
Automation can help us make things
safer, but automation without the pilot
training, without the integration,
without a culture that rewards people
for bringing up issues, instead of al-
most red-coding them as a response, is
not what we need to be doing.
A 2016 report by the Department of
Transportation inspector general high-
lights the essential role of FAA over-
sight to reduce the hazards with regard
to increased reliance on flight deck au-
tomation. The FAA estimates that au-
tomation is used 90 percent of the time
in flight. Yet, according to the inspec-
tor general report, the FAA did not
have a process to ensure that airline
pilots are properly trained to use and
monitor automation systems while
maintaining proficiency in manual
flight operations.
The report recommended that the
FAA provide guidance in defining
standards that airlines can use to train
and evaluate pilots in the use of auto-
mation. It also recommended that
standards be established to determine
whether pilots were receiving suffi-
cient training to develop and maintain
manual flying skills.
These are the very matters First Of-
ficer Petitt had focused on when mak-
ing her observations and suggestions
regarding safety. They are as critical
today as they were for the A330.
We are living in an era of increasing
automation, and we have work to do. I
guarantee that we are going to con-
tinue to play a role in this in the Com-
merce Committee, making sure the in-
spector general’s criticisms of the FAA
with regard to these issues are ad-
dressed. We need someone on the front-
line who takes safety seriously and lis-
tens to the pilots. I know these issues
are weighing on the American public—
the very questions that Dr. Petitt
asked. I am sure, with the right
amount of engineering and coopera-
tion, we can get them right.
But Mr. Dickson has doubled down.
He basically said that he had no re-
grets about how he handled the situa-
tion when we came back at him about
the fact that the information wasn’t
submitted. He basically said he had no
regrets about trying to end a 40-year
career of a whistleblower. I find this
very challenging. I want the FAA to
move forward with confidence that we
are going to create the safety culture
necessary for today’s environment.
Captain Sullenberger said it best:
This nominee, while a senior executive at
Delta Airlines, either caused or allowed a
whistleblower with validated safety concerns
to be retaliated against. I strongly oppose
his nomination. The decisions the next FAA
Administrator makes will determine how
safe every airline passenger and crew will be.
I know that it is hard for people in
busy jobs to slow down and listen to
whistleblowers, but I guarantee they
have helped us many times to solve
many problems.
I ask my colleagues to turn down
this nomination today and to help us
create an environment where whistle-
blowers will be listened to.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Without objection,
it is so ordered.
ENCRYPTION
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I
rise to rebut the deeply flawed proposal
the Attorney General made this morn-
ing. This morning, he raised a tired, de-
bunked plan to blow a hole in one of
the most important security features
protecting the digital lives of the
American people. Mr. Barr—once again
echoing the views of some on the far,
far right—is trying to undermine
strong encryption and require govern-
ment back doors into the personal de-
vices of the American people.
‘‘Encryption’’ is a technical term
that gets thrown around by people in
government who don’t want you to use
it. The idea, however, is simple: It is
using math to encode your information
so that the only people who can read it
are the ones you want to read it.
As is often known, encryption is used
every time a credit card is swiped or an
online bank account is accessed. It
helps protect our kids from predators
who would spy on them through their
cell phone cameras or surreptitiously
track their movements. It keeps our
health records, our personal commu-
nications, and our other sensitive data
secure from hackers. Strong
encryption helps protect national secu-
rity secrets from hackers working for
the Russians, the Chinese, the North
Koreans, and other hostile govern-
ments.
I have spent a full decade fighting off
horrible plans to undermine strong
encryption. My usual argument goes
something like this: You can’t build a
back door only for the good guys, for
government officials who are trying to
protect people. Once you weaken
encryption with a back door, you make
it far easier for criminals and hackers
and predators to get into your digital
life. Then I go through all the reasons
the government’s plan to build a back
door is just about the worst idea since
Crystal Pepsi.
Today, I want to raise some even
more pressing concerns that are new.
Many times in the past, I have warned
that unnecessary government surveil-
lance holds the potential to be abused,
but I have never done what I am doing
today. Today, I fear—rather, I expect
that if we give the Attorney General
and the President the unprecedented
power to break encryption across the
board and burrow into the most inti-
mate details of Americans’ lives, they
will abuse those powers. I don’t say
that lightly. Yet, when I look at the
record, the public statements, and the
behavior of William Barr and Donald
Trump, it is clear to me that you can’t
make the case for giving them this
kind of power. There is too much evi-
dence that they will abuse it. Their
record shows they do not feel con-
strained by the law. They have not
been bound by legal or moral prece-
dents. Donald Trump, by his own
words, has no ethical compunction—
these are his words—about using gov-
ernment power against his political en-
emies.
Never before have I been so certain
that an administration in power would
knowingly abuse the massive power of
government surveillance. It is for that
reason that building government back
doors into the encrypted communica-
tions of the American people is now
uniquely dangerous and must be op-
posed at all costs.
These are serious charges that I have
made, and I am going to walk through
my reasoning. First, I would like to
discuss the Attorney General’s history
when it comes to government surveil-
lance and government power.
When this body voted on Mr. Barr’s
nomination earlier this year, I laid out
in great detail his history when it
comes to Executive power. Anyone
wishing for a full airing of Mr. Barr’s
lifelong devotion to unbounded Execu-
tive power can dial up those remarks of
mine on C–SPAN, but I just want to
highlight one item again this morning.
Mr. Barr testified in October of 2003,
and he laid out his ideological position
that the President is not restrained
when it comes to surveilling people
here in the United States—not by laws
passed by Congress, not by the Fourth
Amendment, no constraints.
In that 2003 testimony, Mr. Barr said
that the PATRIOT Act didn’t go far
enough in terms of government surveil-
lance. Even worse, Mr. Barr said that
laws going back to the 1970s have no
real effect on Presidential power. Mr.
Barr said: ‘‘Numerous statutes were
passed, such as FISA’’—Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act—‘‘that pur-
ported to supplant Presidential discre-
tion with Congressionally crafted
schemes whereby judges become the ar-
biter of national security decisions.’’ In
one sentence, Mr. Barr just swept 40
years of congressional action and 200
years of constitutional governance out
the window. We ought to take him at
his word that he has contempt for the
Fourth Amendment and critical laws
that protect our law-abiding people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.007 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4989
July 23, 2019
It is far more than just words, how-
ever, that lead me to this conclusion.
It is now public record that William
Barr, when he was Attorney General in
the 1990s, approved a massive, illegal
surveillance program.
The inspector general at the Depart-
ment of Justice revealed this March
that William Barr gave the OK to a
bulk phone records dragnet at the Drug
Enforcement Agency that ran for more
than 20 years. The inspector general
found that Mr. Barr never even looked
to see whether that Drug Enforcement
Administration bulk surveillance pro-
gram was legal. The inspector general
called it ‘‘troubling’’ because of the
disconnect between what the law says
and how it was secretly being inter-
preted and used. The Drug Enforce-
ment Agency program that William
Barr approved relied on subpoena
power that requires that the records
being collected be ‘‘relevant or mate-
rial’’ to an investigation. But Mr. Barr
didn’t bother to consider whether all of
those phone records that were collected
in bulk were consistent with the law;
he just went ahead and rubberstamped
it.
The inspector general tends to be po-
lite about outright calling government
programs illegal, but even the inspec-
tor general pointed out that there are
multiple court cases that ‘‘clearly sug-
gested potential challenges to the va-
lidity of the DEA’s use of this statu-
tory subpoena power in this expansive,
non-targeted manner.’’
Finally, the inspector general found
that the records collected from the pro-
gram were used outside the Drug En-
forcement Agency for investigations
that had nothing to do with drugs—a
practice the inspector general said
‘‘raised significant legal questions.’’
The inspector general goes on to note
that Congress was kept almost entirely
in the dark. At a time when the Amer-
ican people are hungry for trans-
parency and openness and account-
ability, the inspector general says Con-
gress was kept in the dark by Mr. Barr
about a decades-long, illegal bulk col-
lection program, with the exception of
a single secret Intelligence Committee
hearing in 2007. Even then, it was obvi-
ous the program was illegal. That is
why my colleague Senator Feingold
and I wrote to the head of National In-
telligence pointing out that the sub-
poena authority the DEA was using
was never intended for bulk collection.
This was secret law, and it was wrong
and dangerous.
That is why I wanted to make sure
people knew Mr. Barr’s history, be-
cause this secret, illegal bulk collec-
tion program was approved by the cur-
rent Attorney General. So you have an
Attorney General who not only has
said he is not constrained by the law,
but he has a history of breaking the
law. You also have a President who al-
most every day expresses contempt for
any legal or constitutional restraints
on his powers. That attitude applies to
surveillance too. In 2016, in response to
Russian hacking of his opponents, Don-
ald Trump said: ‘‘I wish I had that
power.’’
So Donald Trump—a President who
Attorney General Barr thinks can do
no wrong—is the one who is driving
this. This is the President who Attor-
ney General Barr thinks is above the
law. This is the President whom the
Attorney General will, in effect, cover
for at virtually every turn, as he did
when he repeatedly lied about the con-
tents of the Mueller report.
Let me close by talking about why
this matters to William Barr’s efforts
now to break into Americans’
encrypted communications. The argu-
ment that the government needs to
weaken encryption has always been
based on the promise that the govern-
ment will never use the back door
without a court-ordered warrant.
Yet Mr. Barr, in his own words and
actions, has demonstrated repeatedly,
when it comes to surveillance, that the
laws don’t matter, that the courts
don’t matter, and that even the Con-
stitution doesn’t matter. The only
thing that matters is what he and the
President feel like doing.
So I would ask my colleagues who
are here, what Senators in their right
minds would give these men the au-
thority to break into the phone of
every single American? Imagine what
kind of information they could gather
on their political opponents. Imagine if
a Member of Congress were secretly
gay and were desperate to hide the
fact. Despite campaigning on family
values, imagine if a Member of Con-
gress had cheated on his wife. Would a
man like the individual I have de-
scribed here use that information
against them? Would Donald Trump
use it to secure their loyalty in the
face of his own wrongdoing?
I understand that the world is a
frightening place, and anybody who
serves on the Select Committee on In-
telligence would share that view. Some
government agencies will always advo-
cate for greater powers to surveil
Americans and intrude into their dig-
ital lives. It is important to remember,
as I touched on in the beginning, that
the banning of encryption in America
will not stop the bad guys from using
encryption, and it will not ban basic
math algorithms elsewhere in the
world. It will only leave Americans less
secure against foreign hackers, and—I
regret having to say this—it will leave
Americans less secure against intru-
sions by an administration that has
shown it is willing to support lawless
measures.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arizona.
MAIDEN SPEECH
Ms. SINEMA. Mr. President, I am
honored to rise to deliver my maiden
speech as the senior U.S. Senator from
the great State of Arizona. I was sworn
in to this distinguished body just over
6 months ago. I am incredibly honored
and humbled to join only a dozen oth-
ers who have had the honor of rep-
resenting the great State 48 in the U.S.
Senate, and I am filled with gratitude
to the people of the State who have en-
trusted me with this duty. In con-
tinuing the work of leaders who have
held the Senate seat, from Senators
Barry Goldwater and Dennis DeConcini
to, most recently, Senators Jon Kyl
and Jeff Flake, I have pledged to up-
hold Arizona’s proud tradition of put-
ting country above party.
Most new Senators deliver their
maiden speeches soon after being sworn
in. I have waited so I could use these 6
months to demonstrate to Arizonans,
in actions more than words, exactly
how I intend to serve our State in the
Senate. I promised Arizona that I
would do things differently than have
others in Washington.
Americans see a lot of chaos in this
city. There is intense pressure from all
sides to spend time and energy on
every scandal, every insult, every
tweet, and every partisan fight, and it
is very easy to get distracted. It is the
simplest thing in the world to line up
on either side of a partisan battle.
What is harder, though, is to ignore the
chaos and get out of our comfort zones
to build coalitions and get things done.
I promised Arizona I would do the hard
work, and that approach has produced
results.
In these first 6 months, two bills I
have sponsored to improve protections
and services for veterans have passed
the Senate and the House, and they
now await the President’s signature to
put them into law. These new measures
expand American Legion membership
to veterans across the country, protect
veterans from scam artists, and help
veterans achieve the dream of home
ownership. Few efforts better illustrate
my approach to service or are more
worthy of our attention than that of
the Somers family.
As a Congresswoman, I shared the
story of SGT Daniel Somers on the
floor of the U.S. House, and I will now
share that story for the first time on
the floor of the Senate.
Sergeant Somers was an Arizona
Army veteran who served two tours in
Iraq. He served on Task Force Light-
ning, an intelligence unit, and ran
more than 400 combat missions as a
machine gunner in the turret of a
humvee. Part of his role required him
to interrogate dozens of terror sus-
pects. His work was deemed classified.
Like many veterans, Sergeant
Somers was haunted by the war when
he returned home. He suffered from
flashbacks, nightmares, depression,
and other symptoms of post-traumatic
stress disorder—all made worse by a
traumatic brain injury. Sergeant
Somers needed help.
He and his family did what all fami-
lies who face similar challenges are
urged to do—they asked for help. Yet,
when the VA’s answer came, it dem-
onstrated exactly what happens when
America’s veterans are left behind. The
VA enrolled Sergeant Somers in group
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.009 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4990 July 23, 2019
therapy sessions—sessions he could not
attend for fear of his disclosing classi-
fied information. Despite repeated re-
quests for individualized counseling or
some other reasonable accommodation
to allow Sergeant Somers to receive
appropriate care for his PTSD, the VA
delayed in its providing him with suit-
able support and care.
Like many veterans, Sergeant
Somers’ isolation got worse when he
transitioned to civilian life. He tried to
provide for his family, but he was un-
able to work due to his disability. He
struggled with the VA bureaucracy.
His disability appeal had been pending
for more than 2 years without there
having been any resolution, and he
didn’t get the help he needed in time.
On June 10 of 2013, Sergeant Somers
wrote a letter to his family.
He wrote:
I am not getting better. I am not going to
get better. And I will most certainly deterio-
rate further as time goes on.
He went on to write:
I am left with basically nothing. Too
trapped in a war to be at peace. Too damaged
to be at war. Abandoned by those who would
take the easy route and a liability to those
who stick it out and thus deserve better. So
you see, not only am I better off dead, but
the world is better without me in it. This is
what brought me to my actual final mission.
On that day, we lost SGT Daniel
Somers to suicide.
Americans who return home from
having served our Nation must always
have somewhere to turn for support. I
am committed to ensuring that no vet-
eran feels trapped like Sergeant
Somers did and that all of our veterans
have access to appropriate mental
health care.
Sergeant Somers’ story will sound
too familiar to too many military fam-
ilies. Perhaps less common is the as-
tonishing bravery that had been dem-
onstrated by Sergeant Somers’ parents,
Howard and Jean, after their son’s
death.
Howard and Jean are in the Senate’s
Gallery today, and I am so honored to
have them here as I share their son’s
story.
Howard and Jean were devastated by
the loss of their son, and nobody would
have blamed them if they had turned
inward to deal with their grief, but
they didn’t. Howard and Jean faced the
world and bravely shared SGT Daniel
Somers’ story, and they have created a
mission of their own. Their mission is
to ensure that Sergeant Somers’ story
brings to light America’s deadliest
war—the 20 veterans we lose to suicide
in this country every day.
While I served in the U.S. House, I
worked closely with Howard and Jean
to develop and pass into law the Daniel
Somers Classified Veterans Access to
Care Act, which is legislation that en-
sures veterans who serve in a classified
capacity receive behavioral health
services in an appropriate care setting.
Now it is time to take the next inno-
vative step in providing the support
our servicemembers and veterans have
earned, for servicemembers’ loved ones
are not always aware of the resources
that are available to them—resources
that can prove to be critical when
those servicemembers encounter chal-
lenges during Active Duty or after
their separations from the military.
The Somers’ family and I have
worked over the past several months
with the Department of Defense on new
legislation to create a network of sup-
port for our military members. In May,
I introduced the bipartisan Sergeant
Daniel Somers Network of Support
Act, which was cosponsored by my
friend and colleague on the Veterans’
Affairs Committee, Republican Senator
THOM TILLIS. Our legislation requires
each new servicemember be asked for
the names of loved ones whom he or
she considers to be part of his or her
network of support. In return, the De-
partment of Defense and the Red Cross
will provide information about benefits
and services that are available to mili-
tary members.
By engaging loved ones and families
from the beginning, the Department of
Defense can better prepare and equip
our military families and friends to
better understand military life, to no-
tice when servicemembers are in need,
and to help ensure that servicemem-
bers get the right kind of assistance or
care. We must do everything possible
to empower family and friends, who are
the first line of defense in our pre-
venting suicide amongst our veterans
and servicemembers.
This commonsense solution could be
a game-changer for the men and
women who have risked their lives to
protect our freedoms, for their isola-
tion leads to tragedy. We have worked
with Congressman SCOTT PETERS, of
California, who has introduced com-
panion legislation in the U.S. House. In
working as a team across party lines,
we successfully included our network
of support legislation in the national
defense bill that was passed by both
the Senate and the House over the past
few weeks.
I am proud of this accomplishment,
but we have so much more to do. When
servicemembers transition from active
service to veteran status, they face old
and confusing regulations that can be
difficult to navigate even for those who
are able to care for themselves. We
must ensure that veterans who receive
care from the VA also have a network
of support in place to help them thrive
and prosper when they return to civil-
ian life. I have spoken directly with VA
Secretary Robert Wilkie, who ex-
pressed his support for extending the
network of support to veterans, and I
look forward to working closely with
him to get it done.
As we continue this work, I urge my
colleagues to join me in expanding this
critical program. We can help ensure
together that all veterans have net-
works to turn to so they never have to
face their challenges alone.
The story of Sergeant Somers and his
parents, the failure of the VA bureauc-
racy to provide the support this Ari-
zona veteran needed, and the resulting
tragedy is not a story that dominated
the national headlines. It is not a polit-
ical scandal, and it is not a partisan
food fight to which Members of Con-
gress are pressured to respond. It is not
what reporters in the Capitol’s hall-
ways ask me about, and it is not what
people tweet to me on a daily or on
even an hourly basis. You will never
see a push notification on your iPhone
about legislation like ours. Yet this is
the kind of work that matters. It mat-
ters to Sergeant Somers’ parents, and
it matters to veterans across my State.
It matters to military families and to
loved ones, and it matters to Arizona.
It is exactly why, as Arizona’s senior
Senator, I will not spend my time fo-
cusing on areas of disagreement, be-
cause expending energy on the latest
tweet, on the latest insult, and on
petty politics simply doesn’t move the
needle for everyday people like the
Somers.
As a member of the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee, I am fortunate to serve
with Republican Chairman JOHNNY
ISAKSON and Ranking Member JON
TESTER—two Senators who dem-
onstrate every day what can get done
when leaders put aside their differences
and work toward common goals. Our
bipartisan legislation got this far
thanks in part to support from Sen-
ators ISAKSON and TESTER, as well as
from the leaders of the Armed Services
Committee, Chairman JAMES INHOFE
and Ranking Member JACK REED. How-
ever, in this effort and in so many oth-
ers, I sorely miss the leadership of the
former Armed Services chairman and
my personal hero, John McCain.
So many of my colleagues in this
body came to know and love Senator
John McCain for his military heroism
and for his years of leadership in the
Senate. Back home in Arizona, Senator
John McCain is also a hero for what he
represented in public service.
What Senator McCain said in his last
speech in this very Chamber shapes my
service to Arizona every day. He said:
But make no mistake, my service here is
the most important job I have had in my life.
And I am so grateful to the people of Arizona
for the privilege—for the honor—of serving
here and the opportunities it gives me to
play a small role in the history of the coun-
try I love.
He went on to say:
Merely preventing your political oppo-
nents from doing what they want isn’t the
most inspiring work. There’s greater satis-
faction in respecting our differences, but not
letting them prevent agreements that don’t
require abandonment of core principles,
agreements made in good faith that help im-
prove lives and protect the American people.
. . . What a great honor and extraordinary
opportunity it is to serve in this body.
Senator McCain talked of what is
possible when the Senate works the
way it was meant to work. He stood for
everything we stand for as Arizonans:
fighting for what you believe in, stand-
ing up for what is right even if you
stand alone, and serving a cause great-
er than one’s self.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.010 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4991
July 23, 2019
He taught us to always assume the
best in others, to seek compromise in-
stead of sowing division, and to always
put country ahead of party.
One of Senator McCain’s last acts in
the Senate was to shepherd last year’s
annual Defense bill into law—the same
annual bill which, this year, includes
our Daniel Somers Network of Support
Act. I hope we are making Senator
McCain proud with such important
work.
With Senator McCain’s example
lighting the way, and with the trust of
the people of Arizona shaping my serv-
ice, I recommit to ignoring political
games and focusing on upholding Ari-
zona values to get things done for the
State and for the country I love.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
BORDER SECURITY
Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, I rise to
address an issue that transcends poli-
tics and strikes at the very core of who
we are as Americans.
Throughout my time in Congress, I
have made it my priority to work with
my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle, to look past partisanship, and to
work toward passing commonsense leg-
islation so we can help working fami-
lies in Nevada and across our country.
In the House, I was proud to be
named one of the most bipartisan
Members of Congress, and that is a
title I plan to keep in the Senate. So I
hope my colleagues recognize the seri-
ousness of why I rise today.
It is without partisan motivation
when I say that we have a crisis on our
hands. Make no mistake about it, there
is a humanitarian crisis at our south-
ern border and we are failing to address
it. This administration is failing to ad-
dress it. This Congress is failing to ad-
dress it.
With violence and political unrest in-
creasing in the Northern Triangle
countries of El Salvador, Honduras,
and Guatemala, we are experiencing a
surge in the number of migrants who
have come to our southern border seek-
ing refuge from violence and persecu-
tion.
More than 60 percent of migrants are
families and unaccompanied children
fleeing for their lives and seeking a
safe place. Children and their families
are coming to our country for the same
reasons so many of our ancestors did—
because they have no other choice.
They are coming to the United States,
a nation of immigrants, a nation built
on a foundation of core values, and we
do not turn away those fleeing persecu-
tion and certain death.
It is those same values that tell us
that when children—including infants
and toddlers—are at our doorstep, we
do not put them in cages, tear them
from their mother’s arms, let them go
without showers, food, or medical at-
tention, or let them sleep on cold
floors.
The reality is, Customs and Border
Patrol officers are not trained to care
for children, much less those who have
experienced trauma. They are not pre-
pared nor qualified to provide the much
needed care to the families and chil-
dren who are coming here.
What is also true is that there are
members of our Border Patrol and law
enforcement who are trying to do the
right thing. Those men and women
signed up to protect our country from
terrorism, narcotics, and foreign
threats. They are not trained to take
care of traumatized children. The fact
remains, the state of things in these
immigration facilities is untenable and
indefensible.
I have had the chance to see this cri-
sis firsthand, so allow me to speak a
little bit on what I have witnessed and
how we got here.
Children and families have been
placed into overcrowded and unsani-
tary facilities, left without suitable
living conditions or even the most
basic of necessities for days or even
weeks.
Last year, while serving as a member
of the House of Representatives, I trav-
eled to the U.S.-Mexico border with one
of my colleagues. We toured the
Tornillo unaccompanied minor facility
and the Paso del Norte Processing Cen-
ter in Texas. What we witnessed there
was heartbreaking.
We saw a tent city holding unaccom-
panied migrant children and children
separated from their parents. They
have no access to legal counsel, no way
to regularly talk to their families.
They are without any idea of what
might happen next. Throughout their
camp, there was a sense of anxiety,
hopelessness, and despair. I have car-
ried the images of what I saw during
that tour with me to this day.
In committee testimony and in fol-
lowup briefings, in conversations with
the administration and its agencies, we
were told conditions would improve,
that plans were in place to provide the
care that is so desperately needed, and
that families would be reunited. We
now know that was wrong.
We have all seen the news and read
reports detailing the abysmal state of
these facilities—children still in cages,
still going to sleep hungry, still going
weeks without bathing or having ac-
cess to clean clothes, young children
being tasked by officers to care for tod-
dlers, and, in some cases, allegations of
sexual abuse by officers.
To find out firsthand whether condi-
tions are improving, just last week I
joined my Senate colleagues in touring
detention facilities in the McAllen, TX,
area. I am sad to say these news re-
ports are accurate. These horrific con-
ditions have not changed, families are
still being separated, children are still
in cages, not knowing if they will ever
see their parents again, and this ad-
ministration continues to ignore basic
human rights. Children should never be
held in these conditions under any cir-
cumstances, for any amount of time,
period.
We saw children stuffed into crowded
spaces. The people detained in these fa-
cilities lack access to basic necessities
like toothpaste and access to sanitary
supplies. There are few, if any, pedia-
tricians, no child welfare professionals,
no hope, just thousands of children and
families in the care of law enforcement
officers. This is not who we are.
The dehumanization of migrants, in-
cluding many tender-age children in
our detention centers today, is unac-
ceptable. The psychological trauma
they have experienced, and that they
are continuing to experience, will like-
ly leave children with deep scars that
will haunt them for the rest of their
lives.
Let me be clear: We are failing our
law enforcement, we are failing our
families, and we are failing children.
We can agree that immigrants with
criminal records or those who have fal-
sified their reasons for coming should
not be allowed to stay, but during my
visit to McAllen last week, the acting
head of Border Patrol told all of us
that the vast majority of migrant fam-
ilies are not criminals.
I refuse to stand by while this takes
place on American soil. So I decided to
take action by placing holds on two in-
dividuals nominated by this adminis-
tration to serve in administrative and
policy roles of DHS until conditions in
these facilities drastically improve,
until DHS meets the standards it is ob-
ligated—obligated—to uphold.
This is the United States of America.
All children deserve to be treated hu-
manely and with dignity, and those of
any age who come to our country
claiming asylum have a legal right to
present their case.
We must ensure that we achieve, at
the very least, minimum humanitarian
standards at CBP facilities. That
means all CBP facilities where children
are processed or detained need to have
onsite medical professionals with pedi-
atric training and child welfare profes-
sionals. That means implementing a
process for announced and unan-
nounced site visits by NGOs so we can
ensure proper oversight and account-
ability, as well as direct services for
children. Even something as simple as
a sign that communicates to migrant
families explaining where they are and
what to expect—something that simple
could reduce anxiety and hopelessness
that these individuals and children are
feeling.
There is so much good in the Amer-
ican people, and that shows in the out-
pouring of support from NGOs that are
ready and willing to step in and re-
spond. They do so many other humani-
tarian efforts. Yet our government is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.012 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4992 July 23, 2019
turning away these offers of help. Con-
ditions at these facilities have not im-
proved, and until they do, I will not re-
move my holds on this administra-
tion’s nominees.
Once we have taken the necessary
steps to ensure migrant children are
being held in safe and sanitary condi-
tions, we must then take up the crit-
ical and long-overdue task of reforming
our long-term immigration policy. We
owe it to migrant children and families
to reach an immediate solution. We
owe it to our law enforcement to pre-
vent this difficult situation from con-
tinuing.
We must come together. We must
take action now because, at the end of
the day, these are human lives, and
they depend on us.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON STEPHEN M. DICKSON
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, in a few
moments, at 12 noon, the Senate will
vote on a cloture motion for the nomi-
nation of Stephen M. Dickson to be Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration. I rise in strong sup-
port of that motion. I think it will pass
today. I will be supporting the nomina-
tion when it comes to a full vote on the
floor of the Senate sometime later.
As chair of the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation, let
me report that we recently voted to re-
port Mr. Dickson’s nomination favor-
ably out of the committee. I hope the
Senate will soon confirm this highly
qualified nominee. Steve Dickson was
chosen for this important position
based on his strong qualifications,
which include almost 40 years of com-
bined service in the U.S. Air Force and
the commercial air transportation sec-
tor.
Mr. Dickson is a 1979 distinguished
graduate of the Air Force Academy and
graduated magna cum laude from Geor-
gia State University College of Law in
1999, where he earned his J.D. He served
in the U.S. Air Force as an F–15 fighter
pilot, including assignments as a flight
commander, instructor pilot, and flight
examiner. From 1991 until October of
2018, Mr. Dickson was employed by
Delta Air Lines as a pilot and manage-
ment executive. He retired after rising
through the ranks to become Delta’s
senior vice president of flight oper-
ations.
On May 15, the committee held a
hearing to consider Mr. Dickson’s nom-
ination, and he clearly demonstrated
the experience and leadership abilities
necessary to lead the FAA. I don’t
know if there was a single member of
the committee who failed to be im-
pressed.
After Mr. Dickson’s hearing, new in-
formation came to the committee’s at-
tention, which we gave due diligence to
looking into. The information involved
employees reporting possible safety
violations at Mr. Dickson’s former em-
ployer while he was serving as senior
vice president. These matters merited
further examination. The committee
conducted an extensive review of these
allegations, including multiple fol-
lowup conversations and meetings with
Mr. Dickson. We have studied hundreds
of pages of legal documents.
Here is what we know for a fact
about these allegations. We know for a
fact—and it is uncontroverted—that
Mr. Dickson was not a named party in
any of these matters. We also know for
a fact that he was not personally al-
leged to have retaliated against any of
his fellow employees who raised the
safety concerns.
Mr. Dickson’s responses to post-hear-
ing questions for the record dem-
onstrate that he has commitments to
safety and to the protection of employ-
ees who report concerns and that that
is paramount, in his view. In fact, Mr.
Dickson unequivocally stated in his
written responses that he was never
named as a party to any judicial, ad-
ministrative, or regulatory proceedings
and was never accused of retaliation of
any sort during his tenure at his
former employer.
I think the FAA, we all agree, should
be the gold standard in aviation safety.
I think Steve Dickson is the correct
person to be confirmed and sit at the
helm of the FAA at this crucial time
for the agency. The majority of the
committee believes that Mr. Dickson is
an excellent nominee for this position
and will bring the commitment, experi-
ence, and expertise necessary to lead
the FAA and fulfill its mission. I am
going to be urging my colleagues to
vote yes on the cloture motion and
then to swiftly confirm Mr. Dickson’s
nomination.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that I complete my
remarks before we move to the vote to
confirm our next Secretary of Defense.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF MARK T. ESPER
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, we are
in a great position that we are not very
often in. We have someone who is en-
thusiastically supported by Repub-
licans, by Democrats, and he is obvi-
ously the right person. He has the trust
of our President, he has the trust of
our military, and he has the trust of
Congress and the country to keep our
Nation safe.
Dr. Mark Esper is the right man for
the job. He is a great choice to lead the
Pentagon, and I am proud to support
him. And I am not the only one. In
fact, I would like to take a moment to
share some of the bipartisan support
we have for Dr. Esper from the defense
experts, former officials, and my own
colleagues.
Senator KAINE from Virginia said
this at Dr. Esper’s confirmation hear-
ing:
He is a person of sound character and
moral courage. He’s been proactive and
transparent . . . trademarks of exceptional
leadership.
Secretary Mattis—you remember
him—when Dr. Esper was being sworn
in as the Secretary of the Army, then-
Secretary of Defense Mattis said:
The bottom line is the virtuous and vile
alike have written history, but let’s remem-
ber here today that we’re the good guys . . .
and this is the man who can take us forward.
Mark Jacobson, a senior adviser to
Ash Carter, said:
This is someone who can work across the
aisle. This is somebody who can work with
Congress. And that’s really what defines
him. A soldier, a scholar.
The Senate majority leader, MITCH
MCCONNELL, said:
Anybody impartial would have to have
come away impressed by Dr. Esper’s mas-
tery, intelligence, and thoroughness.
My colleagues in the Armed Services
Committee also widely support Dr.
Esper’s nomination, advancing his
nomination with an overwhelming bi-
partisan vote.
Across the Capitol, both the chair-
man and ranking member of the House
Armed Services Committee support Dr.
Esper. They all support him. Chairman
ADAM SMITH said that Dr. Esper is ‘‘ca-
pable of executing the National De-
fense Strategy in a way that is insu-
lated from outside influence and polit-
ical considerations. . . . The Depart-
ment would benefit from his leader-
ship.’’ That is my counterpart over in
the House.
Ranking Member MAC THORNBERRY
said he has ‘‘done an outstanding job as
Secretary of the Army.’’ I agree with
Congressman THORNBERRY.
Under Dr. Esper’s leadership, we saw
Army modernization leap forward by
leaps and bounds. He managed the larg-
est reorganization of the Army in 45
years, prioritizing research, develop-
ment, and innovation. He showed ac-
countability to the taxpayers by being
responsible with his budget, making
tough decisions, tough choices, stream-
lining legacy programs, and directing
defense dollars to critical future needs.
It is impressive, but being a good
Army Secretary isn’t enough on its
own. Secretary Mattis reminded us
that civilian leaders in our military
must be more than their past accom-
plishments. Mark Esper is more be-
cause he truly respects and honors his
commitment to the men and women in
uniform. I have seen this firsthand.
Back in April, I asked Dr. Esper to
join me on a visit to Fort Sill in my
State of Oklahoma. What impressed me
was how well he communicated with
the troops in the field. He is one of the
troops out there, and you could see the
love that he had for them. In Fort Sill,
he even joined them—and I was there—
for an Army combat fitness test work-
out. He participated with the troops.
He ate the MREs out in the field. Any-
one who has been in the Army can tell
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.013 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4993
July 23, 2019
you that you don’t often find people
who choose to do that, but Mark Esper
did.
Dr. Esper deeply cares about the
troops, whether it is making sure that
they have the weapons, equipment, and
training they need to succeed in their
missions or simply that they have
quality housing when they are on base.
We moved quickly to consider Dr.
Esper’s nomination here on the floor,
but that isn’t because we didn’t fulfill
our duty of advice and consent. We did.
Dr. Esper testified for over 3 hours. Be-
tween his hearing and his followup
questions for the record, he answered
approximately 600 questions. It is clear
that Dr. Esper has what it takes to
lead the Department of Defense and
that most of my colleagues think so as
well.
He has served the Nation with honor
and integrity, and I am certain that he
is going to continue to do so when he is
confirmed.
I strongly request a strong vote to
confirm Dr. Mark Esper to be our next
Secretary of Defense.
With that, I yield the floor.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). Under the previous order, the
Senate will proceed to executive ses-
sion and resume consideration of the
following nomination, which the clerk
will report.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Mark T. Esper, of Virginia, to be Sec-
retary of Defense.
VOTE ON ESPER NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the question is, Will
the Senate advise and consent to the
Esper nomination?
Mr. WICKER. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON)
would have voted ‘‘yea’’.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS)
is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 90,
nays 8, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 220 Ex.]
YEAS—90
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—8
Booker
Gillibrand
Harris
Klobuchar
Markey
Merkley
Warren
Wyden
NOT VOTING—2
Isakson Sanders
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table.
The President will be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on nomina-
tion of Stephen M. Dickson, of Georgia, to be
Administrator of the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration for the term of five years.
James M. Inhofe, John Hoeven, Mike
Rounds, Joni Ernst, Kevin Cramer, Pat
Roberts, John Boozman, Mike Crapo,
Steve Daines, John Cornyn, James E.
Risch, Roger F. Wicker, Richard Burr,
Thom Tillis, Roy Blunt, Shelley Moore
Capito, Mitch McConnell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Stephen M. Dickson, of Georgia, to
be Administrator of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration for the term of
five years, shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS)
and the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 52,
nays 45, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 221 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—45
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Wyden
NOT VOTING—3
Isakson Sanders Whitehouse
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 52, the nays are 45.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Stephen M.
Dickson, of Georgia, to be Adminis-
trator of the Federal Aviation Admin-
istration for the term of five years.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume legislative session.
The Senator from Maine.
f
RECESS
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
stand in recess until 2 p.m. for the
weekly conference meetings.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 1:04 p.m., recessed until 2 p.m. and
reassembled when called to order by
the Presiding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.015 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4994 July 23, 2019
NEVER FORGET THE HEROES:
JAMES ZADROGA, RAY PFEIFER,
AND LUIS ALVAREZ PERMANENT
AUTHORIZATION OF THE SEP-
TEMBER 11TH VICTIM COM-
PENSATION FUND ACT—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Colorado is recognized.
Mr. GARDNER. Madam President,
this afternoon the Senate will vote on
permanent reauthorization of the Sep-
tember 11th Victim Compensation
Fund. I am proud to lead this legisla-
tion with Senator GILLIBRAND, and I
thank all of the incredible first re-
sponders for their efforts to make this
day happen and, day in and day out, to
get this legislation to where it is
today.
This critical legislation would fully
fund the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund and ensure that all
those exposed to toxins and impacted
by 9/11-related illnesses are thoroughly
compensated, both now and as condi-
tions are diagnosed in the future.
Solving this problem is urgent as
more and more people become sick—
people like Luis Alvarez, who came to
Washington, DC, just a few months
ago, postponing chemotherapy treat-
ment to advocate for his fellow heroes.
Luis is not here to watch from the Gal-
lery today. He is watching from above.
As we celebrate this vote today, we
celebrate the lives of people like Luis
Alvarez.
The Never Forget the Heroes: James
Zadroga, Ray Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez
Permanent Authorization of the Sep-
tember 11th Victim Compensation
Fund Act is named in honor of these
three first responders who lost their
lives to 9/11-related illnesses. Today,
the Senate has an opportunity to honor
these three and so many others we
have lost who never stopped fighting
for 9/11 first responders and the country
they loved by voting yes on this crit-
ical legislation.
I have shared with many of my col-
leagues that I never had the privilege
of going to New York City before Sep-
tember 11, 2001, but I will never forget
my first visit after September 11, 2001.
It was just a few weeks after the at-
tack had happened. I will never forget
the smell. I will never forget the smoke
coming out of the debris piles. I will
never forget the silent firetrucks—
their lights on but no siren—as they
delivered even more heroes to the re-
covery efforts at Ground Zero. I will
never forget the fierce dedication of
the men and women who came when
they were called, watching the
firetrucks with their flags heading to
continue the work that by then had be-
come so emblazoned in people’s minds
across this country.
The work they did in those days,
those weeks, and those months wasn’t
just for those in Manhattan who suf-
fered an incredible loss. The work they
carried forward for our country became
symbols of our security, symbols of our
freedoms, symbols of this country’s
willingness, determination, effort, and
tenacity to fight back.
Law enforcement officers and fire-
fighters from across the Nation, includ-
ing the West Metro Fire Rescue in Col-
orado, home of Colorado Task Force 1,
have been tireless advocates for this ef-
fort. Every State has people who served
in one capacity or another during the
rescue and recovery operations of Sep-
tember 11.
West Metro Fire District chief Steve
Aseltine was one of 64 Coloradans with
Colorado Task Force 1 who partici-
pated, as he said, searching through
the rubble piles. Steve said: No one
should be at risk of standing up and
worrying, when this country needs
them the most, whether the American
Government has their back.
If passed today, without amend-
ments, the legislation will head
straight to the President’s desk for his
signature. So I urge my colleagues
today not to forget, to pass a clean bill,
and to join me in opposing both amend-
ments, and to stand with all of our first
responders and heroes from that tragic
day for this bill’s final passage and ul-
timate enactment.
I urge this Chamber to support those
who have given so much to this coun-
try.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. Madam President, today I
will offer an amendment to pay for the
spending in this bill. This is not some-
thing unusual. I do this day in and day
out. It has been part of the reason I ran
for office—that we shouldn’t add more
debt to our country without trying to
pay for it by maybe reducing spending
from wasteful spending.
In the last week or so, we have seen
a manufactured crisis. Rarely has there
been a manufactured crisis so intense—
a fake furor instigated by partisans
more concerned with scoring points
than telling the truth. But, for some of
us, the truth is still important.
The mob and demagogues in this
body accuse me of holding up this bill
for political points. They obviously
don’t know much about politics, be-
cause there certainly hasn’t been any
political gain by my holding this bill
for debate and amendment. But I think
it is important we do this, rather than
rush through and everybody says: No
questions asked, please. It sounds a lit-
tle more like an authoritarian atmos-
phere than it would be a democracy, to
actually have debate, discussion, and
amendments. That is all we have asked
for.
In fact, last week when we were
granted the amendments, we said to
the other side: Let’s have the vote—
last week. And all of those who were in
such a furor, all those who were so
hysterical that the world was ending
said: Oh, we cannot vote on it—it was
not convenient last week—because
some of our Democrat Members have
already gone home for the weekend. So
when the mob was told last week they
could have the vote, they said no. It is
a manufactured crisis. As of today, the
fund in question has $2 billion in it,
and no one is being denied medical
care.
So let’s have an honest debate. Let’s
have an honest debate about whether it
matters to this country whether we are
$2 billion in debt, and whether or not,
when we have new spending programs—
no matter how charitable, no matter
how needed—whether or not we are
going to pay for them by reducing
spending in wasteful programs.
It is perhaps a historical anomaly
that this bill appropriates unlimited
funds for a virtually unlimited time pe-
riod.
What would you think if someone
came to you, they had a good cause,
and they said: You know, my neigh-
bors’ house has burnt down, and I want
to help them, and I want to give them
unlimited money for an unlimited pe-
riod of time?
That wouldn’t be wise. No one would
do that. So why do we, in our hysteria,
throw out all common sense and say
that we are going to approach this as if
we don’t have a problem?
We have this enormous problem in
our country. We are borrowing over $1
million a minute. My amendment
today is to offer to pay for the $10 bil-
lion in the first 10 years. Realize that
this bill as written is not a 10-year bill.
It is a 72-year bill. It goes to the year
2092. To my knowledge, we have never,
ever had a bill that was unlimited in
the dollar amount and unlimited in the
time period. Mine would be to pay for
the first 10 years of this. The pay would
come by reducing mandatory spending
by 0.06 percent. That is 6/100th of 1 per-
cent of other mandatory spending.
At the same time, we would exempt
Medicare, Social Security, and Vet-
erans Affairs from cuts. We would ex-
empt the vast bulk of mandatory
spending, but we would still say: If this
is a wise expenditure of money, if we
need more money for this fund, we
would simply take it from something
that is less pressing.
No matter how good a cause may be,
it makes no sense to borrow from
China to pay for our immediate con-
cerns. Spending someone else’s money
is not charity. Spending borrowed
money is just not wise or sound gov-
ernance.
Being a legislator should be about
making choices, about deciding prior-
ities.
For example, which is more impor-
tant—spending $275 million teaching
foreign countries how to apply for U.S.
foreign aid and teaching foreign coun-
tries how to get our money and how to
fill out the grant process? Is that more
important than the spending in this
bill? We will never know because the
people who promote this bill aren’t
willing to cut any spending. They are
not going to look at waste.
We wonder why we have waste run
from top to bottom in our government?
Because no one is willing, even for a
good cause, to say: Why don’t we cut
out some of this waste? Why don’t we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.020 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4995
July 23, 2019
quit spending money teaching for-
eigners how to apply to get more of our
money?
To pay for more pressing concerns,
shouldn’t someone ask whether it is
wise to spend $300,000 studying whether
Japanese quail are more sexually pro-
miscuous on cocaine? That is your
money. So when somebody is being
asked for a good cause, ask why we
couldn’t eliminate money we are
spending on awful things that should
never have been wasted in the Federal
Government.
To pay for more pressing concerns,
shouldn’t someone ask why we con-
tinue to spend $50 billion a year build-
ing bridges and roads and hotels and
gas stations in Afghanistan? Perhaps
that money could be better spent here
at home.
The debate today is not over the
spending of the money. It is over, when
we do spend money—even for a good
cause—whether or not we should cut
corresponding money that we are wast-
ing around the world, much of it not
helping American citizens and much of
it going to foreign countries and for-
eign people.
To pay for more pressing concerns,
shouldn’t someone ask why we had a
study last year that spent $2 million
seeking to know the question: If some-
one in front of you in the cafeteria line
sneezes on the food, are you more or
less likely to pick up the food and eat
it?
Seriously, this is where your tax dol-
lars are going. If we have a better
cause, and we want to fund this fund
we are talking about today, couldn’t
we say we will not spend $2 million
next year studying whether, if someone
sneezes on your food, you are more or
less likely to take the food?
Shouldn’t we be forced as a Congress
to make decisions, instead of just say-
ing: Well, it is a good cause. So, there-
fore, we should not use our brain. We
should put on blinders. We shouldn’t
think about it, and we should just say:
Well, it is a good cause so let’s just
borrow the money from China.
Do you think that helps us as a coun-
try? Isn’t part of legislating trying to
prioritize spending, not just adding to
the debt?
The leftwing mob maintains that Re-
publicans have lost the moral high
ground and can’t talk about debt any-
more because we supported a tax cut.
Poppycock. This is misinformation.
This is fake news. This is plainly peo-
ple just not paying any attention to
what goes on around here.
During the tax cut, which I sup-
ported, I offered cuts to mandatory
spending to pay for the tax cut. The
media seems to have forgotten this.
But I forced a vote on the floor to say:
Yes, we may be cutting taxes and, if it
affects the deficit, we should pay for it.
Interestingly, though, the leftwing
mob doesn’t want to admit that when
we actually cut tax rates, we actually
got more money. The revenue coming
in last year was actually greater than
the previous year. The tax cut didn’t
add to the deficit. The deficit went up
because we continue to spend money
and we actually added more spending.
The curve of spending increases actu-
ally rose faster than the revenue com-
ing in.
When the tax cut happened, I offered
an amendment to cut spending to pay
for it. This is a fact. The leftwing mob
and all of their buddies in the media
can do and say whatever they want. It
is a free country, but it is an absolute
out-and-out lie that Republicans who
voted for this tax cut also were not
concerned with spending. I, for one
was, and I offered an amendment to cut
spending.
The tax cut also was passed under a
law we have had on the books for some
time. It is called the pay-go law. This
is a law that should be working even on
a bill like this current bill. But we ex-
empt ourselves from it all the time.
The current bill actually exempts the
pay-go rules: If you increase spending
by $10 billion, you have to decrease it
by $10 billion somewhere else.
It has been on the books for a long
time, but like everything else Congress
does, they try to bring in rules to say:
Do you know what? We are going to try
to control the debt and spending by
forcing ourselves, when we come up
with some new spending of $10 billion,
that we will have to come up with
something to cut to pay for it.
What happens is, Congress just
waives the rules. It is not that we don’t
have rules that should help with the
budget; we have hundreds of rules. The
pay-go rule is a good rule, but it gets
ignored. We passed the tax cut. If the
projections were that the deficit was
going to go up, guess what, the pay-go
rules would say there has to be auto-
matic spending cuts across the board.
This is something I support.
So what happened? About a month
after the tax cut, a big spending bill
comes through here. Both parties are
guilty, Republicans and Democrats.
They love to spend money more than
anything else. A big spending bill
comes through, and guess what. They
waive the rule on pay-go.
At that time, I also brought up an
amendment that said: Hey, you guys
shouldn’t waive the pay-go rule. If the
tax cut causes the debt to go up, we
should cut spending across board.
Let’s be very clear around here.
There are those of us who have been
consistent from day one that the debt
does matter. There is no particular ani-
mus toward this bill. In the last year,
I have done this probably a half dozen
times. In the last 2 years, I have prob-
ably done it two dozen times. That
means every spending bill.
A month ago, it was spending for the
border. I support money to be spent on
the border, but I don’t support doing it
if it adds to the deficit.
The amendment I have today is iden-
tical to the amendment I had a month
ago, saying: Border spending, even if
you want to do it, we should cut money
from somewhere else where it is not as
much needed and where it is being
wasted.
I did it 3 months ago for the hurri-
cane disaster relief. Every bit of new
spending—it doesn’t matter whether it
is a good cause, bad cause, or an in-be-
tween cause, we need to not keep add-
ing to the debt. This is a problem. We
borrow over $1 million—close to $2 mil-
lion every minute. This is a problem
for our country. We are eroding the
foundation of this country with so
much debt—$22 trillion in debt.
The tax cut was passed under the
pay-go rules. I voted not to suspend the
pay-go rules. I voted to actually have
spending cuts to offset any increase in
the deficit from the tax cut.
The establishment of both parties
moved to waive this pay-go require-
ment. I forced a vote, and only eight
Senators voted, which shows you where
the real problem is. Why does the def-
icit go up so much? There is not one
Democrat in Congress who cares a flip
about the deficit. Not one Democrat in
Congress will lift a finger to refrain
from government spending. Therefore,
everything—you name it, they are for
it.
The problem is, Republicans aren’t so
good on this either. There are only a
handful of Republicans who actually
care about the debt, and many of them
will vote consistently to raise the debt
limit and vote to add new debt.
Today’s vote, though, is but a prelude
of next week’s vote. This is the pre-
liminary. This is the introduction to
our problem in our country, over $10
billion. Next week, it is the enormity
of the entire budget. Next week, both
parties—and watch this closely. People
say: Oh, Republicans can’t get along
with Democrats. Guess what. They get
along just swell when it comes to
spending money and adding to the
debt.
This bill will pass overwhelmingly
today without any concern for the debt
or paying for it. Next week will be even
worse. We have something called the
debt ceiling. Every time we spend more
money that comes in, in taxes, it ap-
proaches a debt ceiling, and the debt
ceiling says you can’t borrow any more
money. So conservatives say: Well, we
should reform our ways and quit giving
away money to Afghanistan and Mex-
ico and all these different countries.
We should have reform involved with
raising the debt ceiling.
What is going to come about next
week is no debt ceiling for 2 years,
until after the next Presidential elec-
tion. It is a terrible idea. It is fiscal in-
sanity. They also will vote to forever
get rid of the sequester caps.
In 2011, amongst the tea party move-
ment, when more people became con-
cerned about the deficit spending, we
actually came in and had a reform. For
the first time, we didn’t cut spending;
we slowed down the rate of growth of
spending. In doing so, the deficit was
narrowing. For a couple of years, we
were doing better. Then what happened
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.021 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4996 July 23, 2019
was basically both parties once again
came together. The Republicans said:
We want to be in every war overseas we
can possibly get involved in, and we
want to have more money spent on the
military.
The liberals said: We need more
money for welfare.
Guess what. They are not at odds.
You scratch my back; I will scratch
yours.
The Republicans and Democrats
agree on one thing: Spending money is
the most important thing they can do.
The deficit doesn’t matter.
So when we come back, when we ad-
dress this issue next week, what we are
going to find is they are going to ex-
plode the debt ceiling. There will be no
limits on the debt ceiling for 2 years,
and they are getting rid of all pretense
of having any spending caps.
A majority of Republicans, unfortu-
nately, will even vote to get rid of the
budget caps and to eliminate the debt
ceiling for 2 years. This is sad.
Today, though, the Senate has a
chance to vote to pay for this $10 bil-
lion bill with very modest reductions
in mandatory spending—reductions
that actually exempt Medicare, Social
Security, and Veterans Affairs.
Americans, particularly conserv-
atives, need to sit up and watch closely
how their Senators vote, for today’s
vote is about whether your representa-
tive really cares at all about the dis-
aster that is our $22 trillion debt.
AMENDMENT NO. 929
Madam President, I call up my
amendment No. 929 and ask that it be
reported by number.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the amendment.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. PAUL]
proposes an amendment numbered 929.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To require a sequestration of
certain direct spending)
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 5. SEQUESTRATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the terms ‘‘direct spending’’ and ‘‘se-
questration’’ have the meanings given such
terms in section 250(c) of the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
(2 U.S.C. 900(c)); and
(2) the term ‘‘nonexempt direct spending’’
means all direct spending except—
(A) direct spending for benefits payable
under the old-age, survivors, and disability
insurance program established under title II
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et
seq.);
(B) direct spending for the Medicare pro-
gram under title XVIII of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.);
(C) direct spending for net interest (all of
major functional category 900);
(D) direct spending for any program admin-
istered by the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs;
(E) direct spending for Special Benefits for
Certain World War II Veterans (28–0401–0–1–
701); and
(F) direct spending for the child nutrition
program (as defined in section 25(b) of the
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch
Act (42 U.S.C. 1769f(b)).
(b) SEQUESTRATION ORDERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—For fiscal year 2020, as
soon as is practicable after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, and on the dates the Office
of Management and Budget issues its seques-
tration preview reports for each of fiscal
years 2021 through 2025, pursuant to section
254(c) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 904(c)),
the President shall order a sequestration, ef-
fective upon issuance, that reduces all non-
exempt direct spending by the uniform per-
centage necessary to reduce the total
amount of nonexempt direct spending for
such fiscal year by $2,036,000,000.
(2) IMPLEMENTATION.—When implementing
the sequestration of nonexempt direct spend-
ing under paragraph (1), the Office of Man-
agement and Budget—
(A) shall follow the procedures specified in
section 6 of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go
Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 935) and the special rules
specified in section 256 of the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
(2 U.S.C. 906); and
(B) shall not follow the exemptions speci-
fied in section 255 of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2
U.S.C. 905).
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
am speaking on the bill as well as the
amendments. In a short time, the Sen-
ate will vote on and pass a permanent
reauthorization of the 9/11 Victim Com-
pensation Fund.
In my short time on the floor, I can’t
do justice to the years upon years of
work by the first responders, by labor
leaders, by advocates that led to this
moment. Suffice it to say, this is not a
day of joy for them or for this bill’s au-
thors; rather, it is a day of relief.
For 18 years, those first responders,
some of whom are in the Gallery, have
watched their brothers and sisters get
sick because they rushed bravely to the
Towers at Ground Zero. At first, they
were told by the government the air
was safe.
It was not safe. We began hearing of
cancers that people never got when
they were 38 or 40 or 42 occurring all of
a sudden in firefighters, in police offi-
cers, and they only had one thing in
common: They had all rushed to the
Towers.
They had to persuade people this was
real because they saw their brothers
and sisters dying. Then, they endured
folks telling them they were crazy for
thinking they had sicknesses they suf-
fered that had anything to do with 9/11.
They were not crazy, and the people
who told them they were, shame on
them, including government agencies
and others. Then, once it was con-
firmed beyond a shadow of a doubt that
these cancers and respiratory illnesses
were linked to the toxic dust and ash
around the pile, it became an exhaust-
ing struggle to get Congress to provide
the care they needed but they couldn’t
afford.
There were numerous false dawns and
delays, temporary reauthorizations. We
were forced to wait and wait, ‘‘com-
promise’’ with people’s lives. Excuse
after excuse. Some Senators voted
proudly for tax cuts, unpaid for, to the
wealthiest of Americans but demanded
offsets for these folks who had served
us, like our soldiers have served us,
like our armed services.
Thank God those excuses, those
delays end today for good, and our first
responders can go home and do what
they want to do—tend to their own
health, their families’ health, the
health of their brothers and sisters who
were suffering and ailing, and tend to
the families who have lost loved ones
but are still part of their families.
The 9/11 health program is already
permanent. Soon we will make the Vic-
tim Compensation Fund virtually per-
manent as well, and the twilight strug-
gle of nearly two decades to get these
brave men and women what they de-
serve will be, hopefully and finally,
complete.
Once we defeat the few amendments
before us—amendments that will delay
the bill further, if not kill it—we
should pass this bill overwhelmingly so
we can send the first responders—those
here and everywhere—home where they
belong, with their family and their
friends.
These are the same soldiers of valor
who have selflessly risked their lives in
our wars and conflicts overseas. There
was a war right in the city I love, and
these were our bravest soldiers. They
rushed to the Towers. Maybe some peo-
ple were alive. Maybe there were peo-
ple who could be saved. We didn’t know
that then. We saw families holding
signs: Have you seen my sister Mary?
Have you seen my son Jim? These peo-
ple rushed to the Towers to see if the
Jim or Mary or the others were alive
and didn’t ask about themselves.
Now we are asking America to stand
by them, every American, every Sen-
ator—Democrat, Republican, liberal,
conservative—that shouldn’t matter on
an issue like this.
We are now at the very end of a long
struggle. The struggle may end for the
people in this Chamber, including those
of us, like Senator GILLIBRAND and my-
self, who worked so hard through the
years for this legislation. The struggle
does not end for those who are sick or
who may get sick and for their fami-
lies. At least we are giving them some
degree of help because they gave us so
much help on that horrible day, 9/11,
and those that ensued just afterward.
Let’s pass this bill once and for all.
Let’s do our duty to them, to America,
and to our ideals.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New York.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Madam Presi-
dent, I rise to join my colleagues in
speaking about our 9/11 heroes. I thank
Senator SCHUMER for his extraordinary
leadership, his unwavering support, his
dedication to taking this across the
finish line, and his unbelievable will-
ingness to lift up the voices of people
who were not being listened to. Thank
you to Senator SCHUMER.
I want to first note that while we are
debating this bill, there is a wake hap-
pening on Staten Island right now for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.022 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4997
July 23, 2019
Detective Christopher Cranston. A fa-
ther of 5, he was only 48 years old, but
he will be buried on Thursday because
of the months of work he did on the
pile at Ground Zero at Fresh Kills
Landfill. He spent his 20th anniversary
just a few weeks ago in chemotherapy.
The eyes of the Nation are looking at
this Chamber today to see if we finally
will stand by our 9/11 heroes for the
rest of their lives. In a few minutes, he-
roes such as James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, and Lou Alvarez will have their
names etched into the history books
forever, which is where they belong.
Their families are in the Gallery
today—here again, walking the halls of
this Chamber and this Congress to be
heard, here again to ask one more time
that this body do what is right: to
stand by them in their gravest time of
need. Their families are here today to
watch whether this Chamber will do
what is right. They are standing here
with so many others in the 9/11 commu-
nity who have fought so hard to de-
mand that Congress do the right thing.
Let’s honor their service today. Let’s
actually honor their commitment to
coming here time and time again, not
for themselves but for their brothers
and sisters who are sick, who are still
dying all across this country. Seven
are dying a week. Let’s honor the ulti-
mate sacrifice they paid for responding
to the call of duty when the Nation
needed them most. Responders came
from every State across this country.
Last week, we lost Richard Driscoll,
the 200th FDNY firefighter to succumb
to a 9/11 illness. More police officers
have died since 9/11 than on 9/11. More
than 10,000 people have been certified
with a 9/11-related cancer, with more
being diagnosed every day. More will
get sick. More will die. Some of them
will not be diagnosed for years. That
includes responders, and it includes the
residents, teachers, and students who
stayed downtown because the govern-
ment told them the air was safe. They
told them it was safe to breathe, even
though it was not.
This bill will not change any of that,
but we can finally let the people in the
Gallery, who are sitting here watching
us today and witnessing this, go home
knowing that the government will
truly never forget. We owe them that
promise. Today, we have the oppor-
tunity to let them get back to their
lives, to be with their families, and to
exhale. They at least deserve that.
I thank Senator GARDNER for his
leadership on this bill. I thank Senator
MCCONNELL for staying true to his
commitment. As I said earlier, I thank
Senator SCHUMER for being a tremen-
dous advocate, leader, and partner who
never, ever, gave up. And I thank every
single person who has spent their time
and energy coming here again and
again over these many years to advo-
cate for this bill and for their brothers
and sisters.
I ask every Senator to have empa-
thy—just that bit of care for someone
else—to vote yes on this bill and stand
by our first responders. I also urge
every colleague of mine to reject the
amendments that are being put for-
ward.
First is the amendment from my col-
league from Utah. Unfortunately, this
amendment would accomplish only one
thing. It would make these first re-
sponders have to go through this entire
process again in just a few years. It
would force sick and dying police offi-
cers, firefighters, and other 9/11 first
responders to waste even more of their
precious time coming here, away from
their families, away from their loved
ones, away from their cancer treat-
ments, away from their last moments
in their homes and communities, trav-
eling back and forth to Washington and
lobbying Congress to pass the bill for
the fourth time. Do not fall into this
trap.
Our 9/11 heroes deserve this program
as it is written in the bill, without
these amendments, which will only
force them to have to come back here
again and again. Stand up for our he-
roes. End the games. Let’s reject this
amendment, pass the bill, and let our
heroes go home and live in peace,
where they can breathe and finally ex-
hale.
I yield the floor to my colleague from
Utah.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time
is expired.
The Senator from Utah.
Mr. LEE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent to deliver my re-
marks and delay the onset of the votes
until after my remarks have been com-
pleted.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LEE. Madam President, for many
years, the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund has compensated the
brave men and women who responded
to the horrific events of 9/11. It has
been a worthy use of money.
Of the $7.4 billion authorized for the
fund since 2011, however, $25.4 billion
has already been paid out. Since Feb-
ruary of this year, money has gotten
tight and claimants’ benefits have had
to be reduced. I believe it is only right
for Congress to authorize and replenish
the fund so that we can make those
beneficiaries whole.
But the bill before us today has a pe-
culiar feature, one that I believe re-
quires our attention. The bill author-
izes the program for 72 years and does
not specify a dollar amount. If you
look to page 2 of the bill, lines 8
through 10, it makes clear that this
program is funded through 2092 and
funded to the tune of ‘‘such sums as
may be necessary.’’ In other words,
without any finite authorization, it of-
fers no way to ensure that the money
actually gets to its intended bene-
ficiaries and is not lost in government
bureaucracy or misuse.
That is, in fact, how we make sure
that government programs get to
where they need to go, by specifying
not only the purpose of the fund but
also identifying how much it is that we
are spending.
In 2011, the 9/11 Victim Compensation
Fund has always had finite authoriza-
tions, and it has always had an abso-
lutely excellent, outstanding record of
avoiding waste, fraud, and abuse. The 9/
11 survivors and responders deserve no
less going forward.
That is why I am offering a simple
amendment to this bill, one that would
authorize $10.2 billion in additional
funding for the 9/11 Victim Compensa-
tion Fund over the next 10 years. To be
clear, that is the full amount that the
Congressional Budget Office has esti-
mated is necessary for covering all
claims through 2029.
My amendment wouldn’t end there.
It would go further to authorize an ad-
ditional $10 billion to be paid out in
subsequent decades. It will not block or
delay this bill’s consideration, let
alone its passage, nor does it have as
its intended effect any kind of down-
grading of the benefits we would be
paying. But it would make sure that
the money gets to the victims and the
first responders who need it most—to
the intended beneficiaries—rather than
remaining vulnerable to the kinds of
waste, fraud, and abuse that come
about whenever we authorize some-
thing until 2092 with ‘‘such sums’’ lan-
guage. This isn’t the way we normally
do things.
My distinguished colleague and
friend from New York has made the
comment that if this amendment were
to pass, it would somehow make the
victims of 9/11 come back again and
again and go through this process over
and over again. I don’t see that. Those
facts are not borne out by the record,
which, again, indicates that the Con-
gressional Budget Office itself has ac-
knowledged that the amount of money
I would be setting aside would be suffi-
cient to fund this program.
This is how we make government
programs work: We fund things for a
period of time and for an amount of
money that we believe is sufficient.
This would do that. For that reason, I
am proposing this amendment.
AMENDMENT NO. 928
I, therefore, call up my amendment
No. 928 and ask that it be reported by
number.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the amendment.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Utah [Mr. LEE] proposes
an amendment numbered 928.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To limit the amount available for
the Victims Compensation Fund)
Strike paragraph (1) of section 2(a) and in-
sert the following:
(1) in subsection (c), by striking
‘‘$4,600,000,000’’ and all that follows through
‘‘expended’’ and inserting ‘‘$10,180,000,000 for
the period of fiscal years 2019 through 2029,
and $10,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal
years 2030 through 2092, to remain available
until expended’’; and
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 928
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the question is on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.023 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4998 July 23, 2019
agreeing to the underlying amendment
No. 928.
Mr. LEE. I ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 32,
nays 66, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 222 Leg.]
YEAS—32
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Braun
Cassidy
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Fischer
Grassley
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Perdue
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—66
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Boozman
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Duckworth
Durbin
Ernst
Feinstein
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Harris
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Thune
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—2
Burr Isakson
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 32 and the nays are
66.
Under the previous order requiring 60
votes for the adoption of the amend-
ment, the amendment is not agreed to.
The amendment (No. 928) was re-
jected.
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 929
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the question occurs
on amendment No. 929 offered by the
Senator from Kentucky, Mr. PAUL.
The Senator from South Dakota.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I
would ask unanimous consent that the
next two votes be 10 minutes in length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The question is on agreeing to the
Paul amendment.
Mr. GARDNER. I ask for the yeas
and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 22,
nays 77, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 223 Leg.]
YEAS—22
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Cassidy
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Grassley
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Risch
Romney
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Thune
Toomey
Wicker
NAYS—77
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Duckworth
Durbin
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Harris
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
Young
NOT VOTING—1
Isakson
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 22, the nays are 77.
Under the previous order requiring 60
votes for the adoption of this amend-
ment, the amendment is not agreed to.
The amendment (No. 929) was re-
jected.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New York.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Madam Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent to speak
for 1 minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Madam Presi-
dent, after this vote, the people in the
Gallery above us, these brave men and
women who have suffered unbelievably,
will not have to come here again.
This should never have been a fight.
It should never have taken this long to
pass this bill and make it permanent.
It should never have been a question.
But now, finally, we have the chance to
get this job done for our 9/11 heroes
once and for all—our firefighters, our
police officers, our EMTs, our construc-
tion workers, our survivors, our fami-
lies who stayed in their homes at
Ground Zero because EPA told them
the air was safe.
This bill is a signal from our Nation,
from this body, from Congress, that we
are representing people in all 50 States
and that the Senate will live up to the
words it has said over and over again,
‘‘never forget’’—that we will never for-
get our 9/11 heroes and that we will
never stop helping them when they are
in need.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator’s time is expired.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. We will pass this
bill for them, once and for all, so they
can get back home where they belong.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the bill by title for the
third time.
The bill was ordered to a third read-
ing and was read the third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill pass?
Mr. RISCH. Madam President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There is a sufficient second.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
(Disturbance in the Visitors’ Gal-
leries.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Expres-
sion of approval is not permitted in the
Galleries.
The result was announced—yeas 97,
nays 2, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 224 Leg.]
YEAS—97
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Harris
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—2
Lee Paul
NOT VOTING—1
Isakson
The bill (H.R. 1327) was passed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.025 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4999
July 23, 2019
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will resume executive session for
the consideration of the unfinished
business.
The Senator from Connecticut.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. MURPHY. Madam President, I
congratulate all of those responsible
for the passage of this long-overdue
legislation. I thank my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle who made this
happen but first and foremost all of the
advocates all over the country but pri-
marily in and around the Northeast.
There were hundreds upon hundreds of
individuals who rushed to that scene
from my State of Connecticut, many of
them dealing with potentially terminal
diseases as a result of that action. I am
glad we have stepped up in a bipartisan
way and once again done the right
thing.
I am on the floor to continue the con-
versation about healthcare. I wish I
had as good news as comes with the
passage of this legislation, which is
going to extend the guarantee of
healthcare to all sorts of heroes in and
around New York. At the very same
time, we are dealing with a potential
calamity for millions of other Ameri-
cans who also have serious conditions,
who are dealing with diagnoses like
cancer.
Today, if you have a preexisting con-
dition, you know you are going to be
able to get insured for that preexisting
condition. If you are the parent of a
child who has a serious illness, you
don’t have to worry about being denied
care for your son or daughter because
of that diagnosis. That is because we
have the Affordable Care Act.
The Affordable Care Act has been on
the books now for going on a decade. It
says: No matter how sick you are, no
insurance company can deny you care.
That has made a world of difference for
millions upon millions of Americans
who have preexisting conditions.
The potential calamity comes in a
court case filed by Republican Attor-
neys General, supported by the Presi-
dent and by Republicans in this Con-
gress, that would try to use the court
system to do what the Congress would
not—overturn the entirety of the Af-
fordable Care Act. Congress wouldn’t
do that. We debated it. We voted down
measures to repeal the Affordable Care
Act. Why? Because Americans all
across this country rose up and said:
We want you to fix what continues to
be broken with the healthcare system,
not tear down my coverage, not remove
me from the rolls of those who are in-
sured.
All across the country, over 20 mil-
lion people have insurance just because
of the Affordable Care Act—either be-
cause of tax credits we give people to
afford private insurance or the 12 mil-
lion people who got Medicaid because
of the Affordable Care Act, never mind
all the folks who buy private insurance
on their own, who can finally afford it
because we don’t discriminate against
you if you are poor. People didn’t want
that taken away from them, so they
rose up all across the country, and
Congress listened. By the skin of our
teeth, we voted down legislation to re-
peal the Affordable Care Act.
Because opponents of the Affordable
Care Act—in particular, this President
and Republicans who don’t like it—
couldn’t get the job done in the peo-
ple’s branch, they are now going to the
courts to try to repeal the Affordable
Care Act. Right now weaving its way
through the court system is a case
called Texas v. United States. I won’t
go into the complicated legal argu-
ment. The goal of it, if it is successful,
is to wipe out the entirety of the Af-
fordable Care Act overnight. It has
been successful at the district court
level. It was just argued before the ap-
pellate court level, and by the account
of witnesses who were there, the argu-
ments didn’t go too well for those of us
who think the Affordable Care Act
should stick around.
There is just a simple question right
now for my colleagues: Do you support
Texas v. United States? Do you support
the lawsuit that would wipe out the en-
tirety of the Affordable Care Act over-
night and replace it with nothing?
I put Republicans on here because I
actually know what the answer is from
the Democratic side of the aisle. Every
single Democrat in the Senate opposes
this lawsuit. It is not because every
single Democrat thinks you shouldn’t
change anything about the healthcare
system; it is because we don’t think it
is a very good idea to kick 20 million
people off of insurance, jack up rates
for people with preexisting conditions,
and have nothing to replace it—noth-
ing. That is what will happen if Texas
v. United States is successful. Peti-
tioners are asking for the whole act to
be thrown out and nothing to replace
it. That would be a humanitarian ca-
tastrophe in this country, if 20 million
people all of a sudden woke up and
found they didn’t have insurance cov-
erage any longer; if insurers were once
again able to charge that family of a
child with a cancer diagnosis two
times, three times, four times as much.
The question for Republicans is, Do
you support this lawsuit? I think we
need to get some answers. I think we
need to get some answers. Some of my
colleagues are on record saying they
hope it fails. More are on record saying
they hope it succeeds. But I don’t
think this body can just box its eyes
and ears to the reality of what would
happen if this lawsuit succeeds.
We are not riding to the rescue this
Congress. Let me just be honest with
you. Given how fractious the debate is
here about everything but in particular
about healthcare, there is no way that
the Congress and this dysfunctional
White House can reassemble all of the
protections in the Affordable Care Act
if the courts wipe them out. That is
just not realistic. We don’t debate any-
thing on this floor any longer. We don’t
have the muscle to pass minor pieces of
legislation like this body used to do 20
years ago, never mind a reordering and
reconstruction of one-sixth of the
American economy, which is what the
healthcare system represents.
Republicans need to start making a
decision. Do you support this lawsuit
or do you not? If you do support it, you
can’t just say ‘‘Well, you know, if ev-
erybody loses insurance and rates go
through the roof for people with pre-
existing conditions, we will figure it
out’’ without having a specific plan for
how you are going to do that. It is not
good enough to just say ‘‘I hope that
lawsuit succeeds. I hope everybody
loses their insurance. And then, the
day after, we will come back and we
will see if we can try to find people
healthcare.’’ That is irresponsible.
That is not satisfactory. It isn’t
enough for people out there who are
living life in fear that their insurance
is about to vanish.
The problem is, the last time Repub-
licans started thinking about what
they would want to replace the Afford-
able Care Act with, it was a joke. It
was a joke. The Better Care Reconcili-
ation Act, which was Senate Repub-
licans’ replacement for the Affordable
Care Act—CBO found that it would in-
crease the number of people without
insurance by 22 million. It found that
by 2026, an estimated 49 million people
would be without insurance, almost
doubling the number who lack insur-
ance today. That is not better care;
that is much, much worse care. So for-
give me if I don’t have confidence that
my Republican friends who run the
Senate today are going to have a plan
to deal with a successful Texas v.
United States court case that keeps in-
surance for people in my State, the
111,000 people in Connecticut who get
insurance through the private market
with ACA subsidies and the 268,000 peo-
ple in Connecticut who are covered in
my State under the Medicaid expan-
sion.
It is time for everybody in this body,
whether Republican or Democrat, to
step up and say: A, do I support the
lawsuit to get rid of all of the protec-
tions in the Affordable Care Act, with
nothing to replace it, and B, do I have
a plan for what to do if the lawsuit
that I support is successful?
Chris, from Westbrook, CT, is asking
that question of everybody in this
Chamber. Here is what he said:
I am a 30 year old patient living with mus-
cular dystrophy type 2B. Preexisting condi-
tions can happen to anyone. . . . Disease
does not discriminate. . . . No amount of
pre-planning or prudence can stop you from
preventing a genetic disease, for example.
. . . You can be healthy one day, and have a
health crisis the next. Everyone knows
someone with a preexisting condition. It is a
lifesaver—having insurance when you have a
preexisting condition means being able to af-
ford lifesaving medicines and treatments.
Chris is watching carefully to see
what the answer to this question is.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.029 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5000 July 23, 2019
Jeff in Enfield, CT, told me that in
2012, at the age of 7, his daughter was
diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. He said:
By the time we noticed the symptoms and
took her to the doctor, she most likely had
only a couple weeks left to live. She is
healthy today thanks to a daily regimen of
insulin. But insulin in the U.S. costs five to
ten times what it costs everywhere else. . . .
Without insurance, the expense of keeping
our daughter alive would ruin us. The pros-
pect of my daughter being un-insurable is
terrifying. . . . Without the ACA’s insurance
protections, the problem would be epidemic.
The problem of people not being able
to afford insulin all across this coun-
try.
Jeff continued:
How can anyone be expected to live under
that kind of strain, especially a young per-
son just starting out in life?
I am asking this question of my col-
leagues on behalf of my constituents,
but millions of Americans who are sick
or have a child who is sick are sick and
tired of Congress playing politics with
healthcare. You may not love every-
thing that is in the Affordable Care
Act. I get it. Republicans didn’t vote
for it. They didn’t support it. They
have been consistent in trying to get
rid of it ever since it was put into law.
I understand that. But I have taken my
Republican friends at their word over
the last 10 years when they have said:
We want to repeal the Affordable Care
Act and replace it with something bet-
ter.
Asking the courts to overturn the en-
tirety of the act with no plan to re-
place it is an abdication of the promise
that has been made. I don’t begrudge
people trying to repeal a law they don’t
like if they think they can do some-
thing better, but Congress didn’t repeal
the Affordable Care Act because people
didn’t want us to do it.
This is an irresponsible and thought-
less mechanism to try to score a polit-
ical victory, but it ends up playing
with lots of people’s lives.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
HONORING FORMER ASSOCIATE
JUSTICE JOHN PAUL STEVENS
OF THE SUPREME COURT OF
THE UNITED STATES
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President,
today America lays to rest the great
Justice John Paul Stevens. On behalf
of the U.S. Senate, it is my privilege,
along with my Illinois colleague Sen-
ator DUCKWORTH, to introduce and have
adopted a bipartisan resolution hon-
oring this remarkable and noble man, a
native of the city of Chicago.
During his Supreme Court confirma-
tion hearings in 1975, then-Judge John
Paul Stevens faced a line of ques-
tioning about his health, which, in ret-
rospect, is amusing. They were asking
questions about his health 44 years
ago. Justice Stevens had undergone a
single bypass heart surgery 2 years ear-
lier, and the members of the Judiciary
Committee just wanted to make sure
he could handle the rigors of serving on
the U.S. Supreme Court. History has
shown us that Justice John Paul Ste-
vens had not only a strong heart but a
good heart when it came to serving on
the U.S. Supreme Court.
Sadly, that mighty heart finally did
stop beating last week. Justice Stevens
was 99 years old. He died peacefully
with his daughters Elizabeth and Susan
by his side.
My State of Illinois is proud to claim
John Paul Stevens as a native son. He
was a member of a prominent Chicago
family, and he grew up in the luxury of
his family’s hotel, then known as the
Stevens Hotel and now known as the
Hilton Hotel on Michigan Avenue. He
never used the privilege of his family’s
wealth to shirk his responsibilities as a
citizen of America.
In World War II he was a lieutenant
commander in the Navy. He was award-
ed the Bronze Star for his service on
the code-breaking team, whose work
led to the downing of the plane of the
man who had planned the attack on
Pearl Harbor. After the war, he became
an accomplished attorney and a cham-
pion of good, ethical government.
It was John Paul Stevens’ integrity,
as much as his brilliant legal mind,
that convinced President Gerald Ford
to nominate him, then a Federal judge
on the Seventh Circuit Court of Ap-
peals, to serve on the U.S. Supreme
Court in 1975. President Ford called
then-Judge Stevens ‘‘the finest legal
mind I could find.’’ The Senate obvi-
ously agreed. The vote on the Senate
floor for John Paul Stevens’ confirma-
tion was 98 to 0.
He was the second oldest and third
longest serving Justice in the history
of our Nation, but it is the quality of
his service, and not its length, that
most distinguishes John Paul Stevens’
career on the U.S. Supreme Court. Jus-
tice Stevens approached disputes fair-
ly, squarely, and succinctly. He took
great pains to understand all sides of a
case and give all sides a fair hearing.
He rejected the easy path of ideology,
and he was willing to change his posi-
tion when the facts warranted it.
He authored the majority opinions in
some of the most famous and impor-
tant Supreme Court decisions in his
time. One example was in 2004. Justice
Stevens wrote the majority opinion in
which the Court, by a vote of 6 to 3, re-
jected the Bush administration’s view
that prisoners at Guantanamo Bay
could be held beyond the reach of the
law with no access to the Federal
courts. The case was Rasul v. Bush.
In 1984, in the landmark Chevron
case, Justice Stevens wrote an opinion
for a unanimous Supreme Court about
the deference owed to Agency interpre-
tations of Federal statutes, crafting a
legal framework that has been cited in
more than 11,000 subsequent judicial
opinions.
He was also often brilliant in dissent.
In his lengthy dissent in Citizens
United v. FEC in 2010, Justice Stevens
rejected the radical and, I personally
believe, dangerous notion that corpora-
tions have essentially the same First
Amendment rights as individuals and
should be allowed to spend, potentially,
unlimited amounts of money on cam-
paigns.
President Eisenhower famously said
that he made only two mistakes as
President, ‘‘and they’re both sitting on
the Supreme Court.’’
President Ford felt just the opposite
about his choice in Justice Stevens. In
2005, the year before his death, Presi-
dent Ford wrote of Justice Stevens: ‘‘I
am prepared to allow history’s judg-
ment of my term in office to rest (if
necessary, exclusively) on my nomina-
tion 30 years ago of John Paul Stevens
to the U.S. Supreme Court.’’ I can
think of no higher praise.
Justice Stevens stepped down from
the Supreme Court 9 years ago. Anyone
who had hoped that he might slip
quietly into retirement was certainly
disappointed. He continued in his re-
tirement to speak and write forcefully
and eloquently on major issues facing
America.
In 2014, he testified before the Senate
Rules Committee on the dangers that
dark money in politics posed to Amer-
ican democracy.
He wrote three books. Justice Ste-
vens once told an interviewer that the
person who most motivated him to
write was a professor from whom he
took a poetry class at the University of
Chicago. The professor’s name was Nor-
man Maclean. In his own retirement,
Norman Maclean wrote a semi-auto-
biographical novel entitled, ‘‘A River
Runs Through It and Other Stories.’’ It
was later made into a movie starring
Robert Redford.
Looking at the life’s work of John
Paul Stevens, it is clear that a river
ran through his life too. The currents
in that river included a reverence for
American democracy and the Constitu-
tion, compassion and respect for indi-
viduals, and a painstaking commit-
ment to decide each case on its merits
rather than relying on easy answers
suggested by political ideology.
Justice John Paul Stevens was a
good man and a courageous man, whose
strong heart was matched by a bril-
liant mind, ceaseless curiosity, and a
fierce commitment to justice. He
fought the good fight. He served our
Nation with honor, and he safeguarded
and enriched our democracy. May he
rest in peace and honor.
Madam President, as in legislative
session, I ask unanimous consent that
the Senate proceed to the immediate
consideration of S. Res. 282, submitted
earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.030 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5001
July 23, 2019
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 282) honoring former
Associate Justice John Paul Stevens of the
Supreme Court of the United States.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. DURBIN. I further ask unani-
mous consent that the resolution be
agreed to, the preamble be agreed to,
and the motions to consider be consid-
ered made and laid upon the table with
no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 282) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I
made my second trip to the southern
border just this last Friday with, I be-
lieve, 14 of my Senate Democratic col-
leagues. It is the largest congressional
delegation I have ever been a part of
for this type of assignment. We went to
McAllen, TX.
Approximately 40 percent of those
who present themselves at our border
come through this McAllen, TX, post.
There is a port of entry there where
many people, of course, are detained
when they present themselves at near-
by border positions.
Just a few months before, I had been
to El Paso, TX, and, in El Paso, about
20 percent of those who come to our
southern border present themselves as
well. It was an eye opener and an emo-
tional experience to see the hundreds
of people who are being held in deten-
tion at our border in McAllen.
There were two contrasting images.
One of them was the image of a Catho-
lic nun, Sister Norma Pimentel, who
has, for most of her adult life, dedi-
cated herself to those who come to our
border seeking rescue and security.
Catholic Charities in McAllen, TX, has
an extraordinary center filled with vol-
unteers from all over the United
States. I met some people from the city
of Chicago and the State of Illinois and
from all across the Nation who had
given up their daily lives to come down
and volunteer and do the basics—cook
food, clean up, pass out toiletries, and
offer a helping hand to many people
who have just gone through the worst
struggle in their lives.
Sister Norma is an extraordinary
person, and she has really touched the
hearts of so many people in her caring
and loving way. It is a reminder time
and again of the goodness of so many
Americans who want to tell the world
that we are in fact a nation driven by
values of importance.
It was my good fortune to have
breakfast with her and then spend an-
other part of my day with her and my
Senate colleagues. That hour—that
hour I will never forget—is when I saw
these people, many of whom had strug-
gled for weeks, a month, days and days
to get to the border of the United
States. They had gone through life ex-
periences that we wouldn’t wish on
anyone. They were victims of assault,
rape, and crimes that were committed
against them, but they were leaving
determined to come to the U.S. border.
Many of them told stories, particu-
larly from the countries of Guatemala,
El Salvador, and Honduras, about what
they had been through and the threats
to their families in these countries,
which are largely lawless now, as these
drug gangs and others threaten their
children and them. It was in despera-
tion that many of them made this jour-
ney, cashing in everything they owned
on Earth to try to make it to the bor-
der of the United States.
Theirs is today’s story, but it really
is the story of this country that goes
back for many years. It was 108 years
ago that my grandmother decided to
make her journey to the United States
with three small children. She brought
her two daughters and her son from the
country of Lithuania to become immi-
grants to the United States. Her 2-
year-old daughter, which she carried in
her arms, was my mother, and I am a
proud son of that Lithuanian immi-
grant.
Why did they come to the United
States? Simply because they heard
there was a better chance for a better
future if they made it here.
That is the story of this country. We
are being tested now at this time in
this generation as to whether that
story is still alive. Now, we understand
there are some basics here. I hope we
can all agree on them. Perhaps some
will not, but I believe they are impor-
tant.
The first is that we need border secu-
rity. In an age of terrorism with the
worst drug epidemic in the history of
our Nation, it is right for us to know
who is coming into this country and
what they are bringing into our coun-
try.
Secondly, we want to make certain
that anyone who is known to be a dan-
ger in this country is never allowed ad-
mittance, and those who are here un-
documented and who commit a serious
crime have forfeited their right to
stay, as far as I am concerned—no
questions asked beyond that.
The third thing is that we have to
have an orderly immigration system.
We cannot absorb every person in the
world who wants to come to the United
States at this moment. It just is not in
our best interest. It really isn’t in
theirs either. We need an orderly immi-
gration process. The question we have
to ask ourselves is this: If we agree on
those three things, can we then agree
that we have a broken immigration
system that needs to be repaired? Can
we agree that people who do present
themselves at the border will be treat-
ed in a humane fashion?
I told the story of Sister Norma, but
if you look at the immigration policy
of the Trump administration, you find
a much different message to the world.
We remember when this President ini-
tiated his Presidency by establishing a
Muslim travel ban, creating chaos at
airports across the country, and con-
tinued to separate thousands of Amer-
ican families. We remember the policy
of this administration when the Presi-
dent announced the repeal of DACA.
DACA, the Deferred Action for Child-
hood Arrivals, is a program that grew
out of the DREAM Act, a bill that I in-
troduced about 18 years ago. It was a
bill that said—or an Executive deci-
sion, actually, under President Obama:
If you were brought to this country as
a child, and your parents made the de-
cision to come, and you were just along
for the ride, but you lived in this coun-
try, got an education in this country,
and didn’t create serious crimes in this
country, you deserve a chance.
You got up every morning and went
to school and pledged allegiance to
that flag and believed it was your own,
and, then, probably when you were
about 10 or 12, someone in the family
told you something that you never
heard before: You were not legally in
America.
What should we do with these young
people? Well, when I introduced this
bill 18 years ago, my plan was to give
them a chance to earn their way to
legal status, finish their education,
make certain that they have no serious
criminal record, be willing to serve
this country in the Armed Forces—and
so many of them are—be willing to go
on to school and develop a degree in
teaching, engineering, nursing, or med-
icine, and then we gave you a chance
for a green card and a path to legaliza-
tion and citizenship in America.
In 18 years, I have never been able to
make this the law of the land, but I
prevailed on President Obama to create
a program based on this premise, and
he created the DACA Program. Now,
over 800,000 young people in America
stepped up, paid a $600 filing fee, went
through a criminal background check,
and they were given permission to stay
in this country without fear of deporta-
tion and with permission to work in
this country as well.
Who are they? There are so many dif-
ferent people. I have introduced them
on the floor today—I mean other days,
I should say—with color photographs
and telling their stories. The ones I
think of immediately, the stars of the
class, as far as I am concerned, are the
more than 30 of these DACA students
who are currently enrolled in the Loy-
ola University Stritch School of Medi-
cine in Chicago, which made the com-
petition for the school of medicine
open to DACA recipients, and they
competed openly and won 32 slots.
In order to pay for their education,
because they don’t qualify for Federal
assistance to go to school, my State of
Illinois loans them money, and for each
year that they are loaned money, they
promise to serve a year, once they are
licensed physicians, in an area of med-
ical need in my State. What a wonder-
ful program that takes into account
their skills and talent and our need in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.031 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5002 July 23, 2019
the State for medical care in rural
communities in Smalltown, America,
and in the inner city of Chicago and
other big cities in my State.
Well, the President of the United
States decided to end the program that
made them eligible to apply for med-
ical school, and in making that deci-
sion, the President jeopardized the
completion of their medical degrees be-
cause, you see, no matter how hard
they worked, that medical degree leads
to a residency where they learn how to
practice medicine hands on, and a resi-
dency is a job, and to be legally enti-
tled to work in this country, you need
to have DACA protection, which Presi-
dent Trump took away.
So many of them faced the prospect
that their medical education would end
because of the President’s decision.
Fortunately for them, the case was
brought to Federal court to try to stop
President Trump from eliminating
DACA, and it provided us with a pro-
gram that will continue with its pro-
tections until the court case is re-
solved. That could happen, and it could
happen soon.
It tells you what happens when a
President makes a decision that affects
so many lives and the damage that it
can do, not just to them and their fam-
ilies but to our Nation.
The President also terminated the
Temporary Protected Status Program
for multiple countries that protected
some 300,000 people who have come to
the United States over the years be-
cause of adverse natural disasters or
political conditions in their country.
Then the President, last year, initi-
ated a program called ‘‘Zero Toler-
ance’’ that resulted in the disastrous
separation of thousands of families at
the border. Because a Federal court
mandated it, the administration had to
account for the children who were sep-
arated. There were some 2,880 infants,
toddlers, and children taken away from
their parents, some with lies about
where these children were going and
how soon they would be returned.
This is what the court said in South-
ern California to the Trump adminis-
tration: Account for these children.
Tell us where they are today. Tell us
where their parents are.
They couldn’t even match up all the
children with the parents because
many of the parents had been sent
back to their countries with the prom-
ise that the children would return, and
there was no recordkeeping so that
could be done.
This President also was engaged,
through his Department of Homeland
Security, in migrant detention facili-
ties, where the inspector general with
the Department of Homeland Security
found ‘‘an immediate risk to the health
and safety of detainees and DHS em-
ployees.’’
I saw them in April of this year in El
Paso. We had a detention facility there
where they were holding those who
were presented at the border. The sign
over the door of that detention center
said: Capacity 35. I looked through the
plate glass window. There were 150 men
standing shoulder to shoulder. They
ate standing up. There was no room for
all of them to lie down and sleep. I was
told a couple of weeks later that the
population census had grown to 200 in
that cell that was designed for 35, with
1 toilet.
Next to it was a detention cell with
another plate glass window. Over the
door, it said: Capacity 18. I counted 75
women, some with nursing children, in
that room designed for 18 people, with
1 toilet.
That situation is unacceptable and
inhumane. Regardless of the legal out-
come of those who present themselves,
we can and must do better as a nation.
The inspector general is right. That
condition that I saw was a risk to
health and safety.
Then, the President, through a series
of his infamous tweets, threatened
mass arrests and deportations of mil-
lions of immigrants who have com-
mitted no crime and posed no threat to
the safety and security of their com-
munities. What the President has done
is created rampant fear in the immi-
grant communities around Illinois and
around this Nation.
Then, the President put in place a
new rule that blocks asylum claims at
our border for nationals of any country
except Mexico, including families and
children fleeing persecution. The
UNHCR, the United Nations refugee
agency, said that the rule that the
President promulgated will endanger
vulnerable people in need of inter-
national protection from violence or
persecution.
Now the President is continuing on
his path of destruction. He is consid-
ering reducing the number of refugees
that the United States will admit in
the year 2020 to zero.
You have to go back in history to
World War II, when the President of
the United States, a member of my
own political party, made a conscious
decision to tell those Jewish people
coming from Europe that they would
not be allowed admittance into the
United States to escape the Nazi Holo-
caust. The story of the SS St. Louis is
one that people should read and con-
sider the 800 passengers on that ship
who were rejected by the administra-
tion as refugees and sent back to Eu-
rope. A fourth of them died in the Hol-
ocaust.
Because of our feeling of shame after
World War II, the United States, under
Presidents of both political parties,
said that we would try to set a stand-
ard for the world when it came to ac-
cepting refugees, and we did. An aver-
age of almost 80,000 per year were ad-
mitted into the United States. Think
back to the Cubans who came to this
country to escape communism under
Castro. They have become such a vi-
brant part of America today, and in
fact, three of the Senators today are of
Cuban decent. They were part of that
refugee movement—maybe not their
generation but in their family.
Then, of course, we accepted Jewish
people from the Soviet Union, who
were being persecuted. Soviet Jews
found a welcoming America. The Viet-
namese who risked their lives to fight
on our side in that horrible war were
welcomed into the United States rath-
er than see them face persecution in
their own countries.
The story goes on and on and for
years and years. For decades the
United States established a standard of
caring when it came to refugees. Now
this President has announced that de-
spite all of the turmoil in the world, we
cannot accept a single refugee in the
year 2020. What a departure from the
high-minded and high-valued conduct
of previous Presidents.
Since the enactment of the Refugee
Act of 1980, the United States has re-
settled over 80,000 refugees per year
under the administrations of both po-
litical parties. President Trump has
said he will end it.
For the last 2 years, the Trump ad-
ministration has set the lowest refugee
ceilings in history in the midst of the
worst refugee crisis in history. Now the
administration may slam the door at
least for a year or until someone pre-
vails on the President.
Today, as almost every day, the ad-
ministration has announced a new rule
that allows immigration officers to ar-
rest and deport undocumented immi-
grants anywhere in the United States
unless that person can prove they have
been in the United States for at least 2
years. I ask, if someone stopped you on
the street and said ‘‘Prove you have
been here for 2 years,’’ how long would
it take you to gather that documenta-
tion to make that proof, if you can? To
do this to people and threaten to de-
port them on the spot immediately if
they don’t produce the documentation
is totally unfair. This procedure,
known as expedited removal, allows an
immigrant to be deported without con-
sulting with an attorney or counselor
or defending themselves in a hearing
before an immigration judge. It is sum-
mary judgment on the street to deport
people and tear families apart.
America is better than this. We can
certainly keep America safe and re-
spect our heritage as a nation of immi-
grants. We can have a secure border
and abide by our international obliga-
tions to protect refugees fleeing perse-
cution as we have done on a bipartisan
basis for decades.
When I went and toured the McAllen
Border Patrol station, Donna, and Ur-
sula, we met with many of the leaders
there and saw firsthand what is hap-
pening. We are starting to build facili-
ties that will be more humane, at least
by design, and hope that is exactly
what happens.
I would like to say a word about the
men and women who work for Customs
and Border Protection. I am not going
to make any excuses for those who
have abused people in the past or those
who have said horrible things online
about them—no excuses at all. But the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.033 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5003
July 23, 2019
people I met as part of our government
service at the border were overwhelm-
ingly good and caring people who are
confronted with a situation at the bor-
der that they never envisioned with
circumstances beyond their control. So
I want to say a word for those who are
doing the best they can under these ex-
traordinary circumstances and thank
them for their service.
The reality is that President Trump’s
policies, as harsh and cruel as they
have been, have been ineffective at our
southern border. The situation is much
less secure than when he took office.
The President’s obsession with the bor-
der wall led to the longest government
shutdown in history, even paralyzing
our immigration courts for that 35-day
period.
More refugees have been driven to
the border because the President has
shut down the legal avenues for migra-
tion and blocked all assistance to sta-
bilize the Northern Triangle countries.
Under President Obama we set up in-
country in Guatemala, El Salvador,
and Honduras an opportunity for those
who wished to come forward and apply
for asylum status in the United States
without leaving their own country if
they chose to do it. It was one alter-
native to an expensive, dangerous trek
to the southern border. The Trump ad-
ministration closed down that pro-
gram, giving the people in those coun-
tries no other alternative but to try to
make that trip to the border. That
made no sense at all.
There is also a gaping leadership vac-
uum at the Department of Homeland
Security. In the 21⁄2 years the President
has been in office, there have been four
different leaders in the Office of the
Secretary of the Department of Home-
land Security, and in every major sub-
category position, whether it is inte-
rior enforcement or border enforce-
ment, there have been at least as many
people in an acting capacity and not in
a permanent capacity.
I will say that we have tried our best
to work with this administration when
they have asked for help and volun-
teered it when they didn’t. Last Feb-
ruary, when we passed the omnibus
bill, we included over $400 million for
humanitarian assistance at the border,
and when the President came back and
asked for an emergency supplemental
of $4.6 billion for additional funding,
Democrats joined Republicans to pass
that legislation.
Last year, before the border crisis
began, Senate Democrats supported a
bipartisan agreement, including robust
border security funding and dozens of
provisions to strengthen border secu-
rity. But the President threatened to
veto it, and instead pushed for a hard-
line approach, which, when it was
called for a vote in the U.S. Senate, re-
ceived fewer than 40 votes.
Six years ago, in 2013, there was a
problem on the Senate floor, and there
aren’t many to recall as we stand here
today, but this was one of them. I was
part of the Gang of 8, four Democrat
and four Republican Senators who
worked for months—Senator John
McCain, CHUCK SCHUMER, and many
others—to put together a comprehen-
sive immigration reform bill. We
brought it to the floor of the Senate,
and it passed 68 to 32. It was a step and
a move in the right direction to deal
with our broken immigration system.
Unfortunately, the Republican House
leadership refused to even consider
that bill or call for a hearing. The Act-
ing Secretary of Department of Home-
land Security, Kevin McAleenan, said
that if our bill in 2013 had been enacted
into law, ‘‘we would have a very dif-
ferent situation. . . . we would be a lot
more secure on our border.’’
Republican Senator LAMAR ALEX-
ANDER of Tennessee, who supported
that bill, said ‘‘If that bill became law,
most of the problems we’re having
today we’d not be having.’’
We had a path, a bipartisan path, a
good path that we should return to. It
is time for us to find a way to work to-
gether for a secure border, for a secure
nation, to reduce the massive amounts
of money that are being spent now be-
cause of this migration, and to do it in
a humane fashion consistent with the
values of the United States.
We are ready to work with Repub-
licans. Democrats on this side of the
aisle are ready to work to achieve
goals I think we all share. We need to
address the root causes in the Northern
Triangle countries that drive migrants
to flee to the United States. We need to
crack down on the traffickers and
transporters who are exploiting these
migrants. We need to expand third-
country resettlement so that immi-
grants can find their way safely with-
out making that dangerous trek. We
need to eliminate immigration court
backlogs so that asylum claims can be
processed more quickly. We need to ex-
pand the use of proven alternatives to
detention, like family case manage-
ment, so immigrants know their rights
and show up for court.
It was hard to believe, when we went
to Sister Norma’s cafeteria centered in
McAllen—some of the migrants who
had gone through the system and were
now heading to join family members in
the United States showed us the pack-
ets they were given with legal docu-
ments. Understand, these people were
fresh off the border, out of detention.
As we looked inside the packets, we
found in many cases that the instruc-
tions were printed in English, not
Spanish, and they did not include any
specific time or place for the person to
report. They had simply typed in ‘‘to
be determined.’’ Is it any wonder that
people struggle to come to a court
hearing as required by law?
We can do better. We need to get
them the information they need if they
are going to be a part of our legal sys-
tem and tell them the time and place
they need to report.
We stand ready to work on this side
of the aisle for smart, effective, hu-
mane border security policy. We need
to have a bipartisan approach. Repub-
lican colleagues need to step up and
find a constructive way to deal with
the challenges we face on the border
today. We can keep America safe. We
can continue to probably call ourselves
a nation of immigrants. What we are
seeing now is a situation which begs
for a bipartisan, compromise solution.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I come to
the floor just the day before Robert
Mueller is set to come before the House
Intelligence and Judiciary Committees
to focus attention on some of the key
findings of the special counsel’s report
on Russia’s interference in our 2016
elections.
I have spoken on the floor many
times about the depth and breadth of
the Russian interference in the 2016
election. The special counsel’s report
goes to great lengths to detail this, in
his terms, ‘‘sweeping and systemic in-
terference.’’ What continues to be wor-
risome is that these information war-
fare attacks and other malign influ-
ence operations are ongoing with more
plans for our elections next year.
This threat to our national security
and the integrity of our democracy has
yet to be sufficiently recognized or
counted by this administration. Indeed,
in the months since the report was re-
leased, the Trump administration and
congressional Republicans have repeat-
edly claimed that the report vindicates
the President on all charges of collu-
sion between the Trump campaign and
Russia and on obstruction of justice
rather than taking steps to ensure that
we will never be targeted in this way
again.
The special counsel’s testimony is
vital so he can detail what he uncov-
ered and shed additional light on the
events of the investigation. In par-
ticular, what Congress and the Amer-
ican people need to hear from Director
Mueller relates to three broad cat-
egories of questions. For instance,
what was the full scope of Russian in-
terference in the 2016 election?
Second, what evidence did the special
counsel find of coordination between
Trump campaign associates or the
President and the Russian Govern-
ment, and why did he decide the avail-
able evidence was not sufficient to
prove a criminal conspiracy with Rus-
sia?
Third, what evidence did the special
counsel find that the President ob-
structed justice?
Tomorrow’s testimony will help the
public understand the gravity of the
President’s conduct in the White House
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.034 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5004 July 23, 2019
and the extent to which Russia influ-
enced the 2016 election. These hearings
are not the end. This is not case closed.
The intelligence community has as-
sessed that the threat from Russia will
continue to evolve and grow even more
sophisticated. For our elections to re-
main free, open, and transparent, we
must take seriously the threat posed
by Russia and other potential foreign
adversaries. We must hold hearings in
the Senate with testimony from the
special counsel’s office and key wit-
nesses from the report. We must con-
sider legislation on election security,
foreign influence operations,
disinformation, Federal election laws,
money laundering, and many other
issues.
When it comes to protecting our de-
mocracy, we cannot be complacent.
Now is the time for action to make
sure we are ready ahead of the elec-
tions in 2020 and beyond. Each and
every one of us in this Chamber swore
an oath to support and defend the Con-
stitution of the United States against
all enemies, foreign and domestic. In
order to do that, we can’t just take
tweets about no collusion and no ob-
struction at face value. This isn’t a
witch hunt, nor should it be an effort
to circle the partisan wagons around
the President and absolve him of any
wrongdoing. It has to be a serious ex-
amination of what happened and how
to defend our Nation against future at-
tacks.
Mr. President, in anticipation of the
upcoming testimony of the special
counsel before the House Intelligence
and Judiciary Committees, I want to
highlight key findings in his report
that go to the heart of Russian inter-
ference into our elections in 2016 and
the ongoing threat still facing our na-
tional security and the integrity of our
democracy.
Indeed many of the President’s own
national security officials have warned
of heightened Russian information
warfare attacks and other foreign in-
fluence operations in next year’s elec-
tion—which could make its 2016 inter-
ference in our elections, catalogued in
the Mueller report, look like child’s
play. Federal Bureau of Investigation
Director Wray recently stated that the
2018 midterm elections were seen by
Russia as ‘‘a dress rehearsal for the big
show in 2020.’’ Wray added that the FBI
anticipates the 2020 ‘‘threat being even
more challenging.’’ Director of Na-
tional Intelligence Daniel Coats
warned the Senate Intelligence Com-
mittee in January 2019 that, in the 2020
election cycle, ‘‘Moscow may employ
additional influence toolkits—such as
spreading disinformation, conducting
hack-and-leak operations, or manipu-
lating data—in a more targeted fashion
to influence U.S. policy, actions, and
elections.’’
Despite this ongoing and increasingly
sophisticated threat, we are still not
fully prepared to defend against the in-
evitable Russian attacks on our democ-
racy. The Russian interference in the
2016 election was akin to a military op-
eration against our nation. To date, we
do not have a complete understanding
of what happened in 2016. More impor-
tantly, we do not have a comprehensive
strategy, nor have we reorganized our
government or prepared the American
people, so that such foreign inter-
ference will not happen again. The re-
lease of the Mueller report cannot
mark the end of the strategy to inves-
tigate and prevent Russian inter-
ference. The special counsel’s testi-
mony will add to the urgency for this
administration and Congress to change
course and act immediately to protect
our democracy and strengthen public
faith in the American election process.
Since the release of the special coun-
sel’s report, the President, the Attor-
ney General, and some Republican con-
gressional leaders have said that the
case of Russian interference in the 2016
election is closed, that our work is
done, and that we can move on. The
President has repeatedly claimed that
the special counsel’s report cleared
him of any connections to Russia and
any wrongdoing in contradiction of the
voluminous evidence laid out in the re-
port. But those declarations of inno-
cence just don’t square with the facts.
Congress has a constitutional duty to
review the findings of the special coun-
sel on behalf of the American people
and not simply accept the administra-
tion’s spin and mischaracterizations of
Robert Mueller’s findings.
Despite the President’s declarations
of ‘‘hoax’’ and ‘‘witch hunt,’’ the spe-
cial counsel’s office did bring indict-
ments for ‘‘conspiracy to commit of-
fense or to defraud the United States’’
under 18 U.S. Code § 371, against Putin
crony Yevgeny Prigozhin, who was in
charge of the Kremlin-linked troll op-
eration known as the Internet Re-
search Agency, and against his related
holdings and multiple employees. The
investigation also resulted in con-
spiracy indictments of 12 officers from
Russian Military Intelligence, also
known as the GRU.
While the available evidence did not
meet the legal standard to charge the
President or his associates with a
crime for a coordinating role in that
conspiracy, the special counsel takes
care to note that does not mean that
evidence of coordination does not exist.
This is not, as the President has at-
tested, ‘‘a complete and total exonera-
tion.’’ As the special counsel plainly
points out, in regards to coordination
with Russia, while ‘‘this report em-
bodies factual and legal determinations
that the office believes to be accurate
and complete to the greatest extent
possible, given these identified gaps,
the office cannot rule out the possi-
bility that the unavailable information
would shed additional light on (or cast
in a new light) the events described in
this report.’’
What is more, President Trump and
his supporters purposefully leave out
important context from the report
where the special counsel explains that
he lacked the authority to indict a sit-
ting President because of an Office of
Legal Counsel, OLC, opinion finding
that ‘‘the indictment or criminal pros-
ecution of a sitting President would
impermissibly undermine the capacity
of the executive branch to perform its
constitutionally assigned functions’’ in
violation of ‘‘the constitutional separa-
tion of powers.’’
Another critical consideration for
the special counsel was that a Federal
criminal investigation of a sitting
President could preempt the authority
vested in Congress by the Constitution
to address Presidential misconduct. In
addition, Mueller notes that ‘‘a Presi-
dent does not have immunity after he
leaves office’’ and that ‘‘we conducted
a thorough factual investigation in
order to preserve the evidence when
memories were fresh and documentary
materials were available.’’ Put to-
gether, while the special counsel con-
cluded that he could not prosecute the
President, he makes it clear that he is
creating a record of evidence and defer-
ring to Congress and future prosecutors
should they pursue an obstruction
case.
Which is all the more reason why we
must hear from the special counsel on
his findings and his decision-making
process. In particular, what Congress
and the American people need to hear
from Special Counsel Mueller relates
to three broad categories of questions.
First, what was the nature and ex-
tent of the Russian interference cam-
paign launched against the United
States in the 2016 election? Second,
what evidence did the investigation
find of Trump campaign associates or
the President coordinating with the
Russian campaign, and why did
Mueller decide the available evidence
was not sufficient to prove ‘‘beyond a
reasonable doubt’’ that they had crimi-
nally conspired with the Russian ef-
forts? And the third set of issues relate
to acts of obstruction by Trump cam-
paign associates and the President
himself.
On the first set of issues, one of the
main responsibilities charged to the
special counsel by the Department of
Justice was to conduct a ‘‘full and
thorough investigation of the Russian
government’s efforts to interfere in the
2016 presidential election.’’ As the re-
port concludes, ‘‘the Special Counsel’s
investigation established that Russia
interfered in the 2016 election prin-
cipally through two operations.’’
First, Mueller provides detailed evi-
dence that Kremlin-linked operators
sought to help the Kremlin’s preferred
candidate, whose election would serve
Russia’s interests. The report describes
how a Kremlin-linked troll operation,
called the Internet Research Agency,
‘‘carried out a social media campaign
that favored presidential candidate
Donald J. Trump and disparaged presi-
dential candidate Hillary Clinton.’’ It
also found that ‘‘[a]s early as 2014, the
[Kremlin-linked Internet Research
Agency] instructed its employees to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.035 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5005
July 23, 2019
target U.S. persons who could be used
to advance its operational goals.’’
Second, Mueller describes in detail
the Russian spying operation to steal
‘‘dirt’’ on the opposition candidate and
then use that stolen information
against her. The report states un-
equivocally, ‘‘[a] Russian military
intelligence’s spying operation con-
ducted computer intrusion operations
against entities, employees and volun-
teers working on the Clinton Campaign
and then released stolen documents.’’
The Mueller report makes clear that
the Russian election interference was a
coordinated campaign targeting our de-
mocracy along multiple lines of effort.
While these conclusions affirm the as-
sessments of our intelligence commu-
nity, the President appears unwilling
or unable to take them seriously.
At the G20 Summit in Osaka in June
2019, President Trump treated Russian
election interference as a joke, sig-
naling to Putin that he would not hold
Russia accountable. And in a recent
interview, the President failed to grasp
what was wrong with taking ‘‘dirt’’ on
his political opponent from a foreign
source and indicated that, if it hap-
pened again in the 2020 campaign, he
would listen to what they had to say
and then decide whether or not to re-
port it to the FBI.
Now let me turn to the second set of
issues Special Counsel Mueller needs to
address, relating to his task by the De-
partment of Justice to investigate
‘‘any links and/or coordination between
the Russian government and individ-
uals associated with the campaign of
President Donald Trump.’’
The special counsel’s report presents
significant evidence that President
Trump and his associates embraced,
encouraged, and applauded Russian
help. The report definitively concludes
that Russia saw its interests as aligned
with, and served by, a Trump Presi-
dency; that a central purpose of the
Russian interference operations was
helping the Trump campaign; and that
the Trump campaign anticipated bene-
fiting from the fruits of that foreign
election interference. Mueller provides
detailed evidence of multiple contacts
by Russian government officials or
their proxies with the Trump campaign
to facilitate relationships. The report
states: ‘‘[t]he investigation . . . estab-
lished numerous links between the
Russian government and the Trump
campaign.’’
Ultimately, however, the special
counsel’s investigation lacked suffi-
cient evidence to prove beyond a rea-
sonable doubt that the Trump cam-
paign or its associates conspired with
the Russian Government in its election
interference. As the report states:
‘‘[a]lthough the investigation estab-
lished that the Russian government
perceived it would benefit from a
Trump presidency and worked to se-
cure that outcome, and that the Cam-
paign expected it would benefit
electorally from information stolen
and released through Russian efforts,
the investigation did not establish that
members of the Trump Campaign con-
spired or coordinated with the Russian
government in its election interference
activities.’’
As referenced earlier, a key question
that Special Counsel Mueller needs to
address during his testimony is why
was the investigative team unable to
establish to a criminal standard of
proof that is ‘‘beyond a reasonable
doubt’’ coordination between people as-
sociated with the Trump campaign,
and Russian actors conspiring to un-
dermine the U.S. elections.
This raises questions related to the
third set of issues for Special Counsel
Mueller, namely whether the President
obstructed justice in connection with
the Russia-related investigation and
hindered the ability of the special
counsel’s office to gather relevant evi-
dence. And if so, did that obstruction
materially impede Mueller’s ability to
conclude ‘‘beyond a reasonable doubt’’
that the Trump campaign or the Presi-
dent himself conspired with Russian in-
terference? These questions raise pro-
found issues for our national security
and the integrity of our democracy,
and the special counsel’s answers will
determine what Congress’s next steps
should be in meeting its constitutional
responsibilities.
Indeed, the Mueller report estab-
lishes multiple incidents in which the
President committed acts that were ca-
pable of impeding the Trump-Russia
investigation. For example, President
Trump asked then-FBI Director James
Comey to stop looking into his former
National Security Advisor General Mi-
chael Flynn, after finding out that
Flynn was questioned about his con-
tacts with the Russian Ambassador.
President Trump also repeatedly asked
Comey to publicly say that Trump
himself was not under investigation
and then fired Comey when it became
clear he was unwilling to do so.
In addition, the President tried sev-
eral different tactics to have the spe-
cial counsel’s investigation curtailed.
President Trump initially put forward
claims that the special counsel had
conflicts of interest, which his advisers
informed him were meritless. When
that did not work, the President gave
his subordinates—including White
House Counsel Don McGahn, White
House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus
and former campaign manager Corey
Lewandowski—direct orders to either
have the special counsel removed or to
pressure then-Attorney General Ses-
sions into limiting the scope of the spe-
cial counsel’s investigation to future
election interference, instead of scruti-
nizing the President and his cam-
paign’s conduct. McGahn,
Lewandowski, and Priebus all failed to
follow the President’s orders. The spe-
cial counsel importantly notes that at-
tempts ‘‘to influence the investigation
were mostly unsuccessful, but that is
largely because the persons who sur-
rounded the president declined to carry
out orders or accede to his requests.’’
Furthermore, the special counsel’s
report found that the President and his
aides materially impaired the inves-
tigation. For instance, the President
did not give an in-person interview to
the special counsel and would only an-
swer written questions that did not ad-
dress issues relating to Presidential ob-
struction. In his written responses, the
President replied that he could not re-
call or did not remember more than 30
times, covering the vast majority of
the questions. In addition, numerous
Trump campaign associates and others
from his inner circle, including General
Michael Flynn, George Papadopoulos,
and Roger Stone, and his attorney Mi-
chael Cohen, lied about their dealings
with Kremlin or Kremlin-linked actors.
Michael Cohen, for example, admitted
to the special counsel that among the
reasons he lied to Congress about the
Trump Tower Moscow project was to
try and limit the ongoing Russia inves-
tigation. In each of these cases, the
Mueller report found ‘‘those lies mate-
rially impaired the investigation of
Russian election interference.’’
Similarly, the special counsel found
that Trump campaign associates frus-
trated the investigation by deleting in-
formation or otherwise impeding the
ability of the special counsel to obtain
relevant communications pertinent to
the investigation. One example was
Trump campaign associates’ commu-
nications with Konstantin Kilimnik, a
Ukrainian national whom the FBI as-
sesses as having ties to Russian intel-
ligence and who worked for Trump
campaign chairman Paul Manafort’s
political consulting business for many
years. During 2016, Manafort directed
his campaign deputy Rick Gates to
provide internal polling data to
Kilimnik. Manafort expected Kilimnik
to share that information with others
in Ukraine and Putin crony Oleg
Deripaska, who had funded pro-Krem-
lin political influence operations in the
past. The Mueller report details that
Gates used an encrypted app to send
the polling data and then deleted it
daily. As a result of deleted and
encrypted communications and be-
cause of Manafort’s false statements,
the special counsel was not able to de-
termine what happened with this data
and whether it was part of a coordi-
nated effort between Russia and the
Trump campaign to interfere in our
election. The report makes clear that
the lying, obfuscations, and denial of
access to key information had a direct
effect on the investigation’s ability to
determine the nature and extent of any
coordination by President Trump and
his associates with Russian conspira-
tors.
What makes the Mueller’s testimony
even more urgent are the Trump ad-
ministration’s efforts to attack the
credibility of the report and to prevent
Congress from further investigating
Mueller’s findings. The White House
has adopted a strategy of trying to
block key witnesses named in the
Mueller report from testifying before
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.036 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5006 July 23, 2019
Congress, including Don McGahn,
Annie Donaldson who served as chief of
staff to White Counsel McGahn, and
White House and Trump campaign
communications director Hope Hicks,
by invoking legally dubious or overly
broad claims of privilege. The White
House has also stymied Congress by as-
serting Executive privilege over the
full, unredacted version of the report
and the underlying documents and only
providing access to a few select Mem-
bers.
It is not only the White House that
has been trying to muddy the waters
around the Mueller report. Attorney
General William Barr has deliberately
mischaracterized and increased par-
tisan skepticism of the report. Before
releasing the report to the public, Barr
published a misleading summary of its
findings, which the special counsel dis-
puted. Barr also held a press conference
where he claimed that the White House
fully cooperated with the special coun-
sel’s investigation, that the special
counsel found ‘‘no collusion,’’ and that
there was not sufficient evidence to es-
tablish obstruction of justice. These
statements are favorable to the Presi-
dent, but none of them are consistent
with the special counsel’s findings.
As I have laid out, despite the ongo-
ing and increasingly sophisticated
threat we face and despite the 2020
election being less than a year and a
half away, we are still not prepared to
defend against the inevitable Russian
attack on our democracy. As Mueller
said during his press conference on
May 29, 2019, ‘‘I will close by reit-
erating the central allegation of our in-
dictments—that there were multiple,
systematic efforts to interference in
our election. That allegation deserves
the attention of every American.’’
I could not agree more. We cannot
forget that Russia interfered in our
election in 2016 with hybrid warfare
tactics and tried to do it again in 2018.
And our intelligence community as-
sessed that it is poised to conduct addi-
tional operations against our elections
in 2020 with increasing sophistication.
We cannot ignore these attacks or wish
them away.
The impediments erected by the
President and the people around him
meant that despite the best efforts of
the Mueller team, there remains unfin-
ished business in getting to the bottom
of what happened in 2016 and afterward,
which is why it is critically important
we hear from the special counsel.
While it is an important step that
the special counsel is testifying to the
House in front of two committees, I am
making this statement about the ques-
tions that should be asked of Mueller
because, as of this moment, there are
no scheduled hearings or plan for him
to appear in the Senate. We should be
holding hearings in the Senate with
testimony from the special counsel and
others on many issues, including the
ones I have raised. We should be pass-
ing legislation, including on election
security, to ensure that we are appro-
priately reorganized across government
and society ahead of the elections in
2020 and beyond. Indeed, the adminis-
tration needs to take election security
seriously. That means being proactive.
It also means finding ways to reassure
the American people about the legit-
imacy and validity of our elections.
For example, we could require the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, with the
concurrence of the Director of National
Intelligence and the FBI Director, to
rapidly assess and inform the public
about whether any foreign interference
or influence is detected against our
election process, procedures, and infra-
structure.
As Former Ambassador to Russia Mi-
chael McFaul wrote in the Washington
Post after the special counsel’s report
was released: ‘‘the Mueller report is a
good start, but it is only a start.’’
There is too much at stake for our na-
tional security and the integrity of de-
mocracy to stop now.
NOMINATION OF MARK T. ESPER
Mr. President, I had the opportunity
and the privilege, as we all did earlier
today, to vote for Secretary Mark
Esper as the next Secretary of Defense.
I have known Dr. Esper for more than
a decade. He is a public servant and a
patriot of the first order. I think the
overwhelming vote today indicates the
confidence we have in him, and it indi-
cates the importance we understand
that job holds for all of us. We have en-
trusted it to someone who began his
dedicated service to the country as an
18-year-old at West Point, served in the
Army, then went on to serve in admin-
istrations and as a public-spirited cit-
izen through his entire life.
Mr. President, I rise to state my sup-
port for the nomination of Dr. Mark
Esper, who was confirmed earlier today
to be the 27th Secretary of Defense.
Dr. Esper has served this Nation in a
variety of roles most of his life. He is a
1986 graduate of the U.S. Military
Academy. He served in the 101st Air-
borne Division and participated in the
1990–91 Gulf War with the ‘‘Screaming
Eagles.’’ He retired from the U.S. Army
in 2007, after spending 10 years on Ac-
tive Duty and 11 years in the National
Guard and Army Reserve.
After the Army, Dr. Esper worked in
the private sector, but he also worked
in several offices on Capitol Hill, in-
cluding the offices of Senator and Sec-
retary of Defense Chuck Hagel and
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist. He
also was a professional staff member on
the Senate Foreign Relations and Sen-
ate Government Affairs committees
and the House Armed Services Com-
mittee. Until his nomination to be Sec-
retary of Defense, Dr. Esper was serv-
ing as the 23rd Secretary of the Army.
His wealth of experience in defense pol-
icy and in senior leadership positions
in both the public and private sector
should serve him well as Secretary of
Defense.
It has been nearly 7 months since the
Department has had a Senate-con-
firmed Secretary of Defense. At no
other time in history has the office of
the Secretary remained vacant for so
long. In addition, we must bear in mind
the national security challenges facing
our country. Currently, the Depart-
ment is focused on competition with
near-peer adversaries like China and
Russia. As the Department pursues the
new strategic direction established by
the National Defense Strategy, Iran
and North Korea remain dangerous,
and the threat posed by violent ex-
tremist organizations is not dimin-
ishing. Furthermore, the Department
must continue to recruit and retain
high-caliber individuals, while restor-
ing readiness, and pursuing new high-
end capabilities for the force.
Despite these daunting challenges,
the number of senior-level civilian va-
cancies throughout the Department is
staggering. The constant turnover of
senior civilian leadership, coupled with
the duration of these vacancies, has
been troubling. I believe it has had a
significant impact on the Defense De-
partment, which is adrift in a way I
have not seen in my time on Capitol
Hill. It is my hope that Dr. Esper will
work to fill these civilian leadership
positions because it is necessary to
manage the difficult challenges facing
the Department, as well as the exten-
sive Pentagon bureaucracy.
In addition, Dr. Esper will help over-
see national security policy for a Presi-
dent whose temperament and manage-
ment skills are challenging. It is ex-
tremely important for our Nation that
he be surrounded by leaders who can
provide thoughtful advice and counsel.
Diversity of opinion is important when
crafting policy and making decisions
that impact the well-being of our men
and women in uniform. It is my fervent
hope that Dr. Esper will be willing and
able to provide the President with his
best policy advice even if the President
disagrees with the counsel or it runs
contrary to his policy goals.
But most importantly, while the Sec-
retary of Defense serves at the pleasure
of the President, we should never for-
get that they also oversee the finest
fighting force in the world, men and
women who have volunteered to serve a
cause greater than themselves. Our
servicemembers and their families
should always be at the forefront when
considering defense policy or military
action.
On a final note, I would also like to
thank Dr. Esper’s family, his wife Leah
and their children, Luke, John, and
Kate. They, too, will be serving our
country, and we appreciate their sup-
port.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:19 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.037 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5007
July 23, 2019
NOMINATION OF STEPHEN M. DICKSON
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
when it comes to air safety, the United
States of America should be the gold
standard for the world. In fact, better
than the gold standard, it ought to be
the Sullenberger standard.
We remember Sully Sullenberger,
who was the pilot at the controls when
the ‘‘Miracle on the Hudson’’ flight in
2009 landed safely. He prescribed the
qualities that we should regard most
highly as we choose a new Adminis-
trator of the FAA. He also gave us the
leadership we need and should respect
when considering the nomination of
Stephen Dickson. We should reject it,
and he articulated exactly why.
Chesley ‘‘Sully’’ Sullenberger said
about Stephen Dickson that ‘‘his ac-
tions and words raise grave concerns
about his ability to act with the integ-
rity and the independence the next
FAA Administrator must have to navi-
gate the challenges of the ungrounding
of the 737 MAX and to rebuild the glob-
al trust in the FAA’s confidence and
ability to appropriately certify new
aircraft design.’’ That is what he said
in an interview with POLITICO, but he
said it publicly on a number of other
occasions. Those two qualities that he
mandated in the next FAA Adminis-
trator as more important than any
other—independence and integrity—are
precisely the qualities that Stephen
Dickson lacks. It is that failing which
brings me to the floor now to oppose
his nomination.
Sully Sullenberger highlighted the
particular experience that exemplified
that failing, which is Stephen
Dickson’s involvement in a whistle-
blower case.
As I know from my experience as the
U.S. attorney and attorney general,
whistleblowers are the ones who bring
information to light that can help save
lives. Whether it is in the criminal area
or air safety or drug effectiveness or
many other areas, including other
areas of transportation safety, whistle-
blowers play a vital role, so they need
protection. They should never be re-
taliated against. They should never be
objects of retribution. They should be
protected and encouraged. That is what
an air safety expert who really cares
about safety—someone who respects
independence and integrity—would do.
That is exactly the opposite of what
Stephen Dickson is alleged to have
done in the case of Karlene Petitt.
Ms. Petitt’s case was brought to our
attention after Stephen Dickson’s tes-
timony to the Commerce Committee,
so we had no real opportunity to ask
him about it in his confirmation hear-
ing. In fact, we never learned about Ms.
Petitt’s case or a deposition that
Dickson gave for it until after that
hearing. He didn’t disclose it because
he purportedly interpreted a Senate
Commerce Committee questionnaire as
asking about ‘‘my personal conduct
and my behavior both in general and as
an officer of a large public company or
any instance in which I was named as
a party to a proceeding.’’ He didn’t
think that a court case or a deposition
fit that definition.
The simple fact is that Ms. Petitt al-
leged she was subject to retaliation
after presenting Mr. Dickson and other
Delta executives, including the current
CEO, Ed Bastian, with a written report
regarding Delta’s ‘‘Flight Operations’
Safety Culture’’ in January 2016. That
report alleged significant facts that
should have been investigated.
Following its submission and a meet-
ing with a member of Delta’s human
resources staff, Ms. Petitt was removed
from duty. In fact, in March 2016, she
was referred for a psychiatric examina-
tion. That is the way Delta reacted to
her whistleblower complaint. The doc-
tor chosen by Delta diagnosed her with
bipolar disorder and found that she was
unfit for duty. When she was evaluated
by a panel of eight doctors at the Mayo
Clinic and an independent third-party
doctor, these psychiatrists concluded
that Ms. Petitt did not, in fact, suffer
from a mental illness and was entirely
fit for duty.
The appearance and seemingly the
reality is that her safety concerns were
meant to be buried rather than taken
seriously and addressed. Mr. Dickson
played a part in that reaction to her
whistleblower concerns. In fact, the
psychiatrist who first evaluated her
concluded that she must have this dis-
order because, as a woman, how can
she be raising three young children and
be studying for another possible degree
and at the same time working as she
was. That kind of evaluation was cer-
tainly entitled to very little respect.
Again, Mr. Dickson never disclosed it
to us, so we could never ask him about
it at the nomination hearing. He never
disclosed it before that hearing. When
he was called upon to explain this
lapse, instead of taking ownership of
his failing, he sought to minimize his
involvement inconsistently with the
facts of the case. His failure to disclose
it and his reaction to it would itself be
disqualifying, but there are other
grounds as well.
He is simply not the right person for
this agency at this time. Integrity and
independence are now more important
than ever because the airline industry
and particularly Boeing need new lead-
ership in oversight and accountability.
New leadership from the FAA is criti-
cally important in light of its failure
to ground those 737 MAX airplanes
ahead of the rest of the world—in fact,
the FAA follows the rest the world—
and because of their delegation of au-
thority for certification to Boeing and
manufacturers generally. That delega-
tion of authority essentially puts the
fox in charge of the henhouse. It may
have been for cost savings to the FAA
because they could allow Boeing to
hire, pay, and fire the certifiers, but at
some level, it meant that Boeing then
in effect controls the safety and scru-
tiny supposedly exercised by an inde-
pendent FAA. That independence is
critically important.
Mr. Dickson comes from a long ca-
reer at Delta Airlines—in fact, a record
at Delta that raises questions about his
independence from the industry and at
a time when that agency must guar-
antee its independence from that in-
dustry.
Our next FAA Administrator will, in
fact, have enormous challenges in re-
storing public trust. This agency has
been undermined by its failure to
ground airplanes, to exercise inde-
pendent judgment, and to do the kind
of scrutiny necessary and what is need-
ed, in fact, in new leadership. The
FAA’s broken system—at least in pub-
lic perception—requires a new voice,
untainted by connections to the indus-
try. We have an opportunity to find
someone who will restore that con-
fidence in America and worldwide.
He is very simply not the right per-
son for this job, and I urge my col-
leagues to oppose him and to respect
the advice given to us by Sully
Sullenberger, who has highlighted
those two qualities: independence and
integrity—integrity not only in past
careers but in dealings with the U.S.
Senate, in full disclosure with respect
to whistleblowers, in highlighting pub-
lic safety above profits or interests of
the industry. That is the kind of inde-
pendence and integrity we need. I still
have hope that we can find it if my col-
leagues join me in opposing this nomi-
nation.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
on April 8, this year I came to the Sen-
ate to speak about the end of the spe-
cial counsel’s investigation. Now that
Special Counsel Mueller is set to tes-
tify tomorrow in the House of Rep-
resentatives, I would like to reiterate
several points I made in that speech
that I believe are still very relevant
today.
I noted that the facts show the real
collusion was actually brought about
by the Democrats. It is pretty well doc-
umented that the Clinton campaign
and the Democratic National Com-
mittee hired Fusion GPS to do opposi-
tion research against Candidate
Trump.
Fusion GPS then hired Christopher
Steele, a former British intelligence of-
ficer, to compile the famous Steele dos-
sier. That document was central to the
fake collusion narrative, and it report-
edly used Russian Government sources
for information.
So the Democrats paid for a docu-
ment created by a foreign national
that relied on Russian Government
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:19 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.039 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5008 July 23, 2019
sources. Let’s also not forget about
news reports that the Democratic Na-
tional Committee interfaced with the
Government of Ukraine to try and get
dirt on Candidate Trump—not Trump
but the Democrats. Now that is the
definition of collusion. Maybe that is
why the Democrats seem totally unin-
terested in figuring out the origins of
the Russian investigation because they
were a prime mover in making it all
happen.
Now they have asked the Justice De-
partment to produce the Mueller re-
port’s underlying evidence, including
all intelligence-related information. I
agree with the need to see as much in-
formation as possible. In fact, I have
cosponsored a bill that would do just
that, but the Democrats’ fury over
Mueller’s findings and their incon-
sistent positions makes me think all of
this is more about politics than prin-
ciple.
As I have said repeatedly, to guard
against political gamesmanship, there
is only one legitimate way to do this.
Let’s see all the documents, every one
of the documents; meaning, that if
Congress is going to review the Mueller
report’s underlying information, it
should be able to review information
relating to how—absolutely how the
Russia investigation started. Anything
less will fail to provide the full picture.
Furthermore, to be very consistent,
we shouldn’t stop at the Russia inves-
tigation. The Democrats want all of
the Mueller information but seem to be
turning a very blind eye to other inves-
tigations where Congress, as well as
the public, have yet to see it all. Again,
that leads me to believe that their re-
quest for Mueller-related documents is
a political ploy.
Take, for example, the Clinton inves-
tigation. As I have written about pub-
licly before, the Justice Department
inspector general produced to Congress
a highly classified document relating
to this Clinton investigation. That doc-
ument raises additional questions for
the FBI and the Justice Department.
These agencies ought to produce addi-
tional information to Congress and an-
swer these questions to provide full ac-
counting of what transpired.
Here is an excerpt, then, from the in-
spector general’s unclassified report on
the Clinton investigation:
‘‘Although the Midyear team [that
happens to be the code word for the
Clinton investigation] drafted a memo-
randum to the Deputy Attorney Gen-
eral late May 2016 stating that review
of the highly classified material was
necessary to complete the investiga-
tion and requesting permission to ac-
cess them, the FBI never sent this re-
quest to the Department.’’
So this tells us four things. One, the
FBI apparently was aware of highly
classified information potentially rel-
evant to the Clinton investigation in
its possession; secondly, that the FBI
drafted a memo in May of 2016 to get
access to the information; three, that
memo said review of the information
was necessary to complete the inves-
tigation; and fourth, the fact that the
memo was never sent.
So, with great emphasis, how could
the Obama administration’s FBI finish
the investigation if they never got ac-
cess to all potentially relevant infor-
mation?
Now, there ought to be great Demo-
cratic outrage at that apparent failure,
and there doesn’t seem to be. Will
Democrats ask the Justice Department
for all underlying information relating
to Hillary Clinton’s investigation?
Then there is another example. What
about the case called Uranium One? I
have been pushing for years for more
answers about this transaction that al-
lowed the Russian Government to ac-
quire U.S. uranium assets. I have re-
ceived classified as well as unclassified
briefings about this matter.
My staff recently went to FBI head-
quarters to review additional classified
material, and I have identified some
FBI intelligence reports that may shed
more light on the Uranium One trans-
action. However, the Attorney General
has refused to provide access to those
other documents.
Well, if the Democrats demand intel-
ligence-related information from the
Justice Department regarding the
Mueller report, there should be no rea-
son whatsoever why they shouldn’t do
the same for Uranium One.
The American people rightly ought
to expect something as simple as con-
sistency. If you aren’t consistent with
what you ask for, then you will not
have any credibility.
My attitude and approach is straight-
forward and nonpartisan. Let’s see it
all—Russia, Clinton, Uranium One, all
of it. As I said on April 8, sunlight is
the best disinfectant.
As we listen to and watch tomorrow’s
testimony going on in the House of
Representatives, with Mueller coming
back to tell us probably nothing new
because he said he isn’t going to say
anything that isn’t already in the 448-
page report, let’s keep that in mind.
Let’s see all of it—Russia, Clinton,
Uranium One, as well as anything the
Democrats are asking for in regard to
the Mueller report.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
9/11 VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, for
every American who is old enough to
remember, the attacks of September
11, 2001, can be recalled as if they hap-
pened yesterday. It is one of those rare,
almost generational moments that
stand in the forefront of our Nation’s
collective memory. I am confident that
if we lined up all 100 Members of the
Senate and asked them where they
were that morning, they could tell you.
I was in Austin, at home, on the tele-
phone talking to then-Governor Perry,
now the Secretary of Energy. My wife
got my attention and said: Hold on.
You are going to want to see this.
I turned to look at the television just
as the second airplane hit the World
Trade Center. I don’t have to tell you;
we all remember the heartbreak, con-
fusion, and anger that welled up in all
of us as we saw those images.
In the days and months and years
since the attack, we vowed as a nation
to ‘‘never forget’’ the events of Sep-
tember 11. I think that is one of the
pivotal moments in our Nation’s his-
tory. We will never forget the 3,000
lives that were lost that day, the loved
ones they left behind, or the courage
demonstrated by the brave first re-
sponders who came from across the
country to help in the aftermath of
those horrific attacks.
Today, Members of the Senate had an
opportunity to vote on legislation to
turn that promise to ‘‘never forget’’
into something tangible. I am proud
that we have now permanently author-
ized the 9/11 Victim Compensation
Fund. This fund was created to support
those who answered the Nation’s call
to help on 9/11 and in the months that
followed that attack.
Now, nearly 18 years later, first re-
sponders from across the country are
being diagnosed with cancers, res-
piratory diseases, and other illnesses
because of their dangerous work on
that day. For them, each day serves as
a tragic reminder of the heartbreaking
images most of us just witnessed on a
television screen.
The legislation we passed today is
the Never Forget the Heroes: Perma-
nent Authorization of the 9/11 Victim
Compensation Fund Act. As the name
suggests, it permanently authorizes
funding to support those American he-
roes who led lifesaving recovery oper-
ations following the attacks on 9/11. As
I suggested, many of the diseases that
affect these men and women, such as
cancers and respiratory diseases, may
not have become apparent for years
after 9/11. It is the nature of these dis-
eases.
Ensuring the longevity of this fund is
critical to providing these heroes with
the resources they need, whether that
life-changing diagnosis comes today or
50 years from now. It is part of our
commitment as Americans to support
our first responders and the heroes who
ran not away from but toward the dan-
ger on that fateful day.
Throughout my time in the Senate, I
have worked to support our first re-
sponders who were there for our com-
munities during the most difficult
times. The 9/11 first responders rep-
resent the very best of America, and
they deserve every ounce of assistance
we are able to provide.
This legislation received 402 votes in
the House of Representatives and 97
votes here in the Senate, something
nearly unheard of these days. I appre-
ciate our colleagues who have been
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:19 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.041 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5009
July 23, 2019
working to get this legislation passed
to provide these men and women with
some peace of mind. I am proud to be
one of the cosponsors, and I am now
glad it is headed to the President’s
desk for his signature.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Madam President, a survey last sum-
mer found that many Texans are strug-
gling to afford the rising cost of their
healthcare. Three out of five surveyed
reported forgoing or postponing care
because of the cost barrier. That in-
cludes cutting their pills in half, skip-
ping doses, or not filling a prescription
because they simply couldn’t afford to
do so. With healthcare costs on the
rise, things aren’t expected to get any
easier unless we do something about it.
The Centers for Medicare and Med-
icaid Services estimated that between
2018 and 2027, customers can expect to
see prescription drug spending increase
by an average of 6.1 percent a year.
That is a faster increase than hospital
stays, doctors’ visits, or any other
healthcare expenditure. There seems to
be bipartisan agreement that some-
thing must be done. But the real ques-
tion is what that something is: What
are your ideas about how to make that
something a reality?
Many of our progressive Democratic
friends have embraced Medicare for All
as the solution to the problems that
exist in our healthcare delivery sys-
tem. Their proposal, though, would
kick about 180 million Americans off of
their private insurance and force them
into one big government-run plan. It
would drain the vital program that
seniors have relied upon for more than
a century and replace it with a wa-
tered-down version that would result in
long waiting lines for inferior care. The
government would tell you what clinic
you had to go to, what doctor you
could see, and what prescriptions you
could actually take. You would lose
your freedom and power to decide what
is best for you and your family when it
comes to your healthcare. You would
have to simply take what you could get
on somebody else’s schedule.
Last but not least, Medicare for All
would completely bankrupt our coun-
try. I think this approach is akin to
having a pipe burst in your house, but
instead of repairing it, tearing the
whole thing down and rebuilding it
from scratch. It is unaffordable. It is
unpopular. It is unnecessary and goes
against all logic.
Don’t get me wrong. Our healthcare
system is not perfect, but Medicare for
All is actually worse, and it would cre-
ate more problems than it would solve.
Instead, I support targeted reforms
that have been offered by a number of
our colleagues here—most on a bipar-
tisan basis—to lower healthcare costs
and to give people more choices in
terms of what fits their needs the best.
On Thursday, the Senate Finance Com-
mittee will be marking up a package of
bills that will aim to reduce prescrip-
tion drug costs for seniors and families.
Last month, the Senate HELP Com-
mittee overwhelmingly passed a bipar-
tisan bill to reduce out-of-pocket
healthcare costs and increase trans-
parency and eliminate surprise medical
bills. A few weeks ago, the Senate Ju-
diciary Committee, on which I serve,
unanimously reported out legislation
that would keep pharmaceutical com-
panies from gaming the patent system.
All of these reforms are intended to
repair the problems that exist without
completely leveling the existing
healthcare system. For example, the
package that passed the Judiciary
Committee included a proposal I intro-
duced with our colleague from Con-
necticut, Senator BLUMENTHAL, called
the Affordable Prescriptions for Pa-
tients Act. This bill takes aim at two
practices often deployed by pharma-
ceutical companies to stomp out com-
petition and protect their bottom line.
First, this bill targets a practice
called product hopping. When a com-
pany is about to lose exclusivity of a
product—that is, when their patent is
about ready to run out—they often de-
velop some sort of minor reformulation
and then yank the original patented
drug off the market. That prevents ge-
neric competition. There is no doubt
that legitimate changes have war-
ranted a new patent, but, too fre-
quently, we are seeing this deployed as
a strategy to box out generic competi-
tion.
About 90 percent of the drugs we all
take are generic and not branded drugs
under a patent. That means we get less
expensive drugs that are just as effec-
tive as the original branded product.
That is the way our system is supposed
to work, by making generic drugs more
readily available and affordable. By de-
fining product hopping as anti-com-
petitive behavior, the Federal Trade
Commission would be able to take ac-
tion against those who engage in this
practice.
Our bill would also target something
known as patent thicketing by limiting
the patents companies can use to keep
competitors away. Some drug compa-
nies like to layer on patent after pat-
ent in an attempt to make it virtually
impossible for biosimilar manufactur-
ers to bring a competing product to
market. While the patent on the actual
drug formula may have expired, there
are still, in some cases, hundreds of
other patents to sort through that dis-
courage competition.
This bill would limit the number of
patents these companies can use and
streamline the litigation process so
that companies are spending less time
in the courtroom and, hopefully, more
time in the laboratory developing life-
saving innovative drugs. Competitors
would be able to resolve patent dis-
putes faster and bring their drugs to
market sooner. Of course, better com-
petition means better prices for pa-
tients.
It is also good news for taxpayers.
Just last week, we received the cost es-
timate of this bill from the Congres-
sional Budget Office, and they found it
would lower Federal spending by more
than one-half billion dollars over 10
years. This is just the savings to the
Federal Government under Medicare
and Medicaid. There would undoubt-
edly be additional significant savings
for consumers with private health in-
surance.
The Affordable Prescriptions for Pa-
tients Act does not prevent manufac-
turers from making improvements to
their products, and it doesn’t limit pat-
ent rights. It also doesn’t hamper inno-
vation, and it doesn’t spend money we
don’t have on a system we don’t really
want. It simply stops those who know-
ingly game and abuse our patent sys-
tem.
Our country is proudly a leader in
pharmaceutical innovation, partly be-
cause we offer robust protection for in-
tellectual property. When you create a
new drug, you are granted a patent, an
exclusive right to sell that drug for a
period of years. But this legislation en-
sures that those who game the sys-
tem—the bad actors—are no longer
able to take advantage of these innova-
tion protections in order to maintain
their monopolies at the expense of the
American people after their patent
should have expired.
I believe there is more we can do to
improve our healthcare system and
bring down out-of-pocket costs for the
American people, but instead of tearing
down the whole house, let’s make the
repairs we actually need.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, the postcloture
time on the Dickson nomination expire
at 11 a.m. on Wednesday, July 24; fur-
ther, that following the disposition of
the Dickson nomination, the Senate
vote on the cloture motions for the
Berger and Buescher nominations; fi-
nally, that if cloture is invoked, the
Senate vote on the confirmations of
those nominations in the order listed
at 3 p.m. and, if any of the nominations
are confirmed, the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid on
the table and the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NOMINATION OF ELIZABETH
DARLING
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I
am lifting my hold on the nomination
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:19 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.042 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5010 July 23, 2019
of Elizabeth Darling to be Commis-
sioner on Children, Youth, and Fami-
lies at the Department of Health and
Human Services.
I will not object to any unanimous
consent request concerning the nomi-
nation of Ms. Darling at this time.
Please remove my hold from the back
of the Executive Calendar in the sec-
tion titled Notice of Intent to Object.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO STEVE ANTOLINE
∑ Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, it is
an honor to recognize the legacy of
Steve Antoline as fearless leader in
business, a dedicated philanthropist,
and a proud West Virginian who has
made substantial contributions to our
home State.
One of the greatest milestones we
achieved when I was West Virginia’s
Governor was when the Boy Scouts of
America committed to bringing a
world-class scouting facility to the
Mountain State, and Steve was a vital
part of that process. Today, the Sum-
mit Bechtel Reserve is homebase every
4 years for tens of thousands of Boy
Scouts from across the country. I as-
sembled government officials, business
leaders, and private volunteers into
what I called the West Virginia Project
Arrow Task Force in order to convince
the National Executive Board of the
Boy Scouts of America of what we al-
ready knew—that the ideal place for
this facility was in the adventurous
terrains and magnificent mountains of
West Virginia. The Boy Scouts and
West Virginia truly are a perfect
match—an organization that builds
character, inspires reverences, and pro-
motes the values of hard work and
compassion, and a State whose people
live and breathe those values every
day.
Steve was able to create and manage
so many wonderful programs through
the camp. He worked on the Reaching
the Summit Boy Scout Community
Service Initiative, organizing and gar-
nering support for more than 34
projects that utilized countless hours
of community service for Nicholas
County. Also in Nicholas County, he
serves as the chairman of the Young
Life Wild Ridge Camp Executive Com-
mittee and also as a sponsor of the
Young Life organization for the coun-
ty. With Steve’s input, Young Life is
currently in the early stages of build-
ing the Wild Ridge Camp, which will
host more than 22,000 children per year,
providing educational opportunities to
develop leadership skills, civic respon-
sibility, and moral values.
As one of the founding fathers of the
Summit Bechtel Reserve Scout Camp, I
cannot think of a more fitting tribute
to his legacy than the Steve Antoline
Family Conservation Center and Trail.
The coal from that property helped
build the Panama Canal. The timber
that from that property helped build
the boats that helped win WWII. It has
so much historical value, and now it
builds the tallest timber—our future
leaders. And as Scouts walk by the
newly dedicated bronze tribute in
honor of Steve’s legacy, it is my hope
they are inspired by the man who has
surrounded them with opportunities
here in West Virginia.
The Conservation Center will offer
hands-on exhibits, projects, and a lab-
oratory for Scouts and youth to further
understand and promote conservation
efforts. This project is being designed
and built by Steve, along with collabo-
rative efforts from the Boy Scouts of
America and West Virginia University.
Beyond the camp, Steve has contrib-
uted greatly to the surrounding region.
He has founded and operated various
companies that include operations in
natural gas, production, excavation,
contracting, property development and
biosciences research companies.
Among his many accomplishments for
West Virginia is Superior Highwall
Miners, Inc., a business based in Beck-
ley that grew into the world’s largest
manufacturer of highwall mining
equipment. His efforts brought in
countless jobs and showcased West Vir-
ginia’s vast potential across the globe.
Steve serves as cochairman of the
new WVU Children’s Hospital Building
Campaign and also serves on the hos-
pital’s advisory board. He is the owner
of New River Labs, LLC and KEM Re-
search Group, LLC, a cancer research
company performing state-of-the-art
diagnostic services for esophageal, cer-
vical, melanoma, pancreatic, prostate,
and many other forms of cancer. At
Summit Resources, Inc., Steve serves
as owner and president, specializing on
excavation, land management, and in-
vestment. Other organizations he has
been involved with include the Remem-
ber the Miners Organization, the
Norma Mae Huggins Cancer Research
Foundation, Summersville Youth Ath-
letics, Raleigh County, YMCA, Beckley
Chamber of Commerce, and the Fay-
ette and Nicholas County chapter of
the American Red Cross.
Put simply, Steve is a West Vir-
ginian, through and through. He knows
our communities inside and out and
has strived throughout his endeavors
to give back to the people of West Vir-
ginia, particularly to our future lead-
ers. He has a passion for providing our
State’s youth with every opportunity
possible to achieve success. With
thanks to his efforts at Summit Bech-
tel and beyond, countless opportunities
have been created and will continue to
come to fruition in the days and years
ahead.
I wish the very best for Steve and his
family: his wife, Jamie; his children,
Emily, Madison, and Kristopher; and
his grandchildren Nina and Hunter. I
am honored to join them and all West
Virginians in celebrating Steve’s life-
long commitment to excellence in the
Mountain State.∑
RECOGNIZING CHEMTRACK
ALASKA
∑ Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, this
week, I have the opportunity to intro-
duce the U.S. Senate Small Business of
the Week. Small businesses provide es-
sential services to our Nation’s com-
munities. In my home State of Alaska,
I have seen firsthand small businesses
that contribute to the local economy
and step in when a community is in
need. It is my honor to name
ChemTrack Alaska of Anchorage, AK,
as the Senate Small Business of the
Week.
ChemTrack was founded as a con-
struction company by Sig Jokiel in
1973. Shortly after its inception, the
company shifted focus and rebranded
itself into an environmental services
and engineering company when Chuck
Ronan joined the team in 1985. After
studying business at the University of
New Hampshire, Sig’s daughter, Carrie,
joined the company in 2002. Carrie, who
became the company’s majority part-
ner in 2010, brought business expertise
and project management skills to
ChemTrack. Throughout the com-
pany’s 46-year history, it has con-
tracted with the U.S. Air Force, Alaska
Railroad Corporation, Bureau of Indian
Affairs, National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration, BP, Exxon, and
many other government institutions
and businesses. In 2019, ChemTrack was
awarded the Women-Owned Small
Business of the Year Award by the SBA
in recognition of its outstanding
achievements.
ChemTrack’s commitment to devel-
oping creative environmental engineer-
ing solutions enables the company to
contribute to local projects in Alaska’s
great outdoors. As a successful con-
tractor and a certified 8(a) economi-
cally disadvantaged woman-owned
small business, ChemTrack has com-
pleted projects for both private busi-
nesses and government clients.
ChemTrack helped clean up Alaska’s
shorelines after the Exxon Valdez oil-
spill in 1989 by developing innovative,
barge-mounted sweeps to clean sea
water. As a testament to ChemTrack’s
environmental stewardship, the com-
pany was awarded a basic ordering
agreement by the U.S. Coast Guard in
2012, enabling them to provide contain-
ment cleanup and mitigate the harmful
effects of oil spills and hazardous sub-
stance incidents all over the state of
Alaska.
Carrie is renowned as an advocate for
small businesses at both the Federal
and State level. During her testimony
in front of the Senate Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship
in June 2018, Carrie discussed the
SBA’s contracting programs and pro-
vided insight on her experience oper-
ating a woman-owned small business.
As a graduate of the SBA Emerging
Leaders program, Carrie is very active
in her community and even mentors
other Alaskan businesses through the
Women’s Power League of Alaska. Car-
rie’s distinction as a local leader is evi-
denced by her inclusion in the Alaska
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:19 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY6.010 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5011
July 23, 2019
Journal of Commerce’s Top 40 Under 40
list of 2014 and her selection as the 2018
Enterprising Women of the Year
Award.
Back home in Alaska, Carrie serves
on the Associated General Contractors
board of directors, as well as the
Boards for Women Impacting Public
Policy and the Alaska State Hockey
Association. She also completed a 6-
year term with YWCA, where she
served as president for 2 years, and is a
member of the Society of American
Military Engineers and National Con-
tracting Management Association. Car-
rie’s abilities as an athlete com-
plement her business skills. She was
inducted into the Sports Hall of Fame
at the University of New Hampshire in
2014 and served as an Ambassador for
Women’s Ice Hockey in Fast and Fe-
male International Program.
ChemTrack has successfully pursued
a two-pronged mission of profit and
stewardship. By employing its engi-
neering proficiency to aid in disaster
recovery, ChemTrack has shown us
what can be achieved when individuals
and businesses apply their specific
skills to help better their community.
ChemTrack has grown from a small
construction company to a successful
environmental engineering contractor
with a clear track record of community
involvement. I am honored to recognize
Carrie and the entire team at
ChemTrack Alaska as the Senate
Small Business of the Week, and I look
forward to watching your continued
growth and success.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MAHLON PAUL
MANSON
∑ Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I rise
today to honor Mahlon Paul Manson, a
Montanan and decorated veteran of the
Vietnam war.
Montanans and all Americans owe
Paul the deepest gratitude for his serv-
ice to this Nation.
Paul was born in San Diego, CA, on
September 17, 1948. When he was in
first grade, his mother and three sis-
ters moved to Deer Lodge, MT, where
he spent his youth. Paul completed
high school in 1967 and enlisted in the
Army immediately following gradua-
tion.
During the summer of 1967, Paul
worked for the Forest Service shortly
before starting military training at
Fort Lewis, WA. He also received ad-
vanced training to be a combat engi-
neer at Fort Leonard Wood, MO.
Before leaving for Vietnam, Paul re-
turned home for 2 weeks where he got
a glimpse into the strength of shared
ideals. When he landed at the airport,
his bus was not scheduled to arrive for
6 more hours. Not one to wait idly by,
Paul decided to try his luck hitch-
hiking home.
In a moment of serendipity and
brotherhood, a military car driving by
saw Paul walking along the side of the
road in his uniform, offered to give him
a ride, and drove him home. This mo-
ment left a deep and lasting impact on
Paul, who felt an instant bond with his
fellow servicemembers.
Paul arrived in Vietnam in early 1968
with this sentiment in mind. That
year, he fought—and survived—a num-
ber of attacks, including one of the
largest military campaigns of the Viet-
nam war, the Tet Offensive.
He also showed incredible courage
when his convoy came under attack
near Lai Khe. While heavily engaged
with the enemy, Paul put his own life
on the line by jumping out of his mili-
tary vehicle to encourage the convoy
to keep moving. His heroic act helped
the U.S. facilitate a counterattack
against the Viet Cong, ultimately
clinching an important victory. Paul’s
heroism did not go without recogni-
tion—he received a Bronze Star, with a
‘‘V’’ for Valor on August 20, 1968 for his
leadership.
After retiring from Active Duty in
1970, Paul returned to Montana to work
for the Milwaukee Railroad. He also
continued his devotion to service by
becoming a recruiter for the Montana
National Guard.
When he retired from the Army, Paul
attended the University of Montana.
He graduated in 1996 and began work-
ing for U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection in Missoula and Sweet Grass
and in Washington State as a Port Di-
rector. In total, Paul has given the Na-
tion over 20 years of Federal Service
and continues to serve the Nation in a
different capacity today, as a volunteer
for Team Rubicon.
Paul and his wife, Fran, have been
happily married for 48 years. Together,
they have a son, Mahlon Patrick, and a
daughter, Michelle, as well as two
grandchildren.
Although Paul has undeniably led an
eventful life, he humbly maintains that
he is simply doing his job. ‘‘Life is a
buffet’’ he says, a perfect idiom for how
he is able to make the most of the op-
portunities that come his way.
I have the profound honor of pre-
senting Paul with his military honor.
For his bravery in the line of duty,
Mahlon Paul Manson is receiving a
Bronze Star Medal with a ‘‘V’’ for
Valor. This medal serves as a small
token of our country’s appreciation for
his service and profound sacrifice. Paul
is an American hero and has made
Montana proud.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message from the President of the
United States was communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGE REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate a mes-
sage from the President of the United
States submitting a nomination which
was referred to the Committee on
Armed Services.
(The message received today is print-
ed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:02 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that pursuant to 29 U.S.C. 780,
the Minority Leader appoints the fol-
lowing member to the National Council
on Disability: Mr. Jim Baldwin of Ba-
kersfield, California.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. BARRASSO, from the Committee
on Environment and Public Works:
Report to accompany S. 349, a bill to re-
quire the Secretary of Transportation to re-
quest nominations for, and make determina-
tions regarding, roads to be designated under
the national scenic byways program, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–61).
Report to accompany S. 1014, a bill to es-
tablish the Route 66 Centennial Commission,
and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–62).
Report to accompany S. 1689, a bill to per-
mit States to transfer certain funds from the
clean water revolving fund of a State to the
drinking water revolving fund of the State in
certain circumstances, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. No. 116–63).
Report to accompany S. 1833, a bill to
transfer a bridge over the Wabash River to
the New Harmony River Bridge Authority
and the New Harmony and Wabash River
Bridge Authority, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–64).
By Mr. GRAHAM, from the Committee on
the Judiciary, with an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute:
S. 1883. A bill to improve the prohibitions
on money laundering, and for other purposes.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. GARDNER, and Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO):
S. 2203. A bill to extend the transfer of
Electronic Travel Authorization System fees
from the Travel Promotion Fund to the Cor-
poration for Travel Promotion (Brand USA)
through fiscal year 2027, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. CRAPO (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. 2204. A bill to allow the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to carry out a pilot
program under which voice service providers
could block certain automated calls, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. KAINE, Mr. WARNER, and
Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 2205. A bill to ensure that claims for
benefits under the Black Lung Benefits Act
are processed in a fair and timely manner, to
better protect miners from pneumoconiosis
(commonly known as ‘‘black lung disease’’ ),
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
DURBIN):
S. 2206. A bill to express the sense of Con-
gress regarding restoration and maintenance
of the Mardasson Memorial in Bastogne, Bel-
gium; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:19 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY6.012 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5012 July 23, 2019
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mr.
TILLIS):
S. 2207. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand refundability and
increase simplification of the research credit
for certain small businesses; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida:
S. 2208. A bill to require online retailers to
prominently disclose product country-of-ori-
gin information, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mrs. HYDE–SMITH (for herself and
Mr. KENNEDY):
S. 2209. A bill to amend the Magnuson-Ste-
vens Fishery Conservation and Management
Act to establish a safety net program for
commercial fishermen and aquaculture pro-
ducers; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science , and Transportation.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and
Mr. DURBIN):
S. 2210. A bill to amend the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act to prohibit sewage
dumping into the Great Lakes, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 2211. A bill to amend title 40, United
States Code, to authorize the expansion of
the Appalachian development highway sys-
tem; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
SULLIVAN):
S. 2212. A bill to require the Commandant
of the Coast Guard to take certain steps to
improve Coast Guard shore infrastructure,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
BENNET):
S. 2213. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to repay the credit risk pre-
miums paid with respect to certain railroad
infrastructure loans after the obligations at-
tached to such loans have been satisfied; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr.
CARDIN):
S. 2214. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a better defined
recruitment and retention incentive pro-
gram for volunteer emergency service work-
ers; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Ms.
WARREN):
S. 2215. A bill to prohibit agreements be-
tween employers that directly restrict the
current or future employment of any em-
ployee; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mrs.
BLACKBURN):
S. 2216. A bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to formally recognize care-
givers of veterans, notify veterans and care-
givers of clinical determinations relating to
eligibility for caregiver programs, and tem-
porarily extend benefits for veterans who are
determined ineligible for the family care-
giver program, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. CASEY:
S. 2217. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide that over-
the-road bus drivers are covered under the
maximum hours requirements; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr.
SCHATZ):
S. 2218. A bill to amend title IV of the Per-
sonal Responsibility and Work Opportunity
Reconciliation Act of 1996 to restore Med-
icaid coverage for citizens of the Freely As-
sociated States lawfully residing in the
United States under the Compacts of Free
Association between the Government of the
United States and the Governments of the
Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic
of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of
Palau; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. WARREN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. MARKEY, and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 2219. A bill to clarify the rights of all
persons who are held or detained at a port of
entry or at any detention facility overseen
by U.S. Customs and Border Protection or
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. CORNYN, and Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN):
S. 2220. A bill to modify the exemption for
trade secrets and commercial or financial in-
formation in the Freedom of Information
Act, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. HARRIS:
S. 2221. A bill to prohibit the expansion of
immigration detention facilities, to improve
the oversight of such facilities, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. BRAUN:
S. 2222. A bill to prohibit the Export-Im-
port Bank of the United States from pro-
viding financing to persons with seriously
delinquent tax debt; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. RUBIO, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms. BALDWIN,
and Mr. DAINES):
S. 2223. A bill to facilitate a national pipe-
line of spectrum for commercial use, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and
Mr. CRUZ):
S. 2224. A bill to amend section 214(c)(8) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act to
modify the data reporting requirements re-
lating to nonimmigrant employees, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, and Ms. WARREN):
S. 2225. A bill to provide for the basic needs
of students at institutions of higher edu-
cation; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. COONS, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Ms. SMITH, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mr.
SANDERS):
S. 2226. A bill to require States to carry
out congressional redistricting in accordance
with plans developed and enacted into law by
independent redistricting commissions, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr. BOOK-
ER, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. WYDEN, and
Ms. WARREN):
S. 2227. A bill to decriminalize and
deschedule cannabis, to provide for reinvest-
ment in certain persons adversely impacted
by the War on Drugs, to provide for
expungement of certain cannabis offenses,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. COTTON, Mr. CORNYN, and
Mr. CRUZ):
S. 2228. A bill to posthumously advance
Lieutenant Colonel Richard E. Cole, United
States Air Force, to colonel on the retired
list; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. 2229. A bill to protect consumers from
deceptive practices with respect to online
booking of hotel reservations, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. MURPHY:
S. 2230. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the dollar limi-
tation on the exclusion for employer-pro-
vided dependent care assistance; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. BOOKER:
S. 2231. A bill to establish American oppor-
tunity accounts, to modify estate and gift
tax rules, to reform the taxation of capital
income, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR:
S. 2232. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to reduce the
number of members of the Federal Election
Commission from 6 to 5, to revise the method
of selection and terms of service of members
of the Commission, to distribute the powers
of the Commission between the Chair and
the remaining members, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mrs. MURRAY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Mr. REED, Mr. BROWN, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Mr. KAINE, Mr. BENNET, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. HIRONO, and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 2233. A bill to nullify the effect of the re-
cent executive order that requires Federal
agencies to share citizenship data; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 2234. A bill to establish a consortia of
universities to advise the Secretary of De-
fense on cybersecurity matters, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Ms. WARREN:
S. 2235. A bill to discharge the qualified
loan amounts of each individual, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. UDALL, Mr. DURBIN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. WARREN, Mr. CARPER,
Mr. SCHATZ, and Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 2236. A bill to require Federal agencies
to address environmental justice, to require
consideration of cumulative impacts in cer-
tain permitting decisions, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2237. A bill to authorize the Department
of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission
to seek civil monetary penalties to deter vio-
lations of section 2 of the Sherman Act, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. WYDEN):
S. 2238. A bill to protect elections for pub-
lic office by providing financial support and
enhanced security for the infrastructure
used to carry out such elections, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR:
S. 2239. A bill to codify an Executive order
preparing the United States for the impacts
of climate change, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
BENNET, Ms. SMITH, and Mr. PETERS):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY6.017 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5013
July 23, 2019
S. 2240. A bill to promote digital citizen-
ship and media literacy; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Ms.
MCSALLY):
S. 2241. A bill to provide for a study on the
protection of Native American seeds and tra-
ditional foods, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Indian Affairs.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. REED, Mr. KING, Mr.
BENNET, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 2242. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to clarify the obli-
gation to report acts of foreign election in-
fluence and require implementation of com-
pliance and reporting systems by presi-
dential campaigns to detect and report such
acts; to the Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. LEE, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. SASSE, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr.
TILLIS, Ms. ERNST, Mr. CRAPO, Mr.
KENNEDY, and Mrs. BLACKBURN):
S. Res. 280. A resolution commending the
officers and personnel of U.S. Customs and
Border Protection for their work during the
crisis at the Southern border; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Ms.
HARRIS):
S. Res. 281. A resolution committing to ele-
vate the voices, leadership, and needs of
communities that face systemic barriers in
the effort to end sexual violence and support
all survivors of sexual violence and gender-
based violence, including immigrant sur-
vivors, survivors who are incarcerated, sur-
vivors with disabilities, survivors of color,
American Indian or Alaska Native survivors,
survivors of child sexual abuse, and lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and
intersex survivors; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. GRAHAM, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. BENNET, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BOOZMAN,
Mr. BRAUN, Mr. BROWN, Mr. BURR,
Ms. CANTWELL, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. CASEY, Mr.
CASSIDY, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. COONS, Mr.
CORNYN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. COT-
TON, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. CRAPO, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. DAINES, Mr. ENZI, Ms.
ERNST, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. GARDNER,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. HAWLEY,
Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
HOEVEN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. JOHNSON,
Mr. JONES, Mr. KAINE, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. LEE, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. MARKEY, Ms. MCSALLY,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
MORAN, Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mr. MURPHY,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. PAUL, Mr. PERDUE,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. REED,
Mr. RISCH, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. ROMNEY,
Ms. ROSEN, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. RUBIO,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. SASSE, Mr. SCHATZ,
Mr. SCOTT of Florida, Mr. SCOTT of
South Carolina, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
SHELBY, Ms. SINEMA, Ms. SMITH, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. THUNE, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
TOOMEY, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. WARNER, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. WICKER, Mr. WYDEN,
and Mr. YOUNG):
S. Res. 282. A resolution honoring former
Associate Justice John Paul Stevens of the
Supreme Court of the United States; consid-
ered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 102
At the request of Mr. SANDERS, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 102, a bill to significantly
lower prescription drug prices for pa-
tients in the United States by ending
government-granted monopolies for
manufacturers who charge drug prices
that are higher than the median prices
at which the drugs are available in
other countries.
S. 157
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
157, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permit kinder-
garten through grade 12 educational
expenses to be paid from a 529 account.
S. 265
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
265, a bill to develop a national strat-
egy to prevent targeted violence
through behavioral threat assessment
and management, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 283
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 283, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to improve
access to, and utilization of, bone mass
measurement benefits under part B of
the Medicare program by establishing a
minimum payment amount under such
part for bone mass measurement.
S. 331
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 331, a bill to amend the
Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975
to modify the exemptions from certain
disclosure requirements.
S. 430
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) and the Senator from
West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 430, a bill to extend
the Secure Rural Schools and Commu-
nity Self-Determination Act of 2000.
S. 473
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 473, a bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to include certain Federal
positions within the definition of law
enforcement officer for retirement pur-
poses, and for other purposes.
S. 481
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 481, a bill to encourage States to
require the installation of residential
carbon monoxide detectors in homes,
and for other purposes.
S. 518
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
518, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for
Medicare coverage of certain
lymphedema compression treatment
items as items of durable medical
equipment.
S. 524
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 524, a bill to establish the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs Advisory
Committee on Tribal and Indian Af-
fairs, and for other purposes.
S. 546
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, his name
was added as a cosponsor of S. 546, a
bill to extend authorization for the
September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund of 2001 through fiscal year 2090,
and for other purposes.
S. 569
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
569, a bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to issue regulations re-
lating to commercial motor vehicle
drivers under the age of 21, and for
other purposes.
S. 595
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 595, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide for
the coordination of programs to pre-
vent and treat obesity, and for other
purposes.
S. 638
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 638, a bill to require the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency to designate per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances as haz-
ardous substances under the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980,
and for other purposes.
S. 803
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
803, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to restore incentives
for investments in qualified improve-
ment property.
S. 814
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 814, a bill to amend title XVIII of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY6.019 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5014 July 23, 2019
the Social Security Act to improve ac-
cess to diabetes outpatient self-man-
agement training services, and for
other purposes.
S. 921
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 921, a bill to prohibit the use
of chlorpyrifos on food, to prohibit the
registration of pesticides containing
chlorpyrifos, and for other purposes.
S. 976
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 976, a bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 and the Jeanne
Clery Disclosure of Campus Security
Policy and Campus Crime Statistics
Act to combat campus sexual assault,
and for other purposes.
S. 997
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 997, a bill to recognize and honor the
service of individuals who served in the
United States Cadet Nurse Corps dur-
ing World War II, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1039
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1039, a bill to limit the use of funds for
kinetic military operations in or
against Iran.
S. 1086
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1086, a bill to establish
certain duties for pharmacies to ensure
provision of Food and Drug Adminis-
tration-approved contraception, medi-
cation related to contraception, and for
other purposes.
S. 1102
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1102, a bill to promote security and
energy partnerships in the Eastern
Mediterranean, and for other purposes.
S. 1141
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) and the Senator
from Mississippi (Mr. WICKER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1141, a bill to
provide predictability and certainty in
the tax law, create jobs, and encourage
investment.
S. 1168
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1168, a bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to ensure campus ac-
cess at public institutions of higher
education for religious groups.
S. 1191
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1191, a bill to reauthorize section
340H of the Public Health Service Act
to continue to encourage the expan-
sion, maintenance, and establishment
of approved graduate medical residency
programs at qualified teaching health
centers, and for other purposes.
S. 1243
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1243, a bill to provide standards for
facilities at which aliens in the custody
of the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity are detained, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1253
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1253, a bill to apply require-
ments relating to delivery sales of
cigarettes to delivery sales of elec-
tronic nicotine delivery systems, and
for other purposes.
S. 1254
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. BURR) and the Senator from
Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1254, a bill to require
the Secretary of Transportation to re-
view and report on certain laws, safety
measures, and technologies relating to
the illegal passing of school buses, and
for other purposes.
S. 1499
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1499, a bill to establish
National Wildlife Corridors to provide
for the protection and restoration of
certain native fish, wildlife, and plant
species, and for other purposes.
S. 1528
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1528, a bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for the issuance
of Green Bonds and to establish the
United States Green Bank, and for
other purposes.
S. 1572
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1572, a bill to amend the High-
er Education Act of 1965 to require ad-
ditional reporting on crime and harm
that occurs during student participa-
tion in programs of study abroad, and
for other purposes.
S. 1575
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1575, a bill to direct the Sec-
retary of State to make available to
the Director of the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention copies of con-
sular reports of death of United States
citizens, and for other purposes.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1590, a bill to amend the
State Department Basic Authorities
Act of 1956 to authorize rewards for
thwarting wildlife trafficking linked to
transnational organized crime, and for
other purposes.
S. 1625
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from Nebraska (Mrs. FISCHER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1625, a bill to
promote the deployment of commercial
fifth-generation mobile networks and
the sharing of information with com-
munications providers in the United
States regarding security risks to the
networks of those providers, and for
other purposes.
S. 1728
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) and the Senator from Ne-
vada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1728, a bill to require the
United States Postal Service to sell the
Alzheimer’s semipostal stamp for 6 ad-
ditional years.
S. 1737
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) and the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1737, a bill to
strengthen parity in mental health and
substance use disorder benefits.
S. 1773
At the request of Mr. SANDERS, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1773, a bill to amend titles
XVIII and XIX of the Social Security
Act to make improvements to the
treatment of the United States terri-
tories under the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, and for other purposes.
S. 1822
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER), the Senator from Illinois
(Ms. DUCKWORTH), the Senator from
New Mexico (Mr. UDALL), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the
Senator from Tennessee (Mrs. BLACK-
BURN) and the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1822, a bill to require the Fed-
eral Communications Commission to
issue rules relating to the collection of
data with respect to the availability of
broadband services, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1863
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1863, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of the Interior to conduct a spe-
cial resource study of the sites associ-
ated with the life and legacy of the
noted American philanthropist and
business executive Julius Rosenwald,
with a special focus on the Rosenwald
Schools, and for other purposes.
S. 1906
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY6.022 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5015
July 23, 2019
ROSEN) and the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. SMITH) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1906, a bill to require the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to pro-
vide financial assistance to eligible en-
tities to provide and coordinate the
provision of suicide prevention services
for veterans at risk of suicide and vet-
eran families through the award of
grants to such entities, and for other
purposes.
S. 1918
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1918, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to require alternative options for sum-
mer food service program delivery.
S. 1936
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Hawaii
(Mr. SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1936, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to protect cov-
erage for screening mammography, and
for other purposes.
S. 2041
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2041, a bill to establish
the Green Spaces, Green Vehicles Ini-
tiative to facilitate the installation of
zero-emissions vehicle infrastructure
on National Forest System land, Na-
tional Park System land, and certain
related land, and for other purposes.
S. 2043
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2043, a bill to provide incen-
tives for hate crime reporting, provide
grants for State-run hate crime hot-
lines, and establish alternative sen-
tencing for individuals convicted under
the Matthew Shephard and James
Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act.
S. 2068
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
names of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) and
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR) were added as cosponsors of S.
2068, a bill to prohibit the Bureau of
the Census from including citizenship
data in the legislative redistricting
data prepared by the Bureau.
S. 2072
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2072, a bill to provide for an
increase, effective December 1, 2019, in
the rates of compensation for veterans
with service-connected disabilities and
the rates of dependency and indemnity
compensation for the survivors of cer-
tain disabled veterans, and for other
purposes.
S. 2080
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO) and the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. REED) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2080, a bill to amend
the Public Health Service Act to in-
crease the number of permanent fac-
ulty in palliative care at accredited
allopathic and osteopathic medical
schools, nursing schools, social work
schools, and other programs, including
physician assistant education pro-
grams, to promote education and re-
search in palliative care and hospice,
and to support the development of fac-
ulty careers in academic palliative
medicine.
S. 2103
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2103, a bill to improve ac-
cess to affordable insulin.
S. 2112
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2112, a bill to enhance the
rights of domestic workers, and for
other purposes.
S. 2147
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2147, a bill to double the existing pen-
alties for the provision of misleading
or inaccurate caller identification in-
formation, and to extend the statute of
limitations for forfeiture penalties for
persons who commit such violations.
S. 2165
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator from
Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2165, a bill to enhance
protections of Native American tan-
gible cultural heritage, and for other
purposes.
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. REED) and the Senator from
Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2179, a bill to
amend the Older Americans Act of 1965
to provide social service agencies with
the resources to provide services to
meet the urgent needs of Holocaust
survivors to age in place with dignity,
comfort, security, and quality of life.
S. 2185
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2185, a bill to provide
labor standards for certain energy jobs,
and for other purposes.
S. 2193
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2193, a bill to require the Adminis-
trator of General Services to issue
guidance to clarify that Federal agen-
cies may pay by charge card for the
charging of Federal electric motor ve-
hicles, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 80
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 80, a resolution establishing
the John S. McCain III Human Rights
Commission.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 252, a resolution designating
September 2019 as National Democracy
Month as a time to reflect on the con-
tributions of the system of government
of the United States to a more free and
stable world.
S. RES. 263
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN), the Senator from
Arizona (Ms. SINEMA), the Senator
from Iowa (Ms. ERNST) and the Senator
from Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 263, a
resolution honoring the 100th anniver-
sary of The American Legion.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Mr. CARDIN):
S. 2214. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a bet-
ter defined recruitment and retention
incentive program for volunteer emer-
gency service workers; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
to introduce a bill with my friend and
colleague from Maryland, Senator
CARDIN, that will benefit the brave
women and men who volunteer as
emergency personnel: The Volunteer
Emergency Services Recruitment and
Retention Act.
Across our Nation, volunteer emer-
gency personnel play a critical role in
ensuring the safety of our communities
and the well-being of our neighbors.
They serve as the firefighters, EMS,
and other first responders that we de-
pend on in our times of need. The State
of Maine, for example, has approxi-
mately 9,785 firefighters who serve the
State’s 1.3 million citizens. Maine is
largely a rural State, and more than 90
percent of firefighters are volunteers.
Without these dedicated volunteers,
many smaller communities would be
unable to provide firefighting and
other emergency services at all.
Often, communities seek to recruit
and retain volunteers by offering mod-
est benefits. One of the most common
benefits are Length of Service Award
Programs or LOSAPs. These are retire-
ment accounts provided to volunteer
emergency responders. The legislation
we are introducing today would sup-
port these efforts by helping to ensure
that these nominal benefits to volun-
teers are not entangled in bureaucracy
or needlessly held back by regulations.
Specifically, the Volunteer Emergency
Services Recruitment and Retention
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY6.024 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5016 July 23, 2019
Act would simplify how LOSAPs are
taxed without increasing or reducing
Federal spending or taxes. It would do
this by eliminating burdensome and
confusing IRS requirements that make
it unnecessarily difficult for volunteer
emergency personnel to receive bene-
fits and for departments to administer
plans.
Mr. President, we should take care to
protect our volunteer emergency per-
sonnel who serve this country with
such bravery. Our legislation would
help us achieve that goal, and I urge
my colleagues to join us in supporting
this bill.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 280—COM-
MENDING THE OFFICERS AND
PERSONNEL OF U.S. CUSTOMS
AND BORDER PROTECTION FOR
THEIR WORK DURING THE CRI-
SIS AT THE SOUTHERN BORDER
Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. LEE, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. SASSE, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr.
TILLIS, Ms. ERNST, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, and Mrs. BLACKBURN) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs:
S. RES. 280
Whereas U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion (referred to in this preamble as ‘‘CBP’’)
is charged with protecting the borders of the
United States and facilitating travel and
trade;
Whereas the Southern border of the United
States is experiencing unprecedented num-
bers of vulnerable individuals attempting to
enter the country;
Whereas, in June 2019, 104,344 individuals
were apprehended at the Southern border,
which is an increase of more than 140 per-
cent, as compared to June 2018;
Whereas, as of June 2019, the number of in-
dividuals apprehended or determined to be
inadmissible by CBP at the Southern border
in fiscal year 2019 is 780,638, already sur-
passing the fiscal year 2014 total of 569,287,
which was the highest such number in the
preceding 5 years;
Whereas the Homeland Security Advisory
Council expects Southwest border migration
numbers to approach or exceed 1,000,000 indi-
viduals in fiscal year 2019 unless immediate
action is taken;
Whereas, historically, the majority of indi-
viduals arriving at the Southern border have
been single adult males from Mexico, but by
May 2019, 72 percent of all border enforce-
ment actions were associated with unaccom-
panied children and family units;
Whereas, due to the constant and increas-
ing flow of migrants crossing the Southern
border between ports of entry, financial and
human resources are being diverted from the
security and law enforcement duties of CBP,
resulting in—
(1) fewer seizures of narcotics and illicit
currency; and
(2) increased wait times at ports of entry,
leading to warnings of possible produce
shortages and interruptions in supply chains;
Whereas more than 40 percent of CBP re-
sources are currently being absorbed by the
humanitarian crisis at the Southern border;
Whereas the final emergency interim re-
port published by the Homeland Security Ad-
visory Council on April 16, 2019, notes that a
substantial number of individuals who are
apprehended by CBP require significant per-
sonal and medical care that exceeds the abil-
ity and capacity of CBP, despite creative and
humane attempts by CBP to care for such in-
dividuals in CBP custody;
Whereas CBP officers and personnel have
raised concerns that overcrowding poses im-
mediate risks to—
(1) the health and safety of the migrants;
and
(2) CBP officers;
Whereas CBP officers are experiencing
both physical illness and severe mental and
emotional distress as a result of the crisis at
the Southern border;
Whereas, in May 2019, the Commissioner of
CBP requested an additional $2,100,000 for the
Employee Assistance Program of CBP in
order to offer additional counseling services
to CBP officers and personnel to respond to
‘‘unanticipated critical incidents and other
emerging crises, such as the unexpected re-
sponse required for migrant caravans, em-
ployee suicides, and the need for a financial
wellness program’’; and
Whereas, in the face of the most difficult
circumstances, CBP officers and personnel
continue—
(1) to work undaunted to protect the
Southern border; and
(2) to care for the migrants in CBP cus-
tody: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commends the men and women of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, including
Border Patrol personnel, Office of Field Op-
erations personnel, Air and Marine Oper-
ations personnel, Office of Trade personnel,
and all support personnel and their allies for
their continued honorable service during the
challenging humanitarian crisis at the
Southern border; and
(2) calls on Congress to pass legislation to
support U.S. Customs and Border Protection
officers and to manage the increasing flow of
migrants attempting to enter the United
States.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 281—COMMIT-
TING TO ELEVATE THE VOICES,
LEADERSHIP, AND NEEDS OF
COMMUNITIES THAT FACE SYS-
TEMIC BARRIERS IN THE EF-
FORT TO END SEXUAL VIOLENCE
AND SUPPORT ALL SURVIVORS
OF SEXUAL VIOLENCE AND GEN-
DER-BASED VIOLENCE, INCLUD-
ING IMMIGRANT SURVIVORS,
SURVIVORS WHO ARE INCARCER-
ATED, SURVIVORS WITH DIS-
ABILITIES, SURVIVORS OF
COLOR, AMERICAN INDIAN OR
ALASKA NATIVE SURVIVORS,
SURVIVORS OF CHILD SEXUAL
ABUSE, AND LESBIAN, GAY, BI-
SEXUAL, TRANSGENDER, QUEER,
AND INTERSEX SURVIVORS
Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Ms.
HARRIS) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions:
S. RES. 281
Whereas sexual violence and gender-based
violence are tools of oppression and forms of
discrimination that can deprive individuals
of equal access to educational opportunities;
Whereas survivors of sexual violence face a
significant number of health problems, in-
cluding chronic conditions, suicide, depres-
sion, and post-traumatic stress disorder;
Whereas discrimination on the basis of sex
includes discrimination on the basis of sex-
ual orientation, gender identity, sex stereo-
types, pregnancy, termination of pregnancy,
childbirth, and related medical conditions;
Whereas the 2015 United States
Transgender Survey found that—
(1) 47 percent of transgender people have
been sexually assaulted; and
(2) among transgender people of color, 65
percent of Native Americans, 59 percent of
multiracial people, 58 percent of Middle
Eastern people, and 53 percent of African
Americans have been sexually assaulted;
Whereas the Association of American Uni-
versities Campus Climate Survey on Sexual
Assault and Sexual Misconduct found that
nearly 1 in 4 transgender, genderqueer, gen-
der non-conforming, or questioning students
experience sexual violence while pursuing an
undergraduate degree;
Whereas the National Sexual Violence Re-
source Center found that 78 percent of
transgender or gender non-conforming youth
are sexually harassed during the period be-
ginning in kindergarten and ending in 12th
grade;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention 2010 National Intimate Part-
ner and Sexual Violence Survey found that—
(1) 44 percent of lesbian women and 61 per-
cent of bisexual women experience rape,
physical violence, or stalking by an intimate
partner, compared to 35 percent of hetero-
sexual women; and
(2) 40 percent of gay men and 37 percent of
bisexual men have experienced sexual vio-
lence other than rape, compared to 21 per-
cent of heterosexual men;
Whereas the National Women’s Law Center
2017 Let Her Learn Survey found that 38 per-
cent of lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender
teen girls reported experiencing sexual vio-
lence, compared to 21 percent of all girls;
Whereas, according to the Department of
Justice, people with disabilities are 3.5 times
more likely to experience rape or sexual as-
sault than people without disabilities;
Whereas, according to the Vera Institute of
Justice—
(1) children with disabilities are 3 times
more likely than children without disabil-
ities to be sexually abused; and
(2) 83 percent of women and 32 percent of
men with cognitive disabilities reported
being victims of sexual assault;
Whereas women of all races and ethnicities
face some risk of sexual assault, and, accord-
ing to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention 2010 National Intimate Partner
and Sexual Violence Survey, 33 percent of
multiracial non-Hispanic women, nearly 27
percent of indigenous women, 22 percent of
Black women, nearly 19 percent of White
non-Hispanic women, more than 14 percent
of Hispanic women, and 7 percent of Asian
American and Pacific Islander women in the
United States have experienced rape;
Whereas, according to a research report by
the National Institute of Justice, 56.1 per-
cent of American Indian and Alaska Native
women have experienced sexual violence;
Whereas sexual violence also affects ado-
lescent girls and, according to the National
Women’s Law Center 2017 Let Her Learn Sur-
vey, 1 in 5 girls aged 14 to 18 has been kissed
or touched without consent, including 24 per-
cent of Latina girls, 23 percent of Native
American girls, and 22 percent of Black girls;
Whereas studies show that sexual violence
and gender-based violence are underreported
crimes, indicating that the rates of sexual
violence and gender-based violence may be
even higher than these estimates;
Whereas too many survivors from commu-
nities that face systemic barriers are ig-
nored, blamed, and cast aside when seeking
support after experiencing a form of sexual
violence or gender-based violence;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY6.027 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5017
July 23, 2019
Whereas communities that have been dis-
proportionately harmed by the criminal jus-
tice system, including Black women and
girls, may be less likely to report sexual vio-
lence when that violence occurs;
Whereas incarcerated women report exten-
sive histories of emotional, physical, and
sexual abuse;
Whereas, according to the Department of
Justice, ‘‘allegations of sexual misconduct
were made in all but one state prison and
41% of local and private jails and prisons’’;
Whereas prior abuse is a key predictor of
involvement in the juvenile justice system;
Whereas according to the Annie E. Casey
Foundation, nearly 3⁄4 of girls in the juvenile
justice system have experienced physical or
sexual abuse, and many of those girls experi-
ence criminal penalties for their responses to
sexual violence;
Whereas communities of color are over-
represented in jails and prisons in the United
States and disproportionately impacted by
violence, including sexual violence, in the
criminal justice system;
Whereas youth of color, youth with disabil-
ities, and youth who identify as lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender, or gender non-con-
forming are overrepresented in the child wel-
fare system;
Whereas lesbian, gay, bisexual, and
transgender youth are overrepresented in the
youth homeless population, making them
particularly at risk for sexual violence;
Whereas the Center for American Progress
reports that 22 percent of lesbian, gay, bisex-
ual, and transgender youth have been sexu-
ally assaulted or raped, which is more than
3 times the rate of sexual assault and rape
among other homeless youth;
Whereas, according to the GLSEN 2016 re-
port entitled ‘‘From Teasing to Torment:
School Climate Revisited’’—
(1) 59.6 percent of lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, and queer (referred to in this
preamble as ‘‘LGBTQ’’) secondary students
have been sexually harassed at school, and
LGBTQ students are more likely to experi-
ence sexual harassment than non-LGBTQ
students; and
(2) students with nontraditional gender ex-
pression are more likely to experience sexual
harassment than students with traditional
gender expression;
Whereas high-quality, medically accurate,
and LGBTQ-affirming sex education is crit-
ical in the effort to eliminate sexual violence
by teaching young people about sexual as-
sault, harassment, and affirmative consent;
Whereas less than 40 percent of all high
schools and only 14 percent of middle schools
in the United States teach all of the topics
identified by the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention as important sexual health
education topics;
Whereas, according to the National Center
for Victims of Crime, a child who is the vic-
tim of prolonged sexual abuse usually devel-
ops low self-esteem, a feeling of worthless-
ness, and an abnormal or distorted view of
sex;
Whereas, according to the Rape, Abuse &
Incest National Network, there is an in-
creased likelihood that an individual will
suffer from suicidal or depressive thoughts
after experiencing sexual violence;
Whereas, at a time of prioritized mass de-
tention and deportation and the rescinding
of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals
Program, it is less safe for immigrants to re-
port sexual violence;
Whereas immigrant children are separated
from their families and thousands of those
children report sexual abuse in government-
funded detention camps;
Whereas a history of systemic inequality
and discrimination as well as incomplete so-
lutions has resulted in a lack of resources to
meet the needs of diverse survivor popu-
lations;
Whereas, according to the National Alli-
ance to End Sexual Violence—
(1) there is a lack of resources for sexual
violence and gender-based violence preven-
tion for youth;
(2) many rape crisis centers have waiting
lists for prevention programs; and
(3) more investment is needed in the Rape
Prevention and Education Program;
Whereas a 2016 National Consensus State-
ment of Anti-Sexual Assault and Domestic
Violence Organizations in Support of Full
and Equal Access for the Transgender Com-
munity, signed by over 300 local, State, and
national organizations, stated: ‘‘As organiza-
tions that care about reducing assault and
violence, we favor laws and policies that pro-
tect transgender people from discrimination,
including in accessing facilities that match
the gender they live every day.’’;
Whereas sexual violence and gender-based
violence will only end if—
(1) the experiences and needs of immigrant
survivors, survivors who are incarcerated,
American Indian or Alaska Native survivors,
survivors of child sexual abuse, queer and
intersex survivors, and survivors with dis-
abilities are respected and supported; and
(2) those survivors are provided culturally
and linguistically appropriate and relevant
services and accommodations;
Whereas current support systems man-
dated by Federal law for survivors of sexual
violence are neither comprehensive nor fully
representative of the vast and pervasive ele-
ments within rape culture; and
Whereas Congress is working to confront
pervasive sexual violence in the workplace,
in schools, and in every area of life: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commits—
(A) to elevating the voices, leadership, and
needs of communities that face systemic
barriers in the effort to end sexual violence
and gender-based violence; and
(B) to support all survivors of sexual vio-
lence, including—
(i) immigrant survivors;
(ii) survivors who are incarcerated;
(iii) survivors with disabilities;
(iv) survivors of color;
(v) American Indian or Alaska Native sur-
vivors;
(vi) survivors of child sexual abuse; and
(vii) lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender,
queer, and intersex survivors;
(2) supports efforts to raise awareness of
the history of sexual violence prevention
programs;
(3) calls upon this Chamber—
(A) to ensure that responding to the needs
of sexual violence survivors is a legislative
priority;
(B) to demonstrate proactive leadership in
the effort to end sexual violence and gender-
based violence; and
(C) to reject rollbacks of enforcement and
interpretations of protections against har-
assment under—
(i) title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
(42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.), which prohibits dis-
crimination in education programs based on
race, color, or national origin;
(ii) title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
(42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.), which prohibits dis-
crimination in employment based on race,
color, national origin, sex (including on the
basis of sexual orientation, gender identity,
sex stereotypes, pregnancy, childbirth, and
related medical conditions), or religion;
(iii) title IX of the Education Amendments
of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.), which pro-
hibits discrimination in education programs
based on sex (including on the basis of sexual
orientation, gender identity, sex stereotypes,
pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, child-
birth, and related medical conditions);
(iv) titles I and II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12111 et
seq.), which prohibit discrimination based on
disability in employment and public schools,
respectively; and
(v) section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), which prohibits discrimi-
nation based on disability in education pro-
grams;
(4) affirms that—
(A) title IX of the Education Amendments
of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.), title II of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42
U.S.C. 12131 et seq.), section 504 of the Reha-
bilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and title
VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C.
2000d et seq.) intersect; and
(B) to address sexual violence and gender-
based violence in an educational setting, it
must be acknowledged that—
(i) protections under these comprehensive
civil rights laws—
(I) are intersecting; and
(II) address how sexual violence and gen-
der-based violence affect equal access to edu-
cation; and
(ii) without prompt and equitable re-
sponses to sexual violence, schools may be in
violation of civil rights laws;
(5) affirms the pursuit of legislative solu-
tions that—
(A) address the unique needs and experi-
ences of survivors of sexual violence from
communities that face systemic barriers, in-
cluding immigrant survivors, survivors who
are incarcerated, survivors with disabilities,
survivors of color, American Indian or Alas-
ka Native survivors, survivors of child sexual
abuse, and lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, queer, and intersex survivors;
(B) clarify and strengthen existing protec-
tions from sexual harassment and other
forms of discrimination in employment,
housing, education, public accommodations,
and Federally funded programs;
(C) allocate resources based on the needs
and vulnerability of diverse survivor popu-
lations; and
(D) allocate resources for disaggregated re-
search initiatives that shed light on the dis-
proportionate levels of sexual violence and
gender-based violence, and the impact of sex-
ual violence and gender-based violence, on
diverse survivor populations; and
(6) calls upon the executive branch to
faithfully and robustly enforce laws that
protect survivors of sexual violence and com-
munities at higher risk of sexual violence
and gender-based violence from harassment,
discrimination, and mistreatment.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 282—HON-
ORING FORMER ASSOCIATE JUS-
TICE JOHN PAUL STEVENS OF
THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES
Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Mr. GRAHAM, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
ALEXANDER, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mr. BENNET, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BLUNT, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. BRAUN, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. BURR, Ms. CANTWELL, Mrs.
CAPITO, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. CASSIDY, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
COONS, Mr. CORNYN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
Mr. COTTON, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. CRAPO,
Mr. CRUZ, Mr. DAINES, Mr. ENZI, Ms.
ERNST, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. GARDNER,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY6.029 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5018 July 23, 2019
HEINRICH, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. HOEVEN,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. INHOFE, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. JONES, Mr.
KAINE, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KING, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. LEE, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. MARKEY,
Ms. MCSALLY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. MORAN, Ms. MURKOWSKI,
Mr. MURPHY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. PAUL,
Mr. PERDUE, Mr. PETERS, Mr. PORTMAN,
Mr. REED, Mr. RISCH, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr.
ROMNEY, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. SASSE, Mr.
SCHATZ, Mr. SCOTT of Florida, Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. SHELBY, Ms. SINEMA, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Mr. TESTER, Mr. THUNE, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
TOOMEY, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. WARNER, Ms. WARREN, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. WICKER, Mr. WYDEN, and
Mr. YOUNG) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 282
Whereas John Paul Stevens was born in
Chicago, Illinois, on April 20, 1920, to Ernest
James Stevens and Elizabeth Street Stevens;
Whereas John Paul Stevens, in 1941, grad-
uated from the University of Chicago with a
bachelor’s degree in English;
Whereas John Paul Stevens served as a
Lieutenant Commander in the United States
Navy during World War II and was awarded
the Bronze Star;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was the last
living Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States to have served in the armed
forces of the United States during World War
II;
Whereas John Paul Stevens attended
Northwestern University School of Law on
the GI Bill, where he served as editor-in-
chief of the Northwestern University Law
Review and, in 1947, graduated first in his
class;
Whereas John Paul Stevens served as a law
clerk to Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court of the United States Wiley B. Rut-
ledge;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was an accom-
plished attorney in private practice in Chi-
cago, Illinois, and also worked as a Congres-
sional aide;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was nominated
by President Richard M. Nixon to be a judge
for the United States Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit in 1970;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was nominated
by President Gerald R. Ford to be an Asso-
ciate Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States in 1975;
Whereas John Paul Stevens served with
distinction on the Supreme Court of the
United States for nearly 35 years;
Whereas John Paul Stevens retired from
the Supreme Court of the United States in
2010 at the age of 90;
Whereas John Paul Stevens had the third-
longest tenure of any Justice to ever sit on
the Supreme Court of the United States;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was a brilliant
jurist, an astute writer, and a courteous but
incisive questioner from the bench;
Whereas John Paul Stevens, during his
decades of service on the Supreme Court of
the United States, was committed to safe-
guarding the rights and liberties protected
by the Constitution and respecting the com-
mon sense of the American people;
Whereas John Paul Stevens recognized and
cherished the importance of the judiciary as
an impartial guardian of the rule of law;
Whereas John Paul Stevens showed that
fair and reasoned judgment transcends polit-
ical labels and ideological categories;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was one of the
most influential and memorable Justices of
the Supreme Court of the United States;
Whereas Chief Justice John Roberts stated
that John Paul Stevens’ ‘‘unrelenting com-
mitment to justice has left us a better na-
tion’’;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was respected
by colleagues, litigants, and the American
people, and will be remembered as one of the
great Justices of the Supreme Court of the
United States;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was a man of
Midwestern courtesy, humility, wit, and wis-
dom;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was an avid
player of tennis, golf, ping-pong, and bridge,
was a lifelong fan of the Chicago Cubs, and
was well known for his fondness of bow ties;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was awarded
the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Presi-
dent Barack Obama in 2012;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was married to
Elizabeth Jane Sheeren from 1942 to 1979, and
had 4 children, John, Kathryn, Elizabeth,
and Susan;
Whereas John Paul Stevens was married to
Maryan Mulholland Simon from 1980 until
her death in 2015;
Whereas John Paul Stevens, at the time of
his death, was a grandfather of 9 and a great-
grandfather of 13;
Whereas John Paul Stevens passed away
on July 16, 2019, at the age of 99; and
Whereas the United States is deeply in-
debted to John Paul Stevens, a giant figure
in American law: Now, therefore, be it:
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) extends heartfelt sympathies to the
family and friends of Justice John Paul Ste-
vens;
(2) commends Justice John Paul Stevens
for his decades of service to the United
States, including his nearly 35-year tenure
on the Supreme Court of the United States;
and
(3) acknowledges the enormous contribu-
tions of Justice John Paul Stevens to the
United States and to American law.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I have 7
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, July 23, 2019,
at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing pend-
ing military nominations.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Tuesday, July 23, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Tuesday, July 23, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Tuesday, July 23, 2019, at
10:15 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, July 23, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
July 23, 2019, at 1:30 p.m., to conduct a
closed hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, OCEANS,
FISHERIES, AND WEATHER
The Subcommittee on Science,
Oceans, Fisheries, and Weather of the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Tuesday, July 23, 2019, at 2:15 p.m., to
conduct a hearing.
f
NATIONAL DAY OF THE AMERICAN
COWBOY
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration and that
the Senate now proceed to S. Res. 265.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 265) designating July
27, 2019, as ‘‘National Day of the American
Cowboy’’.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be agreed to,
the preamble be agreed to, and that the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 265) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of June 26, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
NATIONAL WHISTLEBLOWER
APPRECIATION DAY
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration and that
the Senate now proceed to S. Res. 194.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 194) designating July
30, 2019, as ‘‘National Whistleblower Appre-
ciation Day’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY6.030 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5019
July 23, 2019
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be agreed to,
the preamble be agreed to, and that the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 194) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of May 8, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY, JULY
24, 2019
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 9:30 a.m., Wednesday,
July 24; and further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Dickson nomination under
the previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Senate stand adjourned
under the previous order following the
remarks of Senator MERKLEY for up to
75 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Oregon.
f
TRIBUTE TO REBECCA WARD AND
MEREDITH BOOKER
Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I
rise to recognize two members of my
team who are leaving the Senate after
their years of dedicated and important
work. Becca Ward will be leaving on
August 7, and Meredith Booker will be
leaving on Friday, July 26.
Both of them joined my team as in-
terns. They have worked their way up
within Team Merkley and have made
tremendous contributions to my office
and to our Nation. I know they are
both going to do extraordinary things
in the next chapters of their lives, but,
first, it is worth reflecting on their
service in the U.S. Senate.
Becca Ward has been an invaluable
member of our team for 6 years. She
started as an intern in my Oregon of-
fice, and she worked her way up to be
my lead adviser on climate chaos and
energy policy. Becca joined Team
Merkley as a full-time staff assistant
in 2013. Over the years, she rose to be a
legislative correspondent and then a
legislative aide. She drafted and sent
responses to more than 225,000 Orego-
nians who were concerned about the
climate and the environment.
Becca’s terrific work made it clear
that she was capable of more, so she
became my top policy adviser on the
threat of climate chaos. Climate chaos
presents an existential threat to our
planet. Her professionalism, her sub-
stantive expertise, her creativity, and
the network she created proved to be
powerful tools in our working to ad-
vance a progressive climate agenda.
When Becca first started working on
climate change, she took the lead and
the effort to protect the Arctic Ocean
from oil and gas drilling, which led to
the introduction of the Stop Arctic
Ocean Drilling Act. Over the course of
her years on this portfolio, she has
helped a lot with the mission 100 bill,
which aims to transition the United
States into a 100-percent clean energy
economy, and with my Keep It in the
Ground Act, which would stop the ex-
pansion of the leasing of our Federal
publicly owned properties for the pro-
duction of fossil fuels.
More recently, she has contributed
by collating the Senate’s version of the
Green New Deal, which has set a high
bar for progressive climate efforts in
the future. Just last week, she led my
staff through the introduction of the
Good Jobs for 21st Century Energy
Act—a bold, new bill that required ex-
tensive coordination between the envi-
ronmental community and the labor
community. It is designed to create
good-paying, family-wage jobs and to
have high labor standards—a race to
the top in employment during the tran-
sition to clean energy.
Becca’s efforts to take on the global
challenge of climate chaos hasn’t been
limited to the United States. She has
repeatedly traveled with me and on my
behalf to U.N. Conference of the Par-
ties meetings and to other inter-
national events to engage in the diplo-
macy that is necessary for a true glob-
al response to a global crisis. She has
shepherded my efforts through the Ap-
propriations Committee to maintain
funding for climate programs and to in-
troduce and pass bipartisan amend-
ments that support the Green Climate
Fund.
In addition to her substantive policy
responsibilities, she has been an incred-
ible team player and a remarkable in-
dividual to have with us. I think it is
safe to say that Becca will likely go
down in Team Merkley history as the
only member of our team who is also
an Olympic medalist. She has been a
fantastic manager and mentor to the
members of the climate team and has
been a huge contributor to our office’s
efforts to promote diversity, equity,
and inclusion in our work. I know her
absence will be felt especially strongly
every year when the annual cherry
blossom run comes around.
Becca, you might need to plan a trip
to DC for next spring.
While Becca is going to do incredible
things for the planet in her next chap-
ter of helping to expand a recently
formed environmental organization,
the Clean Energy Leadership Institute,
she will be greatly missed here as a col-
league, as a friend, and as a mentor to
so many of us on the team.
We are counting on you, Becca, to
save the planet, so no pressure. We ap-
preciate your service to Oregon and to
our country, and I look forward to
hearing about your efforts in your
journey ahead.
Now we turn to another member of
Team Merkley, Meredith Booker, who
is, sadly, leaving us in July—in fact, at
the end of this week. Meredith em-
bodies the heart and soul and work
ethic of Team Merkley, and she will be
sorely missed by everyone in the immi-
gration, civil rights, housing, and
LGBTQ rights portfolios.
Meredith joined our team as an in-
tern in August of 2016 and quickly be-
came indispensable, joining the legisla-
tive correspondent ranks in December
of 2016.
In June of 2018, she was promoted to
legislative aide and hasn’t looked back,
taking on more and more responsi-
bility. She came into this position with
a deep understanding and background
in criminal justice and has brought a
top-notch performance to every project
and task she has touched. I think most
of our office would agree. She is the
best organized member of our team.
Her meticulously crafted policy-track-
er spreadsheet has helped our team
stay on track in many areas and will
remain a lasting part of her legacy
here on Capitol Hill. It doesn’t matter
whether it is the smallest project or
the biggest high-stakes moment, Mere-
dith always gets it done and gets it
done well.
This work ethic has extended from
volunteering countless time to pitch-
ing in with coding parties. Coding par-
ties are when the team stays late in
the evening to work to try to have a
prompt response to the thousands of
letters we receive from Oregonians.
It stems from that to hustling to per-
fect every line and section of the 2019
Equality Act, resulting in a record of
47 Senate sponsors and bipartisan pas-
sage in the House of Representatives
this May. That act has yet to be con-
sidered on the floor of the Senate, but
it is way past time that we establish
equality of opportunity for every single
American.
Meredith skillfully navigated work-
ing with two different legislative as-
sistants at times—and sometimes with
one LA and sometimes with no LA—
without letting a single decision,
memo, or project fall through the
cracks.
She managed reintroduction of the
American Savings Act to expand high-
quality retirement savings accounts to
every American.
She managed our annual August
Breastfeeding Month resolution to rec-
ognize the importance of breastfeeding
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.045 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5020 July 23, 2019
to American families and to the health
of the children and the health of the
mothers.
Just a short time ago, when the De-
partment of Agriculture laid out a plan
to destroy Civilian Conservation Corps
centers across America, she dove into
the tricky and wonky world of that and
proceeded to work intensely to prevent
that from happening and worked suc-
cessfully to do that.
She threw herself into the challenge
of the retirement integrity act, de-
signed to make IRAs work more cost-
effectively for working Americans
rather than be a loophole for the
megawealthy.
Though we have always known we
were lucky to have Meredith on Team
Merkley, she has truly stepped up and
gone above and beyond in the last year,
after my June 2018 trip to Brownsville
led to intensive work on the issue of
family and child separation and to a
lot of efforts by many parties to push
back against President Trump’s cru-
elty to migrant families. When Presi-
dent Trump proposed locking families
up in internment camps, she led the
drafting of the No Internment Camps
Act to say that we will never repeat
that shameful chapter in our history.
When President Trump threw thou-
sands of children into unregulated
child prisons at Tornillo and Home-
stead, she leapt into action and worked
with the immigration team to draft the
Shut Down Child Prison Camps Act to
end this horrific practice.
Just a few weeks ago, she was instru-
mental to the introduction of the Stop
Cruelty to Migrant Children Act, legis-
lation to ensure we treat children with
dignity and respect, and that act al-
ready has 40 Senators sponsoring it.
As I have traveled to investigate the
Trump administration’s policies to-
ward migrants over the last year,
Meredith’s codel, or congressional dele-
gation, binders have become legendary.
Whether they are assembled in support
of trips to Texas or Central America—
or when she joined the trip herself, as
she did earlier this year when we went
to the child jail in Homestead, FL—you
have never seen a binder assembled
with so much meticulous care and at-
tention to detail.
In addition to her many accomplish-
ments supporting legislation and over-
sight trips, she worked with countless
outside groups to organize a hugely
successful hearing through the Demo-
cratic Policy and Communications
Center, or DPCC, on family separation
in June of 2018. She reprised that role
this week—in fact, today—working to
help organize another DPCC hearing on
the treatment of children at the south-
ern U.S. border. It occurred just earlier
this afternoon, with the focus on stop-
ping the cruel treatment of migrant
children.
She has done all this without letting
the effort to respond to Oregonians’
letters fall through the cracks. She
probably holds the record for our team
responding to constituent mail, having
responded to more than 256,000 emails
in less than 3 years and, in doing so,
created 350 unique letters for those re-
sponses. That means, on average, that
Meredith has created nearly 150 letters
per year and sent approximately 100,000
responses per year. That is a lot of
communicating with folks back home.
America is very lucky that Meredith
is taking her talents to the legal arena.
She will be starting at Loyola Univer-
sity of New Orleans this fall, working
toward her law degree. Knowing how
much she has done without a law de-
gree—probably more than most fully
accredited lawyers—I know the world
is going to benefit enormously as she
pursues that degree and puts it to work
in the fight for justice and equality.
The world of justice and equality will
benefit just as we experience the loss of
her talents here in the Senate.
Meredith, we are tremendously grate-
ful for your contributions and will
deeply miss you on Team Merkley. We
will absolutely miss you both. You
leave a tremendous hole in our team.
Your final assignment is to make sure
that we have some very talented people
to carry on the terrific work you have
been doing. Thank you.
f
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, as
our Founders worked to design what
would become the Constitution of the
United States, they had certain core
principles in mind—certain principles
that were the exact opposite of the way
government worked in Europe. They
did not want to see America be a land
run by a dictator or a King. They want-
ed to make sure that power was dis-
tributed between voting Americans, a
principle Jefferson called the equal
voice principle, because distributed
power among the people would lead to
laws by and for the people, not laws by
and for the powerful.
They had another principle, and it
was the opposite of what existed in Eu-
rope, where a King and perhaps the
King’s circle were above the law, not
accountable to any core principles of
conduct or any rules. What they did in
their lives as rulers in that fashion just
simply was accountable to no one.
But our Constitution had a different
vision. The goal was to have everyone
in America accountable to the law—
that we are all in this together. No one
is a King. No one is a dictator. That vi-
sion is really embodied in four simple
words carved into the facade of the
doors of the Supreme Court: Equal Jus-
tice Under Law.
If you stand here in the Johnson
Room, just across the hallway, and you
look out the window toward the Su-
preme Court, you see this: Equal Jus-
tice Under Law. It is a principle so
foundational to our vision of a citizen-
run nation, a nation by and for the peo-
ple, that it was the source of my first
political act.
If memory serves me well, I was a
junior in high school. I read an article
in the evening newspaper. Now, at that
point, many cities in the country had a
morning newspaper, which was more of
the business community’s newspaper,
and an evening newspaper, which was
more the workers’ newspaper, which
made sense. For my father, a union
machinist, his work started at 7 in the
morning and concluded 9 hours later at
4 in the afternoon. He would come
home, get the evening newspaper, read
it, have dinner, and watch the evening
news on television.
In that newspaper that evening,
there was an article about Spiro
Agnew, our former Vice President. He
was convicted of taking $100,000 in
bribes, but what was his penalty? His
penalty was a $10,000 fine. I was en-
raged: Like, what? People get sent to
prison for stealing a loaf of bread, and
the Vice President illegally took
$100,000 and gets to keep 90 percent of
it. What kind of a story is that to
America, that if you are wealthy and
powerful, you can commit crimes and
keep the vast share of what you have
taken in that crime? So I wrote an out-
raged letter to the newspaper, and the
newspaper published it.
Equal Justice Under Law—it is a
very important principle to our Nation.
But today we face a political crisis—a
crisis about whether we have a Presi-
dent who is above the law, and that
somehow this phrase, this principle,
the foundation of our country, doesn’t
apply to this particular President. If
that stands, then we will have lost a
core principle of our democratic Re-
public.
Tomorrow we are going to have testi-
mony from former Special Counsel
Mueller in the House of Representa-
tives. He is scheduled for some 3 hours
before the Judiciary Committee of the
House and another couple of hours with
the Intelligence Committee. He will be
following up to share insights and an-
swer questions related to this hefty
document: Report On The Investiga-
tion Into Russian Interference In The
2016 Presidential Election.
There is a lot in this report. You
wouldn’t know that if you just listened
to our Attorney General, because our
current Attorney General Barr said
there is nothing here—nothing in this.
That is not the case, and I have come
to the floor tonight to make that abso-
lutely clear.
Here is the easiest way to summarize
it. We received an open letter from
more than 1,000 former prosecutors
evaluating what is in this hefty book.
It says:
We are former federal prosecutors. We
served under both Republican and Demo-
cratic administrations at different levels
. . . line attorneys, supervisors, special pros-
ecutors, United States Attorneys, and senior
officials at the Department of Justice. The
offices in which we served were small, me-
dium, and large; urban, suburban, and rural;
and located in all parts of our country.
Each of us believes that the conduct of
President Trump described in Special Coun-
sel Robert Mueller’s report would, in the
case of any other person not covered by the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.046 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5021
July 23, 2019
Office of Legal Counsel policy against indict-
ing a sitting President, result in multiple
felony charges for obstruction of justice.
The Mueller report describes several acts
that satisfy all of the elements for an ob-
struction charge, conduct that obstructed or
attempted to obstruct the truth-finding
process, as to which the evidence of corrupt
intent and connection to pending pro-
ceedings is overwhelming. These include:
The President’s efforts to fire Mueller and
to falsify evidence about that effort;
The President’s efforts to limit the scope
of Mueller’s investigation to exclude his con-
duct; and
The President’s efforts to prevent wit-
nesses from cooperating with the investiga-
tors probing him and his campaign.
This statement goes on in some de-
tail, but the point that needs to be re-
peated is this point: ‘‘Each of us be-
lieves that the conduct of President
Trump described in Special Counsel
Robert Mueller’s report would, in the
case of any other person . . . result in
multiple felony charges.’’
In other words, 1,000—in fact, more
than 1,000—Federal prosecutors said, in
their minds, reading just this report,
that the President has committed mul-
tiple crimes.
What happened to the principle of
equal justice under the law? There are
1,000 Federal prosecutors who said that
anyone else—you or you or you—would
be indicted for felonies as a result of
the conduct that is in this report. But
the President has not been indicted.
Why has he not been indicted? It is
simply this: An indictment has to stem
from the Department of Justice, which
is now run by an Attorney General who
has dedicated himself to preventing the
President from being held accountable
rather than to the principle of equal
justice under the law.
No one who does not believe in the
founding principle of our Nation should
ever serve as Attorney General of the
United States. Yet he serves and re-
fuses to conduct his responsibilities
under the Constitution. That is why
there is no choice but for the House to
act. In the failure of Attorney General
Barr to honor the principle that our
Nation was founded on, equal justice
under the law, the only recourse is the
House of Representatives.
Down this hallway, through these
double doors, not far away, is the
House of Representatives, which is
charged under the Constitution with
determining if a President has com-
mitted high crimes and misdemeanors.
While there may be a discussion of ex-
actly what is meant by high crimes and
misdemeanors, surely they entail acts
of obstruction of justice for which any
other American would have been in-
dicted. Surely, felony crimes qualify.
The House doesn’t determine guilt or
innocence. The House plays the role of
Federal prosecutors who are deciding
whether to indict. Is the evidence suffi-
cient to say it is credible and substan-
tial that the individual conducted a
felony, a crime? The answer by 1,000
Federal prosecutors is absolutely.
It can’t be done by the Supreme
Court. It can’t be done by the judiciary
as long as the Attorney General is
blocking it. It can be done only by the
House. That is why the House has to
act now and has to proceed to put to-
gether a committee on impeachment or
this principle means nothing.
Then it would come to this Chamber
to hold the actual trial. But there will
be no trial if there is no indictment.
There is no trial in the Senate Cham-
ber if there is no impeachment, and
there is no credibility to this principle
in America if the House doesn’t act.
So I call upon the House to convene
that committee and to conduct that
impeachment inquiry, and if they come
out of that inquiry with 1,000 Federal
prosecutors, they must act and vote to
impeach.
This cannot be about politics: Is it a
smart thing to do? How will it affect
the next election? Will it put our Presi-
dential candidates in a strange space?
Let’s do an opinion poll of America.
No, absolutely not.
Our institutions are under assault,
and we have a responsibility because
we took an oath of office to the Con-
stitution to defend this principle. The
House took the same oath, and they
have a responsibility to defend that
principle.
I am going to take the time to lay
out four of those charges of obstruction
justice just to set the stage for tomor-
row.
This is what is referred to as a ‘‘heat
map.’’ It lays out different cases in
which the President interfered with the
judicial process, and then it proceeds
to ask: Is there substantial evidence of
the three things that are needed as a
foundation for saying that a felony
crime has been committed?
The first is, was there an obstructive
act? The second is, was there a nexus
to an issue? The third is, was there
criminal intent?
There are four cases in which capable
individuals have reviewed the Mueller
report and have said yes on all three—
meaning, each of these is red.
Let’s take a look at this. First, let’s
turn to this issue of efforts to fire
Mueller. I am reading now from page 87
of this hefty report on the investiga-
tion, the special counsel’s report.
On page 87, under ‘‘Analysis,’’ it pro-
ceeds to say: ‘‘In analyzing the Presi-
dent’s direction to McGahn to have the
Special Counsel removed, the following
evidence is relevant to the elements of
obstruction of justice.’’
Then he walks through each of these
three pieces:
Obstructive act. As with the President’s
firing of Comey, the attempt to remove the
Special Counsel would qualify as an obstruc-
tive act if it would naturally obstruct the in-
vestigation and any grand jury proceedings
that might flow from the inquiry. Even if the
removal of the lead prosecutor would not
prevent the investigation from continuing
under a new appointee, a factfinder would
need to consider whether the act had the po-
tential to delay further action in the inves-
tigation, chill the actions of any replace-
ment Special Counsel, or otherwise impede
the investigation.
A threshold question is whether the Presi-
dent in fact directed McGahn to have the
Special Counsel removed. After news organi-
zations reported that in June 2017 the Presi-
dent had ordered McGahn to have the Spe-
cial Counsel removed, the President publicly
disputed these accounts, and privately told
McGahn that he had simply wanted McGahn
to bring conflicts of interest to the Depart-
ment of Justice’s attention. . . . Some of the
President’s specific language that McGahn
recalled from the calls is consistent with
that explanation. Substantial evidence, how-
ever, supports the conclusion that the Presi-
dent went further and in fact directed
McGahn to call Rosenstein to have the Spe-
cial Counsel removed.
First, McGahn’s clear recollection was
that the President directed him to tell
Rosenstein not only that conflicts existed
but also that ‘‘Mueller has to go.’’ McGahn is
a credible witness with no motive to lie or
exaggerate given the position he held in the
White House. McGahn spoke with the Presi-
dent twice and understood the directive the
same way both times, making it unlikely
that he misheard or misinterpreted the
President’s request. In response to that re-
quest, McGahn decided to quit because he did
not want to participate in events that he de-
scribed as akin to the Saturday Night Mas-
sacre.
That is a reference to Watergate.
He called his lawyer, drove to the White
House, packed up his office, prepared to sub-
mit a resignation letter with his chief of
staff, told Priebus that the President had
asked him to ‘‘do crazy shit,’’ and informed
Priebus and Bannon that he was leaving.
Those acts would be a highly unusual reac-
tion to a request to convey information to
the Department of Justice.
Second, in the days before the calls to
McGahn, the President, through his counsel,
had already brought the asserted conflicts to
the attention of the Department of Justice.
Accordingly, the President had no reason to
have McGahn call Rosenstein that weekend
to raise conflicts issues that already had
been raised.
Third, the President’s sense of urgency and
repeated requests to McGahn to take imme-
diate action on a weekend—‘‘You gotta do
this. You gotta call Rod.’’—support
McGahn’s recollection that the President
wanted the Department of Justice to take
action to remove the Special Counsel. Had
the President instead sought only to have
the Department of Justice re-examine as-
serted conflicts to evaluate whether they
posed an ethical bar, it would have been un-
necessary to set the process in motion on a
Saturday and to make repeated calls to
McGahn.
Finally, the President had discussed
‘‘knocking out Mueller’’ and raised conflicts
of interest in a May 23, 2017 call to McGahn,
reflecting that the President connected the
conflicts to a plan to remove the Special
Counsel. And in the days leading up to June
17, 2017, the President made clear to Priebus
and Bannon, who then told Ruddy, that the
President was considering terminating the
Special Counsel. Also, during this time pe-
riod, the President reached out to Christie to
get his thoughts on firing the Special Coun-
sel. This evidence shows that the President
was not just seeking an examination of
whether conflicts existed but instead was
looking to use asserted conflicts as a way to
terminate the Special Counsel.
So those are the obstructive acts, ef-
forts to fire special counsel Mueller.
Nexus to an official proceeding [the second
test]. To satisfy the proceeding requirement,
it would be necessary to establish a nexus
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.048 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5022 July 23, 2019
between the President’s act of seeking to
terminate the Special Counsel and a pending
or foreseeable grand jury proceeding.
Substantial evidence indicates that by
June 17, 2017, the President knew his conduct
was under investigation by a federal pros-
ecutor who could present any evidence of
federal crimes to a grand jury. On May 23,
2017, McGahn explicitly warned the Presi-
dent that his ‘‘biggest exposure’’ was not his
act of firing Comey but his ‘‘other contacts’’
and ‘‘calls,’’ and his ‘‘ask re: Flynn.’’ By
early June, it was widely reported in the
media that federal prosecutors had issued
grand jury subpoenas in the Flynn inquiry
and that the Special Counsel had taken over
the Flynn investigation. On June 9, 2017, the
Special Counsel’s Office informed the White
House that investigators would be inter-
viewing intelligence agency officials who al-
legedly had been asked by the President to
push back against the Russia investigation.
On June 14, 2017, news outlets began report-
ing that the President himself was being in-
vestigated for obstruction of justice. Based
on widespread reporting, the President knew
that such an investigation could include his
request for Comey’s loyalty; his request that
Comey ‘‘let[] Flynn go’’; his outreach to
Coats and Rogers; and his termination of
Comey and statement to the Russian For-
eign Minister that the termination had re-
lieved ‘‘great pressure’’ related to Russia.
And on June 16, 2017, the day before he di-
rected McGahn to have the Special Counsel
removed, the President publicly acknowl-
edged that his conduct was under investiga-
tion by a federal prosecutor, tweeting, ‘‘I am
being investigated for firing the FBI Direc-
tor by the man who told me to fire the FBI
Director!’’
That covers the nexus to an official
proceeding, but what about this third
issue, this issue of intent?
Reading again from the special coun-
sel’s report evaluating this, going to
the issue of intent on efforts to fire
Mueller:
Substantial evidence indicates that the
President’s attempts to remove the Special
Counsel were linked to the Special Counsel’s
oversight of investigations that involved the
President’s conduct—and, most imme-
diately, to reports that the President was
being investigated for potential obstruction
of justice.
Before the President terminated Comey,
the President considered it critically impor-
tant that he was not under investigation and
that the public not erroneously think he was
being investigated. As described in Volume
II . . . advisors perceived the President,
while he was drafting the Comey termi-
nation letter, to be concerned more than
anything else about getting out that he was
not personally under investigation. When the
President learned of the appointment of the
Special Counsel on May 17, 2017, he expressed
further concern about the investigation, say-
ing ‘‘[t]his is the end of my Presidency.’’ The
President also faulted Sessions for recusing,
saying ‘‘you were supposed to protect me.’’
On June 14, 2017, when the Washington
Post reported that the Special Counsel was
investigating the President for obstruction
of justice, the President was facing what he
had wanted to avoid: a criminal investiga-
tion into his own conduct that was the sub-
ject of widespread media attention. The evi-
dence indicates that news of the obstruction
investigation prompted the President to call
McGahn and seek to have the Special Coun-
sel removed. By mid-June, the Department
of Justice had already cleared the Special
Counsel’s service and the President’s advi-
sors had told him that the claimed conflicts
of interest were ‘‘silly’’ and did not provide
a basis to remove the Special Counsel. On
June 13, 2017, the Acting Attorney General
testified before Congress that no good cause
for removing the Special Counsel existed,
and the President dictated a press statement
to Sanders saying he had no intention of fir-
ing the Special Counsel. But the next day,
the media reported that the President was
under investigation for obstruction of justice
and the Special Counsel was interviewing
witnesses about events related to possible
obstruction—spurring the President to write
critical tweets about the Special Counsel’s
investigation. The President called McGahn
at home that night and then called him on
Saturday from Camp David. The evidence ac-
cordingly indicates that news that an ob-
struction investigation had been opened is
what led the President to call McGahn to
have the Special Counsel terminated.
There also is evidence that the President
knew that he should not have made those
calls to McGahn. The President made the
calls to McGahn after McGahn had specifi-
cally told the President that the White
House Counsel’s Office—and McGahn him-
self—could not be involved in pressing con-
flict claims and that the President should
consult with his personal counsel if he
wished to raise conflicts. Instead of relying
on his personal counsel to submit the con-
flicts claims, the President sought to use his
official powers to remove the Special Coun-
sel. And after the media reported on the
President’s actions, he denied that he had
ever ordered McGahn to have the Special
Counsel terminated and made repeated ef-
forts to have McGahn deny the story, as dis-
cussed in Volume II. . . . Those denials are
contrary to the evidence and suggest the
President’s awareness that the direction to
McGahn could be seen as improper.
So there it is—obstruction, a nexus
to an investigation, and criminal in-
tent. Those are the efforts to fire
Mueller. That is the first one laid out
in this quote that I am reading from,
the first one that I am conveying to
you all, and there are four of these I
am going to go through to set the stage
for understanding the gravity of what
is happening in the United States. I
think this conversation has been going
on for so long that people have lost
sight of the egregious nature and the
criminal nature of the President’s con-
duct—at least the degree laid out in ex-
quisite detail, as I am reading it to
you—and that more than 1,000 former
Federal prosecutors who have looked
at these top four issues and others have
said that anyone else would be in-
dicted, meaning that in their minds,
these acts met the three tests for fel-
ony conduct; that is, in their view, the
President committed crimes.
So the second issue is efforts to cur-
tail the Mueller investigation. The
first was to fire Mueller, and the sec-
ond was to curtail the investigation. I
will start reading the analysis laid out
starting on page 97, continuing through
page 98.
In analyzing the President’s efforts to have
Lewandowski deliver a message directing
Sessions to publicly announce that the Spe-
cial Counsel investigation would be confined
to future election interference, the following
evidence is relevant to the elements of ob-
struction of justice.
Looking first to the obstructive act.
The President’s effort to send Sessions a
message through Lewandowski would qualify
as an obstructive act if it would naturally
obstruct the investigation in any grand jury
proceedings that might flow from the in-
quiry.
The President sought to have Sessions an-
nounce that the President ‘‘shouldn’t have a
Special Prosecutor/Counsel’’ and that Ses-
sions was going to ‘‘meet with the Special
Prosecutor to explain this is very unfair and
let the Special Prosecutor move forward
with investigating election meddling for fu-
ture elections so that nothing can happen in
future elections.’’ The President wanted Ses-
sions to disregard his recusal from the inves-
tigation, which had followed from a former
DOJ ethics review, and have Sessions declare
that he knew ‘‘for a fact’’ that ‘‘there were
no Russians involved in the campaign’’ be-
cause he ‘‘was there.’’ The President further
directed that Sessions should explain that
the President should not be subject to an in-
vestigation ‘‘because he hasn’t done any-
thing wrong.’’ Taken together, the Presi-
dent’s directives indicate that Sessions was
being instructed to tell the Special Counsel
to end the existing investigation into the
President and his campaign, with the Special
Counsel being permitted to ‘‘move forward
with investigating election meddling for fu-
ture elections.’’
So the obstructive act was perceived
to box in the Mueller investigation so
it wouldn’t touch on the President.
That is an obstruction of justice. But is
there a nexus to an official proceeding?
That is next addressed in the Mueller
report as follows:
As described above, by the time of the
President’s initial one-on-one meeting with
Lewandowski on June 19, 2017, the existence
of a grand jury investigation supervised by
the Special Counsel was public knowledge.
By the time of the President’s follow-up
meeting with Lewandowski—
I bet you would like to know what
comes next, but take a look here. I
can’t tell you because it has been
blacked out. So whatever it was, it cre-
ated a key point about the nexus to the
official proceeding. The section goes on
after the blacked out section:
To satisfy the nexus requirement, it would
be necessary to show that limiting the Spe-
cial Counsel’s investigation would have the
natural and probable effect of impeding that
grand jury proceeding.
So nexus and substantial evidence.
Let’s go to intent. Again, I am reading
from page 97:
Substantial evidence indicates that the
President’s effort to have Sessions limit the
scope of the Special Counsel’s investigation
to future election interference was intended
to prevent further investigative scrutiny of
the President’s and his campaign’s conduct.
That sums it up. Then it goes on in
some greater detail:
As previously described, see Volume II . . .
the President knew that the Russian inves-
tigation was focused in part on his cam-
paign, and he perceived allegations of Rus-
sian interference to cast doubt on the legit-
imacy of his election. The President further
knew that the investigation had broadened
to include his own conduct and whether he
had obstructed justice. Those investigations
would not proceed if the Special Counsel’s
jurisdiction were limited to future election
interference only.
The timing and circumstances of the Presi-
dent’s actions support the conclusion that he
sought that result. The President’s initial di-
rection that Sessions should limit the Spe-
cial Counsel’s investigation came just 2 days
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.049 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5023
July 23, 2019
after the President ordered McGahn to have
the Special Counsel removed, which itself
followed public reports that the President
was personally under investigation for ob-
struction of justice. The sequence of those
events raises an inference that after seeking
to terminate the Special Counsel, the Presi-
dent sought to exclude his and his cam-
paign’s conduct from the investigation’s
scope. The President raised the matter with
Lewandowski again on July 19, 2017, just
days after emails and information about the
June 9, 2016 meeting between Russians and
senior campaign officials had been publicly
disclosed, generating substantial media cov-
erage and investigative interest.
The manner in which the President acted
provides additional evidence of his intent.
Rather than rely on official channels, the
President met with Lewandowski alone in
the Oval Office. The President selected a
loyal ‘‘devotee’’ outside the White House to
deliver the message, supporting an inference
that he was working outside White House
channels, including McGahn, who had pre-
viously resisted contacting the Department
of Justice about the Special Counsel. The
President also did not contact the Acting At-
torney General, who had just testified pub-
licly that there was no cause to remove the
Special Counsel. Instead, the President tried
to use Sessions to restrict and redirect the
Special Counsel’s investigation when Ses-
sions was recused and could not properly
take any action on it.
The July 19, 2017 events provide further
evidence of the President’s intent. The Presi-
dent followed up with Lewandowski in a sep-
arate one-on-one meeting one month after he
first dictated the message for Sessions, dem-
onstrating he still sought to pursue the re-
quest. And just hours after Lewandowski as-
sured the President that the message would
soon be delivered to Sessions, the President
gave an unplanned interview to the New
York Times in which he publicly attacked
Sessions and raised questions about his job
security. Four days later, on July 22, 2017,
the President directed Priebus to obtain Ses-
sions’ resignation. That evidence could raise
an inference that the President wanted Ses-
sions to realize that his job might be on the
line as he evaluated whether to comply with
the President’s direction that Sessions pub-
licly announce that, notwithstanding his
recusal, he was going to confine the Special
Counsel’s investigation to future election in-
terference.
It is laid out in great detail—an ob-
structive act, a nexus to an official
proceeding, and the issue of intent.
This did not happen by accident—not
on the efforts to fire Mueller and not
on the efforts to curtail the Mueller in-
vestigation.
Now we will go to the third major
point here—the order to McGahn to
deny the attempt to fire Mueller. This
analysis in the special prosecutor’s re-
port starts on page 118.
In analyzing the President’s efforts to have
McGahn deny that he had been ordered to
have the Special Counsel removed, the fol-
lowing evidence is relevant to the elements
of obstruction of justice.
First, obstructive act.
The President’s repeated efforts to get
McGahn to create a record denying that the
President had directed him to remove the
Special Counsel would qualify as an obstruc-
tive act if it had a natural tendency to con-
strain McGahn from testifying truthfully or
to undermine his credibility as a potential
witness if he testified consistently with his
memory rather than with what the record
said.
There is some evidence that at the time
the New York Times and Washington Post
stories were published in late January 2018,
the President believed the stories were
wrong and that he had never told McGhan to
have Rosenstein remove the Special Counsel.
The President correctly understood that
McGhan had not told the President directly
that he planned to resign. In addition, the
President told Priebus and Porter that he
had not sought to terminate the Special
Counsel, and in the Oval Office meeting with
McGhan, the President said, ‘‘I never said to
fire Mueller. I never said ‘fire.’ ’’ That evi-
dence could indicate that the President was
not attempting to persuade McGhan to
change his story but instead offering his own
but different recollection of the substance of
his June 2017 conversations with McGhan
and McGhan’s reaction to them.
Other evidence cuts against that under-
standing of the President’s conduct.
That is an important line to under-
stand. Is it possible that the President
simply had a different recollection?
And the answer in the special prosecu-
tor’s report is this: ‘‘Other evidence
cuts against that understanding.’’
The special counsel continues:
As previously described, see Volume II . . .
substantial evidence supports McGhan’s ac-
count that the President had directed him to
have the Special Counsel removed, including
the timing and context of the President’s di-
rective; the manner in which McGhan re-
acted; and the fact that the President had
been told the conflicts were insubstantial,
were be being considered by the Department
of Justice, and should be raised with the
President’s personal counsel rather than
brought to McGhan. In addition, the Presi-
dent’s subsequent denials that he had told
McGhan to have the Special Counsel re-
moved were carefully worded. When first
asked about the New York Times story, the
President said, ‘‘Fake news, folks. Fake
news. A typical New York Times fake
story.’’ And when the President spoke with
McGhan in the Oval Office, he focused on
whether he had used the word ‘‘fire,’’ saying,
‘‘I never said to fire Mueller. I never said
‘‘fire.’’
He then said:
‘‘Did I say the word ‘fire’? The President’s
assertion in the Oval Office meeting that he
had never directed McGhan to have the Spe-
cial Counsel removed thus runs counter to
the evidence.
In addition, even if the President sincerely
disagreed with McGhan’s memory of the
June 17, 2017 events, the evidence indicates
that the President knew by the time of the
Oval Office meeting that McGhan’s account
differed and that McGhan was firm in his
views. Shortly after the story broke, the
President’s counsel told McGhan’s counsel
that the President wanted McGhan to make
a statement denying he had been asked to
fire the Special Counsel, but McGhan re-
sponded through his counsel that that aspect
of the story was accurate and he therefore
could not comply with the President’s re-
quest. The President then directed Sanders
to tell McGhan to correct the story, but
McGhan told her he would not do so because
the story was accurate in reporting on the
President’s order. Consistent with that posi-
tion, McGhan never issued a correction.
More than a week later, the President
brought up the issue again with Porter,
made comments indicating that the Presi-
dent thought McGhan had leaked the story,
and directed Porter to have McGhan create a
record denying that the President had tried
to fire the Special Counsel. At that point,
the President said he might ‘‘have to get rid
of’’ McGhan if McGhan did not comply.
McGhan again refused and told Porter, as he
told Sanders and as his counsel had told the
President’s counsel, that the President had
in fact ordered him to have Rosenstein re-
move the Special Counsel. That evidence in-
dicates that by the time of the Oval Office
meeting the President was aware that
McGhan did not think the story was false
and did not want to issue a statement or cre-
ate a written record denying facts that
McGhan believed to be true. The President
nevertheless persisted and asked McGhan to
repudiate facts that McGhan had repeatedly
said were accurate.
So that is the evidence of the order
to McGhan to deny that he had been
instructed to fire Mueller by the Presi-
dent. But is there a nexus to an official
proceeding—the second test? The spe-
cial counsel’s report continues to ad-
dress that issue.
Nexus to an official proceeding. By Janu-
ary 2018, the Special Counsel’s use of a grand
jury had been further confirmed by the re-
turn of several indictments. The President
also was aware that the Special Counsel was
investigating obstruction-related events be-
cause, among other reasons, on January 8,
2018, the Special Counsel’s office provided his
counsel with a detailed list of topics for a
possible interview with the President. The
President knew that McGhan had personal
knowledge in many of the events the Special
Counsel was investigating and that McGhan
had already been interviewed by Special
Counsel investigators. And in the Oval Office
meeting, the President indicated he knew
that McGhan had told the Special Counsel’s
Office about the President’s effort to remove
the Special Counsel. The President chal-
lenged McGhan for disclosing that informa-
tion and for taking notes that he viewed as
creating unnecessary legal exposure. That
evidence indicates the President’s awareness
that the June 17, 2017 events were relevant to
the Special Counsel’s investigation and any
grand jury investigation that might grow
out of it.
To establish a nexus, it would be necessary
to show that the President’s actions would
have the natural tendency to affect such a
proceeding or that they would hinder, delay
or prevent the communication of informa-
tion to investigators. Because McGhan had
spoken to Special Counsel investigators be-
fore January 2018, the President could not
have been seeking to influence his prior
statements in those interviews. But because
McGhan had repeatedly spoken to investiga-
tors and the obstruction inquiry was not
complete, it was foreseeable that he would be
interviewed again on obstruction-related
topics. If the President were focused solely
on a press strategy in seeking to have
McGhan refute the New York Times article,
a nexus to a proceeding or to further inves-
tigative interviews would not be shown. But
the President’s efforts to have McGhan write
a letter ‘‘for our records’’ approximately ten
days after the story had come out—well past
the typical time to issue a correction for a
news story—indicates the President was not
focused solely on press strategy, but instead
likely contemplated the ongoing investiga-
tion and any proceedings arising from it.
So that is the nexus.
And now to intent.
Substantial evidence indicates that in re-
peatedly urging McGhan to dispute that he
was ordered to have the Special Counsel ter-
minated, the President acted for the purpose
of influencing McGhan’s account in order to
deflect or prevent further scrutiny of the
President’s conduct towards the investiga-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.051 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5024 July 23, 2019
That summarizes the intent.
Let me just repeat a piece of that.
Substantial evidence indicates that in re-
peatedly urging McGhan to dispute that he
was ordered to have the Special Counsel ter-
minated—
In other words, his repeated efforts
to have McGhan lie—
the President acted for the purpose of in-
fluencing McGhan’s account in order to de-
flect or prevent further scrutiny of the Presi-
dent’s conduct. . . .
Several facts support that conclusion. The
President made repeated attempts to get
McGhan to change his story.
Not just one, but repeated attempts.
As described above, by the time of the last
attempt, the evidence suggests that the
President had been told on multiple occa-
sions that McGhan believed the President
had ordered him to have the Special Counsel
terminated. McGhan interpreted his encoun-
ter with the President in the Oval Office as
an attempt to test his mettle and see how
committed he was to his memory of what
had occurred. The President had already laid
the groundwork for pressing McGhan to alter
his account by telling Porter that it might
be necessary to fire McGhan if he did not
deny the story, and Porter relayed that
statement to McGhan. Additional evidence
of the President’s intent might be gleaned
from the fact that his counsel was suffi-
ciently alarmed by the prospect of the Presi-
dent’s meeting with McGhan that he called
McGhan’s counsel and said that McGhan
could not resign no matter what happened in
the Oval Office that day. The President’s
counsel was well aware of McGhan’s resolve
not to issue what he believed to be a false ac-
count of events despite the President’s re-
quest. Finally, as noted above, the President
brought up the Special Counsel investigation
in his Oval Office meeting with McGhan and
criticized him for telling this Office about
the June 17, 2017 events. The President’s
statements reflect his understanding—and
his displeasure—that those events would be
part of an obstruction-of-justice inquiry.
So there it is—the intent, all laid out
very, very clearly in this report—ob-
structive acts, a nexus to an official
proceeding, and the clear intent.
So let’s turn to the fourth issue: Con-
duct toward Manafort. This can be
found on page 131 of the special coun-
sel’s report.
In analyzing the President’s conduct to-
wards Flynn, Manafort—
And a third person who has been
blacked out in the record—
the following evidence is relevant to the ele-
ments of obstruction of justice:
Section a, Obstructive act.
Here we are addressing if there is evi-
dence—is there substantial evidence—
of the President’s conduct toward
Manafort.
With respect to Manafort, there is evidence
that the President’s actions had the poten-
tial to influence Manafort’s decision whether
to cooperate with the government. The
President and his personal counsel made re-
peated statements suggesting that a pardon
was a possibility for Manafort, while also
making it clear that the President did not
want Manafort to ‘‘flip’’ and cooperate with
the government. On June 15, 2018, the day
the judge presiding over Manafort’s D.C. case
was considering whether to revoke his bail,
the President said that he ‘‘felt badly’’ for
Manafort and stated, ‘‘I think a lot of it is
very unfair.’’ And when asked about a pardon
for Manafort, the President said, ‘‘I do want
to see people treated fairly. That’s what it’s
all about.’’ Later that day, after Manafort’s
bail was revoked, the President called it a
‘‘tough sentence’’ that was ‘‘Very unfair!’’
Two days later, the President’s personal
counsel stated that individuals involved in
the Special Counsel’s investigation could re-
ceive a pardon ‘‘if in fact the [P]resident and
his advisors . . . come to the conclusion that
you have been treated unfairly’’—using lan-
guage that paralleled how the President had
already described the treatment of Manafort.
Those statements, combined with the Presi-
dent’s commendation of Manafort for being a
‘‘brave man’’ who ‘‘refused to ‘break,’ ’’ sug-
gested that a pardon was a more likely possi-
bility if Manafort continued not to cooperate
with the government. And while Manafort
eventually pleaded guilty pursuant to a co-
operation agreement, he was found to have
violated the agreement by lying to inves-
tigators.
The President’s public statements during
the Manafort trial, including during jury de-
liberations, also had the potential to influ-
ence the trial jury. On the second day of
trial, for example, the President called the
prosecution a ‘‘terrible situation’’ and a
‘‘hoax’’ that ‘‘continues to stain our coun-
try’’ and referred to Manafort as a ‘‘Reagan/
Dole darling’’ who was ‘‘serving solitary con-
finement’’ even though he was ‘‘convicted of
nothing.’’ Those statements were widely
picked up by the press. While jurors were in-
structed not to watch or read news stories
about the case and are presumed to follow
those instructions, the President’s state-
ments during the trial generated substantial
media coverage that could have reached ju-
rors if they happened to see the statements
or learned about them from others.
And the President’s statements during de-
liberations of Manafort ‘‘happens to be a
very good person’’ and that ‘‘it’s very sad
what they’ve done to Paul Manafort’’ had
the potential to influence jurors who learned
of the statements, which the President made
just as jurors were considering whether to
convict or acquit Manafort.
Let me point out here that I see in
this book substantial sections have
been blocked out under No. 8, the Ob-
structive Act and under section C, the
Intent. In spite of part of that section
being blacked out, that was the sub-
stantial evidence of the effort to influ-
ence Paul Manafort and obstruct jus-
tice.
Nexus to an official proceeding. The Presi-
dent’s actions towards Flynn and Manafort
and a third person blacked out in this book
appeared to have been connected to pending
or anticipated official proceedings involving
each individual.
The President’s conduct towards Flynn
principally occurred when both were under
criminal investigation by the Special Coun-
sel’s Office and press reports speculated
about whether they would cooperate with
the Special Counsel’s investigation. And the
President’s conduct toward Manafort was di-
rectly connected to the official proceedings
involving him. The President made state-
ments about Manafort and the charges
against him during Manafort’s criminal
trial. And the President’s comments about
the prospect of Manafort ‘‘flipping’’ occurred
when it was clear the Special Counsel con-
tinued to oversee grand jury proceedings.
So there is the nexus laid out very
clearly in this report on this effort to
influence Manafort’s testimony.
And then to intent, page 132.
Evidence concerning the President’s con-
duct towards Manafort indicates that the
President intended to encourage Manafort to
not cooperate with the government. Before
Manafort was convicted, the President re-
peatedly stated that Manafort had been
treated unfairly. One day after Manafort was
convicted on eight felony charges and poten-
tially faced a lengthy prison term, the Presi-
dent said that Manafort was a ‘‘brave man’’
for refusing to ‘‘break’’ and that ‘‘flipping’’
‘‘almost ought to be outlawed.’’ At the same
time, although the President privately told
aides he did not like Manafort, he publicly
called Manafort ‘‘a good man’’ and said he
had a ‘‘wonderful family.’’ And when the
President was asked whether he was asked
whether he was considering a pardon for
Manafort, the President did not respond di-
rectly and instead said he had ‘‘great respect
for what [Manafort]’s done, in terms of what
he’s gone through.’’ The President added
that ‘‘some of the charges they threw
against him, every consultant, every lob-
byist in Washington probably does.’’ In light
of the President’s counsel’s previous state-
ments that the investigations ‘‘might get
cleaned up with some presidential pardons’’
and that a pardon would be possible if the
President come[s] to the conclusion that you
have been treated unfairly.’’ The evidence
supports the inference that the President in-
tended Manafort to believe that he could re-
ceive a pardon, which would make coopera-
tion with the government as a means of a
lesser sentence unnecessary.
To read that again:
The evidence supports the inference that
the President intended Manafort to believe
that he could receive a pardon which would
make cooperation with the government as a
means of obtaining a lesser sentence unnec-
essary.
The special counsel continues under
intent:
We also examined the evidence of the
President’s intent making public statements
about Manafort at the beginning of his trial
and when the jury was deliberating. Some
evidence supports a conclusion the President
intended, at least in part, to influence the
jury. The trial generated widespread pub-
licity, and as the jury began to deliberate,
commentators suggested that an acquittal
would add pressure to end the Special Coun-
sel’s investigation. By publicly stating on
the second day of deliberations that
Manafort ‘‘happens to be a very good person’’
and that ‘‘it’s very sad what they’ve done to
Paul Manafort’’ right after calling the Spe-
cial Counsel’s investigation a ‘‘rigged witch
hunt,’’ the President’s statements could, if
they reached jurors, have the natural tend-
ency to engender sympathy for Manafort
among jurors, and a factfinder could infer
that the President intended that result. But
there are alternative explanations to the
President’s comments, including that he
genuinely felt sorry for Manafort or that his
goal was not to influence the jury but influ-
ence public opinion. The President’s com-
ments also could have been intended to con-
tinue sending a message to Manafort that a
pardon was possible. As described above, the
President made his comments about
Manafort being ‘‘a very good person’’ imme-
diately after declining to answer questions
about whether he would pardon Manafort.
You might be very interested in the
additional information about intent,
but I can’t read it to you because it is
blacked out. Nonetheless, in that pre-
vious paragraph, it is clearly declared
the evidence supports the inference the
President intended Manafort to believe
he could receive a pardon, which would
make cooperation with the government
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.053 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5025
July 23, 2019
as a means of obtaining a lesser sen-
tence unnecessary.
Those are the first four cases of ob-
struction of justice in which a special
prosecutor lays out substantial evi-
dence on the obstructive act, on the
nexus, and on the intent on the efforts
to fire Mueller, on the efforts to curtail
the Mueller investigation, on the order
to McGahn to deny that he had at-
tempted to fire Mueller, and on the ef-
fort to influence Manafort by alluding
to a potential pardon.
There is a lot more in this book—
many other cases that, in the eyes of
analysts, isn’t as strong as the first
four, but the evidence could support it,
whether it is substantial evidence, but
still very serious stories of efforts to
obstruct justice.
Ordinary Americans might say: If, in
fact, the special prosecutor found all
three standards met on at least four of
these cases, then why hasn’t the Presi-
dent been indicted? Well, indictment
has to come from the executive branch
and the Attorney General, who runs
the Department of Justice, who isn’t
going to do that.
There is a policy within the White
House that basically says a President
can’t be indicted. Pull out your Con-
stitution and try to find where the
Constitution says that a President
can’t be indicted. Try to find that be-
cause it is not in there.
‘‘Equal justice under law.’’ That is
what our Constitution is about, not the
case of a King who is above the law, so
we have a democratic republic, if we
can keep it.
But that means that we are in this
principle ‘‘equal justice under law,’’
and if the special prosecutor is not
going to make recommendations based
on the White House executive branch
principle that a President can’t be in-
dicted and the Department of Justice is
not going to do it, there is only one op-
tion, and that is the House of Rep-
resentatives. The House of Representa-
tives has the huge responsibility of de-
fending this principle ‘‘equal justice
under law.’’ No one else is going to do
it. It can’t be done here in the Senate
because the Constitution says the re-
sponsibility is in the House of Rep-
resentatives to decide whether to im-
peach a President.
There has been a lot of discussion of
politics: Is this a smart thing to do?
Does it take up too much time? How
will people respond? I can tell you this,
if the House fails to act, then this
‘‘equal justice under law’’ means noth-
ing.
This book is full of events that a
thousand former Federal prosecutors
have told us constitutes criminal con-
duct, and that is why the House must,
in defending their oath of office to the
Constitution, bring a committee to-
gether and defend the Constitution—
the vision—that no one in the United
States of America, not even the Presi-
dent, is above the law. It is time—past
time—to convene impeachment pro-
ceedings.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:51 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, July 24,
2019, at 9:30 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nomination received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
DAVID L. NORQUIST, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE DEPUTY SEC-
RETARY OF DEFENSE, VICE PATRICK M. SHANAHAN, RE-
SIGNED.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate July 23, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MARK T. ESPER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G23JY6.054 S23JYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E957
July 23, 2019
RUDY GIULIANI COMMENTS RE-
GARDING THE IRANIAN REGIME
OF TERROR
HON. PAUL A. GOSAR
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. GOSAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to include in the RECORD comments about the
situation in Iran that I believe are relevant and
should be widely shared. The comments, from
former New York City Mayor and attorney to
the U.S. President Rudy Giuliani, address
peaceful regime change in Iran and the work
of the Iranian Resistance. Giuliani delivered
this speech at the International Gathering at
Ashraf–3, Tirana, Albania, which is home to
members of the Iranian opposition, the
Mujahedin-e Khalq (PMOI/MEK). More than
350 bipartisan dignitaries and parliamentarians
from 47 countries attended the conference. I
offer these comments for thoughtful discussion
as follows:
Giuliani: ‘‘Thanks to you and particularly
to the people who live here in Ashraf 3.
You’ll be the ones who lead your people to
freedom and you’ll be honored forever in Ira-
nian history and in the history of those who
love and are willing to die for freedom. God
bless you.
This organization has grown and grown
and grown and I feel in this room today a
kind of optimism that I don’t remember feel-
ing before when we were in Paris. I feel an
optimism maybe because you’ve done a mir-
acle here in Ashraf. If we were to build this
in New York City, it would take 15 years and
14 corruption investigations. I was here a
year and a half ago, this wasn’t here.
And of course, all of this is possible be-
cause of the leadership of Madame Maryam
Rajavi, a truly exceptional leader. Just like
her husband Massoud Rajavi, who began this
movement in one very brave act. He refused
to swear allegiance to the Supreme Leader
Khomeini to his face. He said, ‘‘No, I will not
swear allegiance to you. I will not deliver my
nation to a tyrant.’’
I’m here to say three things. First, I accuse
the Ayatollah and Rouhani and all of their
sycophants and followers of mass murder,
crimes against humanity. We should be em-
barrassed for our countries if they haven’t
stood up against this. There’s no middle
ground here. These people have killed at
least 120,000 members and associates of this
great organization. You see the book. You go
through the sad, tragic, but heroic exhibit
they have of the martyrs to freedom. Look
at the photograph of the people in the infir-
mary being treated for illness, slaughtered
just a few years ago. Killed 52 of them of the
last 100 people who stayed at Ashraf, they
tried to wipe them all out. In 1988, in two
months they slaughtered 30,000 people. These
are not numbers, these are human lives.
So there are three things that we have to
do. Number one, we have to get the govern-
ments of Europe to stand up, to wake up, to
reclaim their dignity and their honor. These
are the countries that gave us democracy.
Greece, Rome, Italy, France, United King-
dom, Germany, all places in which freedom
was born, democracy was born, democracy
emerged. Democracy for my nation came out
of Europe and the experience of Europe. So
how can the leaders of those countries turn
their back on mass murder? How can they do
it and live with themselves? It’s time to end
that shameful disregard.
There’s no statute of limitations on mur-
der. I prosecuted two Nazis 40 years after
their horrible deeds. One killed 20,000 people,
the other killed 12,000 people and we found
them and it took years and we brought them
to justice. The people who slaughtered 30,000
people in 1988 should be identified, they
should be prosecuted, and they should either
be imprisoned for life or executed. They’re
criminals. They’re murderers. They’re not
leaders of countries. They are no better than
the murderer in the street except they’re
worse because they’re mass murderers.
I am so proud of my government because
we have stood up. We looked at that agree-
ment that would make Iran a nuclear power
and we said tear it up. We’re not going to put
nuclear weapons in the hands of a maniac.
Well, I say to the leaders of Europe, you can
be liberators too. You can go down in history
as fighters for freedom.
Isn’t that better than just running a gov-
ernment and making money and giving blood
money to Iran? How can you do commerce
with them? We all know they’re the largest
sponsor of terrorism in the world. What does
that mean? That means they fund and they
supply murderers not only in their own
country but all over the world. And when
you give them money, when you relieve
them of a debt, which my government did in
the prior administration, and put over a bil-
lion dollars back in their hands, you are sup-
porting murder. What do they use it for?
Their people know, their people know that
when they get money, when a French com-
pany or a German company does business
with them, that money, that profit is going
to be used to kill people in Syria or to kill
people somewhere else or to send people to
Albania to kill us or to send people to
France like they did last year to kill Ma-
dame Rajavi and us. That’s what they’re
funding, don’t you realize it? That makes
you complicit in murder.
Number two, let’s make it clear, there is
an alternative to this horrible regime of ter-
ror. This isn’t one of those situations in
which we have the choice of deposing a hor-
rible dictator and we don’t know if a more
horrible one will come along. Right? And
when we saw that happen, we saw it happen
in Egypt, in some ways we saw it happen in
Libya.
But here we don’t have that problem.
We’ve got the worst regime in the world by
far, the biggest sponsor of terrorism in the
world. And then we have the National Coun-
cil, the NCRI, led by the president-elect, Ma-
dame Rajavi. Coalition of resistance organi-
zations respected throughout the world.
There are representatives of most of the
major countries in the world here. They’ve
gotten to know her. They’ve gotten to re-
spect her. In my country, she’s thoroughly
respected.
We know there’s a group of people who
have been fighting for freedom all their
lives, who have lost the closest people to
them in the fight for freedom, who are dedi-
cated to it.
People here at Ashraf, let’s make it clear.
I spent a lot of time with them. These are
people who are dedicated to freedom. And if
you think that’s a cult, then there’s some-
thing wrong with you. There’s something
missing in your soul.
But we know that there is a government in
exile, it negotiates with the whole world, and
it’s written down plain as can be what it
stands for. And it looks just like our Bill of
Rights, just like the universal declarations
of freedom and decency and human rights en-
shrined in the great documents of the world.
Free elections within six months is the
promise, and I believe it will be fulfilled.
They’re for gender equality. They’re for
human rights. They’re for a system of law.
They’re for we don’t imprison someone un-
less they have a fair trial. And because of
their history, they oppose capital punish-
ment, because there’s been too much of it.
And it isn’t just capital punishment, it’s
murder in their country. This is a good orga-
nization. And it’s an organization that is
ready, willing and able not to take over Iran
but to guide Iran to elections as quickly as
possible and hopefully they will be part of
the coalition governing Iran like they’re
part of the coalition that is trying to guide
Iran to freedom. This is a group that we can
support. It’s a group that we should stop ma-
ligning and it’s a group that should make us
comfortable having regime change in the
worst regime in the world.
Here’s what you can do. You can be a wit-
ness like in the Biblical sense of a witness.
You know something that a lot of people
don’t know. You know really how bad it is in
Iran. And you know about MEK. And you
know about Madame Rajavi. And you know
the truth, not the lies, ‘‘the cult, they don’t
have support in Iran.’’ Why has the Aya-
tollah been murdering them for 40 years if
they don’t have support in Iran? The Aya-
tollah, Rouhani, have said that this organi-
zation is the only one that’s really a danger
to them.
You now have a responsibility because of
your knowledge. Don’t be euphemistic about
it. Don’t hide your eyes. You’ve got to get
the leaders of your country to stand up so
you can all be proud of your country and its
heritage.
I get attacked and my colleagues who will
be here in a moment get attacked all the
time in America. Why we’re doing this?
We’re doing it really very simply because we
love freedom and we can’t turn our back on
people who are being treated this way and we
can’t turn our back on a situation that could
be catastrophic for them and catastrophic
for the world. You know what I say to them?
Keep doing it. Keep doing it. I wear it as a
badge of honor. I support freedom, you sup-
port oppression. I support democracy, you
support a dictatorship. I support decent peo-
ple who share the values of decent govern-
ments, and you support mass murderers.
Now who’s right and who’s wrong?
But I know and I feel as I’ve told you, and
I know why there’s an optimism in this
room. Because we’re going to be in Tehran
much sooner than all those cynics believe.
You know why? [Because we are Hazer,
Hazer, Hazer. (We’re ready).’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.001 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E958 July 23, 2019
REMEMBERING HÉCTOR FIGUEROA
HON. NYDIA M. VELÁZQUEZ
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to remember Héctor Figueroa, a cham-
pion for workers’ rights, an advocate for immi-
grants, a New Yorker, a passionate Puerto
Rican and my dear friend. Above all, Héctor
was a fighter for the vulnerable, the down-
trodden and those who were treated unfairly.
Sadly, Héctor passed last week. He will be
honored at a public service on Wednesday in
New York City.
Héctor Figueroa was known most notably
for his leadership of 32BJ SEIU. Under his
leadership, 32BJ SEIU grew by over 50,000
members and passed dozens of local and
state-level policies. Héctor previously worked
as SEIU’s Organizing Director for Puerto Rico,
winning collective bargaining rights for teach-
ers, as well as for SEIU’s Justice for Janitors
campaign and a researcher for Amalgamated
Clothing and Textile Workers Union (Workers
United).
Most recently, Héctor was central to building
support for relief in Puerto Rico after Hurri-
cane Maria. Born in Ponce as the son of two
educators, the Island was near and dear to his
heart. In the dark months following Hurricane
Maria, Héctor was critical to mobilizing support
among New York’s Puerto Rican community,
32BJ members and non-members alike, to
send aid to the Island and build political mo-
mentum for Washington to do better in chan-
neling assistance to our fellow citizens as they
struggled through a humanitarian crisis.
Throughout his life, Héctor made waves as
a progressive fighter for justice for all people.
He was relentless in advocating for the rights
of the doormen and doorwomen, custodial
workers, airport security guards and others
who constituted 32BJ’s membership. However,
he was also on the frontlines helping taxicab
drivers, fast food workers and laborers in
every sector achieve fairer wages and im-
proved conditions. To him, anyone who was
oppressed was an ally and he was ready to
join arms with them and march in common
cause.
His belief that all workers were deserving of
respect and kindness extended beyond his
work as a labor leader; it infused his very de-
meanor. Héctor treated everyone, from the
youngest organizers, to the most junior polit-
ical aides, to the most powerful elected offi-
cials with the same kindness and warmth.
Whether it was fighting to expand
healthcare, protecting immigrant communities
from ICE, strengthening voter rights or ad-
dressing the threats of climate change, Héctor
was on the frontlines of every battle related to
economic and social justice. Just last week,
this House voted to raise the federal minimum
wage, a milestone achievement, years in the
making. I like to think wherever he is, that vic-
tory would bring a smile to Héctor’s face.
New York City and working people every-
where have lost a champion. I, personally,
have lost a dear friend. From my earliest days
in politics, I could always count on Héctor for
wise advice and kind counsel. I’ll miss our
days together and fighting alongside one an-
other. While he was taken from us too young,
we’ll honor his memory by continuing to ad-
vance the causes that inspired him. As Héctor
always said, ‘‘We’ll keep organizing.’’ Yes, my
friend, we will.
f
RECOGNIZING THE DC GRAYS
BASEBALL TEAM
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to ask the House of Representatives to join
me in recognizing the DC Grays for their com-
mitment and contribution to increasing interest
and youth participation in baseball and softball
in the District of Columbia. In particular, I want
to recognize the DC Grays 2019 summer col-
lege baseball team and the annual Capitol Hill
reception.
The DC Grays is a talented collegiate sum-
mer baseball team that, in addition to com-
peting in the Cal Ripken Collegiate Baseball
League, strives to engage inner-city youth and
their families with baseball. Their mission is to
be ‘‘ambassadors for baseball’’ in the District
by running summer baseball camps and clin-
ics for D.C. youth.
Named for the champion Homestead Grays
from the Negro Leagues, the DC Grays
reaches out to African-American ballplayers
who may have been overlooked by other
teams.
The DC Grays partners with Major League
Baseball (MLB) to further help its mission of
providing disadvantaged youth an opportunity
to learn and enjoy the game of baseball. The
programs help motivate young players to stay
in school and pursue secondary education.
MLB’s RBI program helps teach youth not only
the importance of success on the field but also
in the classroom and the community. This
year, the DC Grays RBI is sponsoring two
summer baseball leagues and two travel soft-
ball teams for kids from Wards 6, 7, and 8 in
D.C.—in addition to fall ball programs and win-
ter training. There are 250 kids participating in
DC Grays RBI programs this year.
Last year, the DC Grays participated in
MLB’s unveiling of the new Josh Gibson mural
on U Street across from Ben’s Chili Bowl, and
their players attended an event to honor Jack-
ie Robinson as part of MLB’s all-star festivi-
ties. They strive to honor the Negro Leagues
and its role in Washington baseball history.
Each year, the DC Grays hosts a salute to
Negro League Baseball in collaboration with
the Hubert Simons League Museum.
Madam Speaker, I ask the House to join me
in commending the DC Grays for the impor-
tant work it has done and continues to do in
the community. We wish the DC Grays luck in
continuing to inspire and engage disadvan-
taged youth.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CHAMBERS
COUNTY COURTHOUSE ON ITS
DESIGNATION AS A TEXAS
STATE HISTORICAL MARKER
HON. BRIAN BABIN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the Chambers County Courthouse
for its designation as an official Texas State
Historical Marker.
Named after Texas pioneer Major General
Thomas Jefferson Chambers, Chambers
County was established in 1858. Until the
early 20th century, Wallisville was the county
seat and the location for the first three Cham-
bers County courthouses built in 1858, 1880
and 1887 respectively. However, Anahuac’s
rice canal system and the presence of wild
hogs in Wallisville prompted an election in
1907 that made Anahuac the county seat in
1908.
After the election and the move, the county
constructed a new courthouse. Completed in
1912 at its current location, the new municipal
building included a jail, indoor plumbing, tele-
phones, and electric lights. Built in the Renais-
sance Revival style, its imposing figure boast-
ed large columns and a stone exterior. The
building, however, burned down on April 28,
1935.
Later in 1935, County Treasurer Grover C.
Wilcox desired a modern courthouse ‘‘in line
with the growth of the town.’’ As a part of fed-
eral New Deal programs, the Public Works
Administration contributed funds for the design
and construction. Designed by Corneil G. Cur-
tis and built by notable contractor Robert E.
McKee, construction finished in May 1937 on
the three-story, ashlar limestone building. A
combination of art deco and modern architec-
tural styles (1920s to 1940s), the courthouse’s
exterior showcases vertical lines, a symmet-
rical façade, geometric shapes, and simple or-
namentation. Since its construction, little has
changed about this unique building. Through-
out its history, the Chambers County Court-
house has not only acted as a focal point of
the community but has also reflected the
county’s economic, political and social history.
As a former member of the Texas Historic
Commission, I know this is a great honor for
the community. I wish all of my friends in
Chambers County well as they celebrate the
dedication on July 23rd.
f
HONORING ARKANSAS’S KOREAN
WAR VETERANS
HON. BRUCE WESTERMAN
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Arkansas’s Korean War
veteran commemorations. This summer, the
Arkansas Department of Veterans Affairs is
honoring the men and women who served our
country and defended South Korea during the
Cold War.
In an oft-forgotten chapter of history, Korean
War soldiers from the United States provided
vital assistance to the South Korean army.
During a volatile time, their service prevented
North Korean forces from taking over the en-
tire Korean peninsula.
Arkansas has a rich history of bravery and
patriotism, and I’m honored to recognize our
Korean War veterans at these commemoration
events. I thank each one of them for their
service, and hope their legacies continue for
generations to come.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.002 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E959
July 23, 2019
HONORING THE INTERNATIONAL
INSTITUTE OF MINNESOTA ON
THE OCCASION OF ITS 100TH AN-
NIVERSARY
HON. BETTY McCOLLUM
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the International Institute of
Minnesota on the occasion of its 100th anni-
versary. The Institute’s original mission is as
vital today as it was after World War I when
it welcomed refugees fleeing strife and insta-
bility in their homelands and helped them
achieve self-sufficiency and full membership in
American life.
In 1919, leaders of the Saint Paul YWCA
came together to address an urgent need in
the community to serve those who were arriv-
ing to Minnesota, displaced in the aftermath of
the ‘‘War to End All Wars.’’ Out of this effort,
the Institute became one of the first state re-
settlement voluntary agencies (VOLAGS).
The onset of World War II saw the need for
the Institute’s services to expand. During this
time, the organization partnered with the War
Relocation Authority, helping to free Japa-
nese-Americans from internment camps and
working as translators and codebreakers at
Fort Snelling. At the end of the Vietnam War,
many refugees were displaced from Southeast
Asia to Minnesota, particularly ethnic Hmong
and others from Cambodia, Laos and Viet-
nam. Since 1974, the Institute has resettled
approximately 25,000 refugees from every re-
gion of the world, including recent arrivals
from Somalia and Myanmar.
As economists point to increasingly tight
labor markets and a growing scarcity of work-
ers as two of our state’s most significant bar-
riers to sustained economic growth, the Insti-
tute contributes to our economic vitality by
opening the door for those pursuing the Amer-
ican dream. By partnering with new Americans
on a path to citizenship, entrepreneurship and
full membership in our community, state and
country, the Institute has empowered thou-
sands of new Americans to become our trust-
ed doctors, business leaders, teachers, engi-
neers, scientists, policemen and soldiers.
Recognizing that new Americans enrich our
state in many ways, the Institute honors and
shares our state’s growing diversity and fos-
ters cultural understanding. For nearly 90
years, the Institute’s Festival of Nations has
drawn thousands of people together each May
to celebrate the many traditions that are
shared by Minnesotans. Through this festival,
Minnesotans can better appreciate how as a
state and nation of Native Americans and im-
migrants, our strength is our diversity of back-
grounds, viewpoints and religions.
The motto inscribed on the Great Seal of
the United States: ‘‘E Pluribus Unum—Out of
Many, One’’ underscores that the foundation
of our nation has always been the collective
power of many different people coming to-
gether. For 100 years, the International Insti-
tute of Minnesota has proudly supported our
nation by welcoming and empowering new ref-
ugees and immigrants from different back-
grounds to come together as new Americans.
Please join me to congratulate the staff, vol-
unteers and donors to the International Insti-
tute of Minnesota for providing 100 years of
hospitality, empowerment, hope and oppor-
tunity for new Americans.
f
CONGRATULATING JOHN F.
MITTON FOR BEING VOTED INTO
THE TEXAS RADIO HALL OF
FAME
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate John F. Mitton from Missouri
City, Texas for being voted into the Texas
Radio Hall of Fame.
Mitton, president of a national advertising
agency based in Sugar Land, is one of only
twenty Texas broadcasters who will be in-
ducted into the Hall of Fame. Inductions will
be held on November 2, 2019, at the Texas
Museum of Broadcasting and Communica-
tions. Mitton has always had a strong suit for
‘‘listening to his clients . . . [and] helping de-
velop and refine some of the best niche prod-
ucts ever featured in Texas radio.’’
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to John Mitton for being elected into the Texas
Radio Hall of Fame. Texas has benefited from
his contributions to radio. We are very proud
of him and this incredible accomplishment.
f
TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT
COLONEL ROBERT J. FRIEND
HON. ADAM B. SCHIFF
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the memory of Lieutenant Colonel
Robert Jones Friend, who died on June 21,
2019 in Long Beach, California, surrounded by
his family. Lieutenant Colonel Friend was a
member of the heroic unit known as the
Tuskegee Airmen during World War II.
Robert J. Friend was born on February 29,
1920, in Columbia, South Carolina, to William
A. Friend and Nella Mae Jones Liner. His fa-
ther was an immigrant from Ecuador and a
veteran of World War I. The oldest of four chil-
dren, Robert was an aviation enthusiast from
a young age, often building model airplanes
and reading stories of World War I pilots dur-
ing his childhood. While studying at Lincoln
University in Pennsylvania, he joined the Civil-
ian Pilot Training Program where he earned
his pilot’s license in 1939.
Despite his passion for aviation, he was de-
nied entry into flight training by the Army Air
Force because of his race. Instead he joined
as an air-cadet in the all-black 99th Pursuit
Squadron, nicknamed the Tuskegee Airmen.
During World War II, Lieutenant Colonel
Friend flew 142 missions for the 322nd Fighter
Group. He began his tour in North Africa and
was later sent to the European Theater to
serve as a Combat Operations Officer where
he was instrumental in orchestrating tactical
air missions. He specialized in flying the P–47
and P–51 Mustang aircraft. He experienced
multiple death-defying disasters, including
when he had to abandon his plane over the
mountains of Italy and when a German oil
barge explosion nearly grounded his aircraft.
He became the primary wingman to his com-
manding officer, Colonel Benjamin O. Davis,
Jr., who would become the first black general
in the Air Force. Robert and his fellow airmen
were later awarded the Congressional Gold
Medal for their service to our country.
After his service in World War II, Lieutenant
Colonel Friend continued his education and
received a degree in astrophysics from the Air
Force Institute of Technology, later graduating
from the University of California, Los Angeles
Business School. Additionally, he continued
his career in the military for 28 years by serv-
ing as an operations officer during the Korean
and Vietnam wars, working on the Delta,
Titan, and Atlas rocket programs, and oper-
ating as an executive of the aerospace com-
panies, Stanford Mu and Fairchild Stratos. Fol-
lowing his retirement from military service,
Robert started an aerospace company and
conducted speaking engagements, remaining
dedicated to sharing the legacy of the
Tuskegee Airmen and keeping their history
alive.
Robert J. Friend is survived by his children:
Thelma Hoffman, Robert, Jr., Michael, Debra
Carter, Karen Crumlich, Clara Ann Browning,
18 grandchildren, 32 great-grandchildren, and
14 great-great-grandchildren. The memory of
his son, Darryl, who was killed while on active
duty in 2002, continues to live on today.
It was my great honor to have known Lieu-
tenant Colonel Friend, an intelligent, hard-
working, and spirited man who spent his life in
service to our country. I ask all members to
join with me in remembering Lieutenant Colo-
nel Robert Jones Friend, a true American
hero.
f
FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
SPEECH OF
HON. KENDRA S. HORN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Madam Speaker, the U.S. Government is en-
trusted by the American people with certain
responsibilities. One of these responsibilities is
managing our government’s finances and
using taxpayer dollars wisely. In the last few
decades, our government leaders have too
often ignored this responsibility, opting rather
to pay lip service to responsibly managing our
budget but neglecting to do so in practice.
This neglect has led to rampant spending,
missed budgetary deadlines, and burdensome
borrowing that have become mainstays of
every Congress, regardless of which party
holds the majority. The 116th Congress must
take action to break this unsustainable cycle
and restore the fiscal responsibility Americans
have entrusted us with.
The 2019 GAO High-Risk List reveals that
many federal government programs are over
budget. This financial situation is not specific
to one government agency or program. It can
be found across the federal government.
America must remain a world leader in many
areas, such as scientific research, reliable in-
frastructure, and defense technology, and I
understand that to do so requires large finan-
cial investments. However, it is also my re-
sponsibility as a Member of Congress to en-
sure the money our government spends is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.006 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E960 July 23, 2019
being used effectively and efficiently so Ameri-
cans are getting the most out of their hard-
earned taxpayer dollars.
I have made it a priority to support legisla-
tion that addresses our government’s spend-
ing habits. As a member of the House Armed
Services Committee, I put forth a bipartisan
amendment to the National Defense Author-
ization Act (NDAA) with fellow Oklahoman,
Congressman TOM COLE, to allow the Depart-
ment of Defense (DoD) to have better over-
sight of where and how government defense
money is being spent. The amendment re-
quires the office of the Inspector General to
audit all sole-source contracts with depot
maintenance centers. This audit, and other fi-
nancial accounting tools, act as accountability
measures to ensure the government is being
a good steward of taxpayer money while
keeping our country safe.
As a member of the Government Efficiency
Caucus and the Blue Dog Coalition, I am con-
stantly working with my colleagues to find
ways to promote responsible government
spending. The bipartisan Government Effi-
ciency Caucus works to find pragmatic solu-
tions to government spending that increase
the efficiency and effectiveness of government
programs. The Blue Dog Coalition’s Fiscal Re-
sponsibility Task Force analyzes ways to
strengthen our fiscal responsibility and close
the cycle of widespread government spending.
During the 116th Congress, the Government
Efficiency Caucus has identified three priorities
to improve the government’s fiscal efficiency.
These priorities include focusing on ensuring
government agencies adopt monetary best
practices to increase efficiency and effective-
ness; supporting reasonable policy proposals
that will improve the on-time, on-budget deliv-
ery of federal infrastructure investments; and
modernizing the federal government workforce
to ensure government employees have the
skills, knowledge, and technology, to be good
stewards of taxpayer money.
The Blue Dog Coalition’s Fiscal
Responsivity Task Force has released a set of
policy proposals that include financial stability
measures like creating a federal rainy-day
fund so Congress is less reliant on massive,
unplanned emergency spending when disas-
ters strike. Another proposal emphasizes a re-
turn to the regular process of creating and
passing the federal budget on time every year.
This proposal outlines concepts like ‘‘No
Budget, No Pay’’ and ‘‘No Budget, No Re-
cess,’’ which would increase the con-
sequences on Congress for not passing a fed-
eral budget on time. These and other pro-
posals outlined by the Blue Dog Fiscal Re-
sponsibility Task Force should be given exten-
sive consideration by Congress, so our gov-
ernment can correct the bad fiscal habits it
has developed.
Future generations of Americans should not
have to pay for our irresponsible spending. It
is up to us to get America’s fiscal house in
order so we can prove to the world that we
are a nation that keeps its fiscal promises.
Doing so will not only improve our government
and its standing in the world, but also increase
the faith that taxpayers have in the govern-
ment to spend their money wisely.
RECOGNIZING GERARDO BECERRA
FOR HIS YEARS OF SERVICE TO
THE INTERNATIONAL LONG-
SHOREMEN’S ASSOCIATION
HON. MARIO DIAZ-BALART
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Madam Speaker, on the
occasion of his retirement as President of two
local International Longshoremen’s Associa-
tion (ILA) chapters, I rise today to commemo-
rate the years of service my close friend, Mr.
Gerardo Becerra, has given to the maritime in-
dustry and the thousands of members he pas-
sionately represented in South Florida. Gerry
is a remarkable individual whose legacy in the
port industry and the ILA will never be forgot-
ten.
Born in 1941 in Havana, Cuba, Gerry es-
caped the Castro dictatorship in 1960 and had
to build a new life for himself in South Florida.
Shortly after arriving to the states, Gerry en-
listed in the United States Army in 1962 and
served our nation for a number of years. After
being honorably discharged from the army,
Gerry began working at the ports and in 1965
he was one of the original charter members
for ILA’s Local 1922 chapter.
Gerry’s retirement closes his chapter of over
fifty-four years of service to the longshoremen
industry and the ILA. From 1965 to 1983,
Gerry worked as a checker and plan clerk and
through his hard work and dedication, he was
appointed Vice President in 1984 for Local
1922, Local 1922–1, and Local 2062. In this
role, he represented checkers, mechanics,
and truck drivers. In 2005, he became Presi-
dent of Local 1922 and Local 1922–1 and
served in this position until his retirement. Ad-
ditionally, he served as Vice President of the
ILA from 2006 until 2018. During this time,
Gerry was integral in negotiating contracts,
mediating grievances, and representing the in-
terests of his colleagues.
Having had the privilege of working with
Gerry for many years, his determination and
passion for bettering the longshoremen indus-
try never wavered. While his retirement marks
the end of an era, I have no doubt that Gerry
looks forward to spending more time with his
wife of fifty-six years, Carmen, his two daugh-
ters, nine grandchildren, and extended family.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to pay trib-
ute to the impressive career of my dear friend,
Mr. Gerry Becerra, and the strides he has
made for the hardworking men and women in
the port industry, and I ask my fellow col-
leagues to join me in recognizing this out-
standing individual.
f
NABILA NAZEER EARNS STATE
DEPARTMENT SCHOLARSHIP
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Nabila Nazeer of Travis High
School in Richmond, TX, who was selected for
a scholarship from the U.S. Department of
State’s Youth Ambassadors study abroad ex-
change program.
This highly competitive merit-based scholar-
ship will give Nabila the opportunity to focus
on civic education and leadership develop-
ment projects during an exchange program to
the Caribbean and South America. During this
program, Nabila will develop her foreign lan-
guage skills, increase her cross-cultural under-
standing, strengthening her leadership capac-
ity and foster new academic insights and am-
bitions.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Nabila Nazeer on earning this prestigious
scholarship.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF MR. MOHAM-
MAD SIDDIQUE SHEIKH’S 50
YEARS OF SERVICE TO THE
COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Mr. Mohammad
Siddique Sheikh’s nearly five decades of serv-
ice to our great Commonwealth of Virginia.
Mr. Sheikh was born and raised in
Gujranwala, Pakistan, before moving to the
United States 50 years ago. He came with just
$10 dollars in his pocket, and today he is a
very successful businessman living the Amer-
ican dream. Since moving to this country, Mr.
Sheikh has served our country as a successful
entrepreneur and advocate for the Pakistani
American community in the larger Washington,
D.C. metropolitan area. Mr. Sheikh has also
been on several academic boards and busi-
ness institutions, including George Mason Uni-
versity, one of Virginia’s largest public re-
search institutions. He is also the Founder of
the Pakistan American Business Association
(PABA), a representative body of entre-
preneurs of Pakistani-origin. In recognition of
his service and commitment, he was ap-
pointed as the Chairman of the Council on Di-
versity formed by the Police Chief of Fairfax
County. He served in this position for more
than five years.
Mr. Sheikh is a selfless and dedicated lead-
er in the Pakistani American community. He
has been a torch-bearer in promoting Paki-
stan’s friendly image in the United States. Mr.
Sheikh’s servant leadership can be witnessed
in his work when he helped create the Muslim
Community Center in the state of Maryland
and being a leading voice in the creation of Is-
lamic Circle of North America Sunday School
for Muslim communities residing in the DC
metro area. In the education field, Mr. Sheikh
has been a dominate force in promoting con-
nections between higher institutions in Paki-
stan and the United States. As a member of
the Board of Visitors at George Mason Univer-
sity and Pakistan’s National University of
Science of Technology, he led an effort to cre-
ate opportunities for National University of
Science and Technology faculty and students
to study at George Mason University through
various programs. He also played an active
role in promoting cooperation between GMU
and University of Karachi. Today, the two insti-
tutions are now working on various initiatives
and programs.
Madam Speaker, I have had the privilege to
know Mr. Sheikh for many years and count
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.009 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E961
July 23, 2019
him as a friend. I ask you to join me in rec-
ognition of Mr. Mohammad Siddique Sheikh
leadership, passion, and determination in serv-
ice to our great nation.
f
THE 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF
OREGON RARE PROGRAM
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the 25th anniversary of the Uni-
versity of Oregon Resource Assistance for
Rural Environments (RARE) program. This
AmeriCorps program is administered through
the University of Oregon’s Institute for Policy
Research and Engagement and is dedicated
to improving economic, social, and environ-
mental conditions in rural Oregon commu-
nities.
Since its inception in 1994, more than 600
RARE members have served all 36 counties
and more than half of the cities in Oregon,
providing much needed capacity and expertise
to rural communities. In the past 25 years,
RARE members have completed more than
2,000 assessments, plans, and reports for
local communities, written more than 700
grants, raised over $6 million for communities,
and recruited more than 10,000 community
volunteers who served more than 8.6 million
hours. In the last five years alone, commu-
nities in my congressional district have bene-
fitted from 37 projects and partnerships coordi-
nated by the RARE AmeriCorps Program.
This year, 31 RARE members are working
across the State of Oregon to develop and im-
plement community planning, community and
economic development, natural resource plan-
ning, and community food security/food sys-
tems projects. Current projects in my district
include a RARE member working with the City
of Florence Public Art Committee to select and
install two large-scale public art pieces in the
Urban Renewal District. There is also a two-
year project with the Oregon Coast Visitors
Association focused on community-driven ini-
tiatives for outdoor recreation, signature
events, and culinary and agritourism-related
opportunities on the southern Oregon coast.
I am proud to note that RARE AmeriCorps
Program partnerships include federal and
state agencies and notable non-profit founda-
tions and organizations. The key partners are
the Corporation for National & Community
Service (AmeriCorps), the University of Or-
egon, the Ford Family Foundation, the Oregon
Food Bank, Travel Oregon, Oregon Main
Street, Energy Trust of Oregon, the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, and the Or-
egon Department of Transportation.
It is my pleasure to congratulate the RARE
AmeriCorps Program on 25 years of service to
rural communities in Oregon and to thank
RARE for its many vital contributions. I have
no doubt these first 25 years of success will
serve as the inspiration for the next twenty-
five.
CONGRATULATING THE PEARLAND
HIGH SCHOOL BAND FOR BEING
SELECTED TO PERFORM IN THE
ROSE PARADE
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate the Pearland High School
marching band, also known as ‘‘The Pride of
Pearland,’’ for being chosen to perform in the
131st annual Rose Parade.
The band was chosen for a number of rea-
sons, most notably its member’s community
service efforts, specifically towards hurricane,
Harvey relief. The band was one of 16 chosen
out of over 100 national and international ap-
plicants and the only Texas band selected this
year. In addition to community work, the
bands are judged based on musicality and
marching skills. The band also garnered com-
munity support to help raise the money funds
needed to pay for the trip to Pasadena, Cali-
fornia, for the parade.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to the Pearland marching band for being cho-
sen to represent Texas at the historical Rose
Parade. We are very proud of them and this
incredible accomplishment.
f
CELEBRATING DR. EDNA REHBEIN
HON. JOHN R. CARTER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to celebrate the life and work of Dr.
Edna Rehbein, Assistant Vice-President for
Academic Affairs at Texas State University, as
she retires after 21 years of incredible public
service. With her ‘‘can-do’’ spirit and high-
minded vision, she’s a model citizen and trust-
ed community leader.
Renown for her expertise in Spanish and
Spanish-American Literature, Edna has distin-
guished herself as a gifted educator and nat-
ural-born leader who has made a lasting im-
pact on both her beloved university and the
greater Round Rock, TX community. She’s al-
ways shown tremendous respect and support
for both students and colleagues while work-
ing tirelessly to make Texas State University
Round Rock a world-class educational institu-
tion. She was the first director of the campus
and started it from a program with just 5 class-
es that met at a local high school, to the pro-
gram it is today with over 2,000 students and
three state-of-the art buildings on 101 acres in
northeast Round Rock.
Outside of teaching, Edna contributes her
expertise to various civic organizations in Cen-
tral Texas. She represents Texas State Uni-
versity on community boards and organiza-
tions, including the Round Rock Chamber of
Commerce, Economic Development Board,
Round Rock ISD Partners in Education Board,
and was a founding member of the Round
Rock Arts Council. She is also on the Board
of Trustees of her alma mater, Randolph
(Macon Woman’s) College, in Lynchburg, VA,
and is active at King of King’s Lutheran
Church. Her work to contribute her consider-
able energies to these worthy causes rep-
resent the best of Texas’ generous spirit.
Dr. Edna Rehbein’s retirement is the richly-
deserved beginning of an exciting journey. I
join her former students, colleagues, family,
and friends in honoring her career, com-
mending her commitment to education, and
wishing my friend nothing but the best in the
years ahead.
f
IN APPRECIATION OF THE WHITE
TANKS ROTARY CLUB AND
YOUTH4TROOPS
HON. PAUL A. GOSAR
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. GOSAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to express my appreciation to the White Tanks
Rotary Club and the Youth4Troops organiza-
tion, who are coming together to prepare and
package goods to be shipped to our service
members deployed overseas and for home-
less veterans.
This event brings together two groups dedi-
cated to serving our military members and in-
spiring patriotism in fellow youth, and across
generations by volunteering on behalf of serv-
ice members and veterans everywhere. This
event is intended as an expression of grati-
tude toward the many sacrifices that these
military members make in defense of liberty in
America and around the world. The White
Tanks Rotary Club has made good on its mis-
sion to serve others, promote integrity and ad-
vance world understanding, goodwill, and
peace.
I commend the participants, the White
Tanks Rotary Club and Youth4Troops, for co-
ordinating and hosting this event.
f
RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE AND
CAREER OF AMBASSADOR MAR-
ION H. SMOAK
HON. MICHAEL WALTZ
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. WALTZ. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the service and career of Ambas-
sador Marion H. Smoak as he celebrates his
103rd birthday. Ambassador Smoak has dedi-
cated many years to public service and em-
bodies the principles of a true servant leader.
Ambassador Smoak earned a bachelor’s in
English and History from The Citadel in 1938.
He went on to receive a law degree from the
University of South Carolina Law School in
1941. After receiving his law degree Ambas-
sador Smoak served in the Army as a Judge
Advocate and was stationed in Berlin, Ger-
many and New Caledonia, Japan with the
11th and 82nd Airborne Divisions. Following
his tour abroad, he became a law professor at
the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.
Upon leaving his position at West Point,
Ambassador Smoak continued to serve in the
Army as a Legislative Liaison Officer right
here in Washington, D.C. During his service,
he assisted in drafting legislation and per-
formed liaison duties both with Congress and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.012 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E962 July 23, 2019
the Department of Justice, State, and Depart-
ment of Defense. Ambassador Smoak then
became Chief of the Legislative Drafting Divi-
sion for the Judge Advocate General. He
served as Chief until 1961 when he retired
from the Army as a Lieutenant Colonel. Fol-
lowing his retirement, Ambassador Smoak
continued to serve his community by pursing
elected office in the South Carolina State Sen-
ate.
Upon completing his term in the Senate,
Ambassador Smoak was appointed to serve at
the State Department as the Deputy Chief of
Protocol, then Chief of Protocol for President
Nixon. During this time Smoak was witness to
many historic events of diplomacy. When he
retired from the State Department in 1974, he
was given the title of Ambassador. His storied
career continued when he was named Co-
Chairman on the Committee of Finance for
then Presidential candidate Ronald Reagan.
Ambassador Smoak went on to practice inter-
national law until his retirement.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in celebrating the career and lifelong serv-
ant leadership of Ambassador Smoak. It is
with great pride that we thank him for his serv-
ice and wish him continued health and happi-
ness with his friends, family, and loved ones.
Furthermore I hope that he may continue to
enjoy his well-deserved daily martinis.
f
RECOGNIZING PRETRIAL, PROBA-
TION AND PAROLE SUPERVISION
WEEK OF 2019
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I
rise to recognize the nation’s community cor-
rections professionals and the vital role they
play in enhancing public safety throughout the
United States. In honor of the invaluable con-
tributions of these dedicated public servants,
the American Probation and Parole Associa-
tion (APPA) and its associated members have
designated the week of July 21 through 27
‘‘Pretrial, Probation and Parole Supervision
Week 2019.’’
I thank the thousands of men and women
who perform these important public safety du-
ties and urge my colleagues in the House of
Representatives to join me in support of
APPA’s week-long recognition efforts this
year. Thousands of women and men in the
nation’s capital and across the country serve
as pretrial, probation and parole officers or ad-
ministrators. As public servants, they, along
with many other Americans, commit them-
selves on a daily basis to helping improve the
lives of those involved in the criminal justice
system. The work of these professionals ulti-
mately results in stronger and safer commu-
nities for all.
Community corrections professionals are re-
sponsible for the supervision of adult and juve-
nile offenders in communities throughout our
nation. These trained professionals go above
and beyond the call of duty by connecting
their clients to supportive services, community-
based resources, employment opportunities,
housing programs and other evidence-based
practices that help individuals successfully
complete supervision and reenter society.
Community corrections professionals strive to
provide these services and support, while si-
multaneously providing client surveillance,
crime prevention and restorative justice.
In honor of Pretrial, Probation and Parole
Supervision Week 2019, I take the opportunity
to recognize those who carry out community
corrections and supervision services especially
in the District of Columbia, including the offi-
cers and professionals of the Court Services
and Offender Supervision Agency for the Dis-
trict of Columbia (CSOSA). CSOSA and the
Pretrial Services Agency for the District of Co-
lumbia (PSA) are dedicated to reducing recidi-
vism and enhancing public safety in the na-
tion’s capital. CSOSA and PSA are recognized
as model community supervision entities be-
cause of their use of evidence-based practices
and community partnerships. On any given
day, CSOSA is responsible for supervising ap-
proximately 10,500 individuals on probation,
parole or supervised release, while PSA su-
pervises over 17,000 defendants over the
course of a year. Charged with having to bal-
ance issues of public safety with social serv-
ices and reentry support, the employees of
CSOSA and PSA help to enhance the security
of everyone who lives, works or visits the Dis-
trict.
Madam Speaker, again, I extend my grati-
tude to these public servants for their commit-
ment, compassion and contributions to
healthier and safer communities throughout
the United States. I ask the House of Rep-
resentatives to join me in acknowledging the
impact community corrections professionals
have on the quality of life of all Americans
throughout our country by recognizing July 21
through 27 as Pretrial, Probation and Parole
Supervision Week 2019.
f
HONORING YMCA YOUTH AND
GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
HON. DONALD M. PAYNE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I proudly
honor the YMCA Youth and Government Pro-
gram. Over the past 80 years, the YMCA
Youth and Government Program has paved
the way in creating the next generation of ac-
tively engaged leaders.
The national program invites young people
from across the United States to participate in
state-organized and model-government pro-
grams where they can participate in volun-
teering activities and get early exposure to
practice governance and democracy. The pro-
gram also provides the tools and resources to
support all youth development through holistic
programming. This program has played a cru-
cial role in using the YMCA core values to cul-
tivate a new generation of leaders.
My father, the late Donald M. Payne, was
the first African American president of the Na-
tional Council of YMCAs. He believed in the
YMCA’s mission to support our country’s
youth through mentorship opportunities. As
someone who has participated in the YMCA
Youth and Government Program, I actively
support its mission of empowering young lead-
ers to not only be active in their community,
but also reshape the world.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
join me in honoring the YMCA Youth and Gov-
ernment Program.
HONORING HANK SCHREEDER
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today with Representative
JARED HUFFMAN to honor Hank Schreeder for
his service as the Santa Rosa Chief of Police
and thank him for his commitment to our com-
munity upon his retirement.
Chief Schreeder earned a Bachelor of
Science in Administration of Criminal Justice
from California State University Long Beach
and a Master of Criminal Justice Program
from the American Military University. He is
also a graduate of the California Commission
on Peace Officer Standards and Training, the
Supervisory Leadership Institute, and the
Command College. In addition, Chief
Schreeder was a leader in the development of
Sonoma County’s Family Justice Center and
served as a member of the Chop’s Teen Club
Board.
During his time as Santa Rosa Chief of Po-
lice, Chief Schreeder increased transparency
and worked to balance the needs of the com-
munity within budgetary limits. Chief
Schreeder additionally bolstered community
engagement by working with various commu-
nity-based organizations to combat homeless-
ness and develop long term solutions to the
problem. Under Chief Schreeder’s instru-
mental leadership, the Santa Rosa Police De-
partment led a coordinated response to the
October 2017 fires, drawing upon hundreds of
officers from a mix of agencies to evacuate
residents, find missing people, and patrol fire
areas.
Madam Speaker, Chief Schreeder is an im-
portant member of our community and a true
public servant. It is therefore fitting and proper
that we honor Chief Schreeder here today.
f
EMMA SCHLOMANN EARNS GIRL
SCOUT GOLD AWARD
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Emma Schlomann of Katy, Texas
for earning the Girl Scout Gold Award.
This is the highest award given to Girl
Scouts and less than 5 percent achieve it. It
is awarded to girls who develop and execute
a project to make a lasting impact on an issue
they are passionate about. Emma chose to do
a Seizure Awareness campaign called
‘‘Project Caesar.’’ This project is deeply per-
sonal to her as she was diagnosed with sei-
zures almost 10 years ago. As part of her
project, Emma created a six-minute inform-
ative video, which was sent to several school
campuses in Katy ISD for teachers to show to
students in their classrooms. She also gave a
presentation to a group of 40 people to help
spread awareness for seizure disorder. Emma
received this Girl Scout Gold Award for her
hard work and dedication to this project and
her community.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.017 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E963
July 23, 2019
to Emma Schlomann for earning the pres-
tigious Girl Scout Gold Award.
f
HONORING WILLIAM MAY
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I pause to call attention to the upcoming retire-
ment of a Missouri leader, advocate, legal
scholar, and friend of small business.
For twenty years, Mr. William ‘‘Bill’’ May has
served as executive director and general
counsel at the Missouri Outdoor Advertising
Association (MOAA). He will retire at the end
of 2019.
An attorney, Bill May is considered an ex-
pert on regulation of out of home advertising
in Missouri. His advice and counsel are sought
by officeholders and staff, government offi-
cials, landowners, and billboard companies.
Bill began his career with Pioneer Outdoor
Advertising in Springfield; he was promoted to
general manager and general counsel. Soon
after he assumed leadership of the Missouri
Outdoor Advertising Association in 1999, vot-
ers faced an anti-billboard statewide ballot
measure (‘‘Proposition A’’) which was defeated
on November 7, 2000.
Recognized nationally for his trade associa-
tion leadership, Bill is an effective advocate for
property rights, new technology, and common-
sense flexibility for our state to save time and
money in carrying out its regulatory duties.
As a supporter of law enforcement, I com-
mend Bill and his colleagues in the billboard
industry for partnerships to help find fugitives
and missing persons and also deliver emer-
gency information.
Please join me in congratulating Bill May
and his wife Gail for their long service to Mis-
souri and the out of home media industry.
f
IN HONOR OF NAMPA’S 25TH
ANNIVERSARY
HON. LANCE GOODEN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. GOODEN. Madam Speaker, I include in
the RECORD the following Proclamation:
Whereas, the North American Mature Pub-
lishers Association, Inc (NAMPA) is cele-
brating its 25th anniversary on October 13,
2019; and
Whereas, this prestigious association is
holding its annual international convention and
anniversary celebration in Memphis, Ten-
nessee, where publishers, editors, staff, and
guests of senior/boomer publications from
across the United States and Canada will
gather for educational and networking ses-
sions; and
Whereas, NAMPA is a non-profit association
of 96 member publications in 36 US States,
and two Provinces in Canada with more than
4 million mature readers per month with its
international headquarters located in Shreve-
port, Louisiana; and
Whereas, NAMPA’s purpose and mission is
to help magazines and newspapers that focus
on the mature market to improve their quality
in terms of design and content, while also in-
creasing revenue; and
Whereas, we wish to officially recognize and
honor this outstanding association, its mem-
bers, officers, and its current Executive Direc-
tor, Gary L. Calligas, for their ongoing commit-
ment to education and service to mature read-
ers;
Now, therefore, we urge all citizens to sup-
port this milestone anniversary.
f
HONORING MR. ROBERT CLEMM
HON. SCOTT PERRY
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Mr. Robert Clemm, who has served ac-
tively for 60 continuous years with the Camp
Hill Fire Company. Mr. Clemm joined the com-
pany in June of 1959. During his college
years, he volunteered as a dispatcher. While
he served as Assistant Fire Chief for many
years, he now serves with the Fire Police. He
has consistently distinguished himself over
these 60 years through quiet leadership, abil-
ity, dedication and kindness. His efforts have
improved fire safety not only in Camp Hill, but
across the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Education has been a core part of Mr.
Clemm’s mission. While volunteering with the
Fire Company, he earned his Bachelor’s De-
gree in education from Millersville University of
Pennsylvania and, in 1963, began a distin-
guished career as an award-winning industrial
science teacher in the Big Springs School Dis-
trict.
Mr. Clemm used his skill as an educator to
become a state-certified fire instructor for the
Pennsylvania State Fire Academy. He taught
advanced specialty classes, with topics includ-
ing vehicle rescue, aerial operations, and
methods for use of rural water supplies. When
the Fire Academy faced budget troubles, he
volunteered his time to ensure that Pennsylva-
nia’s firefighters would have the best training
possible. He’s also worked as an instructor in
the Fire Science program at the Harrisburg
Area Community College, where he helped to
prepare future generations of fire instructors.
Mr. Clemm believes in teaching and pre-
paring for the future, which not only makes
him an effective teacher, but effective leader
and mentor. His support, guidance, and inspi-
ration to his fellow firefighters have spurred
many to greater heights, strengthening the
Company, ensuring its future, and improving
the safety of the community.
After serving for decades as a firefighter,
spending most of those years as Assistant
Fire Chief, Mr. Clemm has moved on to sup-
port the Company’s fire police operation. He’s
been instrumental in upgrading training for the
fire police both locally and at the state level,
and his insight has been invaluable as the
Company acquired two fire police units.
On behalf of Pennsylvania’s Tenth Congres-
sional District, I extend my heartfelt congratu-
lations and sincere gratitude to Mr. Robert
Clemm for his selfless and tireless service to
our community and Country.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, on June 28, I indicated how I would
have voted on certain votes I missed that
week. For three votes the wrong bill number is
listed in the Record. To clarify, here is the cor-
rect information with respect to those votes:
Roll Call Vote Number 412 (Passing H.
AMDT. 485 to H.R. 3351 offered by Rep. El-
eanor Holmes Norton): Yes; Roll Call Vote
Number 424 (Passing H.R. 3351, the Financial
Services and General Government Appropria-
tions Act, 2020): Yes; and, Roll Call Vote
Number 429 (Agreeing to the Senate Amend-
ment to H.R. 3401, the Emergency Supple-
mental Appropriations for Humanitarian Assist-
ance and Security at the Southern Border Act,
2019): No.
f
RECOGNIZING HAVEN MEGED OF
MILES CITY
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Haven Meged, of Miles City,
for his outstanding success as a rookie on the
rodeo circuit.
The Miles City native became involved in
rodeo around the age of 11, and at 21, he is
ranked in the top 10 in the world for tie-down
roping. After his win at the College National
Finals in June, he continues to take the Amer-
ican rodeo scene by storm.
With his mare named Beyoncé, Haven is
working toward his goal ‘‘to be rookie of the
year, qualify for the National Finals Rodeo,
and win a gold buckle.’’
At Custer County High, Haven won over 10
high school rodeo championships before going
on to be a true freshman roper in college.
After his first year, he transferred to a re-
nowned rodeo school in Texas.
At Tarleton State University, his professors
and rodeo coaches work with him to balance
his books and his rodeo career. As busy and
successful as Haven has been, he continues
to focus on his studies and tie downs.
Rodeo is part of our Montana way of life.
While the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Asso-
ciation was founded in 1936, the roots of
rodeo go back even further. During the sum-
mer, almost every city in Montana hosts a
rodeo, either amateur or professional, making
the cowboy sport a welcome sight. Hundreds
of young men and women participate, carrying
on the tradition of life on the cattle trail.
Madam Speaker, for his outstanding accom-
plishments as a young rodeo competitor, for
his dedication to the Professional Rodeo Cow-
boys Association, and for preserving the
American cowboy tradition, I recognize Haven
Meged of Miles City for his spirit of Montana.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.021 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E964 July 23, 2019
HONORING CARMEL MANOR
HON. THOMAS MASSIE
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. MASSIE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in honor of Carmel Manor in Fort Thomas, KY.
Carmel Manor has been providing care for
seniors in the northern Kentucky community
for 70 years.
Carmel Manor served its first residents in
1949 after the Diocese of Covington asked the
Carmelite Sisters to administer the home. The
Carmelite Sisters are united in and motivated
by the belief that life is valuable from concep-
tion to its natural end. They understand it is
hard to leave a loved one in the care of an-
other, but the staff of Carmel Manor have
proven they know how to care for the whole
person—not just physical needs but spiritual,
emotional, and social needs as well.
Throughout its history, Carmel Manor has
worked to honor its residents ’ lives with com-
passion, dignity, and joy. They have achieved
this by growing with the needs of their com-
munity.
Congratulations to Carmel Manor on their
70th anniversary. May they continue their mis-
sion to care in the years to come.
f
CHUCK BRAWNER RECEIVES LEAD-
ERSHIP AND ECONOMIC DEVEL-
OPMENT AWARD
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Chuck Brawner for being
named a recipient of the Stan C. Stanley
‘‘Eagle’’ Leadership and Economic Develop-
ment Award.
The Stan Stanley awards recognize a volun-
teer and elected official who have done their
part to inspire leadership and economic
growth in the Katy area. Mr. Brawner, mayor
of the city of Katy, received the award in the
elected official category for his dedication to
our Katy community. Prior to being elected
mayor in 2017, Mr. Brawner served as chief of
police for the Spring Branch Independent
School District Police Department. Our com-
munity is grateful for the forty years that he
has dedicated to public service and law en-
forcement.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Mr. Brawner for this honor.
f
RECOGNIZING HILLSBOROUGH
COMMUNITY COLLEGE FOR ITS
50TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. KATHY CASTOR
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize Hillsborough Commu-
nity College (HCC) for its 50th anniversary.
Since 1968, Hillsborough Community College
has provided the people of the Tampa Bay
community with an affordable and quality edu-
cation.
Ever since holding its first classes at
Hillsborough High School in my hometown of
Tampa, Florida, HCC has since grown to be-
come an accredited institution serving over
44,000 students each year across 5 campuses
and 3 training centers. HCC has expanded to
offer 190 academic programs, ranging from
Paralegal Studies to Engineering Technology.
More than 84 percent of HCC graduates re-
main in Hillsborough County after graduation.
Their contributions to our community are
irreplaceable. HCC’s graduates make
Hillsborough County a better place.
HCC is a vibrant and diverse community
with students of many different backgrounds.
HCC also has been recognized as a Hispanic
Serving Institution, meaning more than 25 per-
cent of full-time HCC students are Hispanic or
Latino. The 50th graduating class included
students aged 16 to 72 years old. To cele-
brate the diversity of their campuses and en-
courage retention, in 2006 HCC hosted its first
Annual Black, Brown & College Bound (BBCB)
Summit. The Summit brings accomplished
professionals and scholars together with Black
and Latino male students to discuss barriers
that affect persistence and completion among
minority males. In its 13th year, BBCB has
grown nationally to include more than 150 dif-
ferent colleges and universities from 40 states.
HCC has is not just be an institution of high-
er learning, but part of the fabric of our com-
munity—hosting events such as a hearing of
the United States Senate on small, premium
cigar businesses in the college’s Cigar City
campus, forums to address the persistence of
sexual harassment in the workplace and en-
rollment events for the Affordable Care Act to
expand health care coverage to our most vul-
nerable neighbors.
Hillsborough Community College plays a
critical role in preparing young students for
promising futures in the workforce. I applaud
HCC’s success in preparing students for con-
tinued education and professional careers. I
am eager to see where HCC’s next 50 years
will lead students in the Tampa Bay
community.
f
IN MEMORY OF THEODORE J.
‘‘TED’’ PLAMONDON, JR.
HON. JOE COURTNEY
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the life and service of
Theodore J. ‘‘Ted’’ Plamondon, Jr. Teddy was
a constituent of mine from Enfield, CT. He
passed away last Tuesday at the age of 93.
Ted was born and raised in Enfield. He
worked as a police officer and served as Hart-
ford County sheriff, state marshal, and town
constable. Additionally, he served for 22 years
in the U.S. Navy and Navy Reserve through-
out World War II, the Korean War, and the
war in Vietnam. Consequently, it should come
as no surprise that Teddy was the biggest ad-
vocate for veterans Enfield has ever seen. He
organized both the Memorial Day and Vet-
erans Day parades every year, was chairman
of the Enfield Veterans Council, and was in-
volved with AMVETS Post 18, VFW Post
1501, and the John Maciolek American Legion
Post 154. He was also instrumental in secur-
ing a new World War II monument in town.
And, as if all that weren’t enough, he was an
active member of the Democratic Town Com-
mittee.
As a testament to Teddy’s popularity and
how deeply beloved he was by his community,
Enfield residents took turns keeping constant
vigil at his bedside as he ailed.
Madam Speaker, I had the privilege of
knowing Ted Plamondon for over twenty years
from his involvement in the court system, local
politics and tireless veteran advocacy. He was
outspoken, and you always knew where he
stood—even if it meant ruffling feathers. En-
field, the town he loved, lost a devoted citizen
whose life embodied public service. It was a
privilege to know him and call him a friend. I
ask my colleagues to join me in extending sin-
cerest condolences to Ted’s surviving family,
for their loss.
f
HONORING WBA SUPER BANTAM-
WEIGHT CHAMPION RONNY RIOS
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor lifelong Santa Ana resident and the
WBA Super Bantamweight Champion of the
World, Ronny Rios.
Ronny was born in Compton, California and
his family moved to Santa Ana when he was
just a toddler. Ronny grew up in Santa Ana
and attended Monroe Elementary School,
McFadden Intermediate School and graduated
from Saddleback High School, where he was
a proud Roadrunner.
Ronny was introduced to boxing at the age
of 13, when he joined the local boxing club,
TKO Boxing. Ronny immediately dem-
onstrated talent in the sport and became one
of the top prospects at TKO Boxing.
Ronny began to make a name for himself
as an amateur boxer. He was a finalist in the
Olympic Trials, narrowly missing a spot on the
2008 Olympic Team. He was a two-time U.S.
Amateur National Champion and national
Golden Gloves Champion. Ronny was one of
the most decorated amateurs to hit the boxing
scene in many years.
In 2009, Ronny made the step to become a
professional boxer and signed with Golden
Boy Promotions, the boxing promotion com-
pany run by legendary boxer Oscar De La
Hoya.
As a professional boxer, Ronny racked up
an impressive list of wins, going 23–0 in his
first 5 years as a professional with 12 knock-
outs. He scored NABF and WBA Silver Cham-
pionships and sought a world champion title.
After a couple of losses, Ronny went into
semi-retirement in early 2018, choosing to
enter a career in real estate. A year later,
Ronny returned to the sport to take one last
shot at a title. The comeback began with a win
over Daniel Olea on April 26.
Ronny’s next fight was for a title was
against the undefeated Diego De La Hoya,
cousin of Oscar De La Hoya, and a rising star
in the sport of boxing. Ronny was considered
the underdog.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.027 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E965
July 23, 2019
The two faced off at Dignity Health Sports
Park in Carson on July 13, 2019 for the titles
of NABF Super Bantamweight and the WBA
Super Bantamweight Champion. In an ending
that could be written for a movie, Ronny com-
pleted his comeback and achieved his dream
of a world title with a 6-round knockout of De
La Hoya, who suffered his first loss.
With this win, Ronny was crowned the
NABF Super Bantamweight Title and the WBA
Super Bantamweight Champion. Ronny Rios
has truly made Santa Ana and America proud.
Please join me in recognizing world boxing
champion and my constituent, Ronny Rios.
f
HIGHLIGHTING THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE MANUFACTURING LEAD-
ERSHIP ACT
HON. TOM REED
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
express my support for the Manufacturing
USA Programs, the Manufacturing Institutes
and their role in advancing U.S. Manufac-
turing.
These programs are the only ones of their
kind in this country designed to bring business
partners together in full collaboration, built to
foster communities of innovators and entre-
preneurs, and equipped to move specific new
technologies into the manufacturing main-
stream. We need these types of communities
to propel advanced manufacturing out of the
research labs and into the marketplace. The
United States is a global leader in scientific
and engineering research, but we are lagging
in taking that research into the marketplace.
The Manufacturing USA program has shown
that the time to market can be greatly reduced
in the right environment.
In the four short years of their existence, 14
Manufacturing Institutes have entered sepa-
rate technology areas key to our future com-
petitiveness. The partners in these institutes
contribute matching funds equal to or greater
than the government share. At the end of
2017, the matching funds were already being
invested at $1.50 for every $1 investment from
the federal government, speaking to the en-
thusiasm of the industry participation.
More importantly, 844 manufacturing firms
and 297 educational institutions were partici-
pating in the collective institutes along with
150 other entities, such as state and local
governments.
In the years since that report, the Manufac-
turing USA program has reached a spending
match of $2 for every $1 of federal funding,
with 1,300 member organizations across the
institutes, supporting 270 major collaborative
industry-led R&D projects, and offered training
opportunities for more than 200,000 people.
As a result, global competition in the manu-
facturing sector is growing tremendously. Sev-
eral of our international competitors have fo-
cused government-supported efforts to de-
velop their industrial sectors and commer-
cialization strategies.
The European Union’s Horizon 2020 pro-
gram invested 80 billion Euros in funding over
7 years and a follow-on program is in develop-
ment.
Germany’s Fraunhofer Society, established
in 1949, currently includes 72 institutes fo-
cused on applied research and development
across various technology domains relevant to
manufacturing. In 2017, the Fraunhofer Soci-
ety budget totaled about $2.6 billion, with
about $2.25 billion in contract research. 30
percent of this budget comes from government
funds, and 70 percent from private.
China has set advancing manufacturing as
one of their six top priorities and is on the path
to opening 40 manufacturing institutes by
2025. The country is following the plan set by
the Manufacturing USA program.
Korea (a country less than 1/6 the size of
the USA) is spending $291M on the Korea In-
stitute of Industrial Technology (KIIT), estab-
lished in 1989 to strengthen their small and
mid-sized manufacturing base.
The list goes on: Japan, Singapore, the UK,
and others are all heavily investing in manu-
facturing.
This is why The Manufacturing USA pro-
gram is so important—because it is our best
effort to respond strategically as a nation to
this mounting competition. The program allows
the United States to focus its resources on
high-value industries and ensure future leader-
ship around the globe.
In December 2017, the White House pub-
lished a National Security Strategy of the
United States which states, ‘‘Economic secu-
rity is national security’’ and calls out the need
to lead in research, technology, invention, and
innovation.
In response, the National Institute of Stand-
ards and Technology reached out to our coun-
trymen and women and reported on how we
can better come together as a country and
make use of our government investments.
They reported 5 strategies to transfer the re-
sults of Federal research and development in-
vestments to the benefit of our country’s com-
mercial, economic, and national security inter-
ests. This report is the most extensive of its
kind to explore the value of Federal US re-
search investments.
Furthermore, the Manufacturing USA pro-
gram is uniquely positioned to address and is
addressing the following 4 strategies: Private
sector engagement, Entrepreneurial workforce,
Tools and services for technology transfer,
and Understanding of global science and tech-
nology trends and benchmarks.
The groundwork for this program has been
laid. The strategy for supporting our industrial
base and securing our economic future has
been thought through. We must continue our
support for this program to safeguard our con-
tinued prosperity. I urge you all to support this
bill to extend the term of federal funding for
the Manufacturing USA program and to ex-
pand on the government-private partnerships
operating under the program.
f
DICK PHILLIPS RECEIVES LEAD-
ERSHIP AND ECONOMIC DEVEL-
OPMENT AWARD
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Dick Phillips for being named a
recipient of the Stan C. Stanley ‘‘Eagle’’ Lead-
ership and Economic Development Award.
The Stan Stanley awards recognize a volun-
teer and elected official who have done their
part to inspire leadership and economic
growth in the Katy area. Mr. Phillips, Univer-
sity of Houston Vice President of Community
Engagement, received the award in the volun-
teer category. He was crucial in recruiting the
University of Houston Victoria and the Univer-
sity of Houston Katy campus to the Katy area.
This accomplishment is creating jobs and op-
portunities for the hard-working individuals in
our community.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations to Mr.
Phillips. We wish him the best of luck on his
future endeavors on behalf of Katy, TX.
f
STOP CRUELTY TO MIGRANT
CHILDREN ACT
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. MENG. Madam Speaker, I rise to em-
phasize the urgent need to assist migrant chil-
dren at our Southern land border. The Trump
Administration’s treatment of asylum-seeking
families at the border is un-American and in-
humane.
There have been over 2,500 children sepa-
rated from their families at our border. Of the
2,500, 1,033 were under the age of ten when
they were detained, including 103 that were
under five. Last year, I traveled to Texas to
see the conditions first-hand. At the McAllen
CBP Central Processing Center, I saw chil-
dren being kept in large cages, most sepa-
rated from their parents. At the Port Isabel ICE
Detention Center, I cried with mothers who
had their children taken away from them.
A year later and there are still serious over-
crowding and prolonged detention of unac-
companied migrant children. At Rio Grande
Valley, 826 of the 2,669 children detained had
been held longer than the 72 hours generally
permitted under the current CBP standards
and the Flores Agreement. Furthermore, chil-
dren had no access to showers and had not
been provided hot meals.
Madam Speaker, no child should have to
endure the conditions of the Trump adminis-
tration’s anti-immigrant rhetoric, regardless of
their immigration status. UNHCR’s High Com-
missioner for Human Rights, Michelle
Bachelet, herself said she was ‘‘deeply
shocked that children are forced to sleep on
the floor in overcrowded facilities, without ac-
cess to adequate healthcare or food, and with
poor sanitation conditions.’’ Detention is never
in the best interest of any child—and it is
heartbreaking to know that these children may
have serious damage to their health and de-
velopment as a result of this Administration’s
shameful practice.
This is why I am introducing the ‘‘Stop Cru-
elty to Migrant Children Act’’. This the bill
would:
End family separations except in situations
where the child is a trafficking victim, not the
child of the accompanying adult, or in danger
of abuse or neglect.
Set minimum health and safety standards
for children and families in Border Patrol Sta-
tions; require access to toothbrushes, diapers,
soap and showers and other hygiene prod-
ucts; require regular nutritious meals; and en-
sure a prompt medical assessment by trained
medical providers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.031 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E966 July 23, 2019
End for-profit contractors from operating
new Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR)
standard shelters or influx facilities. Such shel-
ters or facilities must be state-licensed, meet
Flores Settlement Agreement standards, and
not used to house children indefinitely.
Expand alternatives to detention and the
successful Family Case Management Program
(FCMP), which was a program that was de-
signed to increase compliance with immigra-
tion obligations through a comprehensive case
management strategy supported by commu-
nity organizations.
Remove roadblocks to placing unaccom-
panied children with sponsors by lowering the
total number of cases a manager may take,
mandating lower staffing ratios, and ending
the information sharing agreement between
ORR and Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment (ICE).
Ensure unaccompanied children have ac-
cess to legal counsel and continue to be
placed in a safe setting for their initial asylum
case review.
Provide resources to non-profit centers that
are helping provide humanitarian assistance.
Permit Members of Congress, accom-
panying staff, and credentialed press (without
cameras) to visit any facility with 24-hour no-
tice.
We need to ensure that our government
funds must not be used to traumatize or harm
asylum seekers. The Trump administration’s
lack of empathy and compassion for migrant
families and children at the U.S.-Mexico bor-
der is heartbreaking and demands action by
Congress. Those who come to our nation
should be treated with dignity and respect and
that is something the administration has failed
to provide when treating migrant families. We
have a crisis at the southern border, and we
need to ensure our officials have the re-
sources they need while respecting the dignity
of those in the U.S. government’s care. I urge
my colleagues to support this legislation and
join me in the fight to protect children’s human
rights.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF JOHN
FARRITOR’S 100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. MIKE LEVIN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. LEVIN of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the 100th birthday of
veteran and integral part of the San Diego and
Camp Pendleton communities, John Farritor.
John was born on July 9, 1919 in Broken
Bow, Nebraska. At the age of 13, John
dropped out of school to run his family’s 720-
acre hay farm. Although he wanted to enlist
after Germany invaded Poland in 1939, he
waited a year to help his mother at the ranch
before joining the Marines.
John started boot camp at the Marine Corps
Recruit Depot in San Diego in July 1941 and
was later stationed at Camp Pendleton as a
member of the 3rd Marine Division Field Artil-
lery. John is one of the few surviving Marines
who marched 55 miles from Camp Elliot to the
newly opened Camp Pendleton in Oceanside
in September 1942.
John’s division played a crucial role in sev-
eral battles in the Pacific, including the battle
to liberate Guam and the battle of Iwo Jima.
He remembers watching his fellow soldiers
raising the American flag after the battle of
Iwo Jima. The morning after the battle, he
rose at dawn to make sure the flag was still
flying over the hill.
John continued his service after the war and
joined the 11th Marine Regiment, 1st Battalion
at Camp Pendleton. He served in the Korean
War, where he received a wound to the hand
from flying shrapnel. Despite his years of serv-
ice, he has refused a Purple Heart and does
not like being called a war hero. He says that
‘‘all of the real heroes were buried over there.’’
During his 30 years of service in the Ma-
rines, he rose from the rank of private to first
sergeant. He documented his experiences in
his memoir Through It All: Stories from the
Top, published in 2001.
John Farritor has lived an incredible and full
life. He is a true inspiration for our community,
and we cannot thank him enough for his serv-
ice to his country and to Camp Pendleton.
John Farritor celebrated his birthday on July
9 with friends and family in Vista, California. I
am honored to pay tribute to John, and I wish
him a very happy 100th birthday.
f
HANNA TEERMAN EARNS STATE
DEPARTMENT SCHOLARSHIP
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Hanna Teerman of Cinco Ranch
High School in Katy, TX, who was selected for
a scholarship from the U.S. Department of
State’s National Security Language Initiative
for Youth.
This highly competitive merit-based scholar-
ship will give Hanna the opportunity to live
overseas in language immersion program to
acquire skills that are critical to U.S. national
security. During this program, Hanna will de-
velop her foreign language skills, increase her
cross-cultural understanding, strengthening
her leadership capacity and foster new aca-
demic insights and ambitions.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Hanna Teerman on earning this prestigious
scholarship.
f
RAISE THE WAGE ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. ROBERT C. ‘‘BOBBY’’ SCOTT
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I in-
clude in the RECORD the following letters in
support of H.R. 582, Raise the Wage Act:
International Brotherhood of Teamsters; Na-
tional Urban League; Disability Coalition;
Health Care Groups; Interreligious Working
Group on Domestic Human Needs; First
Focus Campaign for Children; Network Lobby
for Catholic Social Justice; Americans for
Democratic Action; and National Employment
Lawyers Association.
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD
OF TEAMSTERS,
July 16, 2019.
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: This week, the
House of Representatives will take up H.R.
582, the Raise the Wage Act of 2019. The
International Brotherhood of Teamsters
urges you to vote for H.R. 582.
Income inequality is on an alarming tra-
jectory and continues to rise unabated. Nei-
ther record-breaking corporate profits nor
increased productivity have reversed or
slowed this trend. This is not the kind of
economy we should be building. The Raise
the Wage Act is essential to bringing some
measure or fairness and justice to workers
who toil at the lower-end of the wage scale.
It is an important step we can take to ad-
dress growing pay inequality. An increase in
the federal minimum wage, which has not in-
creased since 2009, is long overdue.
H.R. 582 would raise the federal minimum
wage from $7.25 to $15.00 per hour by 2024. It
would increase the minimum wage to $8.55
this year, with increases over the subsequent
six years. After 2024, the minimum wage
would be indexed to median wage growth to
ensure that its value does not erode.
Finally, the bill would remedy an egre-
gious situation that has gone on for far too
long. The bill would phase out the submin-
imum wage for tipped workers, which has
been frozen at a paltry $2.13 per hour for
more than 20 years. And, it would end the
subminimum wage for workers with disabil-
ities employed in sheltered workshops and
for workers under age 20.
No one who works hard and plays by the
rules should live in poverty. Much is said
about valuing work, and about respecting
work. If we truly value work, if we truly re-
spect work, the House will pass H.R. 582, the
Raise the Wage Act of 2019.
Again, the Teamsters Union urges a yes
vote on H.R. 582.
Sincerely,
JAMES P. HOFFA,
General President.
NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE
WASHINGTON BUREAU,
July 15, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: As President and
CEO of the National Urban League, I am
writing to express our strong support for im-
mediate passage of the Raise the Wage Act of
2019 (H.R. 582). Raising the minimum wage to
$15/hour is a key provision of the National
Urban League’s Main Street Marshall Plan, a
bold and comprehensive plan for lifting
urban communities out of poverty and stim-
ulating their economic growth.
The National Urban League has been in
every fight to raise the minimum wage.
While the road from poverty to plenty is
long, raising the federal minimum wage from
$7.25 to $15/hour is an important and long
overdue first step in lifting millions of fami-
lies out of poverty and giving them a chance
at a better life. No one—absolutely no one-
who works full time should ever live in pov-
erty. Yet, according to the Economic Policy
Institute (EPI), one in nine U.S. workers are
paid wages that can leave them in poverty,
even when working full-time and year-round.
Raising the minimum wage to $15 would
have a major impact on people of color. Ac-
cording to research, 38.1 percent of Black
workers and 33.4 percent of Hispanic workers
would get a raise if the federal minimum
wage were increased to $15.
We applaud the Raise the Wage Act of 2019
because it is a comprehensive minimum
wage bill that would positively impact work-
ers on different levels. H.R. 582 would:
Gradually raise the federal minimum wage
from $7.25 to $15 over the next six years to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.034 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E967
July 23, 2019
lift millions of workers out of poverty, stim-
ulate local economies, and restore the value
of minimum wage;
Index future increases in the federal min-
imum wage to median wage growth to ensure
the value of minimum wage does not once
again erode over time;
Guarantee tipped workers are paid at least
the full federal minimum wage by repealing
the subminimum wage for tipped workers,
which will ensure consistent, livable pay;
Guarantee teen workers are paid at least
the full federal minimum wage by repealing
the rarely used subminimum wage for youth
workers; and
End subminimum wage certificates for in-
dividuals with disabilities to provide oppor-
tunities for individuals with disabilities to
be competitively employed, taxpaying citi-
zens and participate more fully in their com-
munities.
Putting more money in the pockets of
working Americans who will reinvest in our
economy on things like groceries and hous-
ing will boost the economy from the bottom
up and create real and sustainable job
growth.
The federal minimum wage has not been
increased since 2009. A decade is more than
enough time for our nation’s leaders to right
this unjustifiable inequity. Let’s get this
done now. It’s time for Congress to do the
right—and smart—thing by working Ameri-
cans. The National Urban League looks for-
ward to working with you to get the Raise
the Wage Act of 2019 enacted into law this
year.
Sincerely,
MARC H. MORIAL,
President and CEO,
National Urban League.
CPSD, NATIONAL DISABILITY
RIGHTS NETWORK,
July 11, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: The undersigned
organizations understand that the Raise the
Wage Act of 2019 will soon come up for a vote
before the full House. We unequivocally be-
lieve that any minimum wage bill must in-
clude ALL people, including people with dis-
abilities. We strongly support the inclusion
of the phase out of subminimum wages to
people with disabilities, currently legal
under Section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act (FLSA), in the Raise the Wage Act
and urge you to vote against any amend-
ments that would leave people with disabil-
ities out of this important bill.
Employment of people with disabilities has
long been a bi-partisan national goal. The
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
(WIOA) of 2014 established as a priority com-
petitive integrated employment, where peo-
ple with disabilities work in mainstream
jobs alongside, and are paid comparable
wages to, co-workers without disabilities.
WIOA furthers the goal of the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA) to advance the
economic self-sufficiency of people with dis-
abilities.
Yet, despite the clear national priority for
competitive integrated employment, nearly
230,000 people with disabilities are legally
paid sub-minimum wages under Section 14(c)
of FLSA, largely in settings where they are
segregated from their nondisabled peers and
broader society. The subminimum wage cre-
ates and reinforces a life of poverty and de-
pendency on public support. In hearings be-
fore this Congress, expert witnesses have tes-
tified that ending subminimum wages is a
civil rights issue and that phasing out Sec-
tion 14(c) is a critical component of any fed-
eral minimum wage bill.
As the Congressionally-created federal Ad-
visory Committee on Increasing Competitive
Integrated Employment for Individuals with
Disabilities (‘‘the Committee’’) described in
its report to Congress and the Labor Sec-
retary:
[There is an] underlying need to amend
Section 14(c) of the FLSA so that it reflects
and aligns with modern federal disability
policy and laws, which are based on the as-
sumption that all individuals with disabil-
ities are capable of, and have a right to,
[competitive integrated employment]. The
current widespread practice of paying work-
ers subminimum wages, based on assump-
tions that people with disabilities cannot
work in typical jobs, or on assumptions
about the unavailability of alternative work
opportunities, is antithetical to the intent of
modern federal policy and law.
The National Council on Disability, an
independent federal agency charged with ad-
vising the President, Congress, and other
federal agencies regarding policies that im-
pact people with disabilities, has repeatedly
called for the elimination of sub-minimum
wages under Section 14(c), including in its
recent report, ‘‘National Disability Employ-
ment Policy, From the New Deal to the Real
Deal: Joining the Industries of the Future.’’
The inclusion of the 14(c) phase out in the
Raise the Wage Act sends a clear message to
the public that it is no longer acceptable to
pay individuals with disabilities less than
the minimum wage. The undersigned organi-
zations stress again the necessity that the
Raise the Wage Act of 2019 retain the phase
out of the use of 14(c) certificates and bring
an end to this blatantly discriminatory prac-
tice which allows for the payment of submin-
imum wages to people with disabilities.
Sincerely,
American Association of People with Dis-
abilities, Association of People Supporting
Employment First, Association of University
Centers on Disabilities, Autistic Self Advo-
cacy Network, Bazelon Center for Mental
Health Law, Center for Public Representa-
tion, Collaboration to Promote Self Deter-
mination, Disability Rights Education and
Defense Fund.
National Association of Councils on Devel-
opmental Disabilities, National Association
for Rights Protection and Advocacy, Na-
tional Council on Independent Living, Na-
tional Disability Institute, National Dis-
ability Rights Network, National Down Syn-
drome Congress, National Organization on
Disability, TASH.
July 3, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE SCOTT: The under-
signed organizations are writing to express
our support for the Raise the Wage Act of
2019 (H.R. 582). The Act would raise the fed-
eral minimum wage from $7.25 to $15.00 an
hour over a six-year period, after which the
minimum wage would be indexed to median
wages. Our organizations believe that raising
the federal minimum wage will significantly
contribute to improving quality of care and
quality of life for nursing home residents
across the country.
According to the Paraprofessional
Healthcare Institute (PHI), nursing assist-
ants earn a median wage of $12.84 an hour
and a median income of $21,200 a year. Nurs-
ing assistants’ inflation-adjusted wages have
only increased six cents in the past 10 years,
meaning that ‘‘while goods and services in-
creased in price, the purchasing power of
nursing assistant wages did not meaning-
fully increase in the past decade.’’ Since
nursing assistants (37 percent) rely on some
form of public assistance, federal and state
governments subsidize the nursing home in-
dustry by compensating for their workers’
low wages. Unfortunately, the data suggest
that a profession in caring for the country’s
most vulnerable individuals may lead to pov-
erty.
Given the hardships involved with being a
direct care worker, it is not surprising to
learn that these positions cannot compete
with less demanding and higher paying jobs,
such as those in the fast food and retail in-
dustries. This strain on the nursing home
workforce is supported by a recently pub-
lished study in The Gerontologist, which in-
dicates that periods of low unemployment
(like the one the country is currently experi-
encing) result in nursing home workers look-
ing for jobs outside of the industry. The re-
port finds that high unemployment makes
nursing home work more attractive and
leads to better care for nursing home resi-
dents, noting that a 5.6 percentage point in-
crease in the unemployment rate decreases
deficiencies and would result in lower rates
of pressure ulcers, physical restraints use,
and weight loss.
Economic recessions should not dictate
whether residents have access to quality of
care and quality of life. The federal Nursing
Home Reform Law requires every facility to
provide services that allow residents to at-
tain or maintain their ‘‘highest practicable
physical, mental, and psychosocial well-
being.’’ Unfortunately, as the study above
highlights, low wages continue to place resi-
dents at risk of experiencing higher rates of
harm. A 2015 report by the Keystone Re-
search Center further adds that high rates of
staff turnover, most often attributed to low
wages, disrupt staff-resident relationships
and cause ‘‘the loss of a valuable source of
information about resident well-being.’’’ As
one nursing home worker explains in the re-
port, ‘‘the work is just too hard for such low
pay . . . many are either ready to walk away
from the work or are thinking hard about
doing so . . . Raising my wage to $15 would
. . . really change the way I think about my
job.’’
Improving the experiences of nursing home
workers is critical in light of the growing
need for direct care workers in the coming
years. PHI reports that, ‘‘by 2050, the popu-
lation of adults aged 65 and above—who com-
prise 83 percent of the nursing home resident
population—is expected to nearly double,
from 47.8 million (in 2015) to 88 million’’ Ad-
ditionally, the number of adults 85 years old
and above (40 percent of residents) ’’is ex-
pected to more than triple over the same pe-
riod from 6.3 million to 19 million.’’ Con-
tinuing to pay our direct care workers low,
uncompetitive wages for physically and emo-
tionally difficult jobs will only place greater
strain on resident care.
Our organizations thank you for taking
this step to increase the federal minimum
wage and making it easier for nursing home
workers to provide care to our nation’s most
vulnerable individuals. The Raise the Wage
Act gives both nursing home workers and
residents the hope of a better life.
Sincerely,
Center for Medicare Advocacy, Justice in
Aging, Long Term Care Community Coali-
tion, National Association of Social Work-
ers, Service Employees International Union
(SEIU), The National Consumer Voice for
Quality Long-Term Care, Women’s Institute
for a Secure Retirement.
DHN INTERRELIGIOUS WORKING
GROUP ON DOMESTIC HUMAN
NEEDS,
June 28, 2019.
DEAR MEMBER OF THE HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES: The undersigned faith-based
advocacy and religious organizations urge
House leadership and members to advance
the Raise the Wage Act of 2019 (H.R. 582)
without further delay. The bill passed
through committee months ago and is lan-
guishing as desperate workers wait for relief.
We are deeply concerned about the plight of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.038 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E968 July 23, 2019
our sisters and brothers who work hard but
are still struggling to make ends meet. Infla-
tion and rising prices have made the finan-
cial squeeze on low-wage workers unbear-
able. This bill offers a partial remedy to
those in most desperate need. Its urgency
warrants full consideration by the chamber
without further delay. It is time for mem-
bers to demonstrate that the financial secu-
rity of workers is a priority in the House.
We come from a variety of faith perspec-
tives, but our moral principles and faith tra-
ditions all affirm the need to promote human
dignity by prioritizing vulnerable commu-
nities and individuals in need. Our faith tra-
ditions teach us that justice requires that
every worker earn enough to provide a
standard of living in accordance with their
God-given dignity. The current federal min-
imum wage of $7.25/hour and $2.10/hour for
tipped workers is woefully insufficient and
has remained stagnant for the longest period
in the history of our nation. This disregard is
a shameful statement of neglect for those
most in need in our society.
Passage of the Raise the Wage Act of 2019
would demonstrate to these workers rel-
egated to a life of poverty that they are, in
fact, valued as individuals and as members of
society. The provisions of the Raise the
Wage Act take substantive steps to ensure
people earn wages that are enough to sup-
port themselves. Moving towards a universal
wage floor of $15 an hour is on-par with his-
torical minimum wage rates and responds to
the real cost of living everywhere in the na-
tion. Phasing out the outdated subminimum
wage for tipped workers, workers under the
age of 20, and those with disabilities is just
and is long overdue. Moreover, an annually
adjusted minimum wage based on the na-
tion’s median hourly wages would curtail the
growing pay inequality between the lowest-
paid workers and the middle-class.
Our families and our economy have been
increasingly burdened by wage stagnation
and income inequality. The Raise the Wage
Act of 2019 would immediately lighten this
burden by gradually raising the wage floor to
broadly impact those at the bottom of the
workforce. According to policy experts, more
than 1 in 4 workers would be impacted by
this legislation, 90 percent of whom are over
the age of 20. Estimates project that low-in-
come earners would make an additional
$3,000 a year, on average, for those working
year-round. The difference that makes for a
preschool teacher, bank teller, or fast-food
worker who struggles to get by on around
$20,000 per year would be remarkable. The
Raise the Wage Act will particularly benefit
women and people of color, who are dis-
proportionately represented among low-wage
workers. Additionally, this legislation cor-
rects the harmful and exploitative practice
of under-paying individuals with disabilities
by recognizing the value of their work and
paying them accordingly.
The time for the Raise the Wage Act. is
long overdue. Just this month, we marked
the shameful milestone of the longest period
in U.S. history without a federal minimum
wage increase. Justice cannot wait; and nei-
ther can Americans who labor every day
with insufficient pay. The faith community
calls on Leadership to schedule a floor vote
on this important piece of legislation imme-
diately. We also urge members of the House
of Representatives to pass the Raise the
Wage Act free of any degrading amendments
which would undermine the law’s benefits for
poor workers.
Sincerely,
American Friends Service Committee;
Bread for the World; Church World Service;
Central Conference of American Rabbis; Con-
ference of Superiors of Men (Catholic); Con-
gregation of Our Lady of the Good Shepherd,
US Provinces; Daughters of Charity of St.
Vincent de Paul, St. Louise Province; Disci-
ples Center for Public Witness (Disciples of
Christ); Disciples Refugee & Immigration
Ministries; Ecumenical Poverty Initiative.
Evangelical Lutheran Church in America;
Faith in Public Life; Franciscan Action Net-
work; Friends Committee on National Legis-
lation; Interfaith Worker Justice; Jesuit
Conference—Office of Justice and Ecology;
Jewish Council for Public Affairs; Leader-
ship Conference of Women Religious; Mis-
sionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate; Na-
tional Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the
Good Shepherd.
National Council of Churches; National
Council of Jewish Women; NETWORK Lobby
for Catholic Social Justice; Pax Christi USA;
Poligon Education Fund; Presbyterian
Church (U.S.A.); The United Methodist
Church—General Board of Church and Soci-
ety; Union for Reform Judaism; Unitarian
Universalist Association; United Church of
Christ Justice and Witness Ministries;
Women of Reform Judaism.
FIRST FOCUS
CAMPAIGN FOR CHILDREN,
July 12, 2019.
Hon. ROBERT ‘‘BOBBY’’ SCOTT,
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. MARK POCAN,
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. STEPHANIE MURPHY,
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SCOTT, CONGRESSMAN
POCAN, and CONGRESSWOMAN MURPHY: On be-
half of First Focus Campaign for Children, a
bipartisan advocacy organization dedicated
to making children and families the priority
in federal policy and budget decisions, I
would like to express our support for the
Raise the Wage Act of 2019 (H.R. 582) and
urge all members of the House of Represent-
atives to vote yes in support of this legisla-
tion.
As an organization committed to ensuring
the economic security of children and fami-
lies in the United States, we applaud efforts
to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour by
2024. Nationwide, 17.5 percent of children are
living in families with incomes below the
poverty line. At its current rate, a parent
making minimum wage and working full-
time cannot earn enough to pay market rent
or lift his or her family out of poverty. Chil-
dren in the U.S. are disproportionately af-
fected by these low wages, and are 62 percent
more likely to live in poverty than adults.
A recent landmark study from the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences confirms that
raising the federal minimum wage decreases
child poverty. Written by a nonpartisan com-
mittee of the nation’s leading experts on
child poverty, A Roadmap to Reducing Child
Poverty finds that income poverty directly
causes negative outcomes to child well-
being, yet when yet when a poor household
receives additional income, such as from an
increase to the minimum wage, parents and
guardians are enabled to provide resources
that have long-term positive impacts on a
child’s health and economic contributions.
According to the Economic Policy Insti-
tute, the new wage proposed would give high-
er pay to 41 million workers, 28 percent of
which have children to support. This would
mean the parents of over 11 million children
would be empowered to support their child’s
healthy development with critical resources
such as nutritious food, health care, ade-
quate shelter, warm clothing, and edu-
cational materials.
Parents who live in a constant state of fi-
nancial instability and struggle to provide
enough resources for their children often suf-
fer from stress, anxiety, and depression,
making it more difficult to respond to their
children’s emotional needs. Increased income
therefore promotes financial stability, im-
proves the physical and mental health of
children and families and in turn, reduces
child maltreatment rates.
The Raise the Wage Act of 2019 is both an
important step towards improving economic
stability for 11 million children and a vital
investment in the future of our country. We
are grateful for your leadership in making
children and families a legislative priority,
and we look forward to working with you on
this and other proposals to improve the well-
being of children and youth.
Sincerely,
BRUCE LESLEY,
President
NETWORK LOBBY FOR CATHOLIC
SOCIAL JUSTICE,
July 15, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: NETWORK Lobby
for Catholic Social Justice urges a yes vote
on H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage Act of 2019.
In the spirit of the Gospel, we promote a just
society which ensures that all people are
able to live dignified lives. Catholic Social
Justice tells us that a just wage is the cen-
tral indicator and ‘‘the most concrete means
of verifying justice’’ within a fair, func-
tioning, and flourishing economic system. In
2019 in the richest nation in the world, min-
imum wage workers are groaning and crying
out under their financial burdens.
Surviving on $7.25 an hour anywhere in the
country is a bitter, harsh reality; supporting
dependents or a family on this wage is im-
possible. Workers who are one work acci-
dent, job loss, or family illness away from
economic disaster are so vulnerable—and
they are the backbone of our nation. There is
a covenant between labor and capital that is
part of our nation’s history of progress: full
time work should be enough to keep families
out of poverty. Today we find low wage earn-
ers working 2 or even 3 jobs to make ends
meet. It is morally reprehensible that mil-
lions of people work full time, yet are a pay-
check away from acute poverty and home-
lessness. Long and unpredictable hours with
insufficient pay is a bitter existence of hard
service and anxiety. Congress must finally
prioritize these most vulnerable workers and
alleviate their suffering.
NETWORK Lobby will be highlighting this
week’s floor votes on HR 582 in our annual
voting record. One of two outcomes will take
place: either the House will rally to pass an
increase in the minimum wage or it will fail
to do so. This vote will clearly reveal your
solidarity with low-income workers—a no
vote or support of a Motion to Recommit
(MTR) is your denial of workers’ dignity.
Now is the time to demonstrate that low
wage workers have value and deserve dignity
in our national economic priorities. NET-
WORK Lobby urges Congress to vote for the
Raise the Wage Act of 2019 as brought to the
floor by Leadership and to vote NO on any
MTR that may be offered.
Sincerely,
SISTER QUINCY HOWARD, OP,
NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice.
AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION,
July 15, 2019.
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: As Americans for
Democratic Action, we urge you to vote in
favor of H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage Act.
The last time the Federal minimum wage in-
creased was July 24, 2009. Sunday, June 16th,
marked the longest period since the Federal
minimum wage was instituted that it hasn’t
been raised. It is with this in mind that a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.039 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E969
July 23, 2019
new sense of urgency to change must be in-
stilled.
The Raise the Wage Act Would:
Lift pay for tens of millions of workers and
reverse decades of growing pay inequality;
Favor all low wage workers, only 10 per-
cent of which being teenagers and restaurant
workers;
Be particularly significant for workers of
color, as 38 percent of African Americans and
33 percent of Latinos would see a wage in-
crease;
Divert reliance on safety-net programs,
which reduces burden on the taxpayer;
Raise wages for jobs considered to be mid-
dle class, including nearly one third of man-
ufacturing workers, one fifth of construction
workers, one sixth of educators, and one
forth of health care workers
It is critical that you vote in favor the
Raise the Wage Act as it comes to the floor
this week and reject any Motions to Recom-
mit. This legislation would provide numer-
ous benefits to the working people of Amer-
ica, which underscores the importance of
passing the bill as written. With wage stag-
nation surpassing record levels, voting yes
on the Raise the Wage Act will provide long
overdue relief to those who work but strug-
gle to make ends meet. Please vote yes to
raise the wage and improve the lives of mil-
lions of Americans.
Sincerely,
DON KUSLER,
National Director,
Americans for Democratic Action.
NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT LAWYERS
ASSOCIATION
July 15, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
National Employment Lawyers Association
(NELA), I am writing to express our strong
support for, and to urge you to vote in favor
of, passage of the Raise the Wage Act (H.R.
582). In order to gain passage of the strongest
bill possible, we ask that you oppose any mo-
tion to recommit and any amendment that
would weaken this bill when the bill is
brought to a vote on the House floor.
NELA advances workers’ rights and serves
lawyers who advocate for equality and jus-
tice in the American workplace. With mem-
bers in every state, NELA is the country’s
largest professional organization exclusively
comprised of lawyers who represent indi-
vidual employees in employment discrimina-
tion cases and other employment-related
matters. NELA and our 69 state and local af-
filiates have more than 4,000 members across
our nation. Our members are private civil
rights lawyers whose clients suffer the prac-
tical realities of an insufficient, inconsistent
minimum wage.
The Raise the Wage Act is long-overdue. If
passed, it will address the reality of stag-
nated wages and income inequality brought
about, in part, by an outdated federal min-
imum wage that has not been raised in ten
years. The current federal minimum wage of
$7.25/hr is worth 17% less than it was ten
years ago. For a full-time, year-round min-
imum wage worker, this represents a loss of
over $3,000 in annual earnings. If passed, this
much-needed bill would raise the federal
minimum wage to $8.55 this year and in-
crease it over the next five years until it
reaches $15 an hour in 2024. The Raise the
Wage Act also includes common sense lan-
guage to adjust the minimum wage each
year after 2024. It would phase out the sub-
minimum wage for tipped workers, which
has been frozen at a meager $2.13 since 1991,
and sunset the ability of employers to pay a
subminimum wage to people with disabilities
and workers under the age of twenty.
According to a recent Congressional Budg-
et Office (CBO) Report, gradually raising the
federal minimum wage will lift pay for near-
ly 27.3 million workers by 2024 and reduce
the number of people living in poverty by 1.3
million. Nearly half of the 1.3 million people
who would be raised out of poverty are chil-
dren under the age of eighteen. The CBO
study concurs that the benefits of this legis-
lation outweigh its costs, and that passage of
the bill will leave low-wage workers and
their families far better off than they are
now. This bill will bolster the middle class
all across the country. Many workers in sec-
tors that are considered skilled, such as
early childhood education and health care,
struggle to survive on $15 per hour. Passage
of a clean bill will lift those across the bot-
tom of the workforce.
Tens of millions of workers in America
currently cannot afford basic living expenses
for themselves and the families they support.
These same workers stock our grocery
stores, fulfill our online purchases, clean of-
fices and homes, and perform thousands of
other jobs that make every aspect of the
lives of higher wage earners function. These
workers are your constituents, and they de-
serve a raise. We urge you to pass the Raise
the Wage Act now.
Sincerely,
TERRY O’NEILL,
Executive Director.
RECOGNIZING LYNETTE LACKEY
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Mrs. Lynette Lackey for her thirty-
five years of dedicated service to the federal
government and to the North Texas veterans
community.
Mrs. Lackey began her career with the
United States Army Corps of Engineers at
Lake Texoma prior to transferring to the Sam
Rayburn Memorial Veterans Center in
Bonham, Texas, where she worked in various
administrative positions. Eventually, Lynette
would be assigned as the Congressional Liai-
son for the VA North Texas Health Care Sys-
tem, the second largest VA health care sys-
tem in the country. As the assigned Congres-
sional Liaison for the fourteen Congressional
offices in the system, Lynette was responsible
for responding to inquiries from a served pop-
ulation of over 134,000 veterans, over thirty-
eight Texas counties and two counties in
southern Oklahoma.
Lynette is often lauded throughout the re-
gion for her efforts to assist veterans, their
families, and Congressional staff in navigating
the often-complicated VA healthcare system.
Mrs. Lackey consistently strives to solve the
most complex veteran issues, always with the
focus of providing the best possible outcomes
for those she serves. Lynette has justifiably
earned the respect and admiration of her col-
leagues in the community.
Now as Mrs. Lackey prepares to enjoy her
well-deserved retirement, she looks forward to
spending more time with her husband of thirty-
eight years, Dean, and her children, Jack and
Aubrun, and Cole and Leslie. Lynette also an-
ticipates welcoming her first grandchild this
fall, taking on the title of ‘‘Lolly’’ and becoming
part of the ‘‘Lolly and Pop’’ duo of love and
support surely to surround their newest addi-
tion.
The North Texas veteran’s community and
all those who have had the honor of working
with her over the past twenty-two years, thank
Mrs. Lynette Lackey for her steadfast service
and wish her the best in her retirement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:18 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23JY8.041 E23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D890
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate confirmed the nomination of Mark T. Esper, of Virginia, to be
Secretary of Defense.
Senate passed H.R. 1327, Never Forget the Heroes: James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez Permanent Authorization of the September
11th Victim Compensation Fund Act.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S4983–S5025
Measures Introduced: Forty bills and three resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 2203–2242, and
S. Res. 280–282. Pages S5011–13
Measures Reported:
Report to accompany S. 349, to require the Sec-
retary of Transportation to request nominations for,
and make determinations regarding, roads to be des-
ignated under the national scenic byways program.
(S. Rept. No. 116–61)
Report to accompany S. 1014, to establish the
Route 66 Centennial Commission. (S. Rept. No.
116–62)
Report to accompany S. 1689, to permit States to
transfer certain funds from the clean water revolving
fund of a State to the drinking water revolving fund
of the State in certain circumstances. (S. Rept. No.
116–63)
Report to accompany S. 1833, to transfer a bridge
over the Wabash River to the New Harmony River
Bridge Authority and the New Harmony and Wa-
bash River Bridge Authority. (S. Rept. No. 116–64)
S. 1883, to improve the prohibitions on money
laundering, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute. Page S5011
Measures Passed:
Never Forget the Heroes: James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez Permanent Authoriza-
tion of the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund Act: By 97 yeas to 2 nays (Vote No. 224),
Senate passed H.R. 1327, to extend authorization for
the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund of
2001 through fiscal year 2092, after taking action on
the following amendments proposed thereto:
Pages S4986–93, S4994–98
Rejected:
By 32 yeas to 66 nays (Vote No. 222), Lee
Amendment No. 928, to limit the amount available
for the Victims Compensation Fund. (Pursuant to
the order of Thursday, July 18, 2019, the amend-
ment having failed to achieve 60 affirmative votes,
was not agreed to.) Pages S4997–98
By 22 yeas to 77 nays (Vote No. 223), Paul
Amendment No. 929, to require a sequestration of
certain direct spending. (Pursuant to the order of
Thursday, July 18, 2019, the amendment having
failed to achieve 60 affirmative votes, was not agreed
to.) Pages S4996–98
Honoring former Associate Justice John Paul
Stevens: Senate agreed to S. Res. 282, honoring
former Associate Justice John Paul Stevens of the Su-
preme Court of the United States. Pages S5000–01
National Day of the American Cowboy: Com-
mittee on the Judiciary was discharged from further
consideration of S. Res. 265, designating July 27,
2019, as ‘‘National Day of the American Cowboy’’,
and the resolution was then agreed to. Page S5018
National Whistleblower Appreciation Day:
Committee on the Judiciary was discharged from
further consideration of S. Res. 194, designating July
30, 2019, as ‘‘National Whistleblower Appreciation
Day’’, and the resolution was then agreed to.
Pages S5018–19
Dickson Nomination—Agreement: Senate re-
sumed consideration of the nomination of Stephen
M. Dickson, of Georgia, to be Administrator of the
Federal Aviation Administration. Page S4993
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23JY9.REC D23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D891
July 23, 2019
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 52 yeas to 45 nays (Vote No. EX. 221), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S4993
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that notwithstanding Rule XXII, the post-
cloture time on the nomination expire at 11 a.m., on
Wednesday, July 24, 2019; that following disposi-
tion of the nomination, Senate vote on the motions
to invoke cloture on the nominations of Wendy
Williams Berger, of Florida, to be United States
District Judge for the Middle District of Florida,
and Brian C. Buescher, of Nebraska, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Nebraska;
and that if cloture is invoked, Senate vote on con-
firmation of the nominations in the order listed at
3 p.m. Page S5009
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 9:30 a.m., on
Wednesday, July 24, 2019. Page S5019
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 90 yeas to 8 nays (Vote No. EX. 220), Mark
T. Esper, of Virginia, to be Secretary of Defense.
Pages S4993, S5025
Nomination Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nomination:
David L. Norquist, of Virginia, to be Deputy Sec-
retary of Defense. Page S5025
Messages from the House: Page S5011
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5013–15
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S5015–16
Additional Statements: Pages S5010–11
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S5018
Record Votes: Five record votes were taken today.
(Total—224) Pages S4993, S4998
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:51 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Wednes-
day, July 24, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the
remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S5019.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
CHALLENGES FOR CANNABIS AND
BANKING
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine chal-
lenges for cannabis and banking, focusing on outside
perspectives, after receiving testimony from Senators
Gardner and Merkley; Rachel Pross, Maps Credit
Union, Salem, Oregon, on behalf of the Credit
Union National Association; Garth Van Meter,
Smart Approaches to Marijuana, Alexandria, Vir-
ginia; and Joanne Sherwood, American Bankers As-
sociation, and John Lord, LivWell Enlightened
Health, both of Denver, Colorado.
WORKING WATERFRONTS
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Science, Oceans, Fisheries, and Weath-
er concluded a hearing to examine America’s water-
fronts, focusing on addressing economic, recreational,
and environmental challenges, after receiving testi-
mony from Mayor Eric Genrich, Green Bay, Wis-
consin; Michael J. Friis, Wisconsin Department of
Administration Coastal Management Program, Madi-
son; Lynn Clark, Historic Arkansas Riverwalk of
Pueblo, Pueblo, Colorado; and Monty Graham, Uni-
versity of Southern Mississippi, Long Beach.
FREELY ASSOCIATED STATES
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the United States’
interests in the Freely Associated States, after receiv-
ing testimony from Douglas Domenech, Assistant
Secretary of the Interior, Insular and International
Affairs; Randall G. Schriver, Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Indo-Pacific Security Affairs; Sandra
Oudkirk, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for
Australia, New Zealand, and Pacific Islands, Bureau
of East Asian and Pacific Affairs; and David
Gootnick, Director, International Affairs and Trade,
Government Accountability Office.
ELDER JUSTICE REFORM
Committee on Finance: Committee concluded a hearing
to examine promoting elder justice, focusing on a
call for reform, after receiving testimony from Megan
H. Tinker, Senior Advisor for Legal Affairs, Office of
Counsel to the Inspector General, Office of the In-
spector General, Department of Health and Human
Services; John E. Dicken, Director, Health Care,
Government Accountability Office; and Robert B.
Blancato, Elder Justice Coalition, Mark Parkinson,
American Health Care Association, and Lori
Smetanka, National Consumer Voice for Quality
Long-Term Care, all of Washington, D.C.
FBI OVERSIGHT
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded an
oversight hearing to examine the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, after receiving testimony from Chris-
topher Wray, Director, Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, Department of Justice.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23JY9.REC D23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D892 July 23, 2019
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
BUSINESS MEETING
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee met in
closed session to consider pending intelligence mat-
ters.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 51 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 3876–3926; and 7 resolutions,
H. Res. 507–508, 510–514 were introduced.
Pages H7239–42
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H7243–45
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 2942, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to carry out the Women’s Health Transition
Training pilot program through at least fiscal year
2020, and for other purposes, with an amendment
(H. Rept. 116–166, Part 1);
H.R. 1307, to provide for an online repository for
certain reporting requirements for recipients of Fed-
eral disaster assistance, and for other purposes (H.
Rept. 116–167, Part 1);
H.R. 549, to designate Venezuela under section
244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act to per-
mit nationals of Venezuela to be eligible for tem-
porary protected status under such section, and for
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–168);
H.R. 2938, to exempt from the calculation of
monthly income certain benefits paid by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs and the Department of De-
fense (H. Rept. 116–169);
H.R. 3304, to exempt for an additional 4-year pe-
riod, from the application of the means-test pre-
sumption of abuse under chapter 7, qualifying mem-
bers of reserve components of the Armed Forces and
members of the National Guard who, after Sep-
tember 11, 2001, are called to active duty or to per-
form a homeland defense activity for not less than
90 days (H. Rept. 116–170);
H.R. 3311, to amend chapter 11 of title 11,
United States Code, to address reorganization of
small businesses, and for other purposes (H. Rept.
116–171);
H.R. 3409, to authorize appropriations for the
Coast Guard, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–172);
H.R. 3375, to amend the Communications Act of
1934 to clarify the prohibitions on making robocalls,
and for other purposes, with an amendment (H.
Rept. 116–173);
H.R. 2507, to amend the Public Health Service
Act to reauthorize certain programs under part A of
title XI of such Act relating to genetic diseases, and
for other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–174);
H.R. 2035, to amend title XXIX of the Public
Health Service Act to reauthorize the program under
such title relating to lifespan respite care, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–175);
H.R. 776, to amend the Public Health Service
Act to reauthorize the Emergency Medical Services
for Children program (H. Rept. 116–176);
H.R. 1058, to reauthorize certain provisions of the
Public Health Service Act relating to autism, and for
other purposes, with amendments (H. Rept.
116–177); and
H. Res. 509, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 397) to amend the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 to create a Pension Rehabilitation Trust
Fund, to establish a Pension Rehabilitation Adminis-
tration within the Department of the Treasury to
make loans to multiemployer defined benefit plans,
and for other purposes; providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 3239) to require U.S. Customs and
Border Protection to perform an initial health
screening on detainees, and for other purposes; pro-
viding for proceedings during the period from July
29, 2019, through September 6, 2019; and for other
purposes (H. Rept. 116–178). Page H7239
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Dean to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H7163
Recess: The House recessed at 12:23 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H7165
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H7166, H7224
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23JY9.REC D23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D893
July 23, 2019
Building Blocks of STEM Act: H.R. 1665, to di-
rect the National Science Foundation to support
STEM education research focused on early childhood;
Pages H7166–68
American Manufacturing Leadership Act: H.R.
2397, amended, to amend the National Institute of
Standards and Technology Act to make changes to
the implementation of the network for manufac-
turing innovation; Pages H7168–72
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To
amend the National Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology Act to make changes to the implementation
of the Manufacturing USA Network, and for other
purposes’’; Page H7172
Expanding Findings for Federal Opioid Re-
search and Treatment Act: H.R. 3153, to direct the
Director of the National Science Foundation to sup-
port research on opioid addiction; Pages H7172–73
Combating Sexual Harassment in Science Act of
2019: H.R. 36, amended, to provide for research to
better understand the causes and consequences of
sexual harassment affecting individuals in the sci-
entific, technical, engineering, and mathematics
workforce and to examine policies to reduce the
prevalence and negative impact of such harassment;
Pages H7173–76
Vera Rubin Survey Telescope Designation Act:
H.R. 3196, amended, to designate the Large Syn-
optic Survey Telescope as the ‘‘Vera Rubin Survey
Telescope’’; Pages H7176–77
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To des-
ignate the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope as the
‘Vera C. Rubin Observatory’ ’’; Page H7177
Energy and Water Research Integration Act of
2019: H.R. 34, amended, to ensure consideration of
water intensity in the Department of Energy’s en-
ergy research, development, and demonstration pro-
grams to help guarantee efficient, reliable, and sus-
tainable delivery of energy and clean water resources;
Pages H7177–79
Department of Energy Veterans’ Health Initia-
tive Act: H.R. 617, amended, to authorize the De-
partment of Energy to conduct collaborative research
with the Department of Veterans Affairs in order to
improve healthcare services for veterans in the
United States; Pages H7179–81
Opposing efforts to delegitimize the State of
Israel and the Global Boycott, Divestment, and
Sanctions Movement targeting Israel: H. Res. 246,
amended, opposing efforts to delegitimize the State
of Israel and the Global Boycott, Divestment, and
Sanctions Movement targeting Israel, by a 2⁄3 yea-
and-nay vote of 398 yeas to 17 nays with five an-
swering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 497;
Pages H7181–88, H7222
United States-Israel Cooperation Enhancement
and Regional Security Act: H.R. 1837, amended, to
make improvements to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize assistance for
Israel; Pages H7188–98
Palestinian International Terrorism Support
Prevention Act of 2019: H.R. 1850, amended, to
impose sanctions with respect to foreign support for
Palestinian terrorism; Pages H7198–H7202
Calling on the Government of Cameroon and
armed groups to respect the human rights of all
Cameroonian citizens, to end all violence, and to
pursue a broad-based dialogue without pre-
conditions to resolve the conflict in the Northwest
and Southwest regions: H. Res. 358, calling on the
Government of Cameroon and armed groups to re-
spect the human rights of all Cameroonian citizens,
to end all violence, and to pursue a broad-based dia-
logue without preconditions to resolve the conflict in
the Northwest and Southwest regions; Pages H7203–04
Providing Benefits Information in Spanish and
Tagalog for Veterans and Families Act: H.R.
2943, amended, to direct the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs to make all fact sheets of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in English and Spanish;
Pages H7204–06
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To di-
rect the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make all fact
sheets of the Department of Veterans Affairs in
English, Spanish, and Tagalog’’; Page H7206
Directing the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
carry out the Women’s Health Transition Train-
ing pilot program through at least fiscal year
2020: H.R. 2942, amended, to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to carry out the Women’s Health
Transition Training pilot program through at least
fiscal year 2020; Pages H7206–07
Ryan Kules Specially Adaptive Housing Im-
provement Act of 2019: H.R. 3504, amended, to
amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for
improvements to the specially adapted housing pro-
gram of the Department of Veterans Affairs;
Pages H7207–11
Honoring American Veterans in Extreme Need
Act of 2019: H.R. 2938, amended, to exempt from
the calculation of monthly income certain benefits
paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs and the
Department of Defense; Pages H7215–16
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23JY9.REC D23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D894 July 23, 2019
National Guard and Reservists Debt Relief Ex-
tension Act of 2019: H.R. 3304, amended, to ex-
empt for an additional 4-year period, from the appli-
cation of the means-test presumption of abuse under
chapter 7, qualifying members of reserve components
of the Armed Forces and members of the National
Guard who, after September 11, 2001, are called to
active duty or to perform a homeland defense activ-
ity for not less than 90 days, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay
vote of 417 yeas to 1 nay, Roll No. 499;
Pages H7216–17, H7223–24
Small Business Reorganization Act of 2019:
H.R. 3311, amended, to amend chapter 11 of title
11, United States Code, to address reorganization of
small businesses; and Page H7217–20
Let Everyone Get Involved in Opportunities for
National Service Act: S. 504, to amend title 36,
United States Code, to authorize The American Le-
gion to determine the requirements for membership
in The American Legion. Pages H7220–22
Suspensions: The House failed to agree to suspend
the rules and pass the following measure:
Venezuela TPS Act of 2019: H.R. 549, amended,
to designate Venezuela under section 244 of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act to permit nationals of
Venezuela to be eligible for temporary protected sta-
tus under such section, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of
268 yeas to 154 nays, Roll No. 498.
Pages H7211–15, H7222–23
Announcement by the Chair: The Chair informed
the House that, pursuant to H. Res. 497, the Speak-
er has certified to the United States Attorney for the
District of Columbia the refusal of William P. Barr
and Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., to produce documents to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform. Page H7227
Senate Referral: S. 1199 was held at the desk.
Senate Messages: Message received from the Senate
today and message received from the Senate by the
Clerk and subsequently presented to the House
today appear on pages H7181 and H7202–03.
Quorum Calls Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H7222, H7222–23 and H7223–24. There
were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 9:35 p.m.
Committee Meetings
RESTORING THE PARTNERSHIP: THE
FUTURE OF FEDERALISM IN AMERICA
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Government Operations held a hearing entitled ‘‘Re-
storing the Partnership: The Future of Federalism in
America’’. Testimony was heard from Representative
Bishop of Utah; and public witnesses.
REHABILITATION FOR MULTIEMPLOYER
PENSIONS ACT OF 2019; HUMANITARIAN
STANDARDS FOR INDIVIDUALS IN
CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION
CUSTODY ACT
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 397, the ‘‘Rehabilitation for Multiemployer
Pensions Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 3239, the ‘‘Hu-
manitarian Standards for Individuals in Customs and
Border Protection Custody Act’’. The Committee
granted, by record vote of 9–4, a rule providing for
consideration of H.R. 397, the ‘‘Rehabilitation for
Multiemployer Pensions Act’’, and H.R. 3239, the
‘‘Humanitarian Standards for Individuals in Customs
and Border Protection Custody Act’’. The rule pro-
vides for consideration of H.R. 397, the ‘‘Rehabilita-
tion for Multiemployer Pensions Act’’, under a struc-
tured rule. The rule provides one hour of debate
equally divided among and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Committee on
Education and Labor and the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Ways and
Means. The rule waives all points of order against
consideration of the bill. The rule provides that an
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print 116–24 shall
be considered as adopted and the bill, as amended,
shall be considered as read. The rule waives all
points of order against provisions in the bill, as
amended. The rule makes in order the further
amendment printed in Part A of the report, if of-
fered by the member designated in the report, which
shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the
time specified in the report equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division of the ques-
tion. The rule waives all points of order against the
amendment printed in part A of the report. The rule
provides one motion to recommit with or without
instructions. The rule also provides for consideration
of H.R. 3239, the ‘‘Humanitarian Standards for In-
dividuals in Customs and Border Protection Custody
Act’’, under a structured rule. The rule provides one
hour of general debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on the Judiciary. The rule waives
all points of order against consideration of the bill.
The rule makes in order as original text for the pur-
pose of amendment an amendment in the nature of
a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Com-
mittee Print 116–26 modified by the amendment
printed in Part B of the report, and provides that it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23JY9.REC D23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D895
July 23, 2019
shall be considered as read. The rule waives all
points of order against that amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute. The rule makes in order only
those further amendments printed in part C of the
Rules Committee report. Each such amendment may
be offered only in the order printed in the report,
may be offered only by a Member designated in the
report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the question. The
rule waives all points of order against the amend-
ments printed in part C of the report. The rule pro-
vides one motion to recommit with or without in-
structions. The rule provides that House Resolution
507 is hereby adopted. The rule provides that it
shall be in order at any time on the legislative day
of July 25, 2019, or July 26, 2019, for the Speaker
to entertain motions that the House suspend the
rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The
Speaker or her designee shall consult with the Mi-
nority Leader or his designee on the designation of
any matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
Section 5 of the rule provides that on any legislative
day during the period from July 29, 2019, through
September 6, 2019: the Journal of the proceedings
of the previous day shall be considered as approved;
and the Chair may at any time declare the House
adjourned to meet at a date and time to be an-
nounced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
The rule provides that the Speaker may appoint
Members to perform the duties of the Chair for the
duration of the period addressed by section 5 of the
resolution. Finally, the rule provides that each day
during the period addressed by section 5 of the reso-
lution: shall not constitute a calendar day for the
purposes of section 7 of the War Powers Resolution;
shall not constitute a legislative day for the purposes
of clause 7 of rule XIII; and shall not constitute a
legislative day for the purposes of clause 7 of rule
XV. Testimony was heard from Chairman Neal,
Chairman Scott of Virginia, Chairman Lofgren, and
Representatives Brady of Texas, Foxx of North Caro-
lina, Grothman, Estes, and Collins of Georgia.
LEARNING FROM WHISTLEBLOWERS AT
THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Subcommittee on Over-
sight and Investigations concluded a hearing entitled
‘‘Learning from Whistleblowers at the Department
of Veterans Affairs’’. Testimony was heard from Ta-
mara Bonzanto, Assistant Secretary for Account-
ability and Whistleblower Protection, Department of
Veterans Affairs; Michael Missal, Inspector General,
Department of Veterans Affairs; Henry Kerner, Spe-
cial Counsel, U.S. Office of Special Counsel; Tristan
Leavitt, General Counsel/Acting Chief Executive and
Administrative Officer, Merit Systems Protection
Board; and public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
ENERGY AND POWER IN EUROPE
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Com-
mission received a briefing on pipeline politics, fo-
cusing on energy and power in Europe from Colin
Cleary, Director for Energy Diplomacy for Europe,
Western Hemisphere and Africa, Department of
State; Ed Chow, Center for Strategic and Inter-
national Studies, and David Koranyi, Atlantic Coun-
cil, both of Washington, D.C.; and Efgan Nifti, Cas-
pian Policy Center, Arlington, Virginia.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
JULY 24, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
the expected nomination of David L. Norquist to be Dep-
uty Secretary of Defense, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: busi-
ness meeting to consider S. 496, to preserve United States
fishing heritage through a national program dedicated to
training and assisting the next generation of commercial
fishermen, S. 893, to require the President to develop a
strategy to ensure the security of next generation mobile
telecommunications systems and infrastructure in the
United States and to assist allies and strategic partners in
maximizing the security of next generation mobile tele-
communications systems, infrastructure, and software, S.
1148, to amend title 49, United States Code, to require
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration
to give preferential consideration to individuals who have
successfully completed air traffic controller training and
veterans when hiring air traffic control specialists, S.
1341, to adopt a certain California flammability standard
as a Federal flammability standard to protect against the
risk of upholstered furniture flammability, S. 1349, to ex-
pand enrollment in TSA PreCheck to expedite commer-
cial travel screening and improve airport security, S.
1625, to promote the deployment of commercial fifth-
generation mobile networks and the sharing of informa-
tion with communications providers in the United States
regarding security risks to the networks of those pro-
viders, S. 1822, to require the Federal Communications
Commission to issue rules relating to the collection of
data with respect to the availability of broadband services,
S. 1858, to ensure the Chief Information Office of the
Consumer Product Safety Commission has a significant
role in decisions related to information technology, pro-
posed legislation entitled, ‘‘Regional Ocean Partnership
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23JY9.REC D23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D896 July 23, 2019
Act’’, S. 2035, to require the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration to develop a strategic plan to expand eligi-
bility for the PreCheck Program to individuals with
Transportation Worker Identification Credentials or Haz-
ardous Materials Endorsements, S. 2134, to extend the
transfer of Electronic Travel Authorization System fees
from the Travel Promotion Fund to the Corporation for
Travel Promotion (Brand USA) through fiscal year 2027,
and a promotion list in the Coast Guard; to be imme-
diately followed by hearings to examine the nominations
of Theodore Rokita, of Indiana, to be a Director of the
Amtrak Board of Directors, Jennifer L. Homendy, of Vir-
ginia, and Michael Graham, of Kansas, both to be a
Member of the National Transportation Safety Board,
Carl Whitney Bentzel, of Maryland, to be a Federal Mari-
time Commissioner, Michael J.K. Kratsios, of South
Carolina, to be an Associate Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy, and Ian Paul Steff, of In-
diana, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Direc-
tor General of the United States and Foreign Commercial
Service, 10:30 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine the Theodore Roosevelt Genius Prize, fo-
cusing on innovative solutions to reduce human-predator
conflict, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Finance: to hold hearings to examine the
nominations of Brent James McIntosh, of Michigan, to be
an Under Secretary, Brian Callanan, of New Jersey, to be
General Counsel, and Brian McGuire, of New York, to
be a Deputy Under Secretary, all of the Department of
the Treasury, and Travis Greaves, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court for
a term of fifteen years, 10:15 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine authorities for the use of military force, 10:15 a.m.,
SD–419.
Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health Policy, to
hold hearings to examine confronting Ebola, focusing on
addressing a 21st century global health crisis, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
business meeting to consider S. 2162, to require the
Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to
annually hire at least 600 new Border Patrol agents, to
report quarterly to Congress on the status of the Border
Patrol workforce, and to conduct a comprehensive staffing
analysis, S. 1976, to amend the FAST Act to improve the
Federal permitting process, S. 2065, to require the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security to publish an annual report
on the use of deepfake technology, S. 2183, to require the
Comptroller General of the United States to analyze cer-
tain legislation in order prevent duplication of and over-
lap with existing Federal programs, offices, and initia-
tives, S. 2177, to provide taxpayers with an improved un-
derstanding of Government programs through the disclo-
sure of cost, performance, and areas of duplication among
them, leverage existing data to achieve a functional Fed-
eral program inventory, S. 2169, to amend section 3116
of title 5, United States Code, to clarify the applicability
of the appointment limitations for students appointed
under the expedited hiring authority for post-secondary
students, S. 2107, to increase the number of CBP Agri-
culture Specialists and support staff in the Office of Field
Operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, S.
2193, to require the Administrator of General Services to
issue guidance to clarify that Federal agencies may pay by
charge card for the charging of Federal electric motor ve-
hicles, S. 764, to provide for congressional approval of na-
tional emergency declarations, S. 439, to allow Members
of Congress to opt out of the Federal Employees Retire-
ment System, and allow Members who opt out of the
Federal Employees Retirement System to continue to par-
ticipate in the Thrift Savings Plan, S. 2119, to amend
title 5, United States Code, to appropriately limit the au-
thority to award bonuses to Federal employees, H.R.
2590, to require a Department of Homeland Security
overseas personnel enhancement plan, H.R. 3305, to des-
ignate the facility of the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 2509 George Mason Drive in Virginia Beach,
Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan Keith Cox Post Office Building’’,
and the nominations of Chad F. Wolf, of Virginia, to be
Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans, and Wil-
liam Bryan, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Science
and Technology, both of the Department of Homeland
Security, Robert M. Duncan, of Kentucky, to be a Gov-
ernor of the United States Postal Service, Ann C. Fisher,
of the District of Columbia, and Ashley Jay Elizabeth
Poling, of North Carolina, both to be a Commissioner of
the Postal Regulatory Commission, Catherine Bird, of
Texas, to be General Counsel of the Federal Labor Rela-
tions Authority, and Rainey R. Brandt, and Shana Frost
Matini, both to be an Associate Judge of the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: business meeting to con-
sider S. 2159, to repeal the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to con-
fer jurisdiction on the State of North Dakota over offenses
committed by or against Indians on the Devils Lake In-
dian Reservation’’; to be immediately followed by a hear-
ing to examine the nomination of E. Sequoyah
Simermeyer, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the National
Indian Gaming Commission, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on Rules and Administration: to hold an over-
sight hearing to examine the Government Publishing Of-
fice, Office of the Inspector General, 11 a.m., SR–301.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: business
meeting to markup an original bill entitled, ‘‘Small Busi-
ness Administration Reauthorization Act’’, 2:30 p.m.,
S–115, Capitol.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight
of the Unaccompanied Children Program: Ensuring the
Safety of Children in HHS Care’’, 9 a.m., 2359 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies, budget and oversight hearing on the
White House Office of Science and Technology Policy,
10:15 a.m., 2358–A Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, oversight hearing on the U.S. Customs and Border
Protection—Border Patrol, 2 p.m., 2359 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23JY9.REC D23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D897
July 23, 2019
Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Bureau of Indian Education,
Education Construction’’, 3 p.m., 2008 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, Full Committee, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘The Costs of Climate Change: From Coasts to
Heartland, Health to Security’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on En-
vironment and Climate Change, hearing entitled ‘‘Build-
ing America’s Clean Future: Pathways to Decarbonize the
Economy’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and Commerce,
hearing entitled ‘‘Legislation to Make Cars in America
Safer’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Next Megabank? Examining the Proposed
Merger of SunTrust and BB&T’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on the Mid-
dle East, North Africa, and International Terrorism, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘The FY20 Budget: State Department
Counterterrorism and Countering Violent Extremism Bu-
reau’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Oversight of the Report on the Investigation into
Russian Interference in the 2016 Presidential Election:
Former Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller, III’’, 8:30
a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Energy
and Mineral Resources, hearing on H.R. 934, the ‘‘Health
Benefits for Miners Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 935, the
‘‘Miners Pension Protection Act’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Long-
worth.
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Status of the Reclamation Fund and the
Bureau of Reclamation’s Future Infrastructure Funding
Needs’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on
Economic and Consumer Policy, hearing entitled ‘‘Exam-
ining JUUL’s Role in the Youth Nicotine Epidemic: Part
I’’, 9 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties,
hearing entitled ‘‘Beyond the Citizenship Question: Re-
pairing the Damage and Preparing to Count ‘We the
People’ ’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Environment, hearing entitled ‘‘The
Devil They Knew—PFAS Contamination and the Need
for Corporate Accountability’’, 2 p.m., 2247 Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
2203, the ‘‘Homeland Security Improvement Act’’; and
H.R. 3877, the ‘‘Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019’’, 3
p.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 3597, the ‘‘Solar Energy Re-
search and Development Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3607, the
‘‘Fossil Energy Research and Development Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3609, the ‘‘Wind Energy Research and Develop-
ment Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 335, the ‘‘South Florida
Clean Coastal Waters Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Is the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act a Help or
Hinderance to Main Street?’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘True Transparency? Assessing Wait Times Five
Years after Phoenix’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Former Special Counsel Robert
S. Mueller, III on the Investigation into Russian Inter-
ference in the 2016 Presidential Election’’, 12 p.m., 2141
Rayburn.
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Modernizing Legislative In-
formation Technologies: Lessons from the States’’, 2 p.m.,
2020 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23JY9.REC D23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D898 July 23, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Wednesday, July 24
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Stephen M. Dickson, of Geor-
gia, to be Administrator of the Federal Aviation Admin-
istration, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the
nomination at 11 a.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Stephen M.
Dickson, Senate will vote on the motions to invoke clo-
ture on the nominations of Wendy Williams Berger, of
Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Middle
District of Florida, and Brian C. Buescher, of Nebraska,
to be United States District Judge for the District of Ne-
braska. If cloture is invoked, Senate will vote on con-
firmation of the nominations at 3 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, July 24
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of measures
under suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Babin, Brian, Tex., E958
Carter, John R., Tex., E961
Castor, Kathy, Fla., E964
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E964
Courtney, Joe, Conn., E964
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E961
Diaz-Balart, Mario, Fla., E960
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E963
Gooden, Lance, Tex., E963
Gosar, Paul, Ariz., E957, E961
Graves, Sam, Mo., E963
Horn, Kendra S., Okla., E959
Levin, Mike, Calif., E966
Massie, Thomas, Ky., E964
McCollum, Betty, Minn., E959
Meng, Grace, N.Y., E965
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E958, E962
Olson, Pete, Tex., E959, E960, E961, E962, E964, E965,
E966
Payne, Donald M., Jr., N.J., E962
Perry, Scott, Pa., E963
Reed, Tom, N.Y., E965
Schiff, Adam B., Calif., E959
Scott, Robert C. ‘‘Bobby’’, Va., E966
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E963
Taylor, Van, Tex., E969
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E962
Velázquez, Nydia M., N.Y., E958
Waltz, Michael, Fla., E961
Westerman, Bruce, Ark., E958
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E960
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Jul 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D23JY9.REC D23JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
