Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H10127
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2019 No. 199
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
During these cold, early darkening
days, we ask Your special blessing
upon those who labor in the Nation’s
Capitol.
Help the Members of the House, and
those of the Senate, to act wisely and
carefully in the important work they
do. In the waning days of the session,
may they continue to heed the voices
of all their constituents, both those
who voted for them and those who did
not.
May all that is done within the peo-
ple’s House be for Your greater honor
and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from North Carolina (Mr. BUDD) come
forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. BUDD led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to five requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
12 DAYS OF SALT
(Ms. SHERRILL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. SHERRILL. Madam Speaker, on
the seventh day of SALT, my constitu-
ents have said to me that we cannot fix
the SALT deduction cap by simply
slashing our State and local taxes be-
cause these taxes fund critical commu-
nity priorities like our public school
system.
I am incredibly proud that New Jer-
sey’s public school system was just
ranked number one in the entire coun-
try. A number of factors go into that
achievement, including student
achievement, the success of students
once they leave school, and school
funding.
Madam Speaker, New Jersey ranks
third in the country in the percentage
of our tax dollars allocated to edu-
cation. That is because our residents
know that investment in our schools is
a downpayment on a bright future. It is
why so many families make New Jer-
sey their home.
This investment benefits not only
New Jersey. Our students grow up to
work, serve, and lead in organizations
across the Nation and around the
globe.
That includes four—yes, four—NASA
astronauts produced by the public
schools in my congressional district
alone.
We need to restore the SALT deduc-
tion cap and stop penalizing States like
New Jersey that prioritize investment
in our children and the professionals
who educate the next generation, in-
vestments that benefit the entire coun-
try.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
CAMERON WALTERS
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to remember the
life of Mr. Cameron Walters, who
passed away at the age of 21 on Friday,
December 6, during the barbaric attack
on Naval Air Station Pensacola.
Originally from Richmond Hill in the
First Congressional District of Geor-
gia, Mr. Walters was a pilot in training
at the naval air station.
He had recently passed an exam in
order to stand watch over the en-
trances to the station, and when the
shots rang out, it was his first time on
guard duty.
Before the tragic attack, Mr. Walters
joined the Navy to follow in his fa-
ther’s footsteps and build a better
sense of purpose in life.
His father remembers that when he
graduated boot camp, the grin on his
face said it all. He was so proud to have
the opportunity to earn his wings as a
Navy airman.
For his friends and classmates, his
bright personality and sense of humor
could light up any room he walked
into.
It is truly devastating that Mr. Wal-
ters’ life was cut so short by this tragic
event, a life which had so much enthu-
siasm to serve his country and make
this world a better place to live.
Mr. Walters’ family and friends will
be in my thoughts and prayers during
this most difficult time.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it ad-
journ to meet at noon tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
FLETCHER). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia?
There was no objection.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.000 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10128 December 12, 2019
URGING SUPPORT FOR PASSAGE
OF ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS LOWER
DRUG COSTS NOW ACT
(Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam
Speaker, I am proud to be voting today
for the passage of the Elijah E. Cum-
mings Lower Drug Costs Now Act, a
bill to lower healthcare costs by allow-
ing Medicare to negotiate lower drug
prices for certain high-cost drugs.
I am even prouder that H.R. 3 will re-
invest the savings from these drug ne-
gotiations into a transformational ex-
pansion of Medicare benefits, which in-
cludes routine vision, hearing, and den-
tal care.
I have fought for years to include
these critical services in my Seniors
Have Eyes, Ears, and Teeth Act be-
cause they will prevent healthcare
costs and suffering due to senior acci-
dents, falls, cognitive impairment, oral
cancer, and increased chronic condi-
tions.
Most importantly, giving our older
adults the gift of hearing, vision, and
oral health would go a long way to
helping them enjoy their golden years
free from depression and social isola-
tion.
It is time to recognize total
healthcare for our seniors must include
adequate access to vision, hearing, and
dental services.
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’
on H.R. 3.
f
CELEBRATING NATIONAL GUARD
ANNIVERSARY
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to wish a happy birthday to the
National Guard and all servicemem-
bers, past and present.
Established in 1636, our Nation’s first
militia units organized in the Massa-
chusetts Bay Colony and were referred
to as Minutemen during the Revolu-
tionary War.
Today, the Army and Air National
Guard are made up of 184,000 heroes
who bravely stepped up to defend our
freedom.
They made history by forming one of
the first all-African American units
during the Civil War. They contributed
50,000 personnel following the 9/11 at-
tacks. As I speak, they help secure our
southern borders.
More importantly, the National
Guard sets itself apart as each member
is sworn to uphold two constitutions,
both Federal and State.
Most of us are familiar with Guard
units helping communities deal with
floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, snow-
storms, and other emergencies. But in
times of civil unrest, the citizens of a
State can rest assured that the Guard
will be ready, if needed.
These incredible Americans deserve
to be recognized and celebrated for
their long and continued service to our
Nation. So on behalf of a grateful Na-
tion, I thank them for their sacrifice
and commitment.
f
ANTI-SEMITISM THREATENS OUR
COUNTRY
(Mr. GOTTHEIMER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Madam Speaker,
I rise today because violent anti-Semi-
tism continues to threaten our coun-
try, including in my home State of
New Jersey.
Investigations are still underway,
but I was devastated to learn that the
victims in a kosher market in Jersey
City, New Jersey, were likely targeted
because they were Jewish.
All Americans should be outraged
when fellow citizens are targeted sim-
ply because of their religion. The Anti-
Defamation League has reported that
anti-Semitism remains at near historic
levels, with New Jersey ranked third in
the Nation last year.
We must stand together now to de-
nounce hate targeted at anyone and
prevent more violence.
New Jersey stands together to honor
the police officers harmed in the at-
tack, who were doing what they do
every single day, getting our backs, es-
pecially Detective Joseph Seals, a won-
derful father of five beautiful children
and a 15-year police veteran who gave
his own life protecting his community.
We mourn with his loved ones, and
our prayers are with the officers and
community members still recovering.
Together, as one New Jersey, and as
Americans, I know we can combat this
hate, which has no place in our com-
munity, in the State of New Jersey, or
in our country.
May God continue to bless the people
of Jersey City, the State of New Jer-
sey, and the United States of America.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF COLONEL
JOHN EDWARD GRAY
(Mr. BUDD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BUDD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of retired Colo-
nel John Edward Gray of Mount Ulla,
North Carolina, who passed away ear-
lier this month at age 94.
Colonel Gray was born in Cleveland,
North Carolina, on August 24, 1925, and
went on to serve in five campaigns
against the Japanese in the Pacific
theater in World War II.
Following the war, he returned home
and resumed his education at Davidson
College. After he graduated in 1949, he
served again in both the Korean and
Vietnam wars.
Selfless, legendary, valiant are all
the words that come to mind when
thinking about all that this man ac-
complished in his life.
Colonel Gray is survived by his wife
of 72 years, Sue, and his 5 children, 12
grandchildren, and 1 great-grandchild.
Madam Speaker, please join me in
honoring the life of Colonel John Ed-
ward Gray.
f
TOWNHALLS ESSENTIAL TO
CONGRESSIONAL WORK
(Mr. DELGADO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Speaker, I
rise today because tomorrow I will be
holding my 33rd townhall since being
sworn in, with three in each of the 11
counties making up my district.
I promised my constituents that I
would be transparent, accountable, and
accessible. New York Congressional
District 19 is nearly 8,000 square miles,
larger than Connecticut and Rhode Is-
land combined. In the past year, we
spent hours in the car, driving in the
rain, snow, and sleet to meet folks
where they are.
We have held townhalls in fire de-
partments, schools, small businesses,
and theaters, and even had crowds
spilling into the hallway. When the
broadband signal was strong enough,
the entire conversation was streamed
on Facebook Live.
These open forums are essential to
my work to represent our district.
That is how democracy is supposed to
work: civil conversations with my con-
stituents, finding common ground, and
concluding with legislation reflecting
the needs of the community.
Townhalls are a true highlight of my
first year in office, and we are just get-
ting started. I look forward to meeting
more folks tomorrow at the Highland
Middle School in Ulster.
f
COMMEMORATING 150TH
ANNIVERSARY OF GARDEN CITY
(Miss RICE of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Miss RICE of New York. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to commemorate
the 150th anniversary of the founding
of my hometown, Garden City, New
York.
As the first planned suburban com-
munity in the United States, the vil-
lage of Garden City is steeped in his-
tory.
Home to Mitchel Air Force Base,
Garden City has played a critical role
in our Nation’s aviation industry. It
was here where our Nation’s first fight-
er pilots trained during World War I.
During World War II, the airbase
played a pivotal role in defending our
Nation’s Eastern seaboard and later
served as a staging ground for the Eu-
ropean air campaign against Nazi Ger-
many.
Garden City is also at the epicenter
of countless cultural and tourist at-
tractions on Long Island, including the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10129
December 12, 2019
Garden City Hotel, which today con-
tinues to serve thousands of visitors
attending thoroughbred races at Bel-
mont race track.
On a more personal note, Garden City
is also a community that welcomed my
family with open arms. It was in Gar-
den City where my father, the eldest
son of an Irish immigrant, ran a suc-
cessful construction company, where
my parents raised me and my nine
brothers and sisters, and where I first
learned about the importance of public
service and civic engagement.
Garden City is a wonderful commu-
nity filled with wonderful people. I am
proud to join my friends, family, and
neighbors in celebrating its 150th anni-
versary.
f
LOWER DRUG COSTS NOW ACT OF
2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
DELBENE). Pursuant to House Resolu-
tion 758 and rule XVIII, the Chair de-
clares the House in the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union for the further consideration of
the bill, H.R. 3.
Will the gentlewoman from Texas
(Mrs. FLETCHER) kindly take the chair.
b 0915
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
3) to establish a fair price negotiation
program, protect the Medicare pro-
gram from excessive price increases,
and establish an out-of-pocket max-
imum for Medicare part D enrollees,
and for other purposes, with Mrs.
FLETCHER (Acting Chair) in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose on Wednes-
day, December 11, 2019, 60 minutes re-
mained in general debate.
The gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
HOYER) and the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. WALDEN) each have 30 minutes re-
maining.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Chair, I yield
myself 1 minute.
Madam Chair, with this legislation,
Democrats are fulfilling our pledge to
the American people in passing legisla-
tion that will bring down prescription
drug costs for the people. That is one of
the three central pillars of our For the
People Agenda.
With H.R. 3, the Elijah E. Cummings
Lower Drug Costs Now Act, we are de-
livering for the people. This legisla-
tion, named in memory of my dear
friend and our colleague, Elijah Cum-
mings, who fought so hard to lower the
cost of prescription drugs, will give
Medicare the power to negotiate di-
rectly with drug companies, which will
help bring drug prices down, as we do
now, Madam Chair, for our veterans.
It will make those lower drug prices
available to Americans with private in-
surance as well—not just Medicare, but
with private insurance—and it will cre-
ate a new out-of-pocket limit of $2,000,
a cap on out-of-pocket expenses for
prescription drugs for those on Medi-
care part D.
According to the nonpartisan Con-
gressional Budget Office, H.R. 3 will
save American taxpayers approxi-
mately half a trillion dollars over the
next 10 years.
Now, H.R. 3 reinvests those savings,
Madam Chair, in key initiatives, in-
cluding expanding Medicare benefits to
cover dental, vision, and hearing serv-
ices; investing in new research, treat-
ment, and cures; and combating the
opioid crisis—all three objectives that
the American public overwhelmingly
support.
President Trump, Madam Chair,
promised in 2016, before his election,
that he would work to negotiate lower
drug prices, something this bill would
give his administration the authority
to do. For that reason, he ought to sup-
port it.
He said in 2016: ‘‘When it comes time
to negotiate the cost of drugs, we are
going to negotiate like crazy.’’ He said
that in a campaign setting. Hopefully,
he still believes that today.
I hope he will join in encouraging the
Senate to take up H.R. 3, because in
2018, he said this: ‘‘One common cancer
drug is nearly seven times as expensive
for Medicare as it is for other coun-
tries. . . . This happens because the
government pays whatever price the
drug companies set without any nego-
tiation whatsoever.’’ So said President
Trump on October 25, 2018.
He went on to say just 2 months ago,
in October: ‘‘. . . we want to bring our
prices down to what other countries
are paying, or at least close. . . .’’
Madam Chair, that is what this legis-
lation does.
President Trump went on to say:
‘‘. . . and let the other countries pay
more. Because they’re setting such low
prices that we’re actually subsidizing
other countries, and that’s just not
going to happen anymore.’’
Those were remarks before the Cabi-
net meeting on October 16, 2019, just a
few weeks ago.
That is what this legislation does.
That is why the Senate ought to pass
this legislation and the President
ought to sign it. I hope he will join us
in encouraging the Senate to take up
H.R. 3 without delay and pass it. And I
urge the President to reverse his oppo-
sition to this bill and sign it, his oppo-
sition being totally inconsistent with
those three quotes that I just articu-
lated.
Too many Americans, Madam Chair,
are struggling to pay for their prescrip-
tion drugs. I have heard awful stories
from constituents in my district, as I
know every one of us has, about fami-
lies rationing insulin and having to
forego rent or food or other necessities
in order to pay for their prescription
drugs. That is not an option. Without
them, their health will deteriorate,
and, yes, they may die.
One senior from Clinton, Maryland,
in my district, wrote to tell me that
one of her prescription drugs more
than doubled in price, and she left the
pharmacy empty-handed because she
couldn’t afford it.
With H.R. 3, we can bring relief to
people like her.
With H.R. 3, we can lower the cost of
prescription drugs so that Americans
can live healthy lives and pursue their
American Dream.
Madam Chair, I want to thank Chair-
man PALLONE, Chairman NEAL, Chair-
man SCOTT, and their committees for
working hard on this bill to help Amer-
icans lower their prescription drug
costs and live longer and healthier
lives.
Madam Chair, this should not be a
partisan issue. The President articu-
lated the desire to achieve the objec-
tive of bringing prices down. That is
what this bill does. That is what CBO
says it does. So I urge my colleagues to
support this.
Now, Madam Chair, I know you could
do this, but I want to do it because I
am so proud not only of HALEY STE-
VENS herself, who is an extraordinary
Member of the Congress of the United
States, a wonderful member of the pre-
vious administration, and somebody
who has worked in the private sector
and the public sector and who has been
elected president of your class, Madam
Chair, the freshman class, an extraor-
dinary group of 63 people, 64 if we
count our friend CONOR LAMB who was
elected in a special election just before
you—and he, of course, lords it over
you that he is a senior member of the
freshman class; I understand that.
But HALEY STEVENS leads an extraor-
dinary group of 64 people who have con-
tributed so much to our society al-
ready in their lives, in their produc-
tive, constructive lives, and now have
come to the Congress. And they came
with a promise to do three things, at
least:
Number one, to help with wages and
jobs and opportunities;
Number two, to bring prescription
costs down; and
Number three, to invest in infra-
structure.
In this bill, we meet one-third of
those promises, and they have made it
possible.
Madam Chair, I yield the balance of
my time to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. STEVENS), the president
of the freshman class, so she may man-
age the remainder of the time.
Ms. STEVENS. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I appreciate the distinguished major-
ity leader’s comments about President
Trump.
I have been around Congress for 21
years, and I have never seen a Presi-
dent of either party lean more forward
in trying to get down the cost of pre-
scription drugs, to give taxpayers more
of their hard-earned income, to get an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.004 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10130 December 12, 2019
economy up and running like we have
never seen it before, to tackle the issue
of unemployment and get unemploy-
ment numbers down to the lowest level
in 50 years in every category all across
the country, and to reduce the burdens
of overregulation. President Trump has
done all those things.
He also has called for getting down
the price of prescription drugs. I have
been in several meetings where he has
done that, and I share his passion for
that, and I know he wants a bipartisan
bill that can become law and be put on
his desk.
Everything you heard from the dis-
tinguished majority leader about Presi-
dent Trump’s views are accurate, but
he actually read H.R. 3. And if you read
the Statement of Administration Pol-
icy, he recognizes that this goes too far
and he would have to veto it, that it is
a partisan-only bill—partisan only.
And here is part of the problem with
H.R. 3: It hands the government a club.
There is no negotiation in here. If you
don’t agree to what the government
says the price should be, the govern-
ment in Washington comes after your
revenues, and up to 95 percent of your
revenues for selling that drug they can
just come and take.
By the way, when you throw in the
cost of taxation and everything else, it
is well over 100 percent that a drug
manufacturer who is innovating some
new drug and has the patent for that
great American innovation, the gov-
ernment says: If you don’t sell it for
what we want within a band, we are
taking it. We are not taking your pat-
ent—well, they might come back and
do that in another iteration, but: What
we are doing is taking all the revenues.
We will bankrupt you.
That is why 138 different small inno-
vative startup innovators in this space
wrote to the Speaker and the Repub-
lican leader. And I want to quote from
their letter, Madam Chair. It says: ‘‘We
represent the community of emerging
biotechnology companies whose re-
searchers and scientists strive daily to
develop innovative life-changing thera-
pies and cures for patients. We take
pride that we are providing hope to pa-
tients and their families and changing
the world through medical break-
throughs. These dreams will be shat-
tered if H.R. 3, the Lower Drug Costs
Now Act, is passed.’’
They went on to say: ‘‘Unfortunately,
H.R. 3 is an unprecedented and aggres-
sive government intervention in the
U.S. market of drug development and
delivery that will limit patient access
to these extraordinary advancements
in healthcare.’’
Look, we all agree drug costs are too
high, and we want to work together to
stop the gaming and bring down the
prices.
Our alternative, which we will debate
in a few minutes, does that, but it
doesn’t do it at the expense of com-
pletely upending the ecosystem that
allows American innovators to do what
no one else in the world does as well,
and that is come up with new cures for
diseases and make them available.
Madam Chair, I enter into the
RECORD the letter from 138 startup
innovators in its full context.
DECEMBER 5, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
House Republican Leader,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND REPUBLICAN
LEADER MCCARTHY: We represent the com-
munity of emerging biotechnology compa-
nies whose researchers and scientists strive
daily to develop innovative life-changing
therapies and cures for patients. We take
pride that we are providing hope to patients
and their families and changing the world
through medical breakthroughs. These
dreams will be shattered if H.R. 3, the Lower
Drug Costs Now Act, is passed.
We are at an incredible inflection point in
science and technology that is bringing forth
transformative treatments and even cures
for cancer, infectious diseases, and a myriad
of other serious and rare diseases. These ad-
vancements are benefiting lives of millions
of patients and alleviating human suffering,
while helping to reduce other more expensive
parts of our health care system, such as hos-
pital spending. Our continued success de-
pends on maintaining an environment that
supports investment in tomorrow’s discov-
eries.
Unfortunately, H.R. 3 is an unprecedented
and aggressive government intervention in
the U.S. market of drug development and de-
livery that will limit patient access to these
extraordinary advancements in health care.
This extreme proposal will upend the eco-
system of U.S. biomedical innovation, de-
stroying our ability to attract private in-
vestment dollars that allow us to develop
new treatments and change the course of
healthcare delivery for so many patients.
We strongly urge you to abandon H.R. 3.
Further, in order to keep pace with this bio-
medical revolution and ensure America re-
mains the world leader in innovation, we
hope that you will pursue bipartisan, holistic
policies that modernize our health care pay-
ment system and lower drug costs for pa-
tients.
Sincerely,
Adelene Perkins, Chair & CEO, Infinity
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Adrian
Gottschalk, President & CEO, Foghorn
Therapeutics; Alden Pritchard, CEO,
Kaio Therapy, Inc.; Alex Nichols, PhD,
President & CEO, Mythic Therapeutics;
Amit Munshi, President & CEO, Arena
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Andre Turenne,
President & CEO, Voyager Thera-
peutics, Inc.; Aprile Pilon, PhD, Presi-
dent & CEO, Trove Therapeutics, Inc.;
Armando Anido, Chairman & CEO,
Zynerba Pharmaceuticals; Axel Bolte,
Co-Founder, President & CEO, Inozyme
Pharma; Barry Quart, President &
CEO, Heron Therapeutics.
Bassil Dahiyat, President & CEO,
Xencor, Inc.; Bill Enright, CEO,
Vaccitech, Ltd.; Bill Newell, CEO,
Sutro Biopharma; Blake Wise, CEO,
Achaogen, Inc.; Bonnie Anderson,
Chairman & CEO, Veracyte, Inc.; Brad-
ford Zakes, President & CEO, Cerevast
Therapeutics; Brandi Simpson, CEO,
Navigen, Inc.; Brian Windsor, CEO,
Lung Therapeutics, Inc.; Briggs W.
Morrison, MD, CEO, Syndax Pharma-
ceuticals; Bruce Clark, PhD, President
& CEO, Medicago, Inc.
Casey Lynch, CEO, Cortexyme; Cedric
Francois, Co-Founder, CEO & Presi-
dent; Apellis Pharmaceuticals; Chris
Gibson, Co-Founder & CEO, Recursion;
Christopher Barden, CEO, Treventis
Corporation; Christopher Burns, PhD,
President & CEO, VenatoRx Pharma-
ceuticals, Inc.; Christopher Schaber,
President & CEO, Soligenix, Inc.; Ciara
Kennedy, PhD, CEO, Amplyx Pharma-
ceuticals; Clay Seigall, President, CEO
& Chairman, Seattle Genetics, Inc.;
Craig Chambliss, President & CEO,
Neurelis; David Baker, President &
CEO, Vallon Pharmaceuticals.
David Bears, Founder & CEO, Tolero
Pharmaceuticals; David de Graaf, PhD,
President & CEO, Comet Therapeutics,
Inc.; David Donabedian, PhD, Co-
Founder & CEO, Axial Biotherapeutics;
David Lucchino, President & CEO, Fre-
quency Therapeutics, Inc.; David
Mazzo, President & CEO, Caladrius Bio-
sciences; David Meeker, CEO, KSQ
Therapeutics; Doug Kahn, Chairman &
CEO, TetraGenetics, Inc.; Douglas
Doerfler, President & CEO, MaxCyte,
Inc.; Dr. Elizabeth Poscillico, President
& CEO, EluSys Therapeutics, Inc.; Eric
Dube, PhD, CEO, Retrophin, Inc.
Eric Schuur, President & CEO, HepaTx
Corporation; Erika Smith, CEO,
ReNetX Bio; Franciso LePort, Founder
& CEO, Gordian Biotechnology; Gail
Maderis, President & CEO, Antiva Bio-
sciences; Gary Phillips, President &
CEO, Orphomed, Inc.; Geno Germano,
President & CEO, Elucida Oncology,
Inc.; George Scangos, CEO, VIR Bio-
technology; Gil Van Bokkelen, Found-
er, Chairman & CEO, Athersys, Inc.;
Greg Verdine, President & CEO,
LifeMine Therapeutics, Inc., FOG
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Imran Alibhai,
CEO, Tvardi Therapeutics.
James Breitmeyer, President & CEO,
Octernal Therapeutics, Inc.; James
Flanigon, CEO, Honeycomb Biotech-
nologies; James Sapirstein, President
& CEO, AzurRx BioPharma; Jay Evans,
President & CEO, Inimmune Corpora-
tion; Jeb Keiper, CEO, Nimbus Thera-
peutics; Jeff Cleland, PhD, Executive
Chair, Orpheris, Inc.; Jeff Jonker,
President & CEO, Ambys Medicines;
Jeff Kindler, CEO, Centrexion Thera-
peutics; Jeremy Levin, Chairman &
CEO, Ovid Therapeutics, Inc.; Joe
Payne, President & CEO, Arcturus
Therapeutics, Inc..
John Crowley, Chairman & CEO, Amicus
Therapeutics, Inc.; John Jacobs, Presi-
dent & CEO, Harmony Biosciences;
John Maraganore, CEO, Alnylam Phar-
maceuticals; Julia Owens, President &
CEO, Millendo Therapeutics, Inc.; Jus-
tin Gover, CEO & Executive Director,
Greenwich Biosciences; Keith Dionne,
CEO, Casma Therapeutics; Keith Mur-
phy, Founder, CEO & President,
Viscient Biosciences; Ken Mills, CEO,
REGENXBIO, Inc.; Ken Moch, Presi-
dent & CEO, Cognition Therapeutics;
Kent Savage, CEO, PhotoPharmics,
Inc.
Kevin Gorman, CEO, Neurocrine Bio-
sciences; Kiran Reddy, MD, CEO,
Praxis Medicines; Lawrence Brown,
CEO, Galactica Pharmaceuticals;
Lorenzo Pellegrini, Founder, Palladio
Biosciences; Marc De Garidel, Chair-
man & CEO, Corvidia Therapeutics;
Marilyn Bruno, PhD, CEO, Aequor,
Inc.; Mark Leuchtenberger, Executive
Chairman, Aleta Biotherapeutics;
Mark Pruzanski, MD, President & CEO,
Intercept Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Mark
Timney, CEO, The Medicines Company;
Markus Renschler, MD, President &
CEO, Cyteir Therapeutics.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.006 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10131
December 12, 2019
Martin Babier, CEO, Principia
Biopharma; Melissa Bradford-Klug,
CEO, Mayfield Pharmaceuticals; Mi-
chael Clayman, MD, CEO, Flexion
Therapeutics; Michael J. Karlin, Co-
CEO, Ibex Biosciences, LLC; Michael
Raab, CEO, Ardelyx, Inc.; Mike
Narachi, President & CEO, Coda Bio-
therapeutics; Ming Wang, PhD, Presi-
dent & CEO, Phanestra Therapeutics,
Inc.; Morgan Brown, Executive VP &
CFO, Lipocine; Nancy Simonian, CEO,
Syros Pharmaceuticals; Olin Beck,
CEO, Bastion Biologics.
Pam Randhawa, President & CEO,
Empiriko Corporation; Pat McEnany,
President & CEO, Catalyst Pharma-
ceuticals, Inc.; Paul Bolno, MD, CEO,
Wave Life Sciences; Paul Boucher,
President & CEO, Parion Sciences, Inc.;
Paul Hastings, CEO, Nkarta Thera-
peutics; Paul Laikind, President &
CEO, Viacyte; Peter Savas, CEO &
Chairman, LikeMinds, Inc.; Rachel
King, Founder & CEO, GlycoMimetics,
Inc.; Randy Milby, Founder & CEO,
Hillstream BioPharma, Inc.; Rashida
Karmali, PhD, President & CEO, Tac-
tical Therapeutics, Inc.
Richard Markus, CEO, Dantari Pharma-
ceuticals; Richard Pascoe, Chairman &
CEO, Histogen, Inc.; Richard Samulski,
President, Asklepios BioPharma-
ceutical, Inc.; Rick Russell, President,
Minverva Neurosciences; Rick
Winningham, Chairman & CEO,
Theravance Biopharma; Rob
Etherington, President & CEO, Clene
Nanomedicine; Robert Goodwin, PhD,
CEO, Vibliome Therapeutics, Inc.; Rob-
ert Gould, PhD, President & CEO,
Fulcrom Therapeutics; Robert M. Ber-
nard, President & CEO, Ichor Medical
Systems; Robert Wills, Chairman,
CymaBay Therapeutics, Inc.
Roger Tung, President & CEO, CoNCERT
Pharmaceuticals; Ron Cohen, Founder,
President & CEO, Acorda Therapeutics,
Inc.; Russ Teichert, PhD, CEO, Scintil-
lant Bioscience; Russell Herndon,
President & CEO, Hydra Biosciences,
LLC; Samantha S. Truex, CEO, Quench
Bio; Sandy Macrae, President & CEO,
Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc.; Scott
Koenig, President & CEO,
MacroGenics, Inc.; Sean McCarthy,
President, CEO & Chairman, CytomX;
Sharon Mates, Founder, Chairman &
CEO, Intra-Cellular Therapies; Shawn
K. Singh, CEO, VistaGen Therapeutics,
Inc.
Stan Abel, President & CEO, SiteOne
Therapeutics, Inc.; Stanley Erck,
President & CEO, Novavak; Stephen
Farr, PhD, President & CEO, Zogenix,
Inc.; Stephen R. Davis, CEO, ACADIA
Pharmaceuticals; Stephen Yoder, CEO
& President, Pieries Pharmaceuticals;
Sue Washer, President & CEO, AGTC;
Sujal Shah, President & CEO,
CymaBay Therapeutics, Inc.; Ted Love,
CEO, Global Blood Therapeutics; Terry
Tormey, CEO, Kibow Biotech.
Thomas Wiggans, Founder, President &
CEO, Dermira, Inc.; Tia Lyles-Wil-
liams, Founder & CEO, LucasPye BIO;
Tim Bertram, CEO, inRegen & TC Bio;
Timothy Walbert, President & CEO,
Horizon Therapeutics; Todd Brady,
CEO, Aldeyra Therapeutics; Vipin
Garg, PhD, CEO, Altimmune; Wendye
Robbins, MD, President & CEO, Blade
Therapeutics; Will DeLoache, CEO,
Novome Biotechnologies; Zandy
Forbes, CEO, MeiraGTx.
Mr. WALDEN. Madam Chair, I know
the Democrats yesterday said: We
don’t care. It is worth it. We don’t need
all those cures.
That is, in effect, what they said.
And then they said: Oh, those are
just somebody’s talking points.
No. This is the Congressional Budget
Office’s independent analysis that said
we will lose 38 cures right out of the
gate in the next two decades because of
H.R. 3, and that for every year there-
after in the 2030s, we will lose 10 per-
cent of what we otherwise would have.
Is that the cure for Alzheimer’s?
rheumatoid arthritis? ALS? Parkin-
son’s?
That is what Democrats are saying
they don’t care about, that it is worth
it to let those go in order to force the
government price in this market.
We don’t think that has to be the
case. I don’t think it is an either/or
choice. They are making it that with
H.R. 3.
I think we can have innovation with-
out the heavy-handed club mugging in-
novation by taking the revenues of
companies when they don’t agree with
what the government sets as the price.
And we know in foreign countries
that they want to model America after,
upwards of 40 percent of cancer drugs
are not available in those countries,
and they are available here in the
United States.
You can go across every one of the
six indicator countries, look at how
they control drug costs, and, yes, they
do have lower drug costs—and that is
why we have a trade negotiator, so we
can get lower drug costs in these trade
agreements and stop getting ripped
off—but what they do to really control
is they control access.
There was a lot talked about in
terms of death panels when ObamaCare
was considered. This bill actually rep-
resents that.
We are told that by the people who
innovate in this space that they will
not be able to continue to innovate as
they have in the past and that drugs
that save lives will not be available be-
cause they won’t be invented.
That is not just my words. That is
the Congressional Budget Office; that
is the Council of Economic Advisers.
There isn’t a think tank out there
yet that I have seen, no independent
analysis that says H.R. 3 is going to do
anything but that.
Innovation goes up on the rocks with
H.R. 3. Lives will be lost; cures will
never be found; and Americans won’t
be better off.
It doesn’t have to be that way. We
have bipartisan legislation in our sub-
stitute that will bring down prices,
bring down drug costs, bring about
transparency, put a cap on what sen-
iors spend on Medicare, address the in-
sulin cost issue, and it can become law.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
b 0930
Ms. STEVENS. Madam Chair, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, I want to thank our
majority leader for designating his
time in managing the floor on the heels
of the passage of today’s historic vote.
Today is a beacon of hope for so
many families who have been burdened
by the outrageous costs of prescription
drugs in this country.
Lower Drug Costs Now Act lowers
drug costs now for the families who are
counting on us, the families who are
burdened with exorbitant costs of pre-
scription drugs that they cannot af-
ford. Lower prescription drugs for the
parents of a child with a rare disability
who are wondering how they can afford
to pay that bill. Lower prescription
drugs for the retired American who
worked all of their life and now cannot
afford to pay for that medication.
Lower prescription drugs now for the
senior who is afraid to go to the phar-
macy to pick up that prescription drug
because of what it might cost. Lower
prescription drugs for a third of Ameri-
cans who do not get their prescription
drugs because they cannot afford them.
That is what we are here today to do.
Some have chosen to listen to the
drug companies. Some have chosen to
take their cues. Take it from somebody
who worked in an innovation research
lab about the plight of research and de-
velopment in this country and the in-
vestments that go into funding basic
innovation research and how that gets
done through public-private partner-
ship. But do not put the American peo-
ple at the expense of that plight be-
cause we know that our basic research
dollars rest within the National Insti-
tutes of Health, that they rest within
the work that we are doing in the
Science, Space, and Technology Com-
mittee.
This legislation today, my friends,
this legislation appropriately named
after our beloved colleague, Elijah E.
Cummings, someone who was never
afraid to stand up for what was right
and who led by true and pure example,
we were so blessed to have stood in his
light. And while serving as the Chair of
the Oversight Committee, he showed us
the way by uncovering many of these
corrupt practices that have caused
drug prices to be out of reach for so
many.
I am also especially pleased to high-
light provisions in this bill that were
long championed by one of my great
friends and mentors, former Congress-
man Sander Levin. These provisions for
the first time will allow our Nation’s
older adults to receive coverage for
dental, vision, and hearing under Medi-
care. I hope Mr. LEVIN is proudly
watching as the House in which he
served for 36 years, this very body, de-
livers on this effort.
I can speak for members of the fresh-
man class, who have stood on the
shoulders of the Members who have
come before us to say that we were
sent to Washington with a mandate to
bring down the cost of prescription
drugs and to deliver for the American
people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.005 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10132 December 12, 2019
H.R. 3 is a long overdue change to the
way we do business around here. This
will untie the hands of the Federal
Government to negotiate prices for the
oldest and most expensive drugs in
Medicare part D and apply those prices
to all Americans.
In my district, in Michigan’s 11th
District, southeastern Michigan, H.R.
3, the Lower Prescription Drugs Now
Act stands to benefit over 100,000 peo-
ple enrolled in Medicare part D alone,
as well as over 600,000 people who are
enrolled in private health insurance.
We all know someone who has had
their life impacted by cancer, whether
it be a parent, a cousin, a relative, a
dear friend. For the 9,000 women diag-
nosed with breast cancer in Michigan
this year, H.R. 3 will lower their medi-
cation by 65 percent from $69,000 to
$23,000 per year. For the 4,500
Michiganians diagnosed with prostate
cancer this year, H.R. 3, the Lower Pre-
scription Drugs Now Act will lower the
cost of their medication from over
$100,000 to $37,000 per year. And the list
goes on.
Many of these patients live as close
as a 10-minute drive from Canada in
Michigan where Canadians are paying
cents on the dollar for the exact same
drugs. We ask why should that be in a
country as wealthy, as prosperous, as
innovative, as creative, and successful
as ours? Drugs like insulin. H.R. 3 will
finally level the global playing field for
Americans.
The tremendous savings generated
from H.R. 3, the Lower Prescription
Drugs Now Act, will go right back into
the research to develop new drugs with
some of the savings also bringing us
one step closer to stemming the dev-
astating tide of the opioid epidemic.
I ask my friends to join me in com-
mandeering this opioid epidemic that
is ravaging far too many communities
across this beautiful country. Far too
many communities. Where recent grad-
uates from high school say we go to
our high school reunions in graveyards,
in cemeteries because of this opioid
epidemic.
I am proud that this historic piece of
legislation also includes a bill that I
had the privilege of authoring to lower
prescription drug costs for lower-in-
come, older adults, who are enrolled in
the lowest cost part D plan that covers
their medication needs.
The time is now, and I urge my col-
leagues, I implore them, to follow the
will of their constituents and pass H.R.
3, the Lower Drug Costs Now Act of
2019.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
It is important to know that in our
substitute we cut the costs of cancer
treatment for seniors in half, as well.
There is bipartisan agreement on this.
In fact, everything in our substitute is
bipartisan.
It is also important to note that in
Canada it takes 14 months longer to
get access to miracle new medicines
compared to what we have in America.
They have 52 percent of the medicines
there that we have here. They have 60
percent of the cancer medicines. That
means 40 percent of the cancer medi-
cines, the latest cutting-edge ones, the
ones we read about and see on ‘‘60 Min-
utes’’ that are curing cancer here in
America, you can’t get in Canada. I
don’t want to import that here.
And when it comes to reducing access
to drugs, basic research is essential.
Nobody has done more to deal with
that than the gentleman from Michi-
gan, former chairman of the com-
mittee, FRED UPTON, who led the effort
with Cures to get more research in the
National Institutes of Health.
Madam Chair, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.
UPTON).
Mr. UPTON. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I thank the Democratic leadership
for, I think the first time this year, al-
lowing our side to actually have a sub-
stitute to a major piece of legislation.
And I thank our leadership, because
that substitute is not a partisan sub-
stitute but, rather, a bipartisan sub-
stitute. In fact, every single provision
in this bill has got strong bipartisan
support, which was packaged together.
Tomorrow will mark the third anni-
versary of President Obama’s signing
of 21st Century Cures, a bill that DIANA
DEGETTE and I helped shepherd
through our committee on a unani-
mous vote, and we passed here in the
House 392–26.
21st Century Cures increased NIH
funding by some $45 billion over a 10-
year span. It sped up the approval of
drugs and devices, and just after 3
years we have seen the number of cell,
gene, and nucleoid therapies have more
than doubled. In fact, research this last
year will actually exceed $13 billion.
The FDA is predicted to approve as
many as 20 gene therapy drugs by the
year 2025. That is wonderful news.
We all want to do something about
drug prices, and that is what a vote for
our substitute, H.R. 19, will do. The
President will sign that bill, but he is
not going to sign this bill, H.R. 3, be-
cause it is going to slow down the abil-
ity to find the cures that we want to
find for these awful diseases.
Now, those aren’t my words. That is
the CBO, a nonpartisan group, it is the
CEA, the Council of Economic Advis-
ers.
But in today’s ‘‘Wall Street Jour-
nal,’’ the former director of the FDA,
Scott Gottlieb, writes, ‘‘This week the
House will vote on legislation known
as H.R. 3. The price-control approach
would increase uncertainty and reduce
returns from biotech investment, rais-
ing the cost of capital for these invalu-
able endeavors.’’ He is right on. We
want to find new cures. We want to
find new technologies and to use those.
We want precision medicine.
Madam Chair, I include the ‘‘Price
Controls Would Stifle Biotech Innova-
tion’’ in the RECORD.
PRICE CONTROLS WOULD STIFLE BIOTECH
INNOVATION
A House price-control bill would do the
most damage to transformative and life-
saving medications.
(By Scott Gottlieb, Dec. 11, 2019)
Victoria Gray of Mississippi recently be-
came the first U.S. patient with a genetic
disorder to be treated using the Crispr gene-
editing technique. Doctors used a novel drug
to overwrite the function of a faulty gene
that gave rise to her sickle-cell disease. Ad-
vances in life science can define this cen-
tury, but policy makers must resist the urge
to adopt policies that impose price controls
and punish drugmakers for taking risks.
The convergence of information tech-
nology and biology allows scientists to
translate the human genome into digital
data that can accelerate diagnoses and cures.
Over the next decade, it is a near certainty
that we will have gene-therapy cures for
deadly inherited disorders such as muscular
dystrophy. Cell-based and regenerative medi-
cine can restore human functions lost to dis-
ease, including returning some sight to the
blind. Gene editing will be used to alter DNA
to erase the origins of a range of debilitating
inherited disorders.
These are only some of the opportunities
at hand. Yet bad policies could sap the risk-
taking that brings forth the most important
innovations. For instance, the Lower Drug
Costs Now Act would expose the 250 costliest
drugs to government price controls. The
high-cost drugs lawmakers target are often
the most innovative and potentially trans-
formative new medications. This week the
House will vote on the legislation, known as
H.R. 3.
The price-control approach would increase
uncertainty and reduce returns from biotech
investment, raising the cost of capital for
these invaluable endeavors. It would alter in-
centives and shift money from the most
speculative but highest-value science, in-
cluding regenerative medicine and gene edit-
ing. Money would flow instead to known dis-
ease areas and well-characterized targets,
using proven approaches such as pill-form
drugs.
New and high-risk drug platforms like gene
therapies are often targeted first to treat
rare and serious conditions; after they are
proven to work safely, they will be used to
treat morecommon maladies, such as heart
disease. This is how medicine advances. But
if investors knew their returns would be
capped, they would direct their investments
toward safer projects with lesser payoffs. We
would still get new drugs, but the treat-
ments would be very different.
Fifteen years ago, the standard refrain
from drug-industry critics was that all the
big drugmakers did was develop ‘‘me too’’
medicines—the seventh version of a blood-
pressure pill or a cholesterol-lowering statin.
In response, the federal government took
steps, some of which shaped Medicare Part
D, to encourage investment in ‘‘specialty’’
drugs that were more novel.
Since then, investment capital has shifted
sharply. Cancer and rare diseases receive
substantially more attention and resources.
The number of cell, gene and nucleotide
therapies in development has more than dou-
bled over the past three years, while total in-
vestment in cell and gene therapies eclipsed
$13 billion last year.
The Food and Drug Administration ap-
proved four gene therapies in only the past
three years, with 800 similar kinds of prod-
ucts in various stages of development. An as-
sessment of the current pipeline and histor-
ical rates of success in clinical trials sug-
gests that by 2025 the FDA will be approving
10 to 20 gene-therapy drugs a year. Progress
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.008 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10133
December 12, 2019
is especially strong in oncology. The number
of cancer drugs in development has quad-
rupled since 1996.
These specialty drugs often aren’t cheap.
They target narrow conditions for which the
cost of risk-taking and drug development is
amortized over a smaller number of eligible
patients. Highly novel drug platforms can
also cost more initially to perfect. Based on
my informal survey of companies, enrolling
a single patient in a clinical trial for a gene-
altering drug often costs between $500,000
and $700,000 and can reach as high as $1 mil-
lion.
To support this innovation, total spending
on research and development by the 15 big-
gest drugmakers topped $100 billion in 2018,
up 32 percent in the past five years. A cancer
cure, or a gene-therapy remedy, can sharply
reduce the lifetime cost of treating a debili-
tating disease. It can dramatically alter the
length and productivity of people’s lives. But
high-cost treatments are pricing out a grow-
ing number of underinsured patients, keep-
ing them from using medications that could
alter their providence. This is unacceptable.
There are ways to make specialty drugs
more affordable without eroding the incen-
tives that drive capital into the riskiest but
most promising endeavors. One is to help
second-to-market drugs get through the reg-
ulatory process.
Once an effective drug is approved to treat
a deadly condition, introducing a second
drug to treat the same disease can be hard.
It’s tough to recruit patients with a debili-
tating disease for a clinical trial when a
proven medicine is already available. More-
over, the smaller pool of patients who will be
newly diagnosed each year with the same
disease isn’t always large enough to support
the cost of developing a second drug, reduc-
ing competition that can lower pnces.
We offer first-to-market breakthrough
drugs an efficient route through FDA review.
We could give second-to-market competing
medicines the same regulatory benefits. Fur-
ther, when the biology of a drug target is
very well understood, and the basis for how
it interacts with a disease firmly estab-
lished, we can create a new regulatory des-
ignation to streamline development of a
competing drug and shift data collection to
real-world, post-approval settings.
Many drugs targeted by H.R. 3 for govern-
ment price controls are examples of the in-
novation we should try to encourage. In fact,
they are the investments that critics who
griped about me-too medicines said they
wanted. Now the same crowd is crafting poli-
cies that would shift investment back into
the more mundane endeavors they once la-
mented.
Mr. UPTON. Madam Chair, I have
served on the Health Subcommittee for
all my days on the Energy and Com-
merce Committee, and we have seen
firsthand the different families im-
pacted by these awful diseases, whether
it be Alzheimer’s or sickle cell, cystic
fibrosis.
Just this last week, we witnessed
real advancements, we think, in pan-
creatic cancer stage III, stage IV. SMA,
spinal muscular atrophy, a disease that
is often fatal by the year 9 or 10; we
saw a woman who had been on a new
drug for 15 days, and for the first time
she could actually move her neck after
more than 10 years literally trapped in
a wheelchair.
If we want to find the advancements
and cures for these diseases, we need to
pass H.R. 19.
I urge my colleagues to vote for that
substitute and get a bill to the Presi-
dent that he will actually sign, and we
can get something done.
Ms. STEVENS. Madam Chair, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. DELBENE).
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
I rise today in support of H.R. 3, the
Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs
Now Act.
The rising costs of prescription drugs
is one of the top issues I hear about
from my constituents, and it has been
getting worse.
This year alone, I have received near-
ly four times as many calls and letters
about prescription drug prices than all
of last year. And there are many, many
stories, but I would like to share one
today to remind us why this legislation
is so necessary.
A constituent of mine, Dana from
Kenmore, Washington, has lived with
type 1 diabetes for nearly 14 years.
When Dana was first diagnosed, insulin
cost her $50 each month. Today that
same insulin costs over $600 per month.
That is an 1,100 percent increase for the
exact same product.
We talked about innovation, but
there have been virtually no changes to
insulin since Dana’s diagnosis, so the
price spike is inexplicable.
Dana is not only a diabetes patient,
but she is also a nurse practitioner and
a diabetes educator. And she has told
me about her patients that go to Can-
ada where they can get insulin for just
$40 a month. She has also shared sto-
ries of her own patients who can’t af-
ford their medications, who ration
their insulin, which we know can lead
to poorer health, vision loss, kidney
failure, and even death.
H.R. 3 will finally give the Health
and Human Services secretary the
power to negotiate a fair price for insu-
lin, which will dramatically help pa-
tients like Dana and all the patients
that she serves.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this legislation.
Mr. WALDEN. Madam Speaker, I
yield 11⁄2 minute to the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. CARTER), Congress’ only
pharmacist.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I thank the gentleman for yield-
ing.
We have a situation here where we
all want the same thing. We all want to
bring down prescription drug prices.
We want the same thing. We need the
same thing. We can achieve the same
thing. We can achieve the same thing
without taking the risk of drugs not
coming to the market.
Physicians take an oath when they
graduate from medical school, it is
called the Hippocratic Oath. It says,
‘‘first, do no harm.’’ Now, whether you
believe the Congressional Budget Office
that it will be eight to 15 drugs, or
whether you believe the Council of
Economic Advisers that it will be over
100 drugs, even if it is one drug, that is
one drug too many.
b 0945
It is simply a chance we cannot af-
ford to take. Every one of us in this
body knows a story, knows someone
who has suffered from that awful dis-
ease Alzheimer’s. It is an awful disease.
Barbara Lutz tells the story about
her husband, Richard, who suffered
from that disease. She tells the story
about how she and her family suffered
through that with him. Oftentimes, it
is the caregivers who suffer so much.
Finally, Richard has succumbed to
that disease after a 7-year fight. Now,
people who are diagnosed or who have
family and loved ones who are diag-
nosed with Alzheimer’s come up to
Barbara and ask her: ‘‘What do I do?
What do I do?’’ Barbara simply told
me: ‘‘All I can tell them is to pray for
a cure.’’
This is not a Republican-Democratic
issue. This is our issue. This is Amer-
ica’s issue. We have to solve it to-
gether, and we can do that.
Ms. STEVENS. Madam Chair, I think
we are all here to make sure that every
Alzheimer’s patient and every family
affected by Alzheimer’s has access to
the lowest, most affordable prescrip-
tion drugs possible, which is why we
are so pleased to be ushering in today’s
piece of legislation.
Madam Chair, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Nevada (Mr.
HORSFORD).
Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Chair, I
thank my colleague from Michigan for
her leadership and for guiding this de-
bate on the floor today.
Madam Chair, I rise to speak in sup-
port of H.R. 3, the Elijah E. Cummings
Lower Drug Costs Now Act, named
after a man who I have great respect
for, who was a mentor of mine, and
who fought so hard to hold Big Pharma
accountable.
Today is a big day for the American
people because we are finally putting
their health over the interests of Big
Pharma’s profits. I am speaking in sup-
port of this legislation for the hun-
dreds, if not thousands, of constituents
who have shared their stories with me
throughout this year. This issue is the
single most important issue in my dis-
trict. I am speaking in support of peo-
ple like my constituent Mario.
About a year ago, Mario was diag-
nosed with diabetes and recently
sought care for a lesion on his foot that
wouldn’t heal. Because he couldn’t af-
ford the proper medications, Mario
ended up losing his toe and had to
leave his job. His daughter had to drop
out of college to work full time to help
pay for Mario’s medications.
This is an issue that not only im-
pacts the lives of the patients who are
in desperate need of lifesaving medica-
tions to stay healthy, but it is also im-
pacting those who love and care for
them. It is altering the future of their
families.
As Chairman Cummings would say:
‘‘We are better than this.’’ We are bet-
ter than this as a nation, to put the in-
terests of Big Pharma and their profits
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:36 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.003 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10134 December 12, 2019
over the interests of the American peo-
ple and their health.
For far too long, American families
have been forced to pay 4, 5, or even 10
times more for their prescriptions than
patients in other countries.
Do my colleagues on the other side
think that that is right, that your con-
stituents are subsidizing the
healthcare for people across the world
when you have people in your own
neighborhood who are rationing their
medications, making false choices to
pay their rent, buy food, or take the
necessary medication as prescribed by
their doctors? Well, I don’t. I don’t
think that that is a choice the Amer-
ican people should have to make.
Today, we are taking the necessary
action to move this legislation for-
ward, and I hope that my colleagues on
the other side will work with us and
that the President will work with us.
What my constituents tell me is not
that they are Democrats, not that they
are Republicans, not that they are
Democrats, not that they are independ-
ents. They tell me that they have dia-
betes, that they have cancer, that they
have heart disease, that they have
asthma, that they have HIV and AIDS,
that they are dying, and that they need
the healthcare that they demand.
Madam Chair, I ask us to pass H.R. 3.
Mr. WALDEN. Madam Chair, may I
inquire as to how much time each side
has remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Oregon has 18 minutes remaining.
The gentlewoman from Michigan has
171⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. WALDEN. Madam Chair, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. HOLDING).
Mr. HOLDING. Madam Chair, H.R. 3
is a shortsighted proposal and a bad
deal for our constituents.
It will compromise the strong legacy
of innovation that our Nation is proud
of. It will be a grave mistake to fun-
damentally change the market struc-
ture that makes America a viable mar-
ket for cutting-edge innovation in bio-
pharmaceuticals.
Government price setting will kill in-
novation in clinical areas where it is
most needed. The pricing scheme out-
lined in H.R. 3 would disincentivize re-
search and development for drugs that
are first in their class, such as the fu-
ture cure for Alzheimer’s or ASL.
Government price controls will not
only kill innovation but will also fun-
damentally change the doctor-patient
relationship in this country. This bill
would allow bureaucrats to make the
most personal of choices about the
course of treatment for our constitu-
ents. Treatment decisions in this coun-
try should be made between a patient
and their physician and should not be
based on the rationing of treatments
by bureaucrats in foreign nations.
In North Carolina, H.R. 3’s pricing
scheme would shatter the biopharma-
ceutical ecosystem that supports 40,000
jobs directly, 200,000 jobs indirectly,
and generates $13 billion in economic
output annually. That is just in North
Carolina.
H.R. 3 would put small and midsized
biotech firms out of business and
threaten hundreds of thousands of our
constituents’ jobs. We should reject
H.R. 3 and, instead, advance meaning-
ful legislation that lowers patients’
out-of-pocket costs, that protects inno-
vation, and that would actually be
signed into law.
Ms. STEVENS. Madam Chair, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Colo-
rado (Mr. CROW).
Mr. CROW. Madam Chair, I rise
today to speak in favor of H.R. 3, the
Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs
Now Act, and I am eager to vote for
this landmark piece of legislation
today.
I am proud that we are here boldly
taking a stand against the influence of
special interests in Congress and a
stand for the American people, to help
them afford critical lifesaving medica-
tions.
Back home in Colorado’s Sixth Con-
gressional District, when I am hosting
townhalls or roundtables with families,
college students, or seniors, I hear the
same thing: Prescription drugs are too
expensive, and Congress needs to act
now.
Currently, as we stand here, one in
three Coloradans can’t afford to pay for
their basic medications and are having
to either ration their medication or
stop taking it altogether. This needs to
stop now.
Thousands of Coloradans are diag-
nosed with cancer every year, and the
treatments for these patients cost
$100,000 or more. Instead of working to
increase access and lower costs, the
pharmaceutical companies are price
gouging these patients, our constitu-
ents, across the country. This needs to
stop now.
I am proud to have worked with my
freshman colleague, Representative
PORTER, to introduce H.R. 4663, the
Freedom from Price Gouging Act,
which has been included as a provision
in H.R. 3. Our provision would hold
these bad actors accountable and pre-
vent them from raising the cost of pre-
scription drugs past the rate of infla-
tion. The CBO recently found that this
measure would save American tax-
payers $38 billion over the next decade.
Importantly, H.R. 3 gives the Federal
Government authority to negotiate
prices for insulin and other lifesaving
drugs. As I stand here today, 300,000
Coloradans with diabetes will save up
to 75 percent on their insulin under
H.R. 3. It also caps the exorbitant
amount that seniors have to pay for
drugs that simply improve the quality
of their life.
As I stand here today, hundreds of
thousands of Coloradans with heart
disease, asthma, arthritis, and cancer
will directly benefit from H.R. 3.
On top of the drug pricing provisions,
this bill invests billions in savings
back into our healthcare system. $10
billion would go to our Nation’s com-
munity health centers, which serve
over 29 million Americans from under-
served communities.
It also invests $10 billion into the
NIH and $2 billion into the FDA to pro-
mote research and drug safety. It in-
vests another $10 billion to respond to
our Nation’s opioid epidemic, which
has destroyed far too many American
families.
We cannot wait any longer while our
neighbors’ and family members’ lives
are at risk and while pharmaceutical
companies continue to fill their pock-
ets, making tens of billions of dollars,
historic profits.
Americans rightly expect us to de-
liver on our promise to fight and re-
duce the cost of prescription drugs.
That is why I will cast my vote as a
‘‘yes’’ today to deliver relief for my
constituents and the American people.
Ms. STEVENS. Madam Chair, I yield
myself 30 seconds.
As a subtle point of clarification,
today, as we embark on a historic mo-
ment, we are looking to pass the Elijah
E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now
legislation, not the invest in R&D act.
Embracing the status quo for the mil-
lions of Americans who are counting on
us is certainly fully and wholly unac-
ceptable.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Madam Chair, I yield
myself 11⁄2 minutes.
Madam Chair, I want to make clear
that I am always willing to come to
the other side of the aisle to work
these things out.
All of us came here with similar
cause and calling, to lower the price of
prescription drugs, to stop the abuse
and bad behavior of pharmaceutical
companies when they keep generics
from coming to market. But I don’t
think anybody came here to take away
cures for patients who come to our of-
fices every year begging for a cure for
Alzheimer’s, pancreatic cancer, or
ASL, you name the disease.
My mother died of ovarian cancer.
My father had bladder cancer. My sis-
ter-in-law died of brain cancer. We lost
a son to a heart defect. We all want
cures.
We know by independent analysis
that H.R. 3 denies access to cures. That
is a fact. It is a fact that the Council of
Economic Advisers says up to 100 cures
will be lost. The Congressional Budget
Office says in the next two decades, 38
cures would be lost. It doesn’t have to
be that way.
We can lower drug costs. We can
incent innovation. My friend from
Michigan talked about being involved
in the innovation world. This is a let-
ter from 138 leaders of these incredible
American innovators who beg us not to
shatter the dreams of Americans,
which they say H.R. 3 will do by com-
pletely upending the process.
That is why President Trump said he
cannot sign this. No President has ever
leaned further than President Trump.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.010 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10135
December 12, 2019
Mr. WALDEN. Madam Chair, I yield
myself 15 additional seconds.
We have an alternative. Everything
in our substitute bill is bipartisan.
Even if you feel like you have to vote
for H.R. 3, there is no reason you
should have to vote against the pro-
posals in here. There is not a poison
pill. They are all bipartisan. They will
all bring meaningful relief to our folks
at home, and nothing in here will re-
duce innovation.
Ms. STEVENS. Madam Chair, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from Ar-
izona (Mrs. KIRKPATRICK).
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK. Madam Chair, I
thank the Congresswoman for yielding.
I want to echo what I hear from my
constituents: Do I put gas in my car, or
do I buy my medication? Do I put food
on the table for my family, or do I pay
for my prescription drugs? Do I buy a
generic drug here in the United States
that costs $900, or do I drive to Mexico
where I can buy it for $9?
These are real, lifesaving, life-or-
death issues that we are dealing with.
I want you to know this is personal
to me because, when I was a 19-year-old
waitress, I came home one night to my
family, and my parents weren’t home.
They said, ‘‘Your mom took your dad
to the hospital,’’ and I drove to the
hospital.
I said: ‘‘Okay, I will go check on
him.’’
As I was walking in the door, the
doctor walked out, and he said: ‘‘Your
dad is dead.’’
That was due to a lack of healthcare,
including prescription drugs.
b 1000
He had an undiagnosed heart disease
that could have been treated, and in
this day and age it would not have been
an issue. So I fully support H.R. 3. This
is something that is critical to Amer-
ican families and they are dealing with
every day.
A mother shouldn’t have to decide if
she is going to drive to Mexico, where
she is not exactly sure if the drug she
is purchasing for her child has the
same standards and quality that she
would get here in the United States.
So, Madam Chair, I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 3. This is life or
death.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. WENSTRUP), who is a key leader on
healthcare on the Ways and Means
Committee.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Chair, 26
years ago, my sister had two forms of
leukemia that most people die from
immediately; but because of earlier
clinical trials and innovative treat-
ments, there was a way to get some
leukemia patients into remission.
Then we developed bone marrow
transplants, and I matched her for
that.
Five years later, they called her a
cure.
Today, my sister is alive, working,
raising a family, and we have treat-
ments for leukemia that lead to a cure
without even needing bone marrow
transplants.
These treatments are just steps in
finding cures; and, as we work to lower
prescription drug prices, I want to
make sure that we are looking at it
from all angles. We need to be aware of
the impacts on the quality of and ac-
cess to care when considering effective
solutions to lower drug prices.
H.R. 3 threatens and, actually, puts a
knife in the heart of the pillars of re-
search and development that have
helped make America the leader in
health innovation.
Relying on foreign countries to set
our prices is misguided. I don’t want to
see the U.S. be controlled or manipu-
lated by an arrangement some other
cabal of countries makes to affect our
markets and our patients. Other coun-
tries do not always share the same pri-
orities we do on access to quality care
and saving lives.
What do we sacrifice with this bill?
The best care? Cutting-edge research?
A lifesaving drug?
Unfortunately, the approach before
us today is a dangerous one. Govern-
ment price controls and a looming
threat of a 95 percent tax will dramati-
cally hurt our country’s ability to re-
search and innovate new cures. Esti-
mates show that the bill would lead to
the loss of dozens of new drugs. That
means fewer lifesaving drugs and fewer
American lives saved.
As a physician, I can attest that
every doctor’s goal is to get the best
treatment for their patients. We can do
more without going and having this
stop development and innovation.
The Republican alternative to this
bill, H.R. 19, is bipartisan, and it is an
effort to lower prescription drug prices
while also protecting patients’ access
to new medicines and cures.
Americans deserve to have a
healthcare system that delivers treat-
ments when they need it most and
makes care more affordable.
Ms. STEVENS. Madam Chair, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. ROUDA).
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman from Michigan for
yielding 1 minute.
Madam Chair, I rise today in support
of H.R. 3, the Elijah E. Cummings
Lower Drug Costs Now Act.
Earlier this year, Chairman Cum-
mings convened our first Oversight and
Reform Committee hearing to examine
the impact of soaring prescription drug
costs on our constituents. It is fitting
we named this legislation to honor our
friend who used his gavel to highlight
the stories of Americans who are suf-
fering and dying because they couldn’t
afford astronomical drug prices while
living in the greatest and richest coun-
try in the world.
This bill would institute negotiation
for fair drug prices, lower out-of-pock-
et costs for seniors, improve coverage
for Medicare beneficiaries, and invest
in innovative new treatment in our
fight against the addiction crisis.
Madam Chair, I support this legisla-
tion because it would improve access to
affordable prescription drugs for more
than 600,000 of my constituents, and I
urge my colleagues to support this leg-
islation and ensure our constituents
have access to lifesaving medication.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Chair, I yield
myself 2 minutes.
So we have heard today that we
should pass H.R. 3 because you can go
to Canada and get medicines for pen-
nies on the dollar. Here is what they
don’t tell you:
There are lots of medicines you can
get for zero in Canada because they are
not available. Canadians have access to
about half of the lifesaving cures avail-
able here in America.
Guess where they come when they
need that cure and that recent medical
breakthrough? They come to America.
What happens when we start acting
and behaving like Canada? Who is
going to be our safety net?
Why should patients in America have
to choose between affordable medicines
and a lifesaving cure for Alzheimer’s,
ALS, Parkinson’s, or cancer?
Why should parents with sick chil-
dren in America be forced to wait
longer for the newest drug break-
through that could save their life?
Why should Americans face a shorter
life?
Because the costliest and most pain-
ful drug to me is the one that was
never created.
At the depths of NANCY PELOSI’s drug
bill is a dangerous trade-off: lower drug
prices in the short term, but fewer life-
saving cures in the future.
This is a cruel and false choice,
which is why this bill will quickly die
with no bipartisan support in the Sen-
ate.
As Republicans, we believe we need
to do both: lower drug prices and accel-
erate new lifesaving cures.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself 30 seconds.
Mr. Chairman, it is a fact that phar-
maceutical drug companies spend more
on marketing than they do on R&D.
It is a fact that life expectancy in
this country is going down, and it has
gone down for the third year in a row.
It is a fact that we are in a moment
of crisis, and now is the time for us to
pass the Lower Drug Costs Now Act.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Nevada (Mrs.
LEE), who is my good friend.
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, I am here to speak in
support of the Elijah E. Cummings
Lower Drug Costs Now Act, and, in par-
ticular, I want to speak in support of
my bill which is included in the act,
the Enhancing Retirement Security for
Medicare Beneficiaries Act, which
would guarantee that the disburse-
ments of retirement savings are not
counted when determining if someone
qualifies for Medicare part D’s low-in-
come subsidy program.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.012 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10136 December 12, 2019
As a young girl, I learned the impor-
tance of saving money. My first job
was running a paper route in my neigh-
borhood in Canton, Ohio, at the age of
8. At the end of every week, I would put
aside a quarter or two just to save up
for a candy bar. It wasn’t much, but it
taught me the importance that saving
money is worth it.
Americans and our seniors should not
be punished for saving for their retire-
ment, but when retirement savings are
counted towards eligibility for pre-
scription drug assistance, we are pun-
ishing the very seniors who have been
working hard and saving money.
The fact is that no group of Nevadans
relies more on prescription drugs than
our seniors, and the rising cost of liv-
ing is hard enough on older Americans.
We should be making it easier for them
to retire in dignity, and that means
not forcing them to choose between
buying groceries or lifesaving medica-
tion.
Mr. Chairman, I am pleased that my
bill was included in the underlying text
of H.R. 3, and it is time that we lower
prescription drug costs not just for sen-
iors on Medicare, but for all Ameri-
cans.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself 30 seconds.
It is a fact that drug companies in
America spend three times as much on
R&D than on marketing and adver-
tising.
It is a fact that the dangerous Pelosi
drug bill robs up to $1 trillion of re-
search and development costs that will
not be used for lifesaving cures in
America.
It is a fact, from the Congressional
Budget Office, that we will lose at least
38 new cures as a result of this bill; the
Council of Economic Advisers, 100 new
cures; and the California Life Sciences
Association says 9 out of 10 cures that
they would be working on will never
happen in America.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
ARRINGTON), who is a key leader on the
Ways and Means Committee.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Chairman, I
thank my friend and ranking Repub-
lican on Ways and Means for the oppor-
tunity, and I thank him for his leader-
ship on this important issue.
Mr. Chairman, we all agree that the
prices of drugs are too high. We agree
that something needs to be done to fix
this for all Americans, not just our
seniors.
The problem I have—and it is a big
problem—is the way we go about doing
this. It is like a rerun of ObamaCare. It
is this government knows best, this
top-down, government-controlled, let’s
tax, regulate, and mandate our way to
a better system. It doesn’t work.
So we are doubling down on a failed
philosophy on how to deliver affordable
quality products to the American peo-
ple.
The approach should be more choices,
more competition, a healthier market,
and greater transparency.
By the way, we have worked on those
issues in a bipartisan fashion. I have
introduced two pieces of legislation
with my Democrat friends that would
do just that.
The problem here is not just this top-
down, heavy-handed government knows
best, let’s fix the crisis and assume
nothing bad will happen. It is that
nothing is going to come of this H.R. 3.
It is a messaging bill. It is purely polit-
ical, and it won’t help the people whom
we all intend to help.
I do not judge the motives of my col-
leagues. I think they want to help our
seniors just as I do. But we can’t do it
with partisan messaging bills. We have
to do it by working together.
In a former life, I was vice chancellor
at Texas Tech, and I was responsible
for bringing new drug technologies,
therapies, and biologics to market.
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
3 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. SLOTKIN), who is my
dear friend.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Chair, for the last
2 years, the single most common issue
that Michiganders raise with me is the
price of prescription drugs.
Michiganders, regardless of party, are
demanding that Congress do something
about it. People literally clutch my
arm at the grocery store to tell me how
their son is rationing his insulin or
their daughter couldn’t go to summer
camp because she couldn’t afford the
inhalers.
That is why shortly after being sworn
in in January, I started working in ear-
nest on the issue. I am very proud to
stand behind my colleagues and sup-
port H.R. 3, the Lower Drug Costs Now
Act. This important legislation will
drive down the cost of the country’s
most expensive drugs by allowing our
government to negotiate for the very
best prices.
To be clear, the VA does the exact
same thing. I am on military insur-
ance, and the VA can negotiate for
drug prices. Why not allow Medicare to
do the very same thing?
To put this in perspective, there are
over 800,000 Michiganders living with
diabetes, and common insulin medica-
tions can cost somewhere between
$1,200 and $20,000 a year. This includes
Sarah, a woman who lives in Holly,
Michigan, where I live, who literally
says she is being priced out of her life.
Her insulin costs are higher than her
rent per month.
This bill, if passed, would allow the
government to negotiate, bringing the
price down to as little as $400 a year.
Once the price is negotiated, all Ameri-
cans, including Medicare recipients,
benefit from that price. The bill would
also improve Medicare coverage for
seniors and lower their out-of-pocket
costs.
Two months ago, I cointroduced a
bill that included vision coverage in
Medicare. That means Medicare recipi-
ents, once every 2 years, will get an eye
exam and one set of either glasses or
contacts.
I am very pleased that this was in-
corporated into this bigger bill along
with other measures that would in-
clude hearing coverage and dental cov-
erage for the first time. So, finally,
preventive care will be part of the rou-
tine coverage for Medicare.
To be clear, the bill pays for itself.
Negotiation saves us, according to the
CBO, $450 billion, which covers the ad-
ditions to Medicare and still gives $10
billion for research and development to
the National Institutes of Health.
Mr. Chairman, you will hear my col-
leagues and Big Pharma say that you
have to make a choice between re-
search and lifesaving cures and the
price of prescription drugs. That is a
false choice, and anyone who watches
TV and sees those annoying ads knows
that the drug companies have plenty of
places to cut their funding.
b 1015
Members from both parties in the
House and Senate, and indeed the
President, have said the right things
when it comes to lowering drug prices.
Now it is time to walk the walk.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from California (Mr.
MCCARTHY), the Republican leader of
the House.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentleman for yielding, but
more importantly, I thank him for his
work on this bill, and all the others, as
well, in their committees.
There is an urgent need to address
the soaring cost of prescription drugs
that burden too many American fami-
lies. It is well past time that we offer
a practical solution that actually low-
ers costs while ensuring new cures can
reach Americans fighting disease and
illness.
This Congress in the past has spent a
great deal of time making sure that we
have cures for the future. That is why
Republicans introduced this bill, Lower
Costs, More Cures Act, and I urge all
my colleagues to support it.
The bill was written with a rule: each
policy must be bipartisan. I know in
this town and in this climate, that is
not achieved very often, but for an
issue as crucial as lowering the cost of
prescription drugs for Americans, par-
tisanship should be set aside.
Later today, we will see which side
and which bill is bipartisan. By draw-
ing on the very best ideas, H.R. 19
makes crucial reforms that will lower
out-of-pocket costs for Americans at
drugstore counters. For seniors, it
makes medication more affordable by
capping their out-of-pocket costs. It in-
creases the availability of generics and
biosimilar drugs by prohibiting drug
companies from delaying the start of
their exclusivity period. It speeds up
the FDA approval process. It provides
greater price transparency by requiring
insurance companies to make informa-
tion about drug costs available in the
doctor’s office before a prescription is
written. And for diabetics who have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.014 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10137
December 12, 2019
high deductibles in their plans, it al-
lows insurance companies to cover the
cost of insulin before meeting the
plan’s deductibility.
While Republicans offer practical so-
lutions, Democrats are catering to
their progressive base by opening a
door to a government takeover of our
prescription drug market.
Mr. Chairman, Speaker PELOSI’s par-
tisan plan, H.R. 3, will make our bro-
ken system worse by placing more bar-
riers between Americans and their
medication, including by reducing the
number of new drugs on the market in-
stead of helping them reach the pa-
tients. According to estimates from the
Council of Economic Advisers, the
Speaker’s radical proposal could kill
upwards of 100 new drugs over the next
decade.
Pause for one moment and think
about that: 100 new drugs over the next
decade will be killed by passing H.R. 3.
That is one-third of the total number
of new drugs expected to enter the
market during that time.
Moreover, the Council estimates that
H.R. 3 would reduce America’s average
life expectancy by 4 months. Nearly a
quarter of the projected gains in life
expectancies over the next decade, sim-
ply because you want to appease the
progressive base and have a partisan
bill that denies us more cures and
shortens our lifespan.
But you will achieve one goal today:
You will have one party vote for a bill
that will not become law, but you will
appease a base with this and impeach-
ment.
And it is not just the Council. The
CBO reports that fewer drugs will be
available because of the provisions in
H.R. 3. The Democrat’s plan is yet an-
other example of how unnecessary gov-
ernment control harms the very people
it claims to help.
All of us have or know someone with
a loved one who has fought a disease or
an illness for which no cure has been
found. Imagine how demoralizing it
will be to cut off hope for a future cure.
All of us have gone through this. My
father never got to see the day I was
elected because he lost his life to can-
cer. He battled it for 3 years. I would
give anything to have found a cure for
my father’s cancer. But it is not just
his.
If we delay one cure, that is one cure
too many. The best way to lower costs
is not to lose the cures, even the loss of
one.
Mr. Chairman, Americans want their
government to put the best available
ideas into action. They deserve solu-
tions, not political posturing filled
with empty promises. The saddest part
of today, we could have had prescrip-
tion drug prices lowered on this floor
even earlier in this year. There was a
window of opportunity, a moment in
time where you did not see the par-
tisanship that we see today, a moment
in the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce where every single Democrat
and every single Republican voted on
three bills to lower the price of pre-
scription drugs.
But as I learned as a child on
‘‘Schoolhouse Rock,’’ ‘‘I am just a bill
on Capitol Hill,’’ at the time it goes
from a committee and before it gets to
the floor, it goes through leadership.
And unfortunately for the Americans
across this country, leadership changed
that bill, not the Members in the
House. They changed that bill so when
it came to the floor it became partisan.
And you know what? Our drugs were
not lowered, the bill did not become
law, and we are impeding the exact
same thing today.
You will have two choices: You will
have a choice of H.R. 3, that, yes, had
to be negotiated even this week with
progressives on the other side to ap-
pease them to make sure this was as
partisan as can be. It won’t become
law. It will be another talking point, a
moment of time to try to explain why
you wasted a majority on just inves-
tigations.
But you will have another oppor-
tunity, a substitute. If you want to
lower drug prices in 2019, vote for H.R.
19. You know why? Because every sin-
gle provision in that bill is bipartisan.
Can we not, with one issue, at one
moment in one time put partisanship
aside? Can we put people before poli-
tics? Can we expand our life expect-
ancy? Can we find 100 more cures? Can
we do that?
I know you might upset a few in your
party, but think about how many more
lives we will save. There is always a
moment in time that I have hope that
this Congress will rise and keep the
promises that I heard before an elec-
tion took place, that we would be dif-
ferent, that we would govern together,
that we would find bipartisanship.
Today, on the floor, you will have
that window. You will have a bill that
has every single provision. You will
have a report that says, No, we won’t
stop 100 new cures in the next decade.
No, they will give hope to the Amer-
ican public that there will be oppor-
tunity to cure disease that you have
today and live a long and full life.
And you know what? It is the only
bill on the floor today that could be-
come law. So if you want to make a
real change, you have a voting card to
do it.
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ROSE), my friend.
Mr. ROSE of New York. Mr. Chair,
before I came to Congress, my job was
to make sure that those without
healthcare and those who could barely
afford it, could have access.
Every day, we would see doctors and
nurses do the impossible in the worst
system. And without fail, we all would
wonder why no one would do anything
to change it. Well, today we are. This
bill does not cater to a base. This bill
does not cater to Big Pharma, but this
bill does cater to that family tonight
who is going to have to choose between
paying for prescription drugs or put-
ting food on the table. This bill caters
to the American people.
Today, Big Pharma loses, and the
American people win. Because what we
are doing today is giving Medicare the
power to negotiate skyrocketing costs
of prescription drugs. This historic leg-
islation also creates new out-of-pocket
limits on prescription drug costs for
Medicare beneficiaries. It reinvests
savings so that we can create new
breakthrough treatments and cures at
NIH, and it provides $10 billion in fund-
ing to combat the opioid epidemic.
For decades, Big Pharma and cor-
porate PACs could count on their lob-
byists and politicians to keep them
safe at the expense of the American
people. Not anymore. Today, the Amer-
ican people win. I urge all my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Ne-
braska (Mr. FORTENBERRY), one of the
leaders in healthcare.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Mr. Chair, I
thank both leaders, first of all, for this
debate. This is absolutely critical, and
here is why:
The other day, I went to the doctor—
a kind of a common ailment. The doc-
tor prescribed an antibiotic.
I said, ‘‘Doc, let’s check the price be-
fore we use the credit card.’’
He said, ‘‘Don’t worry about it. It is
going to be about $6. It is commonly
used.’’
But guess what? The list price was
about $430. It used to be $6 in 2011; now,
it is $430.
We have a problem. We have a big
problem in America. A very big Demo-
crat, a very big Republican problem. I
want to commend my Democratic col-
leagues for raising the issue, for put-
ting this on the agenda, for making an
attempt to propose something. There is
strong disagreement with the nature of
the policy proposal, but there ought to
be unification around the idea that we
have to do something.
I commend my Republican colleagues
for putting together a bill of all the bi-
partisan initiatives that are around
here that we can agree on.
So what is going to happen is we are
going to get stuck again, really, really
quickly. This bill now has a chance of
going into law, the bipartisan bill.
There is some opposition to it, and it
could be fleshed out further.
The President has called for negotia-
tions. This is an important part of all
of us. So let’s get back to work after
we get past this moment.
Mr. Chair, I thank everyone for a
spirited and good debate.
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. PELOSI), the Speaker of
the House.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the gentlewoman from Michigan, a
leader in the freshman class, for yield-
ing time and for her extraordinary
leadership in so many ways.
It is just so invigorating to see the
freshmen Members of this class taking
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.016 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10138 December 12, 2019
the lead on this important legislation.
Many of us just came in from the steps
of the Capitol where, again, the fresh-
men Members took the lead.
Following up on a promise made last
year during the election, For the Peo-
ple, we will lower the cost of
healthcare in America by lowering the
cost of prescription drugs. H.R. 3 does
just that, named for our great and de-
parted—may he rest in peace—Elijah E.
Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Drug
Act.
This is very, very important. And it
may come as news to some of our Re-
publican friends who were saying
things to the contrary, but this is a
product of the work of three commit-
tees in Congress.
I thank Chairman PALLONE of the
Committee on Energy and Commerce,
Chairman RICHIE NEAL of the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and BOBBY
SCOTT, chair of the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, for their relentless
and persistent work on this lifesaving
legislation where many freshmen are
speaking now, controlling the time.
But in the course of the debate of
yesterday, under the aegis of the com-
mittees of jurisdiction, many of them
spoke at that time as well, dem-
onstrating their leadership on this
issue, making it a reality on the floor
of the House. Again, I thank them for
their bold urgency to lower the cost of
drugs.
The crushing burden of prescription
drugs is an issue that impacts every
family in America. Much talk is given
around here about having a seat at the
table. The most important seat at the
most important table is the kitchen
table of America’s working families
where they enjoy family, but also ad-
dress challenges that face them, wheth-
er it is in their health or in their finan-
cial health and how that is related.
b 1030
This legislation today speaks to that
important table of concerns.
In my travels across the country, I
have seen grown men cry about how
they cannot meet the needs of their
families when it comes to prescription
drug costs, a spouse with a long-term
illness, children with chronic diseases,
and the rest.
Prescription drug prices are out of
control. The price of insulin invented
nearly a century ago—when people say
we have to cover our research costs—
doubled from 2012 to 2016 because of Big
Pharma.
Many people use it. A lot of people
buy it. Let’s increase our profits, they
say.
Americans are paying four times or
more for what Big Pharma charges for
the exact drugs in other countries.
While Big Pharma companies reap
record-breaking profits and multibil-
lion-dollar windfalls from the GOP tax
scam, 58 million Americans couldn’t af-
ford to fill a prescription they needed
to stay healthy in the past year—58
million Americans.
Thirty-four million Americans know
a loved one who died from not being
able to afford a treatment that they
needed.
We face medical, economic, and
moral crises that demand that we act
and that we act boldly.
Yes, they have a motion to recom-
mit. I think it was appropriate that the
Republicans have the opportunity to
put an alternative on the floor, incre-
mental pieces, not going to the heart of
the matter. How dare they ever think
of enabling the Secretary to negotiate
for lower prices, which is the heart of
the matter.
We have been trying to do this for a
number of years. Today, we will.
Last year, again, we made the prom-
ise For the People, that we would lower
the cost of prescription drugs. We are
finally giving Medicare the power to
negotiate lower drug prices.
Some Republicans say it is un-Amer-
ican for the Secretary to be able to ne-
gotiate for lower prices—un-Amer-
ican—then making those lower prices
available to the hundreds of millions of
Americans with private insurance, too.
We are insisting that American sen-
iors and families shouldn’t have to pay
more for our medicines than what Big
Pharma charges for the same drug
overseas. I say that again. H.R. 3
means lowering the cost of medication
for Americans with leukemia by more
than 70 percent. It means lowering the
cost of medication for arthritis, which
more than 50 million Americans have,
by almost 75 percent. It means low-
ering the cost of asthma medication for
25 million Americans with this condi-
tion from $1,500 to $270.
Yesterday, we had Mr. Riordan tes-
tify at our press conference. The cost
of his medication for asthma, in his
case, was over $60,000 a month. Eighty
percent of it was covered by Medicare,
but he had to pay over $4,000 a month.
Can you absorb that? $4,000 a month
for a drug that you are supposed to
take four times a month? He was tak-
ing it twice a month, once a month, or
not at all, not a healthy thing to do,
but reaping big profits for Big Pharma.
Under H.R. 3, some commonly used
insulins could cost as little as $400 a
year.
With the Elijah E. Cummings Lower
Drug Costs Now Act of 2019, we put
more money back into the pockets of
seniors and hardworking families. We
drive down insurance premiums, mak-
ing it easier to afford coverage.
When we lift the immense burden of
drug costs on employers, the CBO says
American businesses can expect bigger
paychecks and salaries for their work-
ers.
H.R. 3 also represents the most trans-
formative expansion of Medicare since
its inception.
Now, many people on the other side
of the aisle did not support Medicare at
its inception, but this is a vast im-
provement because we are investing
more than a half-trillion dollars—that
is with a T-R—a half-trillion dollars
that we are saving by lowering out-of-
control prices and investing in historic
new benefits for vision, dental, and
hearing for Medicare beneficiaries for
the first time.
With these huge savings, we are also
investing in new research for new
treatments and cures and fighting the
opioid epidemic, as the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ROSE) pointed out, and
in the community health centers that
deliver quality healthcare to so many
Americans.
Advocacy groups representing tens of
millions of Americans, seniors, retir-
ees, patients, providers, faith leaders,
businesses, and the men and women of
labor, and more, support H.R. 3.
AARP wrote to Members of Congress
this week and said: ‘‘This important
legislation is a bold step toward low-
ering prescription drug prices and im-
proving Medicare for seniors and fami-
lies across the country. . . . H.R. 3 will
help more Americans afford their pre-
scription drugs and get the care they
need to stay healthy.’’ They said that
in their support of the legislation.
There is every reason in the world for
Republicans to join us in passing this
bill. The bill delivers on President
Trump’s promise to the American peo-
ple. In his words, he said: ‘‘When it
comes time to negotiate the cost of
drugs, we are going to negotiate like
crazy.’’
Negotiation is what this bill is about.
The Republican substitute is what this
bill is not about, and that negotiation
is the heart of the matter.
The President also said: ‘‘It’s unac-
ceptable that Americans pay vastly
more than people in other countries for
the exact same drugs, often made in
the exact same place. This is wrong;
this is unfair; and together, we will
stop it.’’
Actually, in creating this bill, and
working with the committees to do so,
we were working with the interests of
the White House, the administration,
on all of this.
I don’t know where it happened, but
somewhere along the way, negotiation
and the rest fell by the by, and that,
again, could be attributed to I don’t
know what.
Democrats named H.R. 3, as I men-
tioned, in honor of Chairman Elijah
Cummings, our North Star who worked
across the aisle and down Pennsylvania
Avenue—he met with the President—to
lower prescription drug prices.
In honor of Chairman Cummings, and
for the sake of the millions of Ameri-
cans struggling with high prescription
drug costs, I urge a strong vote on H.R.
3 to lower drug costs now for all Ameri-
cans, for the people. I urge an ‘‘aye’’
vote.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself 30 seconds.
When the Republican Congress, in
2003, joined with President Bush to cre-
ate the affordable drug plan for seniors,
then-Leader NANCY PELOSI and Demo-
crats tried to kill it. She famously pre-
dicted that creating the part D pro-
gram for seniors would end ‘‘Medicare
as we know it.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.017 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10139
December 12, 2019
Can you imagine how many seniors’
lives would have been lost if Democrats
had succeeded in stopping the afford-
able Medicare drug program that 43
million seniors have come to depend
upon? They were dangerously wrong
then, and they are dangerously wrong
again.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from California (Mr.
NUNES), the leader of the Health Sub-
committee for the Ways and Means
Committee.
Mr. NUNES. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman from Texas for yielding to
me. I want to speak in opposition to
H.R. 3.
Saying that drug costs are too high
for many Americans, Republicans and
Democrats can agree on that. That is
why we spent the better part of a year
working toward a bipartisan solution
to lower out-of-pocket prescription
drug costs and crack down on over-
priced drugs.
Sadly, Democrats abandoned that ef-
fort in favor of the socialist policies in
H.R. 3. For Democrats, the answer is
always more government, and H.R. 3 is
no exception.
The bill gives the government sweep-
ing new powers to allow government
bureaucrats to arbitrarily set drug
prices. Democrats keep calling it nego-
tiation.
Here is how negotiation works under
H.R. 3. The Federal Government will
tell a drug company what the drug
price is going to be. If the drug com-
pany doesn’t like it, they have two op-
tions: pay a 95 percent tax on their rev-
enue or leave the U.S. market. That
doesn’t sound like negotiation to me.
The Congressional Budget Office
claims this will result in such low drug
prices that some of the lifesaving cures
won’t even come to market. Under this
arrangement, there is very little incen-
tive for drug companies to invest the
time and money it takes to create new
cures and treatments. We know it
takes $2.6 billion and 10 to 15 years, on
average, to bring one drug to market.
This bill’s arbitrary action against
drug companies carries a steep cost to
the American people in the form of
fewer future cures. What cures will
those be? Alzheimer’s? Cancer? Schizo-
phrenia?
Killing drug innovation and ending
the development of lifesaving cures is
unacceptable. We can’t take that risk.
We have to do better for sick Ameri-
cans hoping and praying for a cure for
themselves or their loved ones.
We can solve this problem, but not
with the Democrats’ fewer cures act.
We have to do this in a bipartisan way.
Fortunately, there is an alternative
to the Democrats’ proposal. This week,
Republicans have introduced H.R. 19.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. ROUDA). The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. BRADY. I yield the gentleman
from California an additional 15 sec-
onds.
Mr. NUNES. I have introduced H.R.
19, the Lower Cost, More Cures Act.
This bill contains effective bipartisan
policies that could become law right
now.
It cracks down on overpriced drugs
and lowers costs for patients without
crushing the hope of future lifesaving
medicines.
It is time to stop playing political
games and start working toward solu-
tions for the American people.
H.R. 3 is a terrible idea that will
drive drugs out of the U.S. market.
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Chairman, if the
gentleman from Texas is prepared to
close, I am prepared to close.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Imagine life under H.R. 3, the Demo-
crats’ fewer cures bill. There will be
lower costs for some medicines, no
doubt. Both bills do that. But if you
have a rare disease, or your loved one
does, whether it is ALS you are strug-
gling with or dementia or Alzheimer’s,
if you were a dynamic person who now
is struggling with Parkinson’s, cancer,
diabetes, pulmonary hypertension, the
hope for your cure may never come.
The waiting for your cure may be
years, decades, or never.
The truth of the matter is—and it is
undeniable—H.R. 3, the Democrats’
bill, will cause fewer cures here in
America.
Don’t take my word for it. The Con-
gressional Budget Office estimates 38
cures lost over the next two decades,
the Council of Economic Advisers, 100
cures lost over the next several dec-
ades.
California Life Sciences Association
said, if we do what NANCY PELOSI’s bill
does, nearly 9 out of 10 drugs we would
have created will never exist. There
will be fewer cures for Americans when
we need it most.
I will tell you, drug prices are too
high in many cases. There is no excuse
for these price spikes, none at all.
But I will tell you what, the costliest
drug ever is the one that is never cre-
ated, that leaves the ravages of these
diseases to these loved ones who are
struggling with them.
We already know this is the case be-
cause in Canada, France, these other
countries that H.R. 3 wants to make us
look like, they have about half the
medicines we do. When they do get a
medicine, they will wait a year or 2
longer to even get it.
Well, if you have got ALS, if you
have got a glioblastoma, you are done
at that point. That is what that bill
brings about.
We know, fewer drugs in America, be-
cause today, we have created, over the
last several years, 111 new drugs in
America. France, this is the France
drug pricing scheme, 11. 111 in Amer-
ica. Eleven in France.
That is their vision of a day in the
life of someone with a rare, deadly dis-
ease in America.
Our bill, the Lower Cost, More Cures
Act, lowers out-of-pocket costs for
Americans because we crack down on
overpriced drugs. We give seniors, for
example, the power and the informa-
tion to choose the right place for their
medicines, which can lower their chem-
otherapy by half.
We pull back the curtain on everyone
involved in this drug pricing process.
We force drug companies to pay more
and shoulder more burden in the part D
prescription plan. We force them to
justify their increases. We force them
to list their prices in the ad so we
know.
We accelerate; we don’t kill life-
saving medical cures. We go further,
further than H.R. 3. We permanently
make it easier for Americans to deduct
high medical expenses from their
taxes, allowing them to use their HSAs
for over-the-counter medicines, includ-
ing feminine hygiene products. We save
seniors over $300 a year in the popular
Medicare prescription drug program.
b 1045
All these ideas are bipartisan. All
these can be passed by Congress. All
can be signed by President Trump this
year if Democrats abandon their par-
tisan game and continue what was
really good bipartisan work that got
shelved for this bill that dies.
When this is done, let’s come back
together. Let’s work together. Every-
one knows, in good faith, we have to
tackle these drug prices. Let’s prove to
America that we can actually work to-
gether not for impeachment, not for
the junk we are wasting our time on,
but for things that really matter to
families back home.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Chairman, we have heard compel-
ling argument today. We have heard
compelling argument around the need
and the reason to lower the costs of
prescription drugs now. We are taking
bold and reasonable steps today to
bring down the costs of prescription
drugs in this country. It is a signifi-
cant and historic day that ushers in a
beacon of hope for so many.
The answer from our Democratic ma-
jority today is solutions, solutions
based on fact, solutions based on the
guiding principle of the people, who we
represent, to deliver for them.
The question is, when will we do
something? Today, our legislation, the
Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs
Now Act, that is what we are going to
be passing, lowering drug costs now for
the people who cannot wait, for the
child of parents who are pushed to the
brink, for the older American who is
afraid to go to the pharmacy to pick up
their prescription drug because of what
it might cost, for the senior who is
afraid to go to the doctor just to get
that prescription, for the one-third of
Americans who forgo their prescription
drugs because of their costs.
President Truman said that America
is not built on fear. America is built on
imagination. America is built on cour-
age. And America is built on the will-
ingness to do the job at hand.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.019 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10140 December 12, 2019
That, my friends, is what our major-
ity is doing here today, tackling a solu-
tion for the millions of people, the
countless number of people, whose
voices only make their way into this
Chamber by those who represent them,
not the large multinational company
that has more money than it knows
what to do with. It is for the indi-
vidual, hardworking American, which
is why, today, I ask my colleagues to
join me in passing the Elijah E. Cum-
mings Lower Drug Costs Now Act for
every American, for the people, by the
people.
This is a historic and proud day, Mr.
Chairman, and this is what we came
here for.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Chair, today, I will vote in
support of H.R. 3, the Elijah E. Cummings
Lower Drug Costs Now Act.
Because of pharmaceutical companies’
price gouging, Americans pay more out-of-
pocket for prescription drugs than individuals
in any other country. Americans need lower
drug prices now, and Congress has the ability
to enact important reforms to deliver imme-
diate relief.
I believe H.R. 3 takes some important first
steps towards delivering that relief and to-
wards improving the health and financial secu-
rity of American seniors and families.
In particular, I am strongly supportive of pro-
visions that will lower out-of-pocket prescrip-
tion drug costs for Medicare Part D bene-
ficiaries. The legislation also limits price in-
creases under Medicare Part Band D by cre-
ating an inflation rebate. Specifically, if a drug
company raises the price of a drug in Part B
or D above the 2016 rate of inflation, the com-
pany must lower the price or be required to
pay the entire price above inflation in the form
of a rebate back to the Treasury.
After strong pushback from myself and other
progressive members, I am pleased that
House leadership restored language designed
to prevent pharmaceutical price-gouging for
upwards of 150 million Americans with private
health care plans and increased the minimum
number of drugs that must be negotiated per
year from 25 to 50.
While I believe these provisions will ulti-
mately deliver relief to millions of Americans,
I believe Congress can and must do more to
combat rising drug prices and price-gouging
pharmaceutical companies.
Currently, pharmaceutical companies charge
outrageous prices because there is no ade-
quate law to prevent drug companies from
reaping massive profits with drugs developed
on the taxpayer’s dime.
To combat this ridiculous practice, I intro-
duced H.R. 4640, the Affordable Drug Pricing
for Taxpayer-Funded Prescription Drugs Act,
which would end price gouging on prescription
drugs developed with taxpayer-funded re-
search by requiring federal agencies and fed-
erally-funded non-profits to secure affordable
pricing agreements from drug manufacturers
before granting them exclusive rights to de-
velop drugs or other health care products.
Americans should not pay to develop a drug
only to see it put on the shelves in the U.S.
at a much higher price than other nations.
I partnered with Rep. DOGGETT to offer an
amendment to H.R. 3 that is similar to my leg-
islation. While the amendment was not made
in order, I will continue to push House leader-
ship for full consideration of H.R. 4640.
Beyond this, I am a strong supporter of the
Prescription Drug Price Relief Act, which
would require the Secretary of Health and
Human Services (HHS) to make sure that
Americans don’t pay more for prescription
drugs than the median price of: Canada, the
United Kingdom, France, Germany, and
Japan. If pharmaceutical manufacturers refuse
to negotiate, HHS would be required to ap-
prove cheaper generic versions of those
drugs, regardless of any prior patents or mar-
ket exclusivities. If Congress were to enact
this legislation, prices of most brand name
drugs would be significantly reduced.
Furthermore, uninsured patients should
have access to negotiated prices under H.R.
3. That’s why I supported an amendment that
would have guaranteed that any negotiated
price savings could have been accessed by
the most vulnerable in our country, those who
lack health insurance. Unfortunately, this
amendment was not included in the final bill,
meaning uninsured patients will continue to
face the highest price at the pharmacy
counter—pharmaceutical companies’ list price.
I am also disappointed that an amendment
I supported to allow the federal government to
negotiate prescription drug prices for Medicare
Part D was not made in order.
In 2003, the House Republican majority
passed Medicare Part D. While I have consist-
ently been a leader in the fight to lower drug
prices for seniors, I opposed this legislation
because it included a provision that prevents
the federal government from negotiating better
prescription drug prices for Medicare recipi-
ents. This means that drug companies are
free to charge Medicare recipients higher
prices, more than anyone else in the world.
This is unacceptable.
The amendment offered to H.R. 3 would
have authorized the federal government to ne-
gotiate prescription drug prices for Medicare
Part D, and if drug companies refuse to nego-
tiate, this legislation would enable the federal
government to issue a competitive license to
another company to produce the medication
as a generic. The bottom line is that seniors
shouldn’t have to ration their pills or limit their
dosage because they can’t afford to pay for
prescriptions each month.
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Chair, I
rise in support of H.R. 3, the ‘‘Elijah E. Cum-
mings Lower Drugs Costs Now Act,’’ named
after my dear friend and colleague Elijah Cum-
mings who passed away earlier this year. I
commend the Speaker, Chairman NEAL, Chair-
man PALLONE and Chairman SCOTT for their
efforts to bring this historic legislation to the
floor today.
For too long Americans have seen prices for
prescription drugs rise out of control, to the
point where many must make the decision
about whether they will spend limited income
on their necessary prescriptions, or food,
housing and transportation. How is it in the
wealthiest country in the world this is hap-
pening?
I’ve heard from many constituents who are
indeed facing this very choice.
Patricia, an 88 year old woman in Con-
necticut said, ‘‘Do I have to lose my rent or
stop eating in order to continue breathing? I
don’t want to end up in a nursing home on ox-
ygen. I am not an ex-smoker. I am the proud
daughter of a West Virginia coal miner. Please
help me and other poor frail elderly.’’
Rosemary from Wethersfield wrote, ‘‘The
cost of the Epi-Pen is outrageous. Even with
my insurance it is so expensive I couldn’t get
the prescription filled and took my chances.
When I had an allergic reaction I called 911
instead.’’
Kevin from Manchester, a young man in his
mid-30s who has a job and health insurance,
also wrote, ‘‘The annual cost of my medica-
tions is about $8,000 . . . I stop taking my
medication. My asthma is noticeably worse. I
worry that it’s only a matter of time until I have
a flare up and end up in the hospital.’’
H.R. 3 will allow the Secretary of Health and
Human Services to negotiate for better prices
on prescription drugs in Medicare, lowering
prices for patients in Medicare and the private
market.
I have long advocated for negotiation of
drug prices and have included it in the Medi-
care Buy In and Health Stabilization Act intro-
duced with my colleague from New York, Rep.
BRIAN HIGGINS, and with my colleague from
Connecticut, Rep. JOE COURTNEY.
The bill also caps Medicare beneficiaries’
out-of-pocket spending on prescription drugs
at $2,000. And for the first time, with the sav-
ings from Medicare reimbursement for drugs,
we are able to expand Medicare to cover den-
tal, hearing and vision services as a benefit to
traditional Medicare. In my district alone, more
than 100,000 people will benefit from adding
these new services.
It’s time we implement these much-needed
changes and make prescription drugs more af-
fordable. It’s time to pass the Lower Drug
Costs Now Act.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Chair, I rise today
in strong support of H.R. 3, the Elijah E. Cum-
mings Lower Drug Costs Now Act.
This bill takes on Big Pharma to help lower
the cost of prescription drugs for everyday
families. It is beyond outrageous that the U.S.
government is not currently allowed to nego-
tiate drug prices through Medicare. And it is
shocking that Big Pharma is charging people
in the United States, hundreds of times more
than what they charge in other countries.
But H.R. 3 will help fix that. It allows the
government to negotiate drug pricing through
Medicare, and expands Medicare to cover vi-
sion, dental and hearing for the first time,
while also investing in community health cen-
ters and critical research.
I’m especially pleased that this bill incor-
porates key provisions championed by our
Progressive Caucus Co-Chairs PRAMILA
JAYAPAL and MARK POCAN that increase the
number of drugs that Medicare is able to ne-
gotiate and protect 150 million Americans with
private health care plans from being price
gouged by Big Pharma.
I urge a YES vote on this important bill
named for our beloved, departed colleague
Elijah Cummings who fought day in and out
for the people. We miss him.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Chair, today I
rise in recognition of H.R. 3, the Elijah E.
Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Act. This
legislation will serve as a critical improvement
towards ensuring that essential medications
are finally affordable and accessible.
As the first registered nurse elected to Con-
gress, I know how the exorbitantly high prices
of critical medications burden individuals and
their families. Americans should not have to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.022 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10141
December 12, 2019
pay more for their medicines, when compared
to the same ones sold by pharmaceutical
companies, for drastically lower prices in other
countries. lt is why I rise today in support of
this bill, which provides the authority, man-
date, and tools for the Secretary of Health and
Human Services to negotiate lower drug
prices and caps annual out-of-pocket costs in
Medicare Part D.
The Congressional Budget Office has
scored the Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug
Costs Now Act to save our country $456 bil-
lion in the next ten years. With these savings
generated from lowering drug costs, significant
reinvestments will be made to reduce out-of-
pocket costs, close coverage gaps for Medi-
care beneficiaries, invest in critical funding in
innovative new treatments, and fight against
our nation’s opioid crisis.
Specifically, I was very pleased to support
the inclusion of Medicare Part B coverage for
dental, vision, and hearing benefits. For the
thousands of seniors in my district and
throughout the state of Texas, it is undeniable
that this expansion of coverage will be
lifechanging, especially as our constituents en-
counter additional health challenges associ-
ated with aging.
As a member of the Congressional Black
Caucus, I am especially vigilant in ensuring
that minority communities which face higher
rates of diabetes can access life-saving medi-
cations and are not forced to resort to ration-
ing their insulin out of desperation. People liv-
ing with diabetes will be heartened to learn
that the Lower Drug Costs Now Act could po-
tentially save them more than $700 on an an-
nual supply of certain types of insulin.
The benefits of the Lower Drug Costs Now
Act will even extend to the medical facilities
we know and trust throughout our states. Our
community health centers and nonprofit hos-
pitals will be able to access the lowered nego-
tiated drug prices because they qualify as pro-
viders of services, suppliers, and employers.
This bill moves our nation forward in ad-
dressing the need for accessible and afford-
able medications. However, it is prudent to
note that there remains much to be done. We
must continue to advocate for the inclusion of
the uninsured population in these savings.
Texas has the highest rate of uninsured indi-
viduals in the nation. Therefore, the lowered
drug costs achieved in this bill will have limited
impact in my state for the uninsured.
As members of this body, we should all
stand in support to lower drug costs. I would
like to especially honor the memory of my
dear colleague, the Honorable Elijah E. Cum-
mings. It is altogether very fitting that we rec-
ognize his long fight against high drug prices
by passing H.R. 3, the Elijah E. Cummings
Lower Drug Costs Now Act, in his memory.
Ms. SÁNCHEZ. Mr. Chair, I rise in support
of H.R. 3, the Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug
Costs Now Act.
I would like to thank Chairmen NEAL, PAL-
LONE, and SCOTT for their tireless efforts to get
this legislation passed.
Prescriptions are not recommendations,
Doctors have written them for a reason. Pa-
tients, our constituents, our friends, our family
members, need these medications. They can-
not afford to skip their medications.
However, I have heard so many heart-
breaking stories from individuals in my district.
Alice in Whittier has to rely on her doctors for
insulin samples because she cannot afford in-
sulin. Adrian in Norwalk is choosing to pay his
bills rather than his eight different medications.
David in La Mirada is considering cutting his
dosage because he cannot afford to refill his
full dosage as often as he should. They, and
so many others, are just making do. Frankly,
that’s not good enough for me.
With H.R. 3, we are giving power back to
the people in my district and to millions of
Americans. The savings from this bill will also
be given back to the public with reinvestments
in innovation and the search for new cures
and treatments.
I look forward to this bill’s passage today. It
is time to act and lower the cost of prescrip-
tion drugs now.
The Acting CHAIR. All time for gen-
eral debate has expired.
In lieu of the amendments in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on Education and
Labor, Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and the Committee on Ways and
Means, printed in the bill, an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute con-
sisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116–41, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part A of House Report
116–334, shall be considered as adopted
and shall be considered as an original
bill for purpose of further amendment
under the 5-minute rule. The bill, as
amended, shall be considered as read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 3
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs
Now Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I—LOWERING PRICES THROUGH
FAIR DRUG PRICE NEGOTIATION
Sec. 101. Providing for lower prices for certain
high-priced single source drugs.
Sec. 102. Selected drug manufacturer excise tax
imposed during noncompliance
periods.
Sec. 103. Fair Price Negotiation Implementation
Fund.
TITLE II—MEDICARE PARTS B AND D
PRESCRIPTION DRUG INFLATION REBATES
Sec. 201. Medicare part B rebate by manufac-
turers.
Sec. 202. Medicare part D rebate by manufac-
turers.
Sec. 203. Provision regarding inflation rebates
for group health plans and group
health insurance coverage.
Sec. 204. Annual report on drug costs in group
health plans and group health in-
surance coverage.
Sec. 205. Collection of data.
TITLE III—PART D IMPROVEMENTS AND
MAXIMUM OUT-OF-POCKET CAP FOR
MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES
Sec. 301. Medicare part D benefit redesign.
Sec. 302. Allowing certain enrollees of prescrip-
tion drugs plans and MA–PD
plans under Medicare program to
spread out cost-sharing under cer-
tain circumstances.
Sec. 303. Establishment of pharmacy quality
measures under Medicare part D.
TITLE IV—DRUG PRICE TRANSPARENCY
Sec. 401. Drug price transparency.
TITLE V—PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS FOR
MEDICARE LOW-INCOME BENEFICIARIES
Sec. 501. Dissemination to Medicare part D sub-
sidy eligible individuals of infor-
mation comparing premiums of
certain prescription drug plans.
Sec. 502. Providing for intelligent assignment of
certain subsidy eligible individ-
uals auto-enrolled under Medi-
care prescription drug plans and
MA–PD plans.
Sec. 503. Expanding eligibility for low-income
subsidies under part D of the
Medicare program.
Sec. 504. Automatic eligibility of certain low-in-
come territorial residents for pre-
mium and cost-sharing subsidies
under the Medicare program;
Sunset of enhanced allotment pro-
gram.
Sec. 505. Automatic qualification of certain
Medicaid beneficiaries for pre-
mium and cost-sharing subsidies
under part D of the Medicare pro-
gram.
Sec. 506. Providing for certain rules regarding
the treatment of eligible retire-
ment plans in determining the eli-
gibility of individuals for premium
and cost-sharing subsidies under
part D of the Medicare program.
Sec. 507. Reducing cost-sharing and other pro-
gram improvements for low-in-
come beneficiaries.
TITLE VI—PROVIDING FOR DENTAL, VI-
SION, AND HEARING COVERAGE UNDER
THE MEDICARE PROGRAM
Sec. 601. Dental and oral health care.
Sec. 602. Providing coverage for hearing care
under the Medicare program.
Sec. 603. Providing coverage for vision care
under the Medicare program.
TITLE VII—NIH, FDA, AND OPIOIDS
FUNDING
Subtitle A—Biomedical Innovation Expansion
Sec. 701. NIH Innovation Initiatives.
Sec. 702. NIH clinical trial.
Subtitle B—Investing in Safety and Innovation
Sec. 711. Food and Drug Administration.
Subtitle C—Opioid Epidemic Response
Sec. 721. Opioid Epidemic Response Fund.
Sec. 722. Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration.
Sec. 723. Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention.
Sec. 724. Food and Drug Administration.
Sec. 725. National Institutes of Health.
Sec. 726. Health Resources and Services Admin-
istration.
Sec. 727. Administration for Children and Fam-
ilies.
TITLE VIII—MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 801. Guaranteed issue of certain Medigap
policies.
Sec. 802. Reporting requirements for PDP spon-
sors regarding point-of-sale rejec-
tions under Medicare part D.
Sec. 803. Providing access to annual Medicare
notifications in multiple lan-
guages.
Sec. 804. Temporary increase in Medicare part
B payment for certain biosimilar
biological products.
Sec. 805. Waiving medicare coinsurance for
colorectal cancer screening tests.
Sec. 806. Medicare coverage of certain
lymphedema compression treat-
ment items.
Sec. 807. Physician fee update.
Sec. 808. Additional community health center
funding.
Sec. 809. Grants to improve trauma support
services and mental health care
for children and youth in edu-
cational settings.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6343 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.014 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10142 December 12, 2019
Sec. 810. Pathway to Health Careers Act.
Sec. 811. Home Visiting to Reduce Maternal
Mortality and Morbidity Act.
TITLE I—LOWERING PRICES THROUGH
FAIR DRUG PRICE NEGOTIATION
SEC. 101. PROVIDING FOR LOWER PRICES FOR
CERTAIN HIGH-PRICED SINGLE
SOURCE DRUGS
U.S.C. 1301 et seq.) is amended by adding at
the end the following new part:
‘‘PART E—FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PRO-
GRAM TO LOWER PRICES FOR CERTAIN
HIGH-PRICED SINGLE SOURCE DRUGS
‘‘SEC. 1191. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall estab-
lish a Fair Price Negotiation Program (in this
part referred to as the ‘program’). Under the
program, with respect to each price applicability
period, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) publish a list of selected drugs in accord-
ance with section 1192;
‘‘(2) enter into agreements with manufacturers
of selected drugs with respect to such period, in
accordance with section 1193;
‘‘(3) negotiate and, if applicable, renegotiate
maximum fair prices for such selected drugs, in
accordance with section 1194; and
‘‘(4) carry out the administrative duties de-
scribed in section 1196.
‘‘(b) DEFINITIONS RELATING TO TIMING.—For
purposes of this part:
‘‘(1) INITIAL PRICE APPLICABILITY YEAR.—The
term ‘initial price applicability year’ means a
plan year (beginning with plan year 2023) or, if
agreed to in an agreement under section 1193 by
the Secretary and manufacturer involved, a pe-
riod of more than one plan year (beginning on
or after January 1, 2023).
‘‘(2) PRICE APPLICABILITY PERIOD.—The term
‘price applicability period’ means, with respect
to a drug, the period beginning with the initial
price applicability year with respect to which
such drug is a selected drug and ending with
the last plan year during which the drug is a se-
lected drug.
‘‘(3) SELECTED DRUG PUBLICATION DATE.—The
term ‘selected drug publication date’ means,
with respect to each initial price applicability
year, April 15 of the plan year that begins 2
years prior to such year.
‘‘(4) VOLUNTARY NEGOTIATION PERIOD.—The
term ‘voluntary negotiation period’ means, with
respect to an initial price applicability year with
respect to a selected drug, the period—
‘‘(A) beginning on the sooner of—
‘‘(i) the date on which the manufacturer of
the drug and the Secretary enter into an agree-
ment under section 1193 with respect to such
drug; or
‘‘(ii) June 15 following the selected drug publi-
cation date with respect to such selected drug;
and
‘‘(B) ending on March 31 of the year that be-
gins one year prior to the initial price applica-
bility year.
‘‘(c) OTHER DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of
this part:
‘‘(1) FAIR PRICE ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL.—The
term ‘fair price eligible individual’ means, with
respect to a selected drug—
‘‘(A) in the case such drug is furnished or dis-
pensed to the individual at a pharmacy or by a
mail order service—
‘‘(i) an individual who is enrolled under a
prescription drug plan under part D of title
XVIII or an MA–PD plan under part C of such
title if coverage is provided under such plan for
such selected drug; and
‘‘(ii) an individual who is enrolled under a
group health plan or health insurance coverage
offered in the group or individual market (as
such terms are defined in section 2791 of the
Public Health Service Act) with respect to which
there is in effect an agreement with the Sec-
retary under section 1197 with respect to such
selected drug as so furnished or dispensed; and
‘‘(B) in the case such drug is furnished or ad-
ministered to the individual by a hospital, phy-
sician, or other provider of services or supplier—
‘‘(i) an individual who is entitled to benefits
under part A of title XVIII or enrolled under
part B of such title if such selected drug is cov-
ered under the respective part; and
‘‘(ii) an individual who is enrolled under a
group health plan or health insurance coverage
offered in the group or individual market (as
such terms are defined in section 2791 of the
Public Health Service Act) with respect to which
there is in effect an agreement with the Sec-
retary under section 1197 with respect to such
selected drug as so furnished or administered.
‘‘(2) MAXIMUM FAIR PRICE.—The term ‘max-
imum fair price’ means, with respect to a plan
year during a price applicability period and
with respect to a selected drug (as defined in
section 1192(c)) with respect to such period, the
price published pursuant to section 1195 in the
Federal Register for such drug and year.
‘‘(3) AVERAGE INTERNATIONAL MARKET PRICE
DEFINED.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The terms ‘average inter-
national market price’ and ‘AIM price’ mean,
with respect to a drug, the average price (which
shall be the net average price, if practicable,
and volume-weighted, if practicable) for a unit
(as defined in paragraph (4)) of the drug for
sales of such drug (calculated across different
dosage forms and strengths of the drug and not
based on the specific formulation or package
size or package type), as computed (as of the
date of publication of such drug as a selected
drug under section 1192(a)) in all countries de-
scribed in clause (ii) of subparagraph (B) that
are applicable countries (as described in clause
(i) of such subparagraph) with respect to such
drug.
‘‘(B) APPLICABLE COUNTRIES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (A), a country described in clause (ii) is
an applicable country described in this clause
with respect to a drug if there is available an
average price for any unit for the drug for sales
of such drug in such country.
‘‘(ii) COUNTRIES DESCRIBED.—For purposes of
this paragraph, the following are countries de-
scribed in this clause:
‘‘(I) Australia.
‘‘(II) Canada.
‘‘(III) France.
‘‘(IV) Germany.
‘‘(V) Japan.
‘‘(VI) The United Kingdom.
‘‘(4) UNIT.—The term ‘unit’ means, with re-
spect to a drug, the lowest identifiable quantity
(such as a capsule or tablet, milligram of mol-
ecules, or grams) of the drug that is dispensed.
‘‘SEC. 1192. SELECTION OF NEGOTIATION-ELIGI-
BLE DRUGS AS SELECTED DRUGS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than the selected
drug publication date with respect to an initial
price applicability year, the Secretary shall se-
lect and publish in the Federal Register a list
of—
‘‘(1)(A) with respect to an initial price appli-
cability year during 2023, at least 25 negotia-
tion-eligible drugs described in subparagraphs
(A) and (B), but not subparagraph (C), of sub-
section (d)(1) (or, with respect to an initial price
applicability year during such period beginning
after 2023, the maximum number (if such number
is less than 25) of such negotiation-eligible drugs
for the year) with respect to such year; and
‘‘(B) with respect to an initial price applica-
bility year during 2024 or a subsequent year, at
least 50 negotiation-eligible drugs described in
subparagraphs (A) and (B), but not subpara-
graph (C), of subsection (d)(1) (or, with respect
to an initial price applicability year during such
period, the maximum number (if such number is
less than 50) of such negotiation-eligible drugs
for the year) with respect to such year;
‘‘(2) all negotiation-eligible drugs described in
subparagraph (C) of such subsection with re-
spect to such year; and
‘‘(3) all new-entrant negotiation-eligible drugs
(as defined in subsection (g)(1)) with respect to
such year.
Each drug published on the list pursuant to the
previous sentence shall be subject to the nego-
tiation process under section 1194 for the vol-
untary negotiation period with respect to such
initial price applicability year (and the renegoti-
ation process under such section as applicable
for any subsequent year during the applicable
price applicability period). In applying this sub-
section, any negotiation-eligible drug that is se-
lected under this subsection for an initial price
applicability year shall not count toward the re-
quired minimum amount of drugs to be selected
under paragraph (1) for any subsequent year,
including such a drug so selected that is subject
to renegotiation under section 1194.
‘‘(b) SELECTION OF DRUGS.—In carrying out
subsection (a)(1) the Secretary shall select for
inclusion on the published list described in sub-
section (a) with respect to a price applicability
period, the negotiation-eligible drugs that the
Secretary projects will result in the greatest sav-
ings to the Federal Government or fair price eli-
gible individuals during the price applicability
period. In making this projection of savings for
drugs for which there is an AIM price for a
price applicability period, the savings shall be
projected across different dosage forms and
strengths of the drugs and not based on the spe-
cific formulation or package size or package
type of the drugs, taking into consideration both
the volume of drugs for which payment is made,
to the extent such data is available, and the
amount by which the net price for the drugs ex-
ceeds the AIM price for the drugs.
‘‘(c) SELECTED DRUG.—For purposes of this
part, each drug included on the list published
under subsection (a) with respect to an initial
price applicability year shall be referred to as a
‘selected drug’ with respect to such year and
each subsequent plan year beginning before the
first plan year beginning after the date on
which the Secretary determines two or more
drug products—
‘‘(1) are approved or licensed (as applicable)—
‘‘(A) under section 505(j) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act using such drug as the
listed drug; or
‘‘(B) under section 351(k) of the Public Health
Service Act using such drug as the reference
product; and
‘‘(2) continue to be marketed.
‘‘(d) NEGOTIATION-ELIGIBLE DRUG.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this part,
the term ‘negotiation-eligible drug’ means, with
respect to the selected drug publication date
with respect to an initial price applicability
year, a qualifying single source drug, as defined
in subsection (e), that meets any of the fol-
lowing criteria:
‘‘(A) COVERED PART D DRUGS.—The drug is
among the 125 covered part D drugs (as defined
in section 1860D–2(e)) for which there was an es-
timated greatest net spending under parts C and
D of title XVIII, as determined by the Secretary,
during the most recent plan year prior to such
drug publication date for which data are avail-
able.
‘‘(B) OTHER DRUGS.—The drug is among the
125 drugs for which there was an estimated
greatest net spending in the United States (in-
cluding the 50 States, the District of Columbia,
and the territories of the United States), as de-
termined by the Secretary, during the most re-
cent plan year prior to such drug publication
date for which data are available.
‘‘(C) INSULIN.—The drug is a qualifying single
source drug described in subsection (e)(3).
‘‘(2) CLARIFICATION.—In determining whether
a qualifying single source drug satisfies any of
the criteria described in paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall, to the extent practicable, use data
that is aggregated across dosage forms and
strengths of the drug and not based on the spe-
cific formulation or package size or package
type of the drug.
‘‘(3) PUBLICATION.—Not later than the se-
lected drug publication date with respect to an
initial price applicability year, the Secretary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10143
December 12, 2019
shall publish in the Federal Register a list of ne-
gotiation-eligible drugs with respect to such se-
lected drug publication date.
‘‘(e) QUALIFYING SINGLE SOURCE DRUG.—For
purposes of this part, the term ‘qualifying single
source drug’ means any of the following:
‘‘(1) DRUG PRODUCTS.—A drug that—
‘‘(A) is approved under section 505(c) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and con-
tinues to be marketed pursuant to such ap-
proval; and
‘‘(B) is not the listed drug for any drug that
is approved and continues to be marketed under
section 505(j) of such Act.
‘‘(2) BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS.—A biological
product that—
‘‘(A) is licensed under section 351(a) of the
Public Health Service Act, including any prod-
uct that has been deemed to be licensed under
section 351 of such Act pursuant to section
7002(e)(4) of the Biologics Price Competition and
Innovation Act of 2009, and continues to be
marketed under section 351 of such Act; and
‘‘(B) is not the reference product for any bio-
logical product that is licensed and continues to
be marketed under section 351(k) of such Act.
‘‘(3) INSULIN PRODUCT.—Notwithstanding
paragraphs (1) and (2), any insulin product that
is approved under subsection (c) or (j) of section
505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
or licensed under subsection (a) or (k) of section
351 of the Public Health Service Act and con-
tinues to be marketed under such section 505 or
351, including any insulin product that has been
deemed to be licensed under section 351(a) of the
Public Health Service Act pursuant to section
7002(e)(4) of the Biologics Price Competition and
Innovation Act of 2009 and continues to be mar-
keted pursuant to such licensure.
For purposes of applying paragraphs (1) and
(2), a drug or biological product that is mar-
keted by the same sponsor or manufacturer (or
an affiliate thereof or a cross-licensed producer
or distributor) as the listed drug or reference
product described in such respective paragraph
shall not be taken into consideration.
‘‘(f) INFORMATION ON INTERNATIONAL DRUG
PRICES.—For purposes of determining which ne-
gotiation-eligible drugs to select under sub-
section (a) and, in the case of such drugs that
are selected drugs, to determine the maximum
fair price for such a drug and whether such
maximum fair price should be renegotiated
under section 1194, the Secretary shall use data
relating to the AIM price with respect to such
drug as available or provided to the Secretary
and shall on an ongoing basis request from
manufacturers of selected drugs information on
the AIM price of such a drug.
‘‘(g) NEW-ENTRANT NEGOTIATION-ELIGIBLE
DRUGS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this part,
the term ‘new-entrant negotiation-eligible drug’
means, with respect to the selected drug publica-
tion date with respect to an initial price appli-
cability year, a qualifying single source drug—
‘‘(A) that is first approved or licensed, as de-
scribed in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection
(e), as applicable, during the year preceding
such selected drug publication date; and
‘‘(B) that the Secretary determines under
paragraph (2) is likely to be included as a nego-
tiation-eligible drug with respect to the subse-
quent selected drug publication date.
‘‘(2) DETERMINATION.—In the case of a quali-
fying single source drug that meets the criteria
described in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1),
with respect to an initial price applicability
year, if the wholesale acquisition cost at which
such drug is first marketed in the United States
is equal to or greater than the median house-
hold income (as determined according to the
most recent data collected by the United States
Census Bureau), the Secretary shall determine
before the selected drug publication date with
respect to the initial price applicability year, if
the drug is likely to be included as a negotia-
tion-eligible drug with respect to the subsequent
selected drug publication date, based on the pro-
jected spending under title XVIII or in the
United States on such drug. For purposes of this
paragraph the term ‘United States’ includes the
50 States, the District of Columbia, and the ter-
ritories of the United States.
‘‘SEC. 1193. MANUFACTURER AGREEMENTS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section
1191(a)(2), the Secretary shall enter into agree-
ments with manufacturers of selected drugs with
respect to a price applicability period, by not
later than June 15 following the selected drug
publication date with respect to such selected
drug, under which—
‘‘(1) during the voluntary negotiation period
for the initial price applicability year for the se-
lected drug, the Secretary and manufacturer, in
accordance with section 1194, negotiate to deter-
mine (and, by not later than the last date of
such period and in accordance with subsection
(c), agree to) a maximum fair price for such se-
lected drug of the manufacturer in order to pro-
vide access to such price—
‘‘(A) to fair price eligible individuals who with
respect to such drug are described in subpara-
graph (A) of section 1191(c)(1) and are furnished
or dispensed such drug during, subject to sub-
paragraph (2), the price applicability period;
and
‘‘(B) to hospitals, physicians, and other pro-
viders of services and suppliers with respect to
fair price eligible individuals who with respect
to such drug are described in subparagraph (B)
of such section and are furnished or adminis-
tered such drug during, subject to subparagraph
(2), the price applicability period;
‘‘(2) the Secretary and the manufacturer
shall, in accordance with a process and during
a period specified by the Secretary pursuant to
rulemaking, renegotiate (and, by not later than
the last date of such period and in accordance
with subsection (c), agree to) the maximum fair
price for such drug if the Secretary determines
that there is a material change in any of the
factors described in section 1194(d) relating to
the drug, including changes in the AIM price
for such drug, in order to provide access to such
maximum fair price (as so renegotiated)—
‘‘(A) to fair price eligible individuals who with
respect to such drug are described in subpara-
graph (A) of section 1191(c)(1) and are furnished
or dispensed such drug during any year during
the price applicability period (beginning after
such renegotiation) with respect to such selected
drug; and
‘‘(B) to hospitals, physicians, and other pro-
viders of services and suppliers with respect to
fair price eligible individuals who with respect
to such drug are described in subparagraph (B)
of such section and are furnished or adminis-
tered such drug during any year described in
subparagraph (A);
‘‘(3) the maximum fair price (including as re-
negotiated pursuant to paragraph (2)), with re-
spect to such a selected drug, shall be provided
to fair price eligible individuals, who with re-
spect to such drug are described in subpara-
graph (A) of section 1191(c)(1), at the pharmacy
or by a mail order service at the point-of-sale of
such drug;
‘‘(4) the manufacturer, subject to subsection
(d), submits to the Secretary, in a form and
manner specified by the Secretary—
‘‘(A) for the voluntary negotiation period for
the price applicability period (and, if applicable,
before any period of renegotiation specified pur-
suant to paragraph (2)) with respect to such
drug all information that the Secretary requires
to carry out the negotiation (or renegotiation
process) under this part, including information
described in section 1192(f) and section
1194(d)(1); and
‘‘(B) on an ongoing basis, information on
changes in prices for such drug that would af-
fect the AIM price for such drug or otherwise
provide a basis for renegotiation of the max-
imum fair price for such drug pursuant to para-
graph (2);
‘‘(5) the manufacturer agrees that in the case
the selected drug of a manufacturer is a drug
described in subsection (c), the manufacturer
will, in accordance with such subsection, make
any payment required under such subsection
with respect to such drug; and
‘‘(6) the manufacturer complies with require-
ments imposed by the Secretary for purposes of
administering the program, including with re-
spect to the duties described in section 1196.
‘‘(b) AGREEMENT IN EFFECT UNTIL DRUG IS NO
LONGER A SELECTED DRUG.—An agreement en-
tered into under this section shall be effective,
with respect to a drug, until such drug is no
longer considered a selected drug under section
1192(c).
‘‘(c) SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN SELECTED
DRUGS WITHOUT AIM PRICE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a selected
drug for which there is no AIM price available
with respect to the initial price applicability
year for such drug and for which an AIM price
becomes available beginning with respect to a
subsequent plan year during the price applica-
bility period for such drug, if the Secretary de-
termines that the amount described in para-
graph (2)(A) for a unit of such drug is greater
than the amount described in paragraph (2)(B)
for a unit of such drug, then by not later than
one year after the date of such determination,
the manufacturer of such selected drug shall
pay to the Treasury an amount equal to the
product of—
‘‘(A) the difference between such amount de-
scribed in paragraph (2)(A) for a unit of such
drug and such amount described in paragraph
(2)(B) for a unit of such drug; and
‘‘(B) the number of units of such drug sold in
the United States, including the 50 States, the
District of Columbia, and the territories of the
United States, during the period described in
paragraph (2)(B).
‘‘(2) AMOUNTS DESCRIBED.—
‘‘(A) WEIGHTED AVERAGE PRICE BEFORE AIM
PRICE AVAILABLE.—For purposes of paragraph
(1), the amount described in this subparagraph
for a selected drug described in such paragraph,
is the amount equal to the weighted average
manufacturer price (as defined in section
1927(k)(1)) for such dosage strength and form
for the drug during the period beginning with
the first plan year for which the drug is in-
cluded on the list of negotiation-eligible drugs
published under section 1192(d) and ending with
the last plan year during the price applicability
period for such drug with respect to which there
is no AIM price available for such drug.
‘‘(B) AMOUNT MULTIPLIER AFTER AIM PRICE
AVAILABLE.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the
amount described in this subparagraph for a se-
lected drug described in such paragraph, is the
amount equal to 200 percent of the AIM price
for such drug with respect to the first plan year
during the price applicability period for such
drug with respect to which there is an AIM
price available for such drug.
‘‘(d) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.—In-
formation submitted to the Secretary under this
part by a manufacturer of a selected drug that
is proprietary information of such manufacturer
(as determined by the Secretary) may be used
only by the Secretary or disclosed to and used
by the Comptroller General of the United States
or the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission
for purposes of carrying out this part.
‘‘(e) REGULATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, pursu-
ant to rulemaking, specify, in accordance with
paragraph (2), the information that must be
submitted under subsection (a)(4).
‘‘(2) INFORMATION SPECIFIED.—Information
described in paragraph (1), with respect to a se-
lected drug, shall include information on sales
of the drug (by the manufacturer of the drug or
by another entity under license or other agree-
ment with the manufacturer, with respect to the
sales of such drug, regardless of the name under
which the drug is sold) in any foreign country
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10144 December 12, 2019
that is part of the AIM price. The Secretary
shall verify, to the extent practicable, such sales
from appropriate officials of the government of
the foreign country involved.
‘‘(f) COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS FOR
ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM.—Each manufac-
turer with an agreement in effect under this sec-
tion shall comply with requirements imposed by
the Secretary or a third party with a contract
under section 1196(c)(1), as applicable, for pur-
poses of administering the program.
‘‘SEC. 1194. NEGOTIATION AND RENEGOTIATION
PROCESS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this part,
under an agreement under section 1193 between
the Secretary and a manufacturer of a selected
drug, with respect to the period for which such
agreement is in effect and in accordance with
subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary and the
manufacturer—
‘‘(1) shall during the voluntary negotiation
period with respect to the initial price applica-
bility year for such drug, in accordance with
this section, negotiate a maximum fair price for
such drug for the purpose described in section
1193(a)(1); and
‘‘(2) as applicable pursuant to section
1193(a)(2) and in accordance with the process
specified pursuant to such section, renegotiate
such maximum fair price for such drug for the
purpose described in such section.
‘‘(b) NEGOTIATING METHODOLOGY AND OBJEC-
TIVE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall develop
and use a consistent methodology for negotia-
tions under subsection (a) that, in accordance
with paragraph (2) and subject to paragraph
(3), achieves the lowest maximum fair price for
each selected drug while appropriately reward-
ing innovation.
‘‘(2) PRIORITIZING FACTORS.—In considering
the factors described in subsection (d) in negoti-
ating (and, as applicable, renegotiating) the
maximum fair price for a selected drug, the Sec-
retary shall, to the extent practicable, consider
all of the available factors listed but shall
prioritize the following factors:
‘‘(A) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS.—
The factor described in paragraph (1)(A) of sub-
section (d).
‘‘(B) MARKET DATA.—The factor described in
paragraph (1)(B) of such subsection.
‘‘(C) UNIT COSTS OF PRODUCTION AND DIS-
TRIBUTION.—The factor described in paragraph
(1)(C) of such subsection.
‘‘(D) COMPARISON TO EXISTING THERAPEUTIC
ALTERNATIVES.—The factor described in para-
graph (2)(A) of such subsection.
‘‘(3) REQUIREMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In negotiating the max-
imum fair price of a selected drug, with respect
to an initial price applicability year for the se-
lected drug, and, as applicable, in renegotiating
the maximum fair price for such drug, with re-
spect to a subsequent year during the price ap-
plicability period for such drug, in the case that
the manufacturer of the selected drug offers
under the negotiation or renegotiation, as appli-
cable, a price for such drug that is not more
than the target price described in subparagraph
(B) for such drug for the respective year, the
Secretary shall agree under such negotiation or
renegotiation, respectively, to such offered price
as the maximum fair price.
‘‘(B) TARGET PRICE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), the
target price described in this subparagraph for a
selected drug with respect to a year, is the aver-
age price (which shall be the net average price,
if practicable, and volume-weighted, if prac-
ticable) for a unit of such drug for sales of such
drug, as computed (across different dosage
forms and strengths of the drug and not based
on the specific formulation or package size or
package type of the drug) in the applicable
country described in section 1191(c)(3)(B) with
respect to such drug that, with respect to such
year, has the lowest average price for such drug
as compared to the average prices (as so com-
puted) of such drug with respect to such year in
the other applicable countries described in such
section with respect to such drug.
‘‘(ii) SELECTED DRUGS WITHOUT AIM PRICE.—In
applying this paragraph in the case of negoti-
ating the maximum fair price of a selected drug
for which there is no AIM price available with
respect to the initial price applicability year for
such drug, or, as applicable, renegotiating the
maximum fair price for such drug with respect
to a subsequent year during the price applica-
bility period for such drug before the first plan
year for which there is an AIM price available
for such drug, the target price described in this
subparagraph for such drug and respective year
is the amount that is 80 percent of the average
manufacturer price (as defined in section
1927(k)(1)) for such drug and year.
‘‘(4) ANNUAL REPORT.—After the completion of
each voluntary negotiation period, the Secretary
shall submit to Congress a report on the max-
imum fair prices negotiated (or, as applicable,
renegotiated) for such period. Such report shall
include information on how such prices so nego-
tiated (or renegotiated) meet the requirements of
this part, including the requirements of this sub-
section.
‘‘(c) LIMITATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the maximum fair price negotiated (including as
renegotiated) under this section for a selected
drug, with respect to each plan year during a
price applicability period for such drug, shall
not exceed 120 percent of the AIM price applica-
ble to such drug with respect to such year.
‘‘(2) SELECTED DRUGS WITHOUT AIM PRICE.—In
the case of a selected drug for which there is no
AIM price available with respect to the initial
price applicability year for such drug, for each
plan year during the price applicability period
before the first plan year for which there is an
AIM price available for such drug, the maximum
fair price negotiated (including as renegotiated)
under this section for the selected drug shall not
exceed the amount equal to 85 percent of the av-
erage manufacturer price for the drug with re-
spect to such year.
‘‘(d) CONSIDERATIONS.—For purposes of nego-
tiating and, as applicable, renegotiating (in-
cluding for purposes of determining whether to
renegotiate) the maximum fair price of a selected
drug under this part with the manufacturer of
the drug, the Secretary, consistent with sub-
section (b)(2), shall take into consideration the
factors described in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and
(5), and may take into consideration the factor
described in paragraph (4):
‘‘(1) MANUFACTURER-SPECIFIC INFORMATION.—
The following information, including as sub-
mitted by the manufacturer:
‘‘(A) Research and development costs of the
manufacturer for the drug and the extent to
which the manufacturer has recouped research
and development costs.
‘‘(B) Market data for the drug, including the
distribution of sales across different programs
and purchasers and projected future revenues
for the drug.
‘‘(C) Unit costs of production and distribution
of the drug.
‘‘(D) Prior Federal financial support for novel
therapeutic discovery and development with re-
spect to the drug.
‘‘(E) Data on patents and on existing and
pending exclusivity for the drug.
‘‘(F) National sales data for the drug.
‘‘(G) Information on clinical trials for the
drug in the United States or in applicable coun-
tries described in section 1191(c)(3)(B).
‘‘(2) INFORMATION ON ALTERNATIVE PROD-
UCTS.—The following information:
‘‘(A) The extent to which the drug represents
a therapeutic advance as compared to existing
therapeutic alternatives and, to the extent such
information is available, the costs of such exist-
ing therapeutic alternatives.
‘‘(B) Information on approval by the Food
and Drug Administration of alternative drug
products.
‘‘(C) Information on comparative effectiveness
analysis for such products, taking into consider-
ation the effects of such products on specific
populations, such as individuals with disabil-
ities, the elderly, terminally ill, children, and
other patient populations.
In considering information described in sub-
paragraph (C), the Secretary shall not use evi-
dence or findings from comparative clinical ef-
fectiveness research in a manner that treats ex-
tending the life of an elderly, disabled, or termi-
nally ill individual as of lower value than ex-
tending the life of an individual who is younger,
nondisabled, or not terminally ill. Nothing in
the previous sentence shall affect the applica-
tion or consideration of an AIM price for a se-
lected drug.
‘‘(3) FOREIGN SALES INFORMATION.—To the ex-
tent available on a timely basis, including as
provided by a manufacturer of the selected drug
or otherwise, information on sales of the se-
lected drug in each of the countries described in
section 1191(c)(3)(B).
‘‘(4) VA DRUG PRICING INFORMATION.—Infor-
mation disclosed to the Secretary pursuant to
subsection (f).
‘‘(5) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—Information
submitted to the Secretary, in accordance with a
process specified by the Secretary, by other par-
ties that are affected by the establishment of a
maximum fair price for the selected drug.
‘‘(e) REQUEST FOR INFORMATION.—For pur-
poses of negotiating and, as applicable, renego-
tiating (including for purposes of determining
whether to renegotiate) the maximum fair price
of a selected drug under this part with the man-
ufacturer of the drug, with respect to a price ap-
plicability period, and other relevant data for
purposes of this section—
‘‘(1) the Secretary shall, not later than the se-
lected drug publication date with respect to the
initial price applicability year of such period,
request drug pricing information from the man-
ufacturer of such selected drug, including infor-
mation described in subsection (d)(1); and
‘‘(2) by not later than October 1 following the
selected drug publication date, the manufac-
turer of such selected drug shall submit to the
Secretary such requested information in such
form and manner as the Secretary may require.
The Secretary shall request, from the manufac-
turer or others, such additional information as
may be needed to carry out the negotiation and
renegotiation process under this section.
‘‘(f) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—For pur-
poses of this part, the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs may disclose to the Secretary of Health
and Human Services the price of any negotia-
tion-eligible drug that is purchased pursuant to
section 8126 of title 38, United States Code.
‘‘SEC. 1195. PUBLICATION OF MAXIMUM FAIR
PRICES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—With respect to an initial
price applicability year and selected drug with
respect to such year, not later than April 1 of
the plan year prior to such initial price applica-
bility year, the Secretary shall publish in the
Federal Register the maximum fair price for
such drug negotiated under this part with the
manufacturer of such drug.
‘‘(b) UPDATES.—
‘‘(1) SUBSEQUENT YEAR MAXIMUM FAIR
PRICES.—For a selected drug, for each plan year
subsequent to the initial price applicability year
for such drug with respect to which an agree-
ment for such drug is in effect under section
1193, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal
Register—
‘‘(A) subject to subparagraph (B), the amount
equal to the maximum fair price published for
such drug for the previous year, increased by
the annual percentage increase in the consumer
price index for all urban consumers (all items;
U.S. city average) as of September of such pre-
vious year; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10145
December 12, 2019
‘‘(B) in the case the maximum fair price for
such drug was renegotiated, for the first year
for which such price as so renegotiated applies,
such renegotiated maximum fair price.
‘‘(2) PRICES NEGOTIATED AFTER DEADLINE.—In
the case of a selected drug with respect to an
initial price applicability year for which the
maximum fair price is determined under this
part after the date of publication under this sec-
tion, the Secretary shall publish such maximum
fair price in the Federal Register by not later
than 30 days after the date such maximum price
is so determined.
‘‘SEC. 1196. ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES; COORDINA-
TION PROVISIONS.
‘‘(a) ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section
1191, the administrative duties described in this
section are the following:
‘‘(A) The establishment of procedures (includ-
ing through agreements with manufacturers
under this part, contracts with prescription
drug plans under part D of title XVIII and MA–
PD plans under part C of such title, and agree-
ments under section 1197 with group health
plans and health insurance issuers of health in-
surance coverage offered in the individual or
group market) under which the maximum fair
price for a selected drug is provided to fair price
eligible individuals, who with respect to such
drug are described in subparagraph (A) of sec-
tion 1191(c)(1), at pharmacies or by mail order
service at the point-of-sale of the drug for the
applicable price period for such drug and pro-
viding that such maximum fair price is used for
determining cost-sharing under such plans or
coverage for the selected drug.
‘‘(B) The establishment of procedures (includ-
ing through agreements with manufacturers
under this part and contracts with hospitals,
physicians, and other providers of services and
suppliers and agreements under section 1197
with group health plans and health insurance
issuers of health insurance coverage offered in
the individual or group market) under which, in
the case of a selected drug furnished or adminis-
tered by such a hospital, physician, or other
provider of services or supplier to fair price eligi-
ble individuals (who with respect to such drug
are described in subparagraph (B) of section
1191(c)(1)), the maximum fair price for the se-
lected drug is provided to such hospitals, physi-
cians, and other providers of services and sup-
pliers (as applicable) with respect to such indi-
viduals and providing that such maximum fair
price is used for determining cost-sharing under
the respective part, plan, or coverage for the se-
lected drug.
‘‘(C) The establishment of procedures (includ-
ing through agreements and contracts described
in subparagraphs (A) and (B)) to ensure that,
not later than 90 days after the dispensing of a
selected drug to a fair price eligible individual
by a pharmacy or mail order service, the phar-
macy or mail order service is reimbursed for an
amount equal to the difference between—
‘‘(i) the lesser of—
‘‘(I) the wholesale acquisition cost of the
drug;
‘‘(II) the national average drug acquisition
cost of the drug; and
‘‘(III) any other similar determination of
pharmacy acquisition costs of the drug, as de-
termined by the Secretary; and
‘‘(ii) the maximum fair price for the drug.
‘‘(D) The establishment of procedures to en-
sure that the maximum fair price for a selected
drug is applied before—
‘‘(i) any coverage or financial assistance
under other health benefit plans or programs
that provide coverage or financial assistance for
the purchase or provision of prescription drug
coverage on behalf of fair price eligible individ-
uals as the Secretary may specify; and
‘‘(ii) any other discounts.
‘‘(E) The establishment of procedures to enter
into appropriate agreements and protocols for
the ongoing computation of AIM prices for se-
lected drugs, including, to the extent possible, to
compute the AIM price for selected drugs and
including by providing that the manufacturer of
such a selected drug should provide information
for such computation not later than 3 months
after the first date of the voluntary negotiation
period for such selected drug.
‘‘(F) The establishment of procedures to com-
pute and apply the maximum fair price across
different strengths and dosage forms of a se-
lected drug and not based on the specific formu-
lation or package size or package type of the
drug.
‘‘(G) The establishment of procedures to nego-
tiate and apply the maximum fair price in a
manner that does not include any dispensing or
similar fee.
‘‘(H) The establishment of procedures to carry
out the provisions of this part, as applicable,
with respect to—
‘‘(i) fair price eligible individuals who are en-
rolled under a prescription drug plan under part
D of title XVIII or an MA–PD plan under part
C of such title;
‘‘(ii) fair price eligible individuals who are en-
rolled under a group health plan or health in-
surance coverage offered by a health insurance
issuer in the individual or group market with re-
spect to which there is an agreement in effect
under section 1197; and
‘‘(iii) fair price eligible individuals who are
entitled to benefits under part A of title XVIII
or enrolled under part B of such title.
‘‘(I) The establishment of a negotiation proc-
ess and renegotiation process in accordance
with section 1194, including a process for ac-
quiring information described in subsection (d)
of such section and determining amounts de-
scribed in subsection (b) of such section.
‘‘(J) The provision of a reasonable dispute res-
olution mechanism to resolve disagreements be-
tween manufacturers, fair price eligible individ-
uals, and the third party with a contract under
subsection (c)(1).
‘‘(2) MONITORING COMPLIANCE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall mon-
itor compliance by a manufacturer with the
terms of an agreement under section 1193, in-
cluding by establishing a mechanism through
which violations of such terms may be reported.
‘‘(B) NOTIFICATION.—If a third party with a
contract under subsection (c)(1) determines that
the manufacturer is not in compliance with such
agreement, the third party shall notify the Sec-
retary of such noncompliance for appropriate
enforcement under section 4192 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 or section 1198, as applica-
ble.
‘‘(b) COLLECTION OF DATA.—
‘‘(1) FROM PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLANS AND MA–
PD PLANS.—The Secretary may collect appro-
priate data from prescription drug plans under
part D of title XVIII and MA–PD plans under
part C of such title in a timeframe that allows
for maximum fair prices to be provided under
this part for selected drugs.
‘‘(2) FROM HEALTH PLANS.—The Secretary may
collect appropriate data from group health
plans or health insurance issuers offering group
or individual health insurance coverage in a
timeframe that allows for maximum fair prices
to be provided under this part for selected drugs.
‘‘(3) COORDINATION OF DATA COLLECTION.—To
the extent feasible, as determined by the Sec-
retary, the Secretary shall ensure that data col-
lected pursuant to this subsection is coordinated
with, and not duplicative of, other Federal data
collection efforts.
‘‘(c) CONTRACT WITH THIRD PARTIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may enter
into a contract with 1 or more third parties to
administer the requirements established by the
Secretary in order to carry out this part. At a
minimum, the contract with a third party under
the preceding sentence shall require that the
third party—
‘‘(A) receive and transmit information be-
tween the Secretary, manufacturers, and other
individuals or entities the Secretary determines
appropriate;
‘‘(B) receive, distribute, or facilitate the dis-
tribution of funds of manufacturers to appro-
priate individuals or entities in order to meet the
obligations of manufacturers under agreements
under this part;
‘‘(C) provide adequate and timely information
to manufacturers, consistent with the agreement
with the manufacturer under this part, as nec-
essary for the manufacturer to fulfill its obliga-
tions under this part; and
‘‘(D) permit manufacturers to conduct peri-
odic audits, directly or through contracts, of the
data and information used by the third party to
determine discounts for applicable drugs of the
manufacturer under the program.
‘‘(2) PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS.—The Sec-
retary shall establish performance requirements
for a third party with a contract under para-
graph (1) and safeguards to protect the inde-
pendence and integrity of the activities carried
out by the third party under the program under
this part.
‘‘SEC. 1197. VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION BY
OTHER HEALTH PLANS.
‘‘(a) AGREEMENT TO PARTICIPATE UNDER PRO-
GRAM.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
under the program under this part the Secretary
shall be treated as having in effect an agree-
ment with a group health plan or health insur-
ance issuer offering group or individual health
insurance coverage (as such terms are defined in
section 2791 of the Public Health Service Act),
with respect to a price applicability period and
a selected drug with respect to such period—
‘‘(A) with respect to such selected drug fur-
nished or dispensed at a pharmacy or by mail
order service if coverage is provided under such
plan or coverage during such period for such se-
lected drug as so furnished or dispensed; and
‘‘(B) with respect to such selected drug fur-
nished or administered by a hospital, physician,
or other provider of services or supplier if cov-
erage is provided under such plan or coverage
during such period for such selected drug as so
furnished or administered.
‘‘(2) OPTING OUT OF AGREEMENT.—The Sec-
retary shall not be treated as having in effect an
agreement under the program under this part
with a group health plan or health insurance
issuer offering group or individual health insur-
ance coverage with respect to a price applica-
bility period and a selected drug with respect to
such period if such a plan or issuer affirma-
tively elects, through a process specified by the
Secretary, not to participate under the program
with respect to such period and drug.
‘‘(b) PUBLICATION OF ELECTION.—With respect
to each price applicability period and each se-
lected drug with respect to such period, the Sec-
retary and the Secretary of Labor and the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, as applicable, shall
make public a list of each group health plan
and each health insurance issuer offering group
or individual health insurance coverage, with
respect to which coverage is provided under
such plan or coverage for such drug, that has
elected under subsection (a) not to participate
under the program with respect to such period
and drug.
‘‘SEC. 1198. CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY.
‘‘(a) VIOLATIONS RELATING TO OFFERING OF
MAXIMUM FAIR PRICE.—Any manufacturer of a
selected drug that has entered into an agree-
ment under section 1193, with respect to a plan
year during the price applicability period for
such drug, that does not provide access to a
price that is not more than the maximum fair
price (or a lesser price) for such drug for such
year—
‘‘(1) to a fair price eligible individual who
with respect to such drug is described in sub-
paragraph (A) of section 1191(c)(1) and who is
furnished or dispensed such drug during such
year; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10146 December 12, 2019
‘‘(2) to a hospital, physician, or other provider
of services or supplier with respect to fair price
eligible individuals who with respect to such
drug is described in subparagraph (B) of such
section and is furnished or administered such
drug by such hospital, physician, or provider or
supplier during such year;
shall be subject to a civil monetary penalty
equal to ten times the amount equal to the dif-
ference between the price for such drug made
available for such year by such manufacturer
with respect to such individual or hospital, phy-
sician, provider, or supplier and the maximum
fair price for such drug for such year.
‘‘(b) VIOLATIONS OF CERTAIN TERMS OF
AGREEMENT.—Any manufacturer of a selected
drug that has entered into an agreement under
section 1193, with respect to a plan year during
the price applicability period for such drug, that
is in violation of a requirement imposed pursu-
ant to section 1193(a)(6) shall be subject to a
civil monetary penalty of not more than
$1,000,000 for each such violation.
‘‘(c) APPLICATION.—The provisions of section
1128A (other than subsections (a) and (b)) shall
apply to a civil monetary penalty under this
section in the same manner as such provisions
apply to a penalty or proceeding under section
1128A(a).
‘‘SEC. 1199. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
‘‘(a) PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT.—Chapter
35 of title 44, United States Code, shall not
apply to data collected under this part.
‘‘(b) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE
STUDY.—Not later than December 31, 2025, the
National Academy of Medicine shall conduct a
study, and submit to Congress a report, on rec-
ommendations for improvements to the program
under this part, including the determination of
the limits applied under section 1194(c).
‘‘(c) MEDPAC STUDY.—Not later than Decem-
ber 31, 2025, the Medicare Payment Advisory
Commission shall conduct a study, and submit
to Congress a report, on the program under this
part with respect to the Medicare program
under title XVIII, including with respect to the
effect of the program on individuals entitled to
benefits or enrolled under such title.
‘‘(d) LIMITATION ON JUDICIAL REVIEW.—The
following shall not be subject to judicial review:
‘‘(1) The selection of drugs for publication
under section 1192(a).
‘‘(2) The determination of whether a drug is a
negotiation-eligible drug under section 1192(d).
‘‘(3) The determination of the maximum fair
price of a selected drug under section 1194.
‘‘(4) The determination of units of a drug for
purposes of section 1191(c)(3).
‘‘(e) COORDINATION.—In carrying out this part
with respect to group health plans or health in-
surance coverage offered in the group market
that are subject to oversight by the Secretary of
Labor or the Secretary of the Treasury, the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services shall co-
ordinate with such respective Secretary.
‘‘(f) DATA SHARING.—The Secretary shall
share with the Secretary of the Treasury such
information as is necessary to determine the tax
imposed by section 4192 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986.
‘‘(g) GAO STUDY.—Not later than December
31, 2025, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall conduct a study of, and submit to
Congress a report on, the implementation of the
Fair Price Negotiation Program under this
part.’’.
(b) APPLICATION OF MAXIMUM FAIR PRICES
AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) UNDER MEDICARE.—
(A) APPLICATION TO PAYMENTS UNDER PART
B.—Section 1847A(b)(1)(B) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3a(b)(1)(B)) is amended by
inserting ‘‘or in the case of such a drug or bio-
logical that is a selected drug (as defined in sec-
tion 1192(c)), with respect to a price applica-
bility period (as defined in section 1191(b)(2)),
106 percent of the maximum fair price (as de-
fined in section 1191(c)(2) applicable for such
drug and a plan year during such period’’ after
‘‘paragraph (4)’’.
(B) EXCEPTION TO PART D NON-INTER-
FERENCE.—Section 1860D–11(i) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–111(i)) is amended
by inserting ‘‘, except as provided under part E
of title XI’’ after ‘‘the Secretary’’.
(C) APPLICATION AS NEGOTIATED PRICE UNDER
PART D.—Section 1860D–2(d)(1) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–102(d)(1)) is amend-
ed—
(i) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘, sub-
ject to subparagraph (D),’’ after ‘‘negotiated
prices’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(D) APPLICATION OF MAXIMUM FAIR PRICE
FOR SELECTED DRUGS.—In applying this section,
in the case of a covered part D drug that is a se-
lected drug (as defined in section 1192(c)), with
respect to a price applicability period (as de-
fined in section 1191(b)(2)), the negotiated prices
used for payment (as described in this sub-
section) shall be the maximum fair price (as de-
fined in section 1191(c)(2)) for such drug and for
each plan year during such period.’’.
(D) INFORMATION FROM PRESCRIPTION DRUG
PLANS AND MA–PD PLANS REQUIRED.—
(i) PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLANS.—Section 1860D–
12(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395w–112(b)) is amended by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
‘‘(8) PROVISION OF INFORMATION RELATED TO
MAXIMUM FAIR PRICES.—Each contract entered
into with a PDP sponsor under this part with
respect to a prescription drug plan offered by
such sponsor shall require the sponsor to pro-
vide information to the Secretary as requested
by the Secretary in accordance with section
1196(b).’’.
(ii) MA–PD PLANS.—Section 1857(f)(3) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–27(f)(3)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) PROVISION OF INFORMATION RELATED TO
MAXIMUM FAIR PRICES.—Section 1860D–
12(b)(8).’’.
(2) UNDER GROUP HEALTH PLANS AND HEALTH
INSURANCE COVERAGE.—
(A) PHSA.—Part A of title XXVII of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act is amended by inserting
after section 2729 the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 2729A. FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PROGRAM
AND APPLICATION OF MAXIMUM
FAIR PRICES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a group
health plan or health insurance issuer offering
group or individual health insurance coverage
that is treated under section 1197 of the Social
Security Act as having in effect an agreement
with the Secretary under the Fair Price Negotia-
tion Program under part E of title XI of such
Act, with respect to a price applicability period
(as defined in section 1191(b) of such Act) and
a selected drug (as defined in section 1192(c) of
such Act) with respect to such period with re-
spect to which coverage is provided under such
plan or coverage—
‘‘(1) the provisions of such part shall apply—
‘‘(A) if coverage of such selected drug is pro-
vided under such plan or coverage if the drug is
furnished or dispensed at a pharmacy or by a
mail order service, to the plans or coverage of-
fered by such plan or issuer, and to the individ-
uals enrolled under such plans or coverage, dur-
ing such period, with respect to such selected
drug, in the same manner as such provisions
apply to prescription drug plans and MA–PD
plans, and to individuals enrolled under such
prescription drug plans and MA–PD plans dur-
ing such period; and
‘‘(B) if coverage of such selected drug is pro-
vided under such plan or coverage if the drug is
furnished or administered by a hospital, physi-
cian, or other provider of services or supplier, to
the plans or coverage offered by such plan or
issuers, to the individuals enrolled under such
plans or coverage, and to hospitals, physicians,
and other providers of services and suppliers
during such period, with respect to such drug in
the same manner as such provisions apply to the
Secretary, to individuals entitled to benefits
under part A of title XVIII or enrolled under
part B of such title, and to hospitals, physi-
cians, and other providers and suppliers partici-
pating under title XVIII during such period;
‘‘(2) the plan or issuer shall apply any cost-
sharing responsibilities under such plan or cov-
erage, with respect to such selected drug, by
substituting an amount not more than the max-
imum fair price negotiated under such part E of
title XI for such drug in lieu of the drug price
upon which the cost-sharing would have other-
wise applied, and such cost-sharing responsibil-
ities with respect to such selected drug may not
exceed such maximum fair price; and
‘‘(3) the Secretary shall apply the provisions
of such part E to such plan, issuer, and cov-
erage, such individuals so enrolled in such plans
and coverage, and such hospitals, physicians,
and other providers and suppliers participating
in such plans and coverage.
‘‘(b) NOTIFICATION REGARDING NONPARTICIPA-
TION IN FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PROGRAM.—A
group health plan or a health insurance issuer
offering group or individual health insurance
coverage shall publicly disclose in a manner and
in accordance with a process specified by the
Secretary any election made under section 1197
of the Social Security Act by the plan or issuer
to not participate in the Fair Price Negotiation
Program under part E of title XI of such Act
with respect to a selected drug (as defined in
section 1192(c) of such Act) for which coverage
is provided under such plan or coverage before
the beginning of the plan year for which such
election was made.’’.
(B) ERISA.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subpart B of part 7 of sub-
title B of title I of the Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1181 et.
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 716. FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PROGRAM
AND APPLICATION OF MAXIMUM
FAIR PRICES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a group
health plan or health insurance issuer offering
group health insurance coverage that is treated
under section 1197 of the Social Security Act as
having in effect an agreement with the Sec-
retary under the Fair Price Negotiation Program
under part E of title XI of such Act, with re-
spect to a price applicability period (as defined
in section 1191(b) of such Act) and a selected
drug (as defined in section 1192(c) of such Act)
with respect to such period with respect to
which coverage is provided under such plan or
coverage—
‘‘(1) the provisions of such part shall apply,
as applicable—
‘‘(A) if coverage of such selected drug is pro-
vided under such plan or coverage if the drug is
furnished or dispensed at a pharmacy or by a
mail order service, to the plans or coverage of-
fered by such plan or issuer, and to the individ-
uals enrolled under such plans or coverage, dur-
ing such period, with respect to such selected
drug, in the same manner as such provisions
apply to prescription drug plans and MA–PD
plans, and to individuals enrolled under such
prescription drug plans and MA–PD plans dur-
ing such period; and
‘‘(B) if coverage of such selected drug is pro-
vided under such plan or coverage if the drug is
furnished or administered by a hospital, physi-
cian, or other provider of services or supplier, to
the plans or coverage offered by such plan or
issuers, to the individuals enrolled under such
plans or coverage, and to hospitals, physicians,
and other providers of services and suppliers
during such period, with respect to such drug in
the same manner as such provisions apply to the
Secretary, to individuals entitled to benefits
under part A of title XVIII or enrolled under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10147
December 12, 2019
part B of such title, and to hospitals, physi-
cians, and other providers and suppliers partici-
pating under title XVIII during such period;
‘‘(2) the plan or issuer shall apply any cost-
sharing responsibilities under such plan or cov-
erage, with respect to such selected drug, by
substituting an amount not more than the max-
imum fair price negotiated under such part E of
title XI for such drug in lieu of the drug price
upon which the cost-sharing would have other-
wise applied, and such cost-sharing responsibil-
ities with respect to such selected drug may not
exceed such maximum fair price; and
‘‘(3) the Secretary shall apply the provisions
of such part E to such plan, issuer, and cov-
erage, and such individuals so enrolled in such
plans.
‘‘(b) NOTIFICATION REGARDING NONPARTICIPA-
TION IN FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PROGRAM.—A
group health plan or a health insurance issuer
offering group health insurance coverage shall
publicly disclose in a manner and in accordance
with a process specified by the Secretary any
election made under section 1197 of the Social
Security Act by the plan or issuer to not partici-
pate in the Fair Price Negotiation Program
under part E of title XI of such Act with respect
to a selected drug (as defined in section 1192(c)
of such Act) for which coverage is provided
under such plan or coverage before the begin-
ning of the plan year for which such election
was made.’’.
(ii) APPLICATION TO RETIREE AND CERTAIN
SMALL GROUP HEALTH PLANS.—Section 732(a) of
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1191a(a)) is amended by striking
‘‘section 711’’ and inserting ‘‘sections 711 and
716’’.
(iii) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sec-
tions for subpart B of part 7 of subtitle B of title
I of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘Sec. 716. Fair Price Negotiation Program
and application of maximum fair prices.’’.
(C) IRC.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter B of chapter 100
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by adding at the end the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 9816. FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PROGRAM
AND APPLICATION OF MAXIMUM
FAIR PRICES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a group
health plan that is treated under section 1197 of
the Social Security Act as having in effect an
agreement with the Secretary under the Fair
Price Negotiation Program under part E of title
XI of such Act, with respect to a price applica-
bility period (as defined in section 1191(b) of
such Act) and a selected drug (as defined in sec-
tion 1192(c) of such Act) with respect to such pe-
riod with respect to which coverage is provided
under such plan—
‘‘(1) the provisions of such part shall apply,
as applicable—
‘‘(A) if coverage of such selected drug is pro-
vided under such plan if the drug is furnished
or dispensed at a pharmacy or by a mail order
service, to the plan, and to the individuals en-
rolled under such plan during such period, with
respect to such selected drug, in the same man-
ner as such provisions apply to prescription
drug plans and MA–PD plans, and to individ-
uals enrolled under such prescription drug plans
and MA–PD plans during such period; and
‘‘(B) if coverage of such selected drug is pro-
vided under such plan if the drug is furnished
or administered by a hospital, physician, or
other provider of services or supplier, to the
plan, to the individuals enrolled under such
plan, and to hospitals, physicians, and other
providers of services and suppliers during such
period, with respect to such drug in the same
manner as such provisions apply to the Sec-
retary, to individuals entitled to benefits under
part A of title XVIII or enrolled under part B of
such title, and to hospitals, physicians, and
other providers and suppliers participating
under title XVIII during such period;
‘‘(2) the plan shall apply any cost-sharing re-
sponsibilities under such plan, with respect to
such selected drug, by substituting an amount
not more than the maximum fair price nego-
tiated under such part E of title XI for such
drug in lieu of the drug price upon which the
cost-sharing would have otherwise applied, and
such cost-sharing responsibilities with respect to
such selected drug may not exceed such max-
imum fair price; and
‘‘(3) the Secretary shall apply the provisions
of such part E to such plan and such individ-
uals so enrolled in such plan.
‘‘(b) NOTIFICATION REGARDING NONPARTICIPA-
TION IN FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PROGRAM.—A
group health plan shall publicly disclose in a
manner and in accordance with a process speci-
fied by the Secretary any election made under
section 1197 of the Social Security Act by the
plan to not participate in the Fair Price Nego-
tiation Program under part E of title XI of such
Act with respect to a selected drug (as defined
in section 1192(c) of such Act) for which cov-
erage is provided under such plan before the be-
ginning of the plan year for which such election
was made.’’.
(ii) APPLICATION TO RETIREE AND CERTAIN
SMALL GROUP HEALTH PLANS.—Section 9831(a)(2)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by inserting ‘‘other than with respect to section
9816,’’ before ‘‘any group health plan’’.
(iii) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sec-
tions for subchapter B of chapter 100 of such
Code is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Sec. 9816. Fair Price Negotiation Program
and application of maximum fair prices.’’.
(3) FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION PROGRAM PRICES
INCLUDED IN BEST PRICE AND AMP.—Section 1927
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8) is
amended—
(A) in subsection (c)(1)(C)(ii)—
(i) in subclause (III), by striking at the end ‘‘;
and’’;
(ii) in subclause (IV), by striking at the end
the period and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following new
subclause:
‘‘(V) in the case of a rebate period and a cov-
ered outpatient drug that is a selected drug (as
defined in section 1192(c)) during such rebate
period, shall be inclusive of the price for such
drug made available from the manufacturer dur-
ing the rebate period by reason of application of
part E of title XI to any wholesaler, retailer,
provider, health maintenance organization,
nonprofit entity, or governmental entity within
the United States.’’; and
(B) in subsection (k)(1)(B), by adding at the
end the following new clause:
‘‘(iii) CLARIFICATION.—Notwithstanding
clause (i), in the case of a rebate period and a
covered outpatient drug that is a selected drug
(as defined in section 1192(c)) during such re-
bate period, any reduction in price paid during
the rebate period to the manufacturer for the
drug by a wholesaler or retail community phar-
macy described in subparagraph (A) by reason
of application of part E of title XI shall be in-
cluded in the average manufacturer price for
the covered outpatient drug.’’.
SEC. 102. SELECTED DRUG MANUFACTURER EX-
CISE TAX IMPOSED DURING NON-
COMPLIANCE PERIODS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter E of chapter 32
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by adding at the end the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 4192. SELECTED DRUGS DURING NON-
COMPLIANCE PERIODS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is hereby imposed on
the sale by the manufacturer, producer, or im-
porter of any selected drug during a day de-
scribed in subsection (b) a tax in an amount
such that the applicable percentage is equal to
the ratio of—
‘‘(1) such tax, divided by
‘‘(2) the sum of such tax and the price for
which so sold.
‘‘(b) NONCOMPLIANCE PERIODS.—A day is de-
scribed in this subsection with respect to a se-
lected drug if it is a day during one of the fol-
lowing periods:
‘‘(1) The period beginning on the June 16th
immediately following the selected drug publica-
tion date and ending on the first date during
which the manufacturer of the drug has in
place an agreement described in subsection (a)
of section 1193 of the Social Security Act with
respect to such drug.
‘‘(2) The period beginning on the April 1st im-
mediately following the June 16th described in
paragraph (1) and ending on the first date dur-
ing which the manufacturer of the drug has
agreed to a maximum fair price under such
agreement.
‘‘(3) In the case of a selected drug with respect
to which the Secretary of Health and Human
Services has specified a renegotiation period
under such agreement, the period beginning on
the first date after the last date of such renego-
tiation period and ending on the first date dur-
ing which the manufacturer of the drug has
agreed to a renegotiated maximum fair price
under such agreement.
‘‘(4) With respect to information that is re-
quired to be submitted to the Secretary of Health
and Human Services under such agreement, the
period beginning on the date on which such Sec-
retary certifies that such information is overdue
and ending on the date that such information is
so submitted.
‘‘(5) In the case of a selected drug with respect
to which a payment is due under subsection (c)
of such section 1193, the period beginning on the
date on which the Secretary of Health and
Human Services certifies that such payment is
overdue and ending on the date that such pay-
ment is made in full.
‘‘(c) APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE.—For purposes
of this section, the term ‘applicable percentage’
means—
‘‘(1) in the case of sales of a selected drug dur-
ing the first 90 days described in subsection (b)
with respect to such drug, 65 percent,
‘‘(2) in the case of sales of such drug during
the 91st day through the 180th day described in
subsection (b) with respect to such drug, 75 per-
cent,
‘‘(3) in the case of sales of such drug during
the 181st day through the 270th day described in
subsection (b) with respect to such drug, 85 per-
cent, and
‘‘(4) in the case of sales of such drug during
any subsequent day, 95 percent.
‘‘(d) SELECTED DRUG.—For purposes of this
section—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘selected drug’
means any selected drug (within the meaning of
section 1192 of the Social Security Act) which is
manufactured or produced in the United States
or entered into the United States for consump-
tion, use, or warehousing.
‘‘(2) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘United States’
has the meaning given such term by section
4612(a)(4).
‘‘(3) COORDINATION WITH RULES FOR POSSES-
SIONS OF THE UNITED STATES.—Rules similar to
the rules of paragraphs (2) and (4) of section
4132(c) shall apply for purposes of this section.
‘‘(e) OTHER DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of
this section, the terms ‘selected drug publication
date’ and ‘maximum fair price’ have the mean-
ing given such terms in section 1191 of the Social
Security Act.
‘‘(f) ANTI-ABUSE RULE.—In the case of a sale
which was timed for the purpose of avoiding the
tax imposed by this section, the Secretary may
treat such sale as occurring during a day de-
scribed in subsection (b).’’.
(b) NO DEDUCTION FOR EXCISE TAX PAY-
MENTS.—Section 275 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by adding ‘‘or by sec-
tion 4192’’ before the period at the end of sub-
section (a)(6).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10148 December 12, 2019
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 4221(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by inserting ‘‘or 4192’’
after ‘‘section 4191’’.
(2) Section 6416(b)(2) of such Code is amended
by inserting ‘‘or 4192’’ after ‘‘section 4191’’.
(d) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
(1) The heading of subchapter E of chapter 32
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by striking ‘‘Medical Devices’’ and inserting
‘‘Other Medical Products’’.
(2) The table of subchapters for chapter 32 of
such Code is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to subchapter E and inserting the following
new item:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER E. OTHER MEDICAL PRODUCTS’’.
(3) The table of sections for subchapter E of
chapter 32 of such Code is amended by adding
at the end the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 4192. Selected drugs during noncompli-
ance periods.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to sales after the date
of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 103. FAIR PRICE NEGOTIATION IMPLEMEN-
TATION FUND.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There is hereby established
a Fair Price Negotiation Implementation Fund
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Fund’’). The
Secretary of Health and Human Services may
obligate and expend amounts in the Fund to
carry out this title and titles II and III (and the
amendments made by such titles).
(b) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be ap-
propriated, and there is hereby appropriated,
out of any monies in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, to the Fund $3,000,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, of which—
(1) $600,000,000 shall become available on the
date of the enactment of this Act;
(2) $600,000,000 shall become available on Oc-
tober 1, 2020;
(3) $600,000,000 shall become available on Oc-
tober 1, 2021;
(4) $600,000,000 shall become available on Oc-
tober 1, 2022; and
(5) $600,000,000 shall become available on Oc-
tober 1, 2023.
(c) SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT.—Any
amounts appropriated pursuant to this section
shall be in addition to any other amounts other-
wise appropriated pursuant to any other provi-
sion of law.
TITLE II—MEDICARE PARTS B AND D PRE-
SCRIPTION DRUG INFLATION REBATES
SEC. 201. MEDICARE PART B REBATE BY MANU-
FACTURERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1834 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m) is amended by
adding at the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(x) REBATE BY MANUFACTURERS FOR SINGLE
SOURCE DRUGS WITH PRICES INCREASING FASTER
THAN INFLATION.—
‘‘(1) REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) SECRETARIAL PROVISION OF INFORMA-
TION.—Not later than 6 months after the end of
each calendar quarter beginning on or after
July 1, 2021, the Secretary shall, for each part B
rebatable drug, report to each manufacturer of
such part B rebatable drug the following for
such calendar quarter:
‘‘(i) Information on the total number of units
of the billing and payment code described in
subparagraph (A)(i) of paragraph (3) with re-
spect to such drug and calendar quarter.
‘‘(ii) Information on the amount (if any) of
the excess average sales price increase described
in subparagraph (A)(ii) of such paragraph for
such drug and calendar quarter.
‘‘(iii) The rebate amount specified under such
paragraph for such part B rebatable drug and
calendar quarter.
‘‘(B) MANUFACTURER REQUIREMENT.—For
each calendar quarter beginning on or after
July 1, 2021, the manufacturer of a part B
rebatable drug shall, for such drug, not later
than 30 days after the date of receipt from the
Secretary of the information described in sub-
paragraph (A) for such calendar quarter, pro-
vide to the Secretary a rebate that is equal to
the amount specified in paragraph (3) for such
drug for such calendar quarter.
‘‘(2) PART B REBATABLE DRUG DEFINED.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In this subsection, the term
‘part B rebatable drug’ means a single source
drug or biological (as defined in subparagraph
(D) of section 1847A(c)(6)), including a bio-
similar biological product (as defined in sub-
paragraph (H) of such section), paid for under
this part, except such term shall not include
such a drug or biological—
‘‘(i) if the average total allowed charges for a
year per individual that uses such a drug or bio-
logical, as determined by the Secretary, are less
than, subject to subparagraph (B), $100; or
‘‘(ii) that is a vaccine described in subpara-
graph (A) or (B) of section 1861(s)(10).
‘‘(B) INCREASE.—The dollar amount applied
under subparagraph (A)(i)—
‘‘(i) for 2022, shall be the dollar amount speci-
fied under such subparagraph for 2021, in-
creased by the percentage increase in the con-
sumer price index for all urban consumers
(United States city average) for the 12 month pe-
riod ending with June of the previous year; and
‘‘(ii) for a subsequent year, shall be the dollar
amount specified in this clause (or clause (i)) for
the previous year, increased by the percentage
increase in the consumer price index for all
urban consumers (United States city average)
for the 12 month period ending with June of the
previous year.
Any dollar amount specified under this sub-
paragraph that is not a multiple of $10 shall be
rounded to the nearest multiple of $10.
‘‘(3) REBATE AMOUNT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of paragraph
(1), the amount specified in this paragraph for
a part B rebatable drug assigned to a billing
and payment code for a calendar quarter is,
subject to paragraph (4), the amount equal to
the product of—
‘‘(i) subject to subparagraphs (B) and (G), the
total number of units of the billing and payment
code for such part B rebatable drug furnished
under this part during the calendar quarter;
and
‘‘(ii) the amount (if any) by which—
‘‘(I) the payment amount under subparagraph
(B) or (C) of section 1847A(b)(1), as applicable,
for such part B rebatable drug during the cal-
endar quarter; exceeds
‘‘(II) the inflation-adjusted payment amount
determined under subparagraph (C) for such
part B rebatable drug during the calendar quar-
ter.
‘‘(B) EXCLUDED UNITS.—For purposes of sub-
paragraph (A)(i), the total number of units of
the billing and payment code for each part B
rebatable drug furnished during a calendar
quarter shall not include—
‘‘(i) units packaged into the payment for a
procedure or service under section 1833(t) or
under section 1833(i) (instead of separately pay-
able under such respective section);
‘‘(ii) units included under the single payment
system for renal dialysis services under section
1881(b)(14); or
‘‘(iii) units of a part B rebatable drug of a
manufacturer furnished to an individual, if
such manufacturer, with respect to the fur-
nishing of such units of such drug, provides for
discounts under section 340B of the Public
Health Service Act or for rebates under section
1927.
‘‘(C) DETERMINATION OF INFLATION-ADJUSTED
PAYMENT AMOUNT.—The inflation-adjusted pay-
ment amount determined under this subpara-
graph for a part B rebatable drug for a calendar
quarter is—
‘‘(i) the payment amount for the billing and
payment code for such drug in the payment
amount benchmark quarter (as defined in sub-
paragraph (D)); increased by
‘‘(ii) the percentage by which the rebate pe-
riod CPI–U (as defined in subparagraph (F)) for
the calendar quarter exceeds the benchmark pe-
riod CPI–U (as defined in subparagraph (E)).
‘‘(D) PAYMENT AMOUNT BENCHMARK QUAR-
TER.—The term ‘payment amount benchmark
quarter’ means the calendar quarter beginning
January 1, 2016.
‘‘(E) BENCHMARK PERIOD CPI–U.—The term
‘benchmark period CPI–U’ means the consumer
price index for all urban consumers (United
States city average) for July 2015.
‘‘(F) REBATE PERIOD CPI–U.—The term ‘rebate
period CPI–U’ means, with respect to a calendar
quarter described in subparagraph (C), the
greater of the benchmark period CPI–U and the
consumer price index for all urban consumers
(United States city average) for the first month
of the calendar quarter that is two calendar
quarters prior to such described calendar quar-
ter.
‘‘(G) COUNTING UNITS.—
‘‘(i) CUT-OFF PERIOD TO COUNT UNITS.—For
purposes of subparagraph (A)(i), subject to
clause (ii), to count the total number of billing
units for a part B rebatable drug for a quarter,
the Secretary may use a cut-off period in order
to exclude from such total number of billing
units for such quarter claims for services fur-
nished during such quarter that were not proc-
essed at an appropriate time prior to the end of
the cut-off period.
‘‘(ii) COUNTING UNITS FOR CLAIMS PROCESSED
AFTER CUT-OFF PERIOD.—If the Secretary uses a
cut-off period pursuant to clause (i), in the case
of units of a part B rebatable drug furnished
during a quarter but pursuant to application of
such cut-off period excluded for purposes of sub-
paragraph (A)(i) from the total number of bill-
ing units for the drug for such quarter, the Sec-
retary shall count such units of such drug so
furnished in the total number of billing units for
such drug for a subsequent quarter, as the Sec-
retary determines appropriate.
‘‘(4) SPECIAL TREATMENT OF CERTAIN DRUGS
AND EXEMPTION.—
‘‘(A) SUBSEQUENTLY APPROVED DRUGS.—Sub-
ject to subparagraph (B), in the case of a part
B rebatable drug first approved or licensed by
the Food and Drug Administration after July 1,
2015, clause (i) of paragraph (3)(C) shall be ap-
plied as if the term ‘payment amount benchmark
quarter’ were defined under paragraph (3)(D) as
the third full calendar quarter after the day on
which the drug was first marketed and clause
(ii) of paragraph (3)(C) shall be applied as if the
term ‘benchmark period CPI–U’ were defined
under paragraph (3)(E) as if the reference to
‘July 2015’ under such paragraph were a ref-
erence to ‘the first month of the first full cal-
endar quarter after the day on which the drug
was first marketed’.
‘‘(B) TIMELINE FOR PROVISION OF REBATES FOR
SUBSEQUENTLY APPROVED DRUGS.—In the case of
a part B rebatable drug first approved or li-
censed by the Food and Drug Administration
after July 1, 2015, paragraph (1)(B) shall be ap-
plied as if the reference to ‘July 1, 2021’ under
such paragraph were a reference to the later of
the 6th full calendar quarter after the day on
which the drug was first marketed or July 1,
2021.
‘‘(C) EXEMPTION FOR SHORTAGES.—The Sec-
retary may reduce or waive the rebate amount
under paragraph (1)(B) with respect to a part B
rebatable drug that is described as currently in
shortage on the shortage list in effect under sec-
tion 506E of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act or in the case of other exigent cir-
cumstances, as determined by the Secretary.
‘‘(D) SELECTED DRUGS.—In the case of a part
B rebatable drug that is a selected drug (as de-
fined in section 1192(c)) for a price applicability
period (as defined in section 1191(b)(2))—
‘‘(i) for calendar quarters during such period
for which a maximum fair price (as defined in
section 1191(c)(2)) for such drug has been deter-
mined and is applied under part E of title XI,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10149
December 12, 2019
the rebate amount under paragraph (1)(B) shall
be waived; and
‘‘(ii) in the case such drug is determined (pur-
suant to such section 1192(c)) to no longer be a
selected drug, for each applicable year begin-
ning after the price applicability period with re-
spect to such drug, clause (i) of paragraph
(3)(C) shall be applied as if the term ‘payment
amount benchmark quarter’ were defined under
paragraph (3)(D) as the calendar quarter begin-
ning January 1 of the last year beginning dur-
ing such price applicability period with respect
to such selected drug and clause (ii) of para-
graph (3)(C) shall be applied as if the term
‘benchmark period CPI–U’ were defined under
paragraph (3)(E) as if the reference to ‘July
2015’ under such paragraph were a reference to
the July of the year preceding such last year.
‘‘(5) APPLICATION TO BENEFICIARY COINSUR-
ANCE.—In the case of a part B rebatable drug,
if the payment amount for a quarter exceeds the
inflation adjusted payment for such quarter—
‘‘(A) in computing the amount of any coinsur-
ance applicable under this title to an individual
with respect to such drug, the computation of
such coinsurance shall be based on the infla-
tion-adjusted payment amount determined
under paragraph (3)(C) for such part B
rebatable drug; and
‘‘(B) the amount of such coinsurance is equal
to 20 percent of such inflation-adjusted payment
amount so determined.
‘‘(6) REBATE DEPOSITS.—Amounts paid as re-
bates under paragraph (1)(B) shall be deposited
into the Federal Supplementary Medical Insur-
ance Trust Fund established under section 1841.
‘‘(7) CIVIL MONEY PENALTY.—If a manufac-
turer of a part B rebatable drug has failed to
comply with the requirements under paragraph
(1)(B) for such drug for a calendar quarter, the
manufacturer shall be subject to, in accordance
with a process established by the Secretary pur-
suant to regulations, a civil money penalty in
an amount equal to at least 125 percent of the
amount specified in paragraph (3) for such drug
for such calendar quarter. The provisions of sec-
tion 1128A (other than subsections (a) (with re-
spect to amounts of penalties or additional as-
sessments) and (b)) shall apply to a civil money
penalty under this paragraph in the same man-
ner as such provisions apply to a penalty or
proceeding under section 1128A(a).
‘‘(8) STUDY AND REPORT.—
‘‘(A) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
study of the feasibility of and operational issues
involved with the following:
‘‘(i) Including multiple source drugs (as de-
fined in section 1847A(c)(6)(C)) in the rebate sys-
tem under this subsection.
‘‘(ii) Including drugs and biologicals paid for
under MA plans under part C in the rebate sys-
tem under this subsection.
‘‘(iii) Including drugs excluded under para-
graph (2)(A) and units of the billing and pay-
ment code of the drugs excluded under para-
graph (3)(B) in the rebate system under this
subsection.
‘‘(B) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date of the enactment of this subsection, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on
the study conducted under subparagraph (A).
‘‘(9) APPLICATION TO MULTIPLE SOURCE
DRUGS.—The Secretary may, based on the report
submitted under paragraph (8) and pursuant to
rulemaking, apply the provisions of this sub-
section to multiple source drugs (as defined in
section 1847A(c)(6)(C)), including, for purposes
of determining the rebate amount under para-
graph (3), by calculating manufacturer-specific
average sales prices for the benchmark period
and the rebate period.’’.
(b) AMOUNTS PAYABLE; COST-SHARING.—Sec-
tion 1833 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395l) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (S), by striking ‘‘with re-
spect to’’ and inserting ‘‘subject to subpara-
graph (DD), with respect to’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘and (CC)’’ and inserting
‘‘(CC)’’; and
(iii) by inserting before the semicolon at the
end the following: ‘‘, and (DD) with respect to
a part B rebatable drug (as defined in para-
graph (2) of section 1834(x)) for which the pay-
ment amount for a calendar quarter under para-
graph (3)(A)(ii)(I) of such section for such quar-
ter exceeds the inflation-adjusted payment
under paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(II) of such section
for such quarter, the amounts paid shall be the
difference between (i) the payment amount
under paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(I) of such section for
such drug, and (ii) 20 percent of the inflation-
adjusted payment amount under paragraph
(3)(A)(ii)(II) of such section for such drug’’;
(B) by adding at the end of the flush left mat-
ter following paragraph (9), the following:
‘‘For purposes of applying paragraph (1)(DD),
subsections (i)(9) and (t)(8)(F), and section
1834(x)(5), the Secretary shall make such esti-
mates and use such data as the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate, and notwithstanding any
other provision of law, may do so by program
instruction or otherwise.’’;
(2) in subsection (i), by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(9) In the case of a part B rebatable drug (as
defined in paragraph (2) of section 1834(x)) for
which payment under this subsection is not
packaged into a payment for a covered OPD
service (as defined in subsection (t)(1)(B)) (or
group of services) furnished on or after July 1,
2021, under the system under this subsection, in
lieu of calculation of coinsurance and the
amount of payment otherwise applicable under
this subsection, the provisions of section
1834(x)(5), paragraph (1)(DD) of subsection (a),
and the flush left matter following paragraph
(9) of subsection (a), shall, as determined appro-
priate by the Secretary, apply under this sub-
section in the same manner as such provisions of
section 1834(x)(5) and subsection (a) apply
under such section and subsection.’’; and
(3) in subsection (t)(8), by adding at the end
the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(F) PART B REBATABLE DRUGS.—In the case
of a part B rebatable drug (as defined in para-
graph (2) of section 1834(x)) for which payment
under this part is not packaged into a payment
for a service furnished on or after July 1, 2021,
under the system under this subsection, in lieu
of calculation of coinsurance and the amount of
payment otherwise applicable under this sub-
section, the provisions of section 1834(x)(5),
paragraph (1)(DD) of subsection (a), and the
flush left matter following paragraph (9) of sub-
section (a), shall, as determined appropriate by
the Secretary, apply under this subsection in
the same manner as such provisions of section
1834(x)(5) and subsection (a) apply under such
section and subsection.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) TO PART B ASP CALCULATION.—Section
1847A(c)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395w–3a(c)(3)) is amended by inserting ‘‘or sec-
tion 1834(x)’’ after ‘‘section 1927’’.
(2) EXCLUDING PARTS B DRUG INFLATION RE-
BATE FROM BEST PRICE.—Section
1927(c)(1)(C)(ii)(I) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8(c)(1)(C)(ii)(I)) is amended by in-
serting ‘‘or section 1834(x)’’ after ‘‘this section’’.
(3) COORDINATION WITH MEDICAID REBATE IN-
FORMATION DISCLOSURE.—Section
1927(b)(3)(D)(i) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)(3)(D)(i)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘or to carry out section 1847B’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘to carry out section 1847B or section
1834(x)’’.
SEC. 202. MEDICARE PART D REBATE BY MANU-
FACTURERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Part D of title XVIII of the
Social Security Act is amended by inserting
after section 1860D–14A (42 U.S.C. 1395w–114a)
the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 1860D–14B. MANUFACTURER REBATE FOR
CERTAIN DRUGS WITH PRICES IN-
CREASING FASTER THAN INFLATION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the provisions of
this section, in order for coverage to be available
under this part for a part D rebatable drug (as
defined in subsection (h)(1)) of a manufacturer
(as defined in section 1927(k)(5)) dispensed dur-
ing an applicable year, the manufacturer must
have entered into and have in effect an agree-
ment described in subsection (b).
‘‘(2) AUTHORIZING COVERAGE FOR DRUGS NOT
COVERED UNDER AGREEMENTS.—Paragraph (1)
shall not apply to the dispensing of a covered
part D drug if—
‘‘(A) the Secretary has made a determination
that the availability of the drug is essential to
the health of beneficiaries under this part; or
‘‘(B) the Secretary determines that in the pe-
riod beginning on January 1, 2022, and ending
on December 31, 2022, there were extenuating
circumstances.
‘‘(3) APPLICABLE YEAR.—For purposes of this
section the term ‘applicable year’ means a year
beginning with 2022.
‘‘(b) AGREEMENTS.—
‘‘(1) TERMS OF AGREEMENT.—An agreement
described in this subsection, with respect to a
manufacturer of a part D rebatable drug, is an
agreement under which the following shall
apply:
‘‘(A) SECRETARIAL PROVISION OF INFORMA-
TION.—Not later than 9 months after the end of
each applicable year with respect to which the
agreement is in effect, the Secretary, for each
part D rebatable drug of the manufacturer,
shall report to the manufacturer the following
for such year:
‘‘(i) Information on the total number of units
(as defined in subsection (h)(2)) for each dosage
form and strength with respect to such part D
rebatable drug and year.
‘‘(ii) Information on the amount (if any) of
the excess average manufacturer price increase
described in subsection (c)(1)(B) for each dosage
form and strength with respect to such drug and
year.
‘‘(iii) The rebate amount specified under sub-
section (c) for each dosage form and strength
with respect to such drug and year.
‘‘(B) MANUFACTURER REQUIREMENTS.—For
each applicable year with respect to which the
agreement is in effect, the manufacturer of the
part D rebatable drug, for each dosage form and
strength with respect to such drug, not later
than 30 days after the date of receipt from the
Secretary of the information described in sub-
paragraph (A) for such year, shall provide to
the Secretary a rebate that is equal to the
amount specified in subsection (c) for such dos-
age form and strength with respect to such drug
for such year.
‘‘(2) LENGTH OF AGREEMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—An agreement under this
section, with respect to a part D rebatable drug,
shall be effective for an initial period of not less
than one year and shall be automatically re-
newed for a period of not less than one year un-
less terminated under subparagraph (B).
‘‘(B) TERMINATION.—
‘‘(i) BY SECRETARY.—The Secretary may pro-
vide for termination of an agreement under this
section for violation of the requirements of the
agreement or other good cause shown. Such ter-
mination shall not be effective earlier than 30
days after the date of notice of such termi-
nation. The Secretary shall provide, upon re-
quest, a manufacturer with a hearing con-
cerning such a termination, but such hearing
shall not delay the effective date of the termi-
nation.
‘‘(ii) BY A MANUFACTURER.—A manufacturer
may terminate an agreement under this section
for any reason. Any such termination shall be
effective, with respect to a plan year—
‘‘(I) if the termination occurs before January
30 of the plan year, as of the day after the end
of the plan year; and
‘‘(II) if the termination occurs on or after Jan-
uary 30 of the plan year, as of the day after the
end of the succeeding plan year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10150 December 12, 2019
‘‘(C) EFFECTIVENESS OF TERMINATION.—Any
termination under this paragraph shall not af-
fect rebates due under the agreement under this
section before the effective date of its termi-
nation.
‘‘(D) DELAY BEFORE REENTRY.—In the case of
any agreement under this section with a manu-
facturer that is terminated in a plan year, the
Secretary may not enter into another such
agreement with the manufacturer (or a suc-
cessor manufacturer) before the subsequent plan
year, unless the Secretary finds good cause for
an earlier reinstatement of such an agreement.
‘‘(c) REBATE AMOUNT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, the amount specified in this subsection for
a dosage form and strength with respect to a
part D rebatable drug and applicable year is,
subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C) of para-
graph (5), the amount equal to the product of—
‘‘(A) the total number of units of such dosage
form and strength with respect to such part D
rebatable drug and year; and
‘‘(B) the amount (if any) by which—
‘‘(i) the annual manufacturer price (as deter-
mined in paragraph (2)) paid for such dosage
form and strength with respect to such part D
rebatable drug for the year; exceeds
‘‘(ii) the inflation-adjusted payment amount
determined under paragraph (3) for such dosage
form and strength with respect to such part D
rebatable drug for the year.
‘‘(2) DETERMINATION OF ANNUAL MANUFAC-
TURER PRICE.—The annual manufacturer price
determined under this paragraph for a dosage
form and strength, with respect to a part D
rebatable drug and an applicable year, is the
sum of the products of—
‘‘(A) the average manufacturer price (as de-
fined in subsection (h)(6)) of such dosage form
and strength, as calculated for a unit of such
drug, with respect to each of the calendar quar-
ters of such year; and
‘‘(B) the ratio of—
‘‘(i) the total number of units of such dosage
form and strength dispensed during each such
calendar quarter of such year; to
‘‘(ii) the total number of units of such dosage
form and strength dispensed during such year.
‘‘(3) DETERMINATION OF INFLATION-ADJUSTED
PAYMENT AMOUNT.—The inflation-adjusted pay-
ment amount determined under this paragraph
for a dosage form and strength with respect to
a part D rebatable drug for an applicable year,
subject to subparagraphs (A) and (D) of para-
graph (5), is—
‘‘(A) the benchmark year manufacturer price
determined under paragraph (4) for such dosage
form and strength with respect to such drug and
an applicable year; increased by
‘‘(B) the percentage by which the applicable
year CPI–U (as defined in subsection (h)(5)) for
the applicable year exceeds the benchmark pe-
riod CPI–U (as defined in subsection (h)(4)).
‘‘(4) DETERMINATION OF BENCHMARK YEAR
MANUFACTURER PRICE.—The benchmark year
manufacturer price determined under this para-
graph for a dosage form and strength, with re-
spect to a part D rebatable drug and an applica-
ble year, is the sum of the products of—
‘‘(A) the average manufacturer price (as de-
fined in subsection (h)(6)) of such dosage form
and strength, as calculated for a unit of such
drug, with respect to each of the calendar quar-
ters of the payment amount benchmark year (as
defined in subsection (h)(3)); and
‘‘(B) the ratio of—
‘‘(i) the total number of units of such dosage
form and strength dispensed during each such
calendar quarter of such payment amount
benchmark year; to
‘‘(ii) the total number of units of such dosage
form and strength dispensed during such pay-
ment amount benchmark year.
‘‘(5) SPECIAL TREATMENT OF CERTAIN DRUGS
AND EXEMPTION.—
‘‘(A) SUBSEQUENTLY APPROVED DRUGS.—In the
case of a part D rebatable drug first approved or
licensed by the Food and Drug Administration
after January 1, 2016, subparagraphs (A) and
(B) of paragraph (4) shall be applied as if the
term ‘payment amount benchmark year’ were
defined under subsection (h)(3) as the first cal-
endar year beginning after the day on which
the drug was first marketed by any manufac-
turer and subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3)
shall be applied as if the term ‘benchmark pe-
riod CPI–U’ were defined under subsection
(h)(4) as if the reference to ‘January 2016’ under
such subsection were a reference to ‘January of
the first year beginning after the date on which
the drug was first marketed by any manufac-
turer’.
‘‘(B) EXEMPTION FOR SHORTAGES.—The Sec-
retary may reduce or waive the rebate under
paragraph (1) with respect to a part D rebatable
drug that is described as currently in shortage
on the shortage list in effect under section 506E
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or
in the case of other exigent circumstances, as
determined by the Secretary.
‘‘(C) TREATMENT OF NEW FORMULATIONS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a part D
rebatable drug that is a line extension of a part
D rebatable drug that is an oral solid dosage
form, the Secretary shall establish a formula for
determining the amount specified in this sub-
section with respect to such part D rebatable
drug and an applicable year with consideration
of the original part D rebatable drug.
‘‘(ii) LINE EXTENSION DEFINED.—In this sub-
paragraph, the term ‘line extension’ means, with
respect to a part D rebatable drug, a new formu-
lation of the drug (as determined by the Sec-
retary), such as an extended release formula-
tion, but does not include an abuse-deterrent
formulation of the drug (as determined by the
Secretary), regardless of whether such abuse-de-
terrent formulation is an extended release for-
mulation.
‘‘(D) SELECTED DRUGS.—In the case of a part
D rebatable drug that is a selected drug (as de-
fined in section 1192(c)) for a price applicability
period (as defined in section 1191(b)(2))—
‘‘(i) for plan years during such period for
which a maximum fair price (as defined in sec-
tion 1191(c)(2)) for such drug has been deter-
mined and is applied under part E of title XI,
the rebate under subsection (b)(1)(B) shall be
waived; and
‘‘(ii) in the case such drug is determined (pur-
suant to such section 1192(c)) to no longer be a
selected drug, for each applicable year begin-
ning after the price applicability period with re-
spect to such drug, subparagraphs (A) and (B)
of paragraph (4) shall be applied as if the term
‘payment amount benchmark year’ were defined
under subsection (h)(3) as the last year begin-
ning during such price applicability period with
respect to such selected drug and subparagraph
(B) of paragraph (3) shall be applied as if the
term ‘benchmark period CPI–U’ were defined
under subsection (h)(4) as if the reference to
‘January 2016’ under such subsection were a ref-
erence to January of the last year beginning
during such price applicability period with re-
spect to such drug.
‘‘(d) REBATE DEPOSITS.—Amounts paid as re-
bates under subsection (c) shall be deposited
into the Medicare Prescription Drug Account in
the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance
Trust Fund established under section 1841.
‘‘(e) INFORMATION.—For purposes of carrying
out this section, the Secretary shall use informa-
tion submitted by manufacturers under section
1927(b)(3).
‘‘(f) CIVIL MONEY PENALTY.—In the case of a
manufacturer of a part D rebatable drug with
an agreement in effect under this section who
has failed to comply with the terms of the agree-
ment under subsection (b)(1)(B) with respect to
such drug for an applicable year, the Secretary
may impose a civil money penalty on such man-
ufacturer in an amount equal to 125 percent of
the amount specified in subsection (c) for such
drug for such year. The provisions of section
1128A (other than subsections (a) (with respect
to amounts of penalties or additional assess-
ments) and (b)) shall apply to a civil money
penalty under this subsection in the same man-
ner as such provisions apply to a penalty or
proceeding under section 1128A(a).
‘‘(g) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—There shall be no ju-
dicial review of the following:
‘‘(1) The determination of units under this
section.
‘‘(2) The determination of whether a drug is a
part D rebatable drug under this section.
‘‘(3) The calculation of the rebate amount
under this section.
‘‘(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) PART D REBATABLE DRUG DEFINED.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘part D rebatable
drug’ means a drug or biological that would
(without application of this section) be a cov-
ered part D drug, except such term shall, with
respect to an applicable year, not include such
a drug or biological if the average annual total
cost under this part for such year per individual
who uses such a drug or biological, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, is less than, subject to
subparagraph (B), $100, as determined by the
Secretary using the most recent data available
or, if data is not available, as estimated by the
Secretary.
‘‘(B) INCREASE.—The dollar amount applied
under subparagraph (A)—
‘‘(i) for 2023, shall be the dollar amount speci-
fied under such subparagraph for 2022, in-
creased by the percentage increase in the con-
sumer price index for all urban consumers
(United States city average) for the 12-month
period beginning with January of 2022; and
‘‘(ii) for a subsequent year, shall be the dollar
amount specified in this subparagraph for the
previous year, increased by the percentage in-
crease in the consumer price index for all urban
consumers (United States city average) for the
12-month period beginning with January of the
previous year.
Any dollar amount specified under this sub-
paragraph that is not a multiple of $10 shall be
rounded to the nearest multiple of $10.
‘‘(2) UNIT DEFINED.—The term ‘unit’ means,
with respect to a part D rebatable drug, the low-
est identifiable quantity (such as a capsule or
tablet, milligram of molecules, or grams) of the
part D rebatable drug that is dispensed to indi-
viduals under this part.
‘‘(3) PAYMENT AMOUNT BENCHMARK YEAR.—
The term ‘payment amount benchmark year’
means the year beginning January 1, 2016.
‘‘(4) BENCHMARK PERIOD CPI–U.—The term
‘benchmark period CPI–U’ means the consumer
price index for all urban consumers (United
States city average) for January 2016.
‘‘(5) APPLICABLE YEAR CPI–U.—The term ‘ap-
plicable year CPI–U’ means, with respect to an
applicable year, the consumer price index for all
urban consumers (United States city average)
for January of such year.
‘‘(6) AVERAGE MANUFACTURER PRICE.—The
term ‘average manufacturer price’ has the
meaning, with respect to a part D rebatable
drug of a manufacturer, given such term in sec-
tion 1927(k)(1), with respect to a covered out-
patient drug of a manufacturer for a rebate pe-
riod under section 1927.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) TO PART B ASP CALCULATION.—Section
1847A(c)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395w–3a(c)(3)), as amended by section 201(c)(1),
is further amended by striking ‘‘section 1927 or
section 1834(x)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1927, sec-
tion 1834(x), or section 1860D–14B’’.
(2) EXCLUDING PART D DRUG INFLATION RE-
BATE FROM BEST PRICE.—Section
1927(c)(1)(C)(ii)(I) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8(c)(1)(C)(ii)(I)), as amended by
section 201(c)(2), is further amended by striking
‘‘or section 1834(x)’’ and inserting ‘‘, section
1834(x), or section 1860D–14B’’.
(3) COORDINATION WITH MEDICAID REBATE IN-
FORMATION DISCLOSURE.—Section
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10151
December 12, 2019
1927(b)(3)(D)(i) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)(3)(D)(i)), as amended by sec-
tion 201(c)(3), is further amended by striking ‘‘or
section 1834(x)’’ and inserting ‘‘, section 1834(x),
or section 1860D–14B’’.
SEC. 203. PROVISION REGARDING INFLATION RE-
BATES FOR GROUP HEALTH PLANS
AND GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE
COVERAGE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December 31,
2021, the Secretary of Labor, in consultation
with the Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices and the Secretary of the Treasury, shall
submit to Congress a report on—
(1) potential models for an agreement process
with manufacturers of prescription drugs under
which such manufacturers provide for inflation
rebates with respect to such drugs that are fur-
nished or dispensed to participants and bene-
ficiaries of group health plans and health insur-
ance coverage offered in the group market in a
manner similar to how manufacturers provide
for rebates under section 1834(x) of the Social
Security Act, as added by section 201, and sec-
tion 1860D–14B of such Act, as added by section
202, with respect to prescription drugs that are
furnished or dispensed under part B of title
XVIII of such Act and part D of such title, re-
spectively; and
(2) potential models for enforcement mecha-
nisms with respect to such an agreement process
that ensure that such inflation rebates are pro-
portionally distributed, with respect to costs, to
group health plans and health insurance issuers
offering health insurance coverage in the group
market, to participants and beneficiaries of such
plans and coverage, or to both.
(b) REGULATIONS.—Not later than December
31, 2022, the Secretary of Labor shall, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Health and
Human Services and the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, promulgate regulations to implement a
model described in subsection (a)(1) and a model
described in subsection (a)(2), if the Secretary
determines that—
(1) the process of a sufficient number (as de-
termined by the Secretary) of drugs described in
subsection (a)(1) have increased over a period of
time (as determined by the Secretary) at a per-
centage that exceeds the percentage by which
the consumer price index for all urban con-
sumers (United States city average) has in-
creased over such period; and
(2) such model described in subsection (a)(1)
and such model described in subsection (a)(2)
are feasible.
SEC. 204. ANNUAL REPORT ON DRUG COSTS IN
GROUP HEALTH PLANS AND GROUP
HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE.
(a) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than December
31, 2021, the Secretary of Labor shall, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Health and
Human Services and the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, submit to Congress a report, with respect to
a period (as determined by the Secretary of
Labor), on—
(1) whether the prices of prescription drugs
that are furnished or dispensed to participants
and beneficiaries of group health plans and
health insurance coverage offered in the group
market during such period have increased at a
percentage that exceeds the percentage by
which the consumer price index for all urban
consumers (United States city average) in-
creased for such period; and
(2) whether there are mechanisms by which
manufacturers of prescription drugs have at-
tempted to recover rebate payments required of
such manufacturers under section 1834(x) of the
Social Security Act, as added by section 201, and
section 1860D–14B of such Act, as added by sec-
tion 202, with respect to prescription drugs that
are furnished or dispensed under part B of title
XVIII of such Act and part D of such title, re-
spectively, through increased prices charged
with respect to drugs that are furnished or dis-
pensed to participants and beneficiaries of
group health plans and health insurance cov-
erage offered in the group market during such
period.
(b) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than Decem-
ber 31 of each year following 2021, the Secretary
of Labor shall, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services and the
Secretary of the Treasury, submit to Congress a
report updating the information and analysis
included in the report required under subsection
(a), reflecting, in part, new price and cost infor-
mation and data for the 12-month period after
the period on which the prior year’s report was
based.
SEC. 205. COLLECTION OF DATA.
(a) MANUFACTURERS OF PRESCRIPTION
DRUGS.—Manufacturers of prescription drugs
shall submit to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, Secretary of Labor, and the
Secretary of the Treasury appropriate data as
necessary for the Secretaries to obtain informa-
tion needed to provide the reports under sections
203 and 204.
(b) GROUP HEALTH PLANS AND HEALTH INSUR-
ANCE ISSUERS OFFERING HEALTH INSURANCE
COVERAGE IN THE GROUP MARKET.—Group
health plans and health insurance issuers offer-
ing health insurance coverage in the group mar-
ket shall submit to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, Secretary of Labor, and the
Secretary of the Treasury appropriate data as
necessary for the Secretaries to obtain informa-
tion needed to provide the reports under sections
203 and 204.
TITLE III—PART D IMPROVEMENTS AND
MAXIMUM OUT-OF-POCKET CAP FOR
MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES
SEC. 301. MEDICARE PART D BENEFIT REDESIGN.
(a) BENEFIT STRUCTURE REDESIGN.—Section
1860D–2(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395w–102(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by inserting ‘‘for a year pre-
ceding 2022 and for costs above the annual de-
ductible specified in paragraph (1) and up to the
annual out-of-pocket threshold specified in
paragraph (4)(B) for 2022 and each subsequent
year’’ after ‘‘paragraph (3)’’;
(B) in subparagraph (C)—
(i) in clause (i), in the matter preceding sub-
clause (I), by inserting ‘‘for a year preceding
2022,’’ after ‘‘paragraph (4),’’; and
(ii) in clause (ii)(III), by striking ‘‘and each
subsequent year’’ and inserting ‘‘and 2021’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (D)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) in the matter preceding subclause (I), by
inserting ‘‘for a year preceding 2022,’’ after
‘‘paragraph (4),’’; and
(II) in subclause (I)(bb), by striking ‘‘a year
after 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘each of years 2018
through 2021’’; and
(ii) in clause (ii)(V), by striking ‘‘2019 and
each subsequent year’’ and inserting ‘‘each of
years 2019 through 2021’’;
(2) in paragraph (3)(A)—
(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by in-
serting ‘‘for a year preceding 2022,’’ after ‘‘and
(4),’’; and
(B) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘for a subse-
quent year’’ and inserting ‘‘for each of years
2007 through 2021’’; and
(3) in paragraph (4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) by redesignating subclauses (I) and (II) as
items (aa) and (bb), respectively, and moving
the margin of each such redesignated item 2 ems
to the right;
(II) in the matter preceding item (aa), as re-
designated by subclause (I), by striking ‘‘is
equal to the greater of—’’ and inserting ‘‘is
equal to—
‘‘(I) for a year preceding 2022, the greater of—
’’;
(III) by striking the period at the end of item
(bb), as redesignated by subclause (I), and in-
serting ‘‘; and’’; and
(IV) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(II) for 2022 and each succeeding year, $0.’’;
and
(ii) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘clause (i)(I)’’
and inserting ‘‘clause (i)(I)(aa)’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) in subclause (V), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end;
(II) in subclause (VI)—
(aa) by striking ‘‘for a subsequent year’’ and
inserting ‘‘for 2021’’; and
(bb) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting a semicolon; and
(III) by adding at the end the following new
subclauses:
‘‘(VII) for 2022, is equal to $2,000; or
‘‘(VIII) for a subsequent year, is equal to the
amount specified in this subparagraph for the
previous year, increased by the annual percent-
age increase described in paragraph (6) for the
year involved.’’; and
(ii) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘clause (i)(II)’’
and inserting ‘‘clause (i)’’;
(C) in subparagraph (C)(i), by striking ‘‘and
for amounts’’ and inserting ‘‘and, for a year
preceding 2022, for amounts’’; and
(D) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘In ap-
plying’’ and inserting ‘‘For each of years 2011
through 2021, in applying’’.
(b) DECREASING REINSURANCE PAYMENT
AMOUNT.—Section 1860D–15(b)(1) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–115(b)(1)) is
amended by inserting after ‘‘80 percent’’ the fol-
lowing: ‘‘(or, with respect to a coverage year
after 2021, 20 percent)’’.
(c) MANUFACTURER DISCOUNT PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Part D of title XVIII of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–101 et seq.),
as amended by section 202, is further amended
by inserting after section 1860D–14B the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 1860D–14C. MANUFACTURER DISCOUNT
PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish a manufacturer discount program (in
this section referred to as the ‘program’). Under
the program, the Secretary shall enter into
agreements described in subsection (b) with
manufacturers and provide for the performance
of the duties described in subsection (c). The
Secretary shall establish a model agreement for
use under the program by not later than Janu-
ary 1, 2021, in consultation with manufacturers,
and allow for comment on such model agree-
ment.
‘‘(b) TERMS OF AGREEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(A) AGREEMENT.—An agreement under this
section shall require the manufacturer to pro-
vide applicable beneficiaries access to dis-
counted prices for applicable drugs of the manu-
facturer that are dispensed on or after January
1, 2022.
‘‘(B) PROVISION OF DISCOUNTED PRICES AT THE
POINT-OF-SALE.—The discounted prices de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) shall be provided to
the applicable beneficiary at the pharmacy or
by the mail order service at the point-of-sale of
an applicable drug.
‘‘(C) TIMING OF AGREEMENT.—
‘‘(i) SPECIAL RULE FOR 2022.—In order for an
agreement with a manufacturer to be in effect
under this section with respect to the period be-
ginning on January 1, 2022, and ending on De-
cember 31, 2022, the manufacturer shall enter
into such agreement not later than 30 days after
the date of the establishment of a model agree-
ment under subsection (a).
‘‘(ii) 2023 AND SUBSEQUENT YEARS.—In order
for an agreement with a manufacturer to be in
effect under this section with respect to plan
year 2023 or a subsequent plan year, the manu-
facturer shall enter into such agreement (or
such agreement shall be renewed under para-
graph (4)(A)) not later than January 30 of the
preceding year.
‘‘(2) PROVISION OF APPROPRIATE DATA.—Each
manufacturer with an agreement in effect under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10152 December 12, 2019
this section shall collect and have available ap-
propriate data, as determined by the Secretary,
to ensure that it can demonstrate to the Sec-
retary compliance with the requirements under
the program.
‘‘(3) COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS FOR AD-
MINISTRATION OF PROGRAM.—Each manufac-
turer with an agreement in effect under this sec-
tion shall comply with requirements imposed by
the Secretary or a third party with a contract
under subsection (d)(3), as applicable, for pur-
poses of administering the program, including
any determination under subparagraph (A) of
subsection (c)(1) or procedures established under
such subsection (c)(1).
‘‘(4) LENGTH OF AGREEMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—An agreement under this
section shall be effective for an initial period of
not less than 12 months and shall be automati-
cally renewed for a period of not less than 1
year unless terminated under subparagraph (B).
‘‘(B) TERMINATION.—
‘‘(i) BY THE SECRETARY.—The Secretary may
provide for termination of an agreement under
this section for a knowing and willful violation
of the requirements of the agreement or other
good cause shown. Such termination shall not
be effective earlier than 30 days after the date of
notice to the manufacturer of such termination.
The Secretary shall provide, upon request, a
manufacturer with a hearing concerning such a
termination, and such hearing shall take place
prior to the effective date of the termination
with sufficient time for such effective date to be
repealed if the Secretary determines appro-
priate.
‘‘(ii) BY A MANUFACTURER.—A manufacturer
may terminate an agreement under this section
for any reason. Any such termination shall be
effective, with respect to a plan year—
‘‘(I) if the termination occurs before January
30 of a plan year, as of the day after the end of
the plan year; and
‘‘(II) if the termination occurs on or after Jan-
uary 30 of a plan year, as of the day after the
end of the succeeding plan year.
‘‘(iii) EFFECTIVENESS OF TERMINATION.—Any
termination under this subparagraph shall not
affect discounts for applicable drugs of the man-
ufacturer that are due under the agreement be-
fore the effective date of its termination.
‘‘(iv) NOTICE TO THIRD PARTY.—The Secretary
shall provide notice of such termination to a
third party with a contract under subsection
(d)(3) within not less than 30 days before the ef-
fective date of such termination.
‘‘(c) DUTIES DESCRIBED.—The duties described
in this subsection are the following:
‘‘(1) ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM.—Admin-
istering the program, including—
‘‘(A) the determination of the amount of the
discounted price of an applicable drug of a man-
ufacturer;
‘‘(B) the establishment of procedures under
which discounted prices are provided to applica-
ble beneficiaries at pharmacies or by mail order
service at the point-of-sale of an applicable
drug;
‘‘(C) the establishment of procedures to ensure
that, not later than the applicable number of
calendar days after the dispensing of an appli-
cable drug by a pharmacy or mail order service,
the pharmacy or mail order service is reimbursed
for an amount equal to the difference between—
‘‘(i) the negotiated price of the applicable
drug; and
‘‘(ii) the discounted price of the applicable
drug;
‘‘(D) the establishment of procedures to ensure
that the discounted price for an applicable drug
under this section is applied before any coverage
or financial assistance under other health ben-
efit plans or programs that provide coverage or
financial assistance for the purchase or provi-
sion of prescription drug coverage on behalf of
applicable beneficiaries as the Secretary may
specify; and
‘‘(E) providing a reasonable dispute resolution
mechanism to resolve disagreements between
manufacturers, applicable beneficiaries, and the
third party with a contract under subsection
(d)(3).
‘‘(2) MONITORING COMPLIANCE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall mon-
itor compliance by a manufacturer with the
terms of an agreement under this section.
‘‘(B) NOTIFICATION.—If a third party with a
contract under subsection (d)(3) determines that
the manufacturer is not in compliance with such
agreement, the third party shall notify the Sec-
retary of such noncompliance for appropriate
enforcement under subsection (e).
‘‘(3) COLLECTION OF DATA FROM PRESCRIPTION
DRUG PLANS AND MA–PD PLANS.—The Secretary
may collect appropriate data from prescription
drug plans and MA–PD plans in a timeframe
that allows for discounted prices to be provided
for applicable drugs under this section.
‘‘(d) ADMINISTRATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Secretary shall provide for the implementa-
tion of this section, including the performance
of the duties described in subsection (c).
‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—In providing for the imple-
mentation of this section, the Secretary shall
not receive or distribute any funds of a manu-
facturer under the program.
‘‘(3) CONTRACT WITH THIRD PARTIES.—The
Secretary shall enter into a contract with 1 or
more third parties to administer the require-
ments established by the Secretary in order to
carry out this section. At a minimum, the con-
tract with a third party under the preceding
sentence shall require that the third party—
‘‘(A) receive and transmit information be-
tween the Secretary, manufacturers, and other
individuals or entities the Secretary determines
appropriate;
‘‘(B) receive, distribute, or facilitate the dis-
tribution of funds of manufacturers to appro-
priate individuals or entities in order to meet the
obligations of manufacturers under agreements
under this section;
‘‘(C) provide adequate and timely information
to manufacturers, consistent with the agreement
with the manufacturer under this section, as
necessary for the manufacturer to fulfill its obli-
gations under this section; and
‘‘(D) permit manufacturers to conduct peri-
odic audits, directly or through contracts, of the
data and information used by the third party to
determine discounts for applicable drugs of the
manufacturer under the program.
‘‘(4) PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS.—The Sec-
retary shall establish performance requirements
for a third party with a contract under para-
graph (3) and safeguards to protect the inde-
pendence and integrity of the activities carried
out by the third party under the program under
this section.
‘‘(5) IMPLEMENTATION.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary may imple-
ment the program under this section by program
instruction or otherwise.
‘‘(6) ADMINISTRATION.—Chapter 35 of title 44,
United States Code, shall not apply to the pro-
gram under this section.
‘‘(e) ENFORCEMENT.—
‘‘(1) AUDITS.—Each manufacturer with an
agreement in effect under this section shall be
subject to periodic audit by the Secretary.
‘‘(2) CIVIL MONEY PENALTY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may impose
a civil money penalty on a manufacturer that
fails to provide applicable beneficiaries dis-
counts for applicable drugs of the manufacturer
in accordance with such agreement for each
such failure in an amount the Secretary deter-
mines is equal to the sum of—
‘‘(i) the amount that the manufacturer would
have paid with respect to such discounts under
the agreement, which will then be used to pay
the discounts which the manufacturer had
failed to provide; and
‘‘(ii) 25 percent of such amount.
‘‘(B) APPLICATION.—The provisions of section
1128A (other than subsections (a) and (b)) shall
apply to a civil money penalty under this para-
graph in the same manner as such provisions
apply to a penalty or proceeding under section
1128A(a).
‘‘(f) CLARIFICATION REGARDING AVAILABILITY
OF OTHER COVERED PART D DRUGS.—Nothing in
this section shall prevent an applicable bene-
ficiary from purchasing a covered part D drug
that is not an applicable drug (including a ge-
neric drug or a drug that is not on the for-
mulary of the prescription drug plan or MA–PD
plan that the applicable beneficiary is enrolled
in).
‘‘(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) APPLICABLE BENEFICIARY.—The term ‘ap-
plicable beneficiary’ means an individual who,
on the date of dispensing a covered part D
drug—
‘‘(A) is enrolled in a prescription drug plan or
an MA–PD plan;
‘‘(B) is not enrolled in a qualified retiree pre-
scription drug plan; and
‘‘(C) has incurred costs, as determined in ac-
cordance with section 1860D–2(b)(4)(C), for cov-
ered part D drugs in the year that exceed the
annual deductible with respect to such indi-
vidual for such year, as specified in section
1860D–2(b)(1), section 1860D–14(a)(1)(B), or sec-
tion 1860D–14(a)(2)(B), as applicable.
‘‘(2) APPLICABLE DRUG.—The term ‘applicable
drug’, with respect to an applicable bene-
ficiary—
‘‘(A) means a covered part D drug—
‘‘(i) approved under a new drug application
under section 505(c) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act or, in the case of a biologic
product, licensed under section 351 of the Public
Health Service Act; and
‘‘(ii)(I) if the PDP sponsor of the prescription
drug plan or the MA organization offering the
MA–PD plan uses a formulary, which is on the
formulary of the prescription drug plan or MA–
PD plan that the applicable beneficiary is en-
rolled in;
‘‘(II) if the PDP sponsor of the prescription
drug plan or the MA organization offering the
MA–PD plan does not use a formulary, for
which benefits are available under the prescrip-
tion drug plan or MA–PD plan that the applica-
ble beneficiary is enrolled in; or
‘‘(III) is provided through an exception or ap-
peal; and
‘‘(B) does not include a selected drug (as de-
fined in section 1192(c)) during a price applica-
bility period (as defined in section 1191(b)(2))
with respect to such drug.
‘‘(3) APPLICABLE NUMBER OF CALENDAR
DAYS.—The term ‘applicable number of calendar
days’ means—
‘‘(A) with respect to claims for reimbursement
submitted electronically, 14 days; and
‘‘(B) with respect to claims for reimbursement
submitted otherwise, 30 days.
‘‘(4) DISCOUNTED PRICE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘discounted price’
means, with respect to an applicable drug of a
manufacturer dispensed during a year to an ap-
plicable beneficiary—
‘‘(i) who has not incurred costs, as determined
in accordance with section 1860D–2(b)(4)(C), for
covered part D drugs in the year that are equal
to or exceed the annual out-of-pocket threshold
specified in section 1860D–2(b)(4)(B)(i) for the
year, 90 percent of the negotiated price of such
drug; and
‘‘(ii) who has incurred such costs, as so deter-
mined, in the year that are equal to or exceed
such threshold for the year, 70 percent of the
negotiated price of such drug.
‘‘(B) CLARIFICATION.—Nothing in this section
shall be construed as affecting the responsibility
of an applicable beneficiary for payment of a
dispensing fee for an applicable drug.
‘‘(C) SPECIAL CASE FOR CERTAIN CLAIMS.—
‘‘(i) CLAIMS SPANNING DEDUCTIBLE.—In the
case where the entire amount of the negotiated
price of an individual claim for an applicable
drug with respect to an applicable beneficiary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10153
December 12, 2019
does not fall above the annual deductible speci-
fied in section 1860D–2(b)(1) for the year, the
manufacturer of the applicable drug shall pro-
vide the discounted price under this section on
only the portion of the negotiated price of the
applicable drug that falls above such annual de-
ductible.
‘‘(ii) CLAIMS SPANNING OUT-OF-POCKET
THRESHOLD.—In the case where the entire
amount of the negotiated price of an individual
claim for an applicable drug with respect to an
applicable beneficiary does not fall entirely
below or entirely above the annual out-of-pock-
et threshold specified in section 1860D–
2(b)(4)(B)(i) for the year, the manufacturer of
the applicable drug shall provide the discounted
price—
‘‘(I) in accordance with subparagraph (A)(i)
on the portion of the negotiated price of the ap-
plicable drug that falls below such threshold;
and
‘‘(II) in accordance with subparagraph (A)(ii)
on the portion of such price of such drug that
falls at or above such threshold.
‘‘(5) MANUFACTURER.—The term ‘manufac-
turer’ means any entity which is engaged in the
production, preparation, propagation,
compounding, conversion, or processing of pre-
scription drug products, either directly or indi-
rectly by extraction from substances of natural
origin, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and
chemical synthesis. Such term does not include
a wholesale distributor of drugs or a retail phar-
macy licensed under State law.
‘‘(6) NEGOTIATED PRICE.—The term ‘negotiated
price’ has the meaning given such term in sec-
tion 423.100 of title 42, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (or any successor regulation), except that,
with respect to an applicable drug, such nego-
tiated price shall not include any dispensing fee
for the applicable drug.
‘‘(7) QUALIFIED RETIREE PRESCRIPTION DRUG
PLAN.—The term ‘qualified retiree prescription
drug plan’ has the meaning given such term in
section 1860D–22(a)(2).’’.
(2) SUNSET OF MEDICARE COVERAGE GAP DIS-
COUNT PROGRAM.—Section 1860D–14A of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395–114a) is amend-
ed—
(A) in subsection (a), in the first sentence, by
striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and inserting ‘‘Subject
to subsection (h), the Secretary’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(h) SUNSET OF PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The program shall not
apply with respect to applicable drugs dispensed
on or after January 1, 2022, and, subject to
paragraph (2), agreements under this section
shall be terminated as of such date.
‘‘(2) CONTINUED APPLICATION FOR APPLICABLE
DRUGS DISPENSED PRIOR TO SUNSET.—The provi-
sions of this section (including all responsibil-
ities and duties) shall continue to apply after
January 1, 2022, with respect to applicable drugs
dispensed prior to such date.’’.
(3) INCLUSION OF ACTUARIAL VALUE OF MANU-
FACTURER DISCOUNTS IN BIDS.—Section 1860D–11
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–111)
is amended—
(A) in subsection (b)(2)(C)(iii)—
(i) by striking ‘‘assumptions regarding the re-
insurance’’ and inserting ‘‘assumptions regard-
ing—
‘‘(I) the reinsurance’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(II) for 2022 and each subsequent year, the
manufacturer discounts provided under section
1860D–14C subtracted from the actuarial value
to produce such bid; and’’; and
(B) in subsection (c)(1)(C)—
(i) by striking ‘‘an actuarial valuation of the
reinsurance’’ and inserting ‘‘an actuarial valu-
ation of—
‘‘(i) the reinsurance’’;
(ii) in clause (i), as inserted by clause (i) of
this subparagraph, by adding ‘‘and’’ at the end;
and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) for 2022 and each subsequent year, the
manufacturer discounts provided under section
1860D–14C;’’.
(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 1860D–2 of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–102) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(2)(A)(i)(I), by striking ‘‘,
or an increase in the initial’’ and inserting ‘‘or,
for a year preceding 2022, an increase in the ini-
tial’’;
(B) in subsection (c)(1)(C)—
(i) in the subparagraph heading, by striking
‘‘AT INITIAL COVERAGE LIMIT’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘for a year preceding 2022 or
the annual out-of-pocket threshold specified in
subsection (b)(4)(B) for the year for 2022 and
each subsequent year’’ after ‘‘subsection (b)(3)
for the year’’ each place it appears; and
(C) in subsection (d)(1)(A), by striking ‘‘or an
initial’’ and inserting ‘‘or, for a year preceding
2022, an initial’’.
(2) Section 1860D–4(a)(4)(B)(i) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–104(a)(4)(B)(i)) is
amended by striking ‘‘the initial’’ and inserting
‘‘for a year preceding 2022, the initial’’.
(3) Section 1860D–14(a) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–114(a)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘The con-
tinuation’’ and inserting ‘‘For a year preceding
2022, the continuation’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (D)(iii), by striking
‘‘1860D–2(b)(4)(A)(i)(I)’’ and inserting ‘‘1860D–
2(b)(4)(A)(i)(I)(aa)’’; and
(iii) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘The
elimination’’ and inserting ‘‘For a year pre-
ceding 2022, the elimination’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘The con-
tinuation’’ and inserting ‘‘For a year preceding
2022, the continuation’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘1860D–
2(b)(4)(A)(i)(I)’’ and inserting ‘‘1860D–
2(b)(4)(A)(i)(I)(aa)’’.
(4) Section 1860D–21(d)(7) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–131(d)(7)) is amended
by striking ‘‘section 1860D–2(b)(4)(B)(i)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘section 1860D–2(b)(4)(C)(i)’’.
(5) Section 1860D–22(a)(2)(A) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–132(a)(2)(A)) is
amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘the value of any discount’’
and inserting the following: ‘‘the value of—
‘‘(i) for years prior to 2022, any discount’’;
(B) in clause (i), as inserted by subparagraph
(A) of this paragraph, by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(ii) for 2022 and each subsequent year, any
discount provided pursuant to section 1860D–
14C.’’.
(6) Section 1860D–41(a)(6) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–151(a)(6)) is amend-
ed—
(A) by inserting ‘‘for a year before 2022’’ after
‘‘1860D–2(b)(3)’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘for such year’’ before the pe-
riod.
(7) Section 1860D–43 of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–153) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the
following:
‘‘(1) participate in—
‘‘(A) for 2011 through 2021, the Medicare cov-
erage gap discount program under section
1860D–14A; and
‘‘(B) for 2022 and each subsequent year, the
manufacturer discount program under section
1860D–14C;’’;
(ii) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(2) have entered into and have in effect—
‘‘(A) for 2011 through 2021, an agreement de-
scribed in subsection (b) of section 1860D–14A
with the Secretary; and
‘‘(B) for 2022 and each subsequent year, an
agreement described in subsection (b) of section
1860D–14C with the Secretary; and’’; and
(iii) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(3) have entered into and have in effect,
under terms and conditions specified by the Sec-
retary—
‘‘(A) for 2011 through 2021, a contract with a
third party that the Secretary has entered into
a contract with under subsection (d)(3) of sec-
tion 1860D–14A; and
‘‘(B) for 2022 and each subsequent year, a
contract with a third party that the Secretary
has entered into a contract with under sub-
section (d)(3) of section 1860D–14C.’’; and
(B) by striking subsection (b) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Paragraphs (1)(A),
(2)(A), and (3)(A) of subsection (a) shall apply
to covered part D drugs dispensed under this
part on or after January 1, 2011, and before Jan-
uary 1, 2022, and paragraphs (1)(B), (2)(B), and
(3)(B) of such subsection shall apply to covered
part D drugs dispensed under this part on or
after January 1, 2022.’’.
(8) Section 1927 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8) is amended—
(A) in subsection (c)(1)(C)(i)(VI), by inserting
before the period at the end the following: ‘‘or
under the manufacturer discount program
under section 1860D–14C’’; and
(B) in subsection (k)(1)(B)(i)(V), by inserting
before the period at the end the following: ‘‘or
under section 1860D–14C’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply with respect to plan
year 2022 and subsequent plan years.
SEC. 302. ALLOWING CERTAIN ENROLLEES OF
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS PLANS AND
MA–PD PLANS UNDER MEDICARE
PROGRAM TO SPREAD OUT COST-
SHARING UNDER CERTAIN CIR-
CUMSTANCES.
Section 1860D–2(b)(2) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–102(b)(2)), as amended by
section 301, is further amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘Subject
to subparagraphs (C) and (D)’’ and inserting
‘‘Subject to subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E)’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(E) ENROLLEE OPTION REGARDING SPREADING
COST-SHARING.—The Secretary shall establish by
regulation a process under which, with respect
to plan year 2022 and subsequent plan years, a
prescription drug plan or an MA–PD plan shall,
in the case of a part D eligible individual en-
rolled with such plan for such plan year who is
not a subsidy eligible individual (as defined in
section 1860D–14(a)(3)) and with respect to
whom the plan projects that the dispensing of
the first fill of a covered part D drug to such in-
dividual will result in the individual incurring
costs that are equal to or above the annual out-
of-pocket threshold specified in paragraph
(4)(B) for such plan year, provide such indi-
vidual with the option to make the coinsurance
payment required under subparagraph (A) (for
the portion of such costs that are not above
such annual out-of-pocket threshold) in the
form of periodic installments over the remainder
of such plan year.’’.
SEC. 303. ESTABLISHMENT OF PHARMACY QUAL-
ITY MEASURES UNDER MEDICARE
PART D.
Section 1860D–4(c) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–104(c)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating the paragraph (6), as
added by section 50354 of division E of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
123), as paragraph (7); and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(8) APPLICATION OF PHARMACY QUALITY
MEASURES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A PDP sponsor that imple-
ments incentive payments to a pharmacy or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10154 December 12, 2019
price concessions paid by a pharmacy based on
quality measures shall use measures established
or approved by the Secretary under subpara-
graph (B) with respect to payment for covered
part D drugs dispensed by such pharmacy.
‘‘(B) STANDARD PHARMACY QUALITY MEAS-
URES.—The Secretary shall establish or approve
standard quality measures from a consensus
and evidence-based organization for payments
described in subparagraph (A). Such measures
shall focus on patient health outcomes and be
based on proven criteria measuring pharmacy
performance.
‘‘(C) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The requirement
under subparagraph (A) shall take effect for
plan years beginning on or after January 1,
2021, or such earlier date specified by the Sec-
retary if the Secretary determines there are suf-
ficient measures established or approved under
subparagraph (B) to meet the requirement under
subparagraph (A).’’.
TITLE IV—DRUG PRICE TRANSPARENCY
SEC. 401. DRUG PRICE TRANSPARENCY.
Part A of title XI of the Social Security Act is
amended by adding at the end the following
new sections:
‘‘SEC. 1150C. REPORTING ON DRUG PRICES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) MANUFACTURER.—The term ‘manufac-
turer’ means the person—
‘‘(A) that holds the application for a drug ap-
proved under section 505 of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act or licensed under sec-
tion 351 of the Public Health Service Act; or
‘‘(B) who is responsible for setting the whole-
sale acquisition cost for the drug.
‘‘(2) QUALIFYING DRUG.—The term ‘qualifying
drug’ means any drug that is approved under
subsection (c) or (j) of section 505 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or licensed under
subsection (a) or (k) of section 351 of the Public
Health Service Act—
‘‘(A) that has a wholesale acquisition cost of
$100 or more, adjusted for inflation occurring
after the date of enactment of this section, for a
month’s supply or a typical course of treatment
that lasts less than a month, and is—
‘‘(i) subject to section 503(b)(1) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; and
‘‘(ii) not a preventative vaccine; and
‘‘(B) for which, during the previous calendar
year, at least 1 dollar of the total amount of
sales were for individuals enrolled under the
Medicare program under title XVIII or under a
State Medicaid plan under title XIX or under a
waiver of such plan.
‘‘(3) WHOLESALE ACQUISITION COST.—The term
‘wholesale acquisition cost’ has the meaning
given that term in section 1847A(c)(6)(B).
‘‘(b) REPORT.—
‘‘(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—The manufacturer of
a qualifying drug shall submit a report to the
Secretary if, with respect to the qualifying
drug—
‘‘(A) there is an increase in the price of the
qualifying drug that results in an increase in
the wholesale acquisition cost of that drug that
is equal to—
‘‘(i) 10 percent or more within a 12-month pe-
riod beginning on or after January 1, 2019; or
‘‘(ii) 25 percent or more within a 36-month pe-
riod beginning on or after January 1, 2019;
‘‘(B) the estimated price of the qualifying
drug or spending per individual or per user of
such drug (as estimated by the Secretary) for
the applicable year (or per course of treatment
in such applicable year as determined by the
Secretary) is at least $26,000 beginning on or
after January 1, 2021; or
‘‘(C) there was an increase in the price of the
qualifying drug that resulted in an increase in
the wholesale acquisition cost of that drug that
is equal to—
‘‘(i) 10 percent or more within a 12-month pe-
riod that begins and ends during the 5-year pe-
riod preceding January 1, 2021; or
‘‘(ii) 25 percent or more within a 36-month pe-
riod that begins and ends during the 5-year pe-
riod preceding January 1, 2021.
‘‘(2) REPORT DEADLINE.—Each report de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be submitted to
the Secretary—
‘‘(A) in the case of a report with respect to an
increase in the price of a qualifying drug that
occurs during the period beginning on January
1, 2019, and ending on the day that is 60 days
after the date of the enactment of this section,
not later than 90 days after such date of enact-
ment;
‘‘(B) in the case of a report with respect to an
increase in the price of a qualifying drug that
occurs after the period described in subpara-
graph (A), not later than 30 days prior to the
planned effective date of such price increase for
such qualifying drug;
‘‘(C) in the case of a report with respect to a
qualifying drug that meets the criteria under
paragraph (1)(B), not later than 30 days after
such drug meets such criteria; and
‘‘(D) in the case of a report with respect to an
increase in the price of a qualifying drug that
occurs during a 12-month or 36-month period de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(C), not later than April
1, 2021.
‘‘(c) CONTENTS.—A report under subsection
(b), consistent with the standard for disclosures
described in section 213.3(d) of title 12, Code of
Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of
enactment of this section), shall, at a minimum,
include—
‘‘(1) with respect to the qualifying drug—
‘‘(A) the percentage by which the manufac-
turer will raise the wholesale acquisition cost of
the drug within the 12-month period or 36-
month period as described in subsection
(b)(1)(A)(i), (b)(1)(A)(ii), (b)(1)(C)(i), or
(b)(1)(C)(ii), as applicable, and the effective
date of such price increase or the cost associated
with a qualifying drug if such drug meets the
criteria under subsection (b)(1)(B) and the effec-
tive date at which such drug meets such criteria;
‘‘(B) an explanation for, and description of,
each price increase for such drug that will occur
during the 12-month period or the 36-month pe-
riod described in subsection (b)(1)(A)(i),
(b)(1)(A)(ii), (b)(1)(C)(i), or (b)(1)(C)(ii), as ap-
plicable;
‘‘(C) an explanation for, and description of,
the cost associated with a qualifying drug if
such drug meets the criteria under subsection
(b)(1)(B), as applicable;
‘‘(D) if known and different from the manu-
facturer of the qualifying drug, the identity of—
‘‘(i) the sponsor or sponsors of any investiga-
tional new drug applications under section
505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act for clinical investigations with respect to
such drug, for which the full reports are sub-
mitted as part of the application—
‘‘(I) for approval of the drug under section 505
of such Act; or
‘‘(II) for licensure of the drug under section
351 of the Pubic Health Service Act; and
‘‘(ii) the sponsor of an application for the
drug approved under such section 505 of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or li-
censed under section 351 of the Public Health
Service Act;
‘‘(E) a description of the history of the manu-
facturer’s price increases for the drug since the
approval of the application for the drug under
section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act or the issuance of the license for the
drug under section 351 of the Public Health
Service Act, or since the manufacturer acquired
such approved application or license, if applica-
ble;
‘‘(F) the current wholesale acquisition cost of
the drug;
‘‘(G) the total expenditures of the manufac-
turer on—
‘‘(i) materials and manufacturing for such
drug;
‘‘(ii) acquiring patents and licensing for such
drug; and
‘‘(iii) purchasing or acquiring such drug from
another manufacturer, if applicable;
‘‘(H) the percentage of total expenditures of
the manufacturer on research and development
for such drug that was derived from Federal
funds;
‘‘(I) the total expenditures of the manufac-
turer on research and development for such
drug that is necessary to demonstrate that it
meets applicable statutory standards for ap-
proval under section 505 of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act or licensure under sec-
tion 351 of the Public Health Service Act, as ap-
plicable;
‘‘(J) the total expenditures of the manufac-
turer on pursuing new or expanded indications
or dosage changes for such drug under section
505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
or section 351 of the Public Health Service Act;
‘‘(K) the total expenditures of the manufac-
turer on carrying out postmarket requirements
related to such drug, including under section
505(o)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act;
‘‘(L) the total revenue and the net profit gen-
erated from the qualifying drug for each cal-
endar year since the approval of the application
for the drug under section 505 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or the issuance of
the license for the drug under section 351 of the
Public Health Service Act, or since the manufac-
turer acquired such approved application or li-
cense; and
‘‘(M) the total costs associated with marketing
and advertising for the qualifying drug;
‘‘(2) with respect to the manufacturer—
‘‘(A) the total revenue and the net profit of
the manufacturer for each of the 12-month pe-
riod described in subsection (b)(1)(A)(i) or
(b)(1)(C)(i) or the 36-month period described in
subsection (b)(1)(A)(ii) or (b)(1)(C)(ii), as appli-
cable;
‘‘(B) all stock-based performance metrics used
by the manufacturer to determine executive
compensation for each of the 12-month periods
described in subsection (b)(1)(A)(i) or (b)(1)(C)(i)
or the 36-month periods described in subsection
(b)(1)(A)(ii) or (b)(1)(C)(ii), as applicable; and
‘‘(C) any additional information the manufac-
turer chooses to provide related to drug pricing
decisions, such as total expenditures on—
‘‘(i) drug research and development; or
‘‘(ii) clinical trials, including on drugs that
failed to receive approval by the Food and Drug
Administration; and
‘‘(3) such other related information as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate and as specified by
the Secretary.
‘‘(d) INFORMATION PROVIDED.—The manufac-
turer of a qualifying drug that is required to
submit a report under subsection (b), shall en-
sure that such report and any explanation for,
and description of, each price increase described
in subsection (c)(1) shall be truthful, not mis-
leading, and accurate.
‘‘(e) CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY.—Any manu-
facturer of a qualifying drug that fails to submit
a report for the drug as required by this section,
following notification by the Secretary to the
manufacturer that the manufacturer is not in
compliance with this section, shall be subject to
a civil monetary penalty of $75,000 for each day
on which the violation continues.
‘‘(f) FALSE INFORMATION.—Any manufacturer
that submits a report for a drug as required by
this section that knowingly provides false infor-
mation in such report is subject to a civil mone-
tary penalty in an amount not to exceed
$100,000 for each item of false information.
‘‘(g) PUBLIC POSTING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (4),
the Secretary shall post each report submitted
under subsection (b) on the public website of the
Department of Health and Human Services the
day the price increase of a qualifying drug is
scheduled to go into effect.
‘‘(2) FORMAT.—In developing the format in
which reports will be publicly posted under
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with
stakeholders, including beneficiary groups, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10155
December 12, 2019
shall seek feedback from consumer advocates
and readability experts on the format and pres-
entation of the content of such reports to ensure
that such reports are—
‘‘(A) user-friendly to the public; and
‘‘(B) written in plain language that con-
sumers can readily understand.
‘‘(3) LIST.—In addition to the reports sub-
mitted under subsection (b), the Secretary shall
also post a list of each qualifying drug with re-
spect to which the manufacturer was required to
submit such a report in the preceding year and
whether such manufacturer was required to
submit such report based on a qualifying price
increase or whether such drug meets the criteria
under subsection (b)(1)(B).
‘‘(4) PROTECTED INFORMATION.—In carrying
out this section, the Secretary shall enforce ap-
plicable law concerning the protection of con-
fidential commercial information and trade se-
crets.
‘‘SEC. 1150D. ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (b),
the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on
Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means of
the House of Representatives and the Commit-
tees on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
and Finance of the Senate, and post on the pub-
lic website of the Department of Health and
Human Services in a way that is user-friendly to
the public and written in plain language that
consumers can readily understand, an annual
report—
‘‘(1) summarizing the information reported
pursuant to section 1150C;
‘‘(2) including copies of the reports and sup-
porting detailed economic analyses submitted
pursuant to such section;
‘‘(3) detailing the costs and expenditures in-
curred by the Department of Health and Human
Services in carrying out section 1150C; and
‘‘(4) explaining how the Department of Health
and Human Services is improving consumer and
provider information about drug value and drug
price transparency.
‘‘(b) PROTECTED INFORMATION.—In carrying
out this section, the Secretary shall enforce ap-
plicable law concerning the protection of con-
fidential commercial information and trade se-
crets.’’.
TITLE V—PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS FOR
MEDICARE LOW-INCOME BENEFICIARIES
SEC. 501. DISSEMINATION TO MEDICARE PART D
SUBSIDY ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS OF
INFORMATION COMPARING PRE-
MIUMS OF CERTAIN PRESCRIPTION
DRUG PLANS.
Section 1860D–1(c)(3) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–101(c)(3)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new subpara-
graph:
‘‘(C) INFORMATION ON PREMIUMS FOR SUBSIDY
ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—For plan year 2022 and
each subsequent plan year, the Secretary shall
disseminate to each subsidy eligible individual
(as defined in section 1860D–14(a)(3)) informa-
tion under this paragraph comparing premiums
that would apply to such individual for pre-
scription drug coverage under LIS benchmark
plans, including, in the case of an individual
enrolled in a prescription drug plan under this
part, information that compares the premium
that would apply if such individual were to re-
main enrolled in such plan to premiums that
would apply if the individual were to enroll in
other LIS benchmark plans.
‘‘(ii) LIS BENCHMARK PLAN.—For purposes of
clause (i), the term ‘LIS benchmark plan’
means, with respect to an individual, a prescrip-
tion drug plan under this part that is offered in
the region in which the individual resides and—
‘‘(I) that provides for a premium that is not
more than the low-income benchmark premium
amount (as defined in section 1860D–14(b)(2)) for
such region; or
‘‘(II) with respect to which the premium
would be waived as de minimis pursuant to sec-
tion 1860D–14(a)(5) for such individual.’’.
SEC. 502. PROVIDING FOR INTELLIGENT ASSIGN-
MENT OF CERTAIN SUBSIDY ELIGI-
BLE INDIVIDUALS AUTO-ENROLLED
UNDER MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION
DRUG PLANS AND MA–PD PLANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1860D–1(b)(1) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–101(b)(1)) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (C)—
(A) by inserting after ‘‘PDP region’’ the fol-
lowing: ‘‘or through use of an intelligent assign-
ment process that is designed to maximize the
access of such individual to necessary prescrip-
tion drugs while minimizing costs to such indi-
vidual and to the program under this part to the
greatest extent possible. In the case the Sec-
retary enrolls such individuals through use of
an intelligent assignment process, such process
shall take into account the extent to which pre-
scription drugs necessary for the individual are
covered in the case of a PDP sponsor of a pre-
scription drug plan that uses a formulary, the
use of prior authorization or other restrictions
on access to coverage of such prescription drugs
by such a sponsor, and the overall quality of a
prescription drug plan as measured by quality
ratings established by the Secretary’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Nothing in the previous sen-
tence’’ and inserting ‘‘Nothing in this subpara-
graph’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (D)—
(A) by inserting after ‘‘PDP region’’ the fol-
lowing: ‘‘or through use of an intelligent assign-
ment process that is designed to maximize the
access of such individual to necessary prescrip-
tion drugs while minimizing costs to such indi-
vidual and to the program under this part to the
greatest extent possible. In the case the Sec-
retary enrolls such individuals through use of
an intelligent assignment process, such process
shall take into account the extent to which pre-
scription drugs necessary for the individual are
covered in the case of a PDP sponsor of a pre-
scription drug plan that uses a formulary, the
use of prior authorization or other restrictions
on access to coverage of such prescription drugs
by such a sponsor, and the overall quality of a
prescription drug plan as measured by quality
ratings established by the Secretary’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Nothing in the previous sen-
tence’’ and inserting ‘‘Nothing in this subpara-
graph’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to
plan years beginning with plan year 2022.
SEC. 503. EXPANDING ELIGIBILITY FOR LOW-IN-
COME SUBSIDIES UNDER PART D OF
THE MEDICARE PROGRAM.
Section 1860D–14(a) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–114(a)), as amended by section
301(d), is further amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking ‘‘IN-
DIVIDUALS’’ and all that follows through ‘‘LINE’’
and inserting ‘‘CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS’’;
(2) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking the paragraph heading and in-
serting ‘‘INDIVIDUALS WITH CERTAIN LOW IN-
COMES’’; and
(B) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A),
by inserting ‘‘(or, with respect to a plan year be-
ginning on or after January 1, 2022, 150 per-
cent)’’ after ‘‘135 percent’’; and
(3) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking the paragraph heading and in-
serting ‘‘OTHER LOW-INCOME INDIVIDUALS’’; and
(B) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A),
by striking ‘‘In the case of a subsidy’’ and in-
serting ‘‘With respect to a plan year beginning
before January 1, 2022, in the case of a sub-
sidy’’.
SEC. 504. AUTOMATIC ELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN
LOW-INCOME TERRITORIAL RESI-
DENTS FOR PREMIUM AND COST-
SHARING SUBSIDIES UNDER THE
MEDICARE PROGRAM; SUNSET OF
ENHANCED ALLOTMENT PROGRAM.
(a) AUTOMATIC ELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN LOW-
INCOME TERRITORIAL RESIDENTS FOR PREMIUM
AND COST-SHARING SUBSIDIES UNDER THE MEDI-
CARE PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1860D–14(a)(3) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–114(a)(3)) is
amended—
(A) in subparagraph (B)(v)—
(i) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(ii) in subclause (II), by striking the period
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by inserting after subclause (II) the fol-
lowing new subclause:
‘‘(III) with respect to plan years beginning on
or after January 1, 2024, shall provide that any
part D eligible individual who is enrolled for
medical assistance under the State Medicaid
plan of a territory (as defined in section 1935(f))
under title XIX (or a waiver of such a plan)
shall be treated as a subsidy eligible individual
described in paragraph (1).’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (F), by adding at the end
the following new sentence: ‘‘The previous sen-
tence shall not apply with respect to eligibility
determinations for premium and cost-sharing
subsidies under this section made on or after
January 1, 2024.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 1860D–
31(j)(2)(D) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395w–141(j)(2)(D)) is amended by adding at the
end the following new sentence: ‘‘The previous
sentence shall not apply with respect to
amounts made available to a State under this
paragraph on or after January 1, 2024.’’.
(b) SUNSET OF ENHANCED ALLOTMENT PRO-
GRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1935(e) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396u–5(e)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting after
‘‘such State’’ the following: ‘‘before January 1,
2021’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by inserting after ‘‘a year’’ the
following: ‘‘(before 2024)’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking ‘‘a
subsequent year’’ and inserting ‘‘each of fiscal
years 2008 through 2023’’.
(2) TERRITORY DEFINED.—Section 1935 of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396u–5) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
‘‘(f) TERRITORY DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘territory’ means Puerto Rico, the Virgin
Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands,
and American Samoa.’’.
SEC. 505. AUTOMATIC QUALIFICATION OF CER-
TAIN MEDICAID BENEFICIARIES FOR
PREMIUM AND COST-SHARING SUB-
SIDIES UNDER PART D OF THE MEDI-
CARE PROGRAM.
Clause (v) of section 1860D–14(a)(3)(B) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–
114(a)(3)(B)), as amended by section 504, is fur-
ther amended—
(1) in subclause (II), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(2) in subclause (III), by striking the period
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by inserting after subclause (III) the fol-
lowing new subclause:
‘‘(IV) with respect to plan years beginning on
or after January 1, 2024, shall, notwithstanding
the preceding clauses of this subparagraph, pro-
vide that any part D eligible individual not de-
scribed in subclause (I), (II), or (III) who is en-
rolled, as of the day before the date on which
such individual attains the age of 65, for med-
ical assistance under a State plan under title
XIX (or a waiver of such plan) pursuant to
clause (i)(VIII) or (ii)(XX) of section
1902(a)(10)(A), and who has income below 200
percent of the poverty line applicable to a fam-
ily of the size involved, shall be treated as a
subsidy eligible individual described in para-
graph (1) for a limited period of time, as speci-
fied by the Secretary.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10156 December 12, 2019
SEC. 506. PROVIDING FOR CERTAIN RULES RE-
GARDING THE TREATMENT OF ELIGI-
BLE RETIREMENT PLANS IN DETER-
MINING THE ELIGIBILITY OF INDI-
VIDUALS FOR PREMIUM AND COST-
SHARING SUBSIDIES UNDER PART D
OF THE MEDICARE PROGRAM.
Section 1860D–14(a)(3)(C)(i) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–114(a)(3)(C)(i)) is
amended, by striking ‘‘except that support and
maintenance furnished in kind shall not be
counted as income; and’’ and inserting ‘‘except
that—
‘‘(I) support and maintenance furnished in
kind shall not be counted as income; and
‘‘(II) for plan years beginning on or after Jan-
uary 1, 2024, any distribution or withdrawal
from an eligible retirement plan (as defined in
subparagraph (B) of section 402(c)(8) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986, but excluding any
defined benefit plan described in clause (iv) or
(v) of such subparagraph and any qualified
trust (as defined in subparagraph (A) of such
section) which is part of such a defined benefit
plan) shall be counted as income; and’’.
SEC. 507. REDUCING COST-SHARING AND OTHER
PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS FOR LOW-
INCOME BENEFICIARIES.
(a) INCREASE IN INCOME ELIGIBILITY TO 150
PERCENT OF FPL FOR QUALIFIED MEDICARE
BENEFICIARIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1905(p)(2)(A) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(p)(2)(A)) is
amended by striking ‘‘shall be at least the per-
cent provided under subparagraph (B) (but not
more than 100 percent) of the official poverty
line’’ and all that follows through the period at
the end and inserting the following: ‘‘shall be—
‘‘(i) before January 1, 2022, at least the per-
cent provided under subparagraph (B) (but not
more than 100 percent) of the official poverty
line (as defined by the Office of Management
and Budget, and revised annually in accord-
ance with section 673(2) of the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1981) applicable to a fam-
ily of the size involved; and
‘‘(ii) on or after January 1, 2022, equal to 150
percent of the official poverty line (as so defined
and revised) applicable to a family of the size
involved.’’.
(2) NOT COUNTING IN-KIND SUPPORT AND MAIN-
TENANCE AS INCOME.—Section 1905(p)(2)(D) of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1396d(p)(2)(D)) is amended by adding at the end
the following new clause:
‘‘(iii) In determining income under this sub-
section, support and maintenance furnished in
kind, as described in section 1612(a)(2)(A), shall
not be counted as income.’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) Section 1902(a)(10)(E) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(10)(E)) is amended—
(i) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘for making med-
ical’’ and inserting ‘‘before January 1, 2022, for
making medical’’; and
(ii) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘subject to sec-
tions’’ and inserting ‘‘before January 1, 2022,
subject to sections’’.
(B) Section 1933 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396u–3) is amended—
(i) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘A State
plan’’ and inserting ‘‘Subject to subsection (h),
a State plan’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(h) SUNSET.—The provisions of this section
shall have no force or effect after December 31,
2021.’’.
(b) 100 PERCENT FMAP.—Section 1905 of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d) is amended
by adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(gg) INCREASED FMAP FOR EXPANDED MEDI-
CARE COST-SHARING POPULATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection
(b), with respect to expenditures described in
paragraph (2) the Federal medical assistance
percentage shall be equal to 100 percent.
‘‘(2) EXPENDITURES DESCRIBED.—The expendi-
tures described in this paragraph are expendi-
tures made on or after January 1, 2022, for med-
ical assistance for medicare cost-sharing pro-
vided to any individual under clause (i) or (ii)
of section 1902(a)(10)(E) who would not have
been eligible for medicare cost-sharing under
any such clause under the income or resource
eligibility standards in effect on October 1,
2018.’’.
TITLE VI—PROVIDING FOR DENTAL, VI-
SION, AND HEARING COVERAGE UNDER
THE MEDICARE PROGRAM
SEC. 601. DENTAL AND ORAL HEALTH CARE.
(a) COVERAGE.—Section 1861(s)(2) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(s)(2)) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (GG), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon at the end;
(2) in subparagraph (HH), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and adding ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(II) dental and oral health services (as de-
fined in subsection (kkk));’’.
(b) DENTAL AND ORAL HEALTH SERVICES DE-
FINED.—Section 1861 of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395x) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
‘‘(kkk) DENTAL AND ORAL HEALTH SERV-
ICES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘dental and oral
health services’ means items and services (other
than such items and services for which payment
may be made under part A as inpatient hospital
services) that are furnished during 2025 or a
subsequent year, for which coverage was not
provided under part B as of the date of the en-
actment of this subsection, and that are—
‘‘(A) the preventive and screening services de-
scribed in paragraph (2) furnished by a doctor
of dental surgery or of dental medicine (as de-
scribed in subsection (r)(2)) or an oral health
professional (as defined in paragraph (4)); or
‘‘(B) the basic treatments specified for such
year by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph
(3)(A) and the major treatments specified for
such year by the Secretary pursuant to para-
graph (3)(B) furnished by such a doctor or such
a professional.
‘‘(2) PREVENTIVE AND SCREENING SERVICES.—
The preventive and screening services described
in this paragraph are the following:
‘‘(A) Oral exams.
‘‘(B) Dental cleanings.
‘‘(C) Dental x-rays performed in the office of
a doctor or professional described in paragraph
(1)(A).
‘‘(D) Fluoride treatments.
‘‘(3) BASIC AND MAJOR TREATMENTS.—For 2025
and each subsequent year, the Secretary shall
specify—
‘‘(A) basic treatments (which may include
basic tooth restorations, basic periodontic serv-
ices, tooth extractions, and oral disease manage-
ment services); and
‘‘(B) major treatments (which may include
major tooth restorations, major periodontic serv-
ices, bridges, crowns, and root canals);
that shall be included as dental and oral health
services for such year.
‘‘(4) ORAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL.—The term
‘oral health professional’ means, with respect to
dental and oral health services, a health profes-
sional who is licensed to furnish such services,
acting within the scope of such license, by the
State in which such services are furnished.’’.
(c) PAYMENT; COINSURANCE; AND LIMITA-
TIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1833(a)(1) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395l(a)(1)) is
amended—
(A) in subparagraph (N), by inserting ‘‘and
dental and oral health services (as defined in
section 1861(kkk))’’ after ‘‘section
1861(hhh)(1))’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘and’’ before ‘‘(CC)’’; and
(C) by inserting before the semicolon at the
end the following: ‘‘, and (DD) with respect to
dental and oral health services (as defined in
section 1861(kkk)), the amount paid shall be the
payment amount specified under section
1834(x)’’.
(2) PAYMENT AND LIMITS SPECIFIED.—Section
1834 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m)
is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
‘‘(x) PAYMENT AND LIMITS FOR DENTAL AND
ORAL HEALTH SERVICES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The payment amount
under this part for dental and oral health serv-
ices (as defined in section 1861(kkk)) shall be,
subject to paragraph (3), the applicable percent
(specified in paragraph (2)) of the lesser of the
actual charge for the services or the amount de-
termined under the payment basis determined
under section 1848. In determining such
amounts determined under such payment basis,
the Secretary shall consider payment rates paid
to dentists for comparable services under State
plans under title XIX, under the TRICARE pro-
gram under chapter 55 of title 10 of the United
States Code, and by other health care payers,
such as Medicare Advantage plans under part
C.
‘‘(2) APPLICABLE PERCENT.—For purposes of
paragraph (1), the applicable percent specified
in this paragraph is, with respect to dental and
oral health services (as defined in section
1861(kkk)) furnished in a year—
‘‘(A) that are preventive and screening serv-
ices described in paragraph (2) or basic treat-
ments specified for such year pursuant to para-
graph (3)(A) of such section, 80 percent; and
‘‘(B) that are major treatments specified for
such year pursuant to paragraph (3)(B) of such
section—
‘‘(i) in the case such services are furnished
during 2025, 10 percent;
‘‘(ii) in the case such services are furnished
during 2026 or a subsequent year before 2029, the
applicable percent specified under this subpara-
graph for the previous year, increased by 10 per-
centage points; and
‘‘(iii) in the case such services are furnished
during 2029 or a subsequent year, 50 percent.
‘‘(3) LIMITATIONS.—With respect to dental and
oral health services that are—
‘‘(A) preventive and screening oral exams,
payment may be made under this part for not
more than two such exams during a 12-month
period;
‘‘(B) dental cleanings, payment may be made
under this part for not more than two such
cleanings during a 12-month period; and
‘‘(C) not described in subparagraph (A) or (B),
payment may be made under this part only at
such frequencies and under such circumstances
determined appropriate by the Secretary.’’.
(d) PAYMENT UNDER PHYSICIAN FEE SCHED-
ULE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1848(j)(3) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–4(j)(3)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘(2)(II),’’ before ‘‘(3)’’.
(2) EXCLUSION FROM MIPS.—Section
1848(q)(1)(C)(ii) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395w–4(q)(1)(C)(ii)) is amended—
(A) in subclause (II), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end;
(B) in subclause (III), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subclause:
‘‘(IV) with respect to 2025 and each subse-
quent year, is a doctor of dental surgery or of
dental medicine (as described in section
1861(r)(2)) or is an oral health professional (as
defined in section 1861(kkk)(4)).’’.
(3) INCLUSION OF ORAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
AS CERTAIN PRACTITIONERS.—Section
1842(b)(18)(C) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395u(b)(18)(C)) is amended by adding at
the end the following new clause:
‘‘(vii) With respect to 2025 and each subse-
quent year, an oral health professional (as de-
fined in section 1861(kkk)(4)).’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10157
December 12, 2019
(e) DENTURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1861(s)(8) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(s)(8)) is
amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘(other than dental)’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘and excluding dental, except
for a full or partial set of dentures furnished on
or after January 1, 2025’’ after ‘‘colostomy
care’’.
(2) SPECIAL PAYMENT RULES.—
(A) LIMITATIONS.—Section 1834(h) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(6) SPECIAL PAYMENT RULE FOR DENTURES.—
Payment may be made under this part with re-
spect to an individual for dentures—
‘‘(A) not more than once during any 5-year
period (except in the case that a doctor or pro-
fessional described in section 1861(kkk)(1)(A) de-
termines such dentures do not fit the indi-
vidual); and
‘‘(B) only to the extent that such dentures are
furnished pursuant to a written order of such a
doctor or professional.’’.
(B) APPLICATION OF COMPETITIVE ACQUISI-
TION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Section 1834(h)(1)(H) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)(1)(H)) is
amended—
(I) in the subparagraph heading, by inserting
‘‘, DENTURES’’ after ‘‘ORTHOTICS’’;
(II) by inserting ‘‘, of dentures described in
paragraph (2)(D) of such section,’’ after
‘‘2011,’’; and
(III) in clause (i), by inserting ‘‘, such den-
tures’’ after ‘‘orthotics’’.
(ii) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
1847(a)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395w–3(a)(2)) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(D) DENTURES.—Dentures described in sec-
tion 1861(s)(8) for which payment would other-
wise be made under section 1834(h).’’.
(iii) EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN ITEMS FROM COM-
PETITIVE ACQUISITION.—Section 1847(a)(7) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3(a)(7)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new subparagraph:
‘‘(C) CERTAIN DENTURES.—Those items and
services described in paragraph (2)(D) if fur-
nished by a physician or other practitioner (as
defined by the Secretary) to the physician’s or
practitioner’s own patients as part of the physi-
cian’s or practitioner’s professional service.’’.
(f) EXCLUSION MODIFICATIONS.—Section
1862(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395y(a)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (O), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in subparagraph (P), by striking the semi-
colon at the end and inserting ‘‘, and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(Q) in the case of dental and oral health
services (as defined in section 1861(kkk)) that
are preventive and screening services described
in paragraph (2) of such section, which are fur-
nished more frequently than provided under sec-
tion 1834(x)(3) and under circumstances other
than circumstances determined appropriate
under such section;’’; and
(2) in paragraph (12), by inserting before the
semicolon at the end the following: ‘‘and except
that payment may be made under part B for
dental and oral health services that are covered
under section 1861(s)(2)(II)’’.
(g) CERTAIN NON-APPLICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Paragraphs (1) and (4) of
section 1839(a) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395r(a)) are amended by adding at the
end of each such paragraphs the following: ‘‘In
applying this paragraph there shall not be
taken into account benefits and administrative
costs attributable to the amendments made by
section 601 (other than subsection (g)) of the Eli-
jah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Act
and the Government contribution under section
1844(a)(4)’’.
(2) PAYMENT.—Section 1844(a) of such Act (42
U.S.C. 1395w(a)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; plus’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(4) a Government contribution equal to the
amount that is estimated to be payable for bene-
fits and related administrative costs incurred
that are attributable to the amendments made
by section 601 (other than subsection (g)) of the
Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now
Act.’’.
(h) IMPLEMENTATION FUNDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Health and
Human Services (in this subsection referred to
as the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall provide for the trans-
fer from the Federal Supplementary Medical In-
surance Trust Fund under section 1841 of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395t) to the Cen-
ters for Medicare & Medicaid Services Program
Management Account of—
(A) $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2025 for purposes of implementing the
amendments made by this section; and
(B) such sums as determined appropriate by
the Secretary for each subsequent fiscal year for
purposes of administering the provisions of such
amendments.
(2) AVAILABILITY AND ADDITIONAL USE OF
FUNDS.—Funds transferred pursuant to para-
graph (1) shall remain available until expended
and may be used, in addition to the purpose
specified in paragraph (1)(A), to implement the
amendments made by sections 602 and 603.
SEC. 602. PROVIDING COVERAGE FOR HEARING
CARE UNDER THE MEDICARE PRO-
GRAM.
(a) PROVISION OF AURAL REHABILITATION AND
TREATMENT SERVICES BY QUALIFIED AUDIOL-
OGISTS.—Section 1861(ll)(3) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(ll)(3)) is amended by
inserting ‘‘(and, beginning January 1, 2023,
such aural rehabilitation and treatment serv-
ices)’’ after ‘‘assessment services’’.
(b) COVERAGE OF HEARING AIDS.—
(1) INCLUSION OF HEARING AIDS AS PROSTHETIC
DEVICES.—Section 1861(s)(8) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(s)(8)) is amended by in-
serting ‘‘, and including hearing aids furnished
on or after January 1, 2023, to individuals diag-
nosed with profound or severe hearing loss’’ be-
fore the semicolon at the end.
(2) PAYMENT LIMITATIONS FOR HEARING AIDS.—
Section 1834(h) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395m(h)), as amended by section
601(e)(2)(A), is further amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(7) LIMITATIONS FOR HEARING AIDS.—Pay-
ment may be made under this part with respect
to an individual, with respect to hearing aids
furnished on or after January 1, 2023—
‘‘(A) not more than once during a 5-year pe-
riod;
‘‘(B) only for types of such hearing aids that
are not over-the-counter hearing aids (as de-
fined in section 520(q)(1) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act) and that are deter-
mined appropriate by the Secretary; and
‘‘(C) only if furnished pursuant to a written
order of a physician or qualified audiologist (as
defined in section 1861(ll)(4)(B)).’’.
(3) APPLICATION OF COMPETITIVE ACQUISI-
TION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 1834(h)(1)(H) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)(1)(H)),
as amended by section 601(e)(2)(B)(i), is further
amended—
(i) in the header, by inserting ‘‘, HEARING
AIDS’’ after ‘‘DENTURES’’;
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, of hearing aids described in
paragraph (2)(E) of such section,’’ after ‘‘para-
graph (2)(D) of such section’’; and
(iii) in clause (i), by inserting ‘‘, such hearing
aids’’ after ‘‘such dentures’’.
(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Section 1847(a)(2) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3(a)(2)), as
amended by section 601(e)(2)(B)(ii), is further
amended by adding at the end the following
new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) HEARING AIDS.—Hearing aids described
in section 1861(s)(8) for which payment would
otherwise be made under section 1834(h).’’.
(ii) EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN ITEMS FROM COM-
PETITIVE ACQUISITION.—Section 1847(a)(7) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3(a)(7)), as
amended by section 601(e)(2)(B)(iii), is further
amended by adding at the end the following
new subparagraph:
‘‘(D) CERTAIN HEARING AIDS.—Those items and
services described in paragraph (2)(E) if fur-
nished by a physician or other practitioner (as
defined by the Secretary) to the physician’s or
practitioner’s own patients as part of the physi-
cian’s or practitioner’s professional service.’’.
(4) INCLUSION OF AUDIOLOGISTS AS CERTAIN
PRACTITIONERS TO RECEIVE PAYMENT ON AN AS-
SIGNMENT-RELATED BASIS.—Section
1842(b)(18)(C) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395u(b)(18)(C)), as amended by section
601(d)(4), is further amended by adding at the
end the following new clause:
‘‘(viii) With respect to 2023 and each subse-
quent year, a qualified audiologist (as defined
in section 1861(ll)(4)(B)).’’.
(c) EXCLUSION MODIFICATION.—Section
1862(a)(7) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395y(a)(7)) is amended by inserting ‘‘(except
such hearing aids or examinations therefor as
described in and otherwise allowed under sec-
tion 1861(s)(8))’’ after ‘‘hearing aids or examina-
tions therefor’’.
(d) CERTAIN NON-APPLICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The last sentence of section
1839(a)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395r(a)(1)), as added by section 601(g)(1), is
amended by striking ‘‘section 601 (other than
subsection (g))’’ and inserting ‘‘sections 601
(other than subsection (g)), 602 (other than sub-
section (d))’’.
(2) PAYMENT.—Paragraph (4) of section
1844(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w(a)), as
added by section 601(g)(2), is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘section 601 (other than subsection (g))’’
and inserting ‘‘sections 601 (other than sub-
section (g)), 602 (other than subsection (d))’’.
(e) REPORT; REGULATIONS.—
(1) REPORT.—Not later than the date that is 3
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Inspector General of the Department of
Health and Human Services shall conduct a
study to assess (and submit to the Secretary of
Health and Human Services a report on) any
program integrity or overutilization risks with
respect to allowing qualified audiologists (as de-
fined in paragraph (4)(B) of 1861(ll) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(ll))) to furnish
audiology services (as defined in paragraph (3)
of such section) to individuals entitled to bene-
fits under part A of title XVIII of such Act (42
U.S.C. 1395c et seq.) and enrolled for benefits
under part B of such title (42 U.S.C.1395j et seq.)
without such individuals being referred by a
physician (as defined in section 1861(r) of such
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(r))) or practitioner (as de-
scribed in section 602.32 of title 42, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations) to such qualified audiologists.
In conducting such study, the Inspector General
may take into account experiences with audiol-
ogists furnishing audiology services to enrollees
in other Federal programs, including in a health
benefit plan under chapter 89 of title 5, United
States Code or in health care benefits under the
TRICARE program under chapter 55 of title 10
of the United States Code or under chapter 17 of
title 38 of such Code.
(2) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary of Health
and Human Services may promulgate regula-
tions to allow qualified audiologists (as so de-
fined) to furnish audiology services (as so de-
fined) without a referral from a physician or
practitioner, consistent with the findings sub-
mitted to the Secretary pursuant to paragraph
(1)(B).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10158 December 12, 2019
(f) IMPLEMENTATION FUNDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Health and
Human Services (in this subsection referred to
as the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall provide for the trans-
fer from the Federal Supplementary Medical In-
surance Trust Fund under section 1841 of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395t) to the Cen-
ters for Medicare & Medicaid Services Program
Management Account of—
(A) $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024 for purposes of implementing the
amendments made by this section; and
(B) such sums as determined appropriate by
the Secretary for each subsequent fiscal year for
purposes of administering the provisions of such
amendments.
(2) AVAILABILITY AND ADDITIONAL USE OF
FUNDS.—Funds transferred pursuant to para-
graph (1) shall remain available until expended
and may be used, in addition to the purpose
specified in paragraph (1)(A), to implement the
amendments made by sections 601 and 603.
SEC. 603. PROVIDING COVERAGE FOR VISION
CARE UNDER THE MEDICARE PRO-
GRAM.
(a) COVERAGE.—Section 1861(s)(2) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(s)(2)), as
amended by section 601(a), is further amended—
(1) in subparagraph (HH), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon at the end;
(2) in subparagraph (II), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and adding ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(JJ) vision services (as defined in subsection
(lll));’’.
(b) VISION SERVICES DEFINED.—Section 1861 of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x), as
amended by section 601(b), is further amended
by adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(lll) VISION SERVICES.—The term ‘vision serv-
ices’ means—
‘‘(1) routine eye examinations to determine the
refractive state of the eyes, including procedures
performed during the course of such examina-
tion; and
‘‘(2) contact lens fitting services;
furnished on or after January 1, 2023, by or
under the direct supervision of an optometrist or
ophthalmologist who is legally authorized to
furnish such examinations, procedures, or fit-
ting services (as applicable) under State law (or
the State regulatory mechanism provided by
State law) of the State in which the examina-
tions, procedures, or fitting services are fur-
nished.’’.
(c) PAYMENT LIMITATIONS.—Section 1834 of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m), as
amended by section 601(c)(2), is further amended
by adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(y) LIMITATION FOR VISION SERVICES.—With
respect to vision services (as defined in section
1861(lll)) and an individual, payment may be
made under this part for only 1 routine eye ex-
amination described in paragraph (1) of such
section and 1 contact lens fitting service de-
scribed in paragraph (2) of such section during
a 2-year period.’’.
(d) PAYMENT UNDER PHYSICIAN FEE SCHED-
ULE.—Section 1848(j)(3) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–4(j)(3)), as amended by sec-
tion 601(d)(1), is further amended by inserting
‘‘(2)(JJ),’’ before ‘‘(3)’’.
(e) COVERAGE OF CONVENTIONAL EYEGLASSES
AND CONTACT LENSES.—Section 1861(s)(8) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(s)(8)), as
amended by section 602(b)(1), is further amend-
ed by striking ‘‘, and including one pair of con-
ventional eyeglasses or contact lenses furnished
subsequent to each cataract surgery with inser-
tion of an intraocular lens’’ and inserting ‘‘, in-
cluding one pair of conventional eyeglasses or
contact lenses furnished subsequent to each cat-
aract surgery with insertion of an intraocular
lens, if furnished before January 1, 2023, includ-
ing conventional eyeglasses or contact lenses,
whether or not furnished subsequent to such a
surgery, if furnished on or after January 1,
2024’’.
(f) SPECIAL PAYMENT RULES FOR EYEGLASSES
AND CONTACT LENSES.—
(1) LIMITATIONS.—Section 1834(h) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)), as amended
by section 601(e)(2)(A) and section 602(b)(2), is
further amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(8) PAYMENT LIMITATIONS FOR EYEGLASSES
AND CONTACT LENSES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—With respect to eyeglasses
and contact lenses furnished to an individual on
or after January 1, 2023, subject to subpara-
graph (B), payment may be made under this
part only—
‘‘(i) during a 2-year period, for either 1 pair of
eyeglasses (including lenses and frames) or not
more than a 2-year supply of contact lenses that
is provided in not more than 180-day incre-
ments;
‘‘(ii) with respect to amounts attributable to
the lenses and frames of such a pair of eye-
glasses or amounts attributable to such a 2-year
supply of contact lenses, in an amount not
greater than—
‘‘(I) for a pair of eyeglasses furnished in, or a
2-year supply of contact lenses beginning in,
2023—
‘‘(aa) $85 for the lenses of such pair of eye-
glasses and $85 for the frames of such pair of
eyeglasses; or
‘‘(bb) $85 for such 2-year supply of contact
lenses; and
‘‘(II) for the lenses and frames of a pair of
eyeglasses furnished in, or a 2-year supply of
contact lenses beginning in, a subsequent year,
the dollar amounts specified under this subpara-
graph for the previous year, increased by the
percentage change in the consumer price index
for all urban consumers (United States city av-
erage) for the 12-month period ending with June
of the previous year;
‘‘(iii) for types of eyeglass lenses, and for
types of contact lenses, as determined appro-
priate by the Secretary;
‘‘(iv) if furnished pursuant to a written order
of a physician described in section 1861(lll); and
‘‘(v) if during the 2-year period described in
clause (i), the individual did not already receive
(as described in subparagraph (B)) one pair of
conventional eyeglasses or contact lenses subse-
quent to a cataract surgery with insertion of an
intraocular lens furnished during such period.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—With respect to a 2-year pe-
riod described in subparagraph (A)(i), in the
case of an individual who receives cataract sur-
gery with insertion of an intraocular lens, not-
withstanding subparagraph (A), payment may
be made under this part for one pair of conven-
tional eyeglasses or contact lenses furnished
subsequent to such cataract surgery during such
period.’’.
(2) APPLICATION OF COMPETITIVE ACQUISI-
TION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 1834(h)(1)(H) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(h)(1)(H)),
as amended by section 601(e)(2)(B)(i) and sec-
tion 602(b)(3)(A), is further amended—
(i) in the header by inserting ‘‘, EYEGLASSES,
AND CONTACT LENSES’’ after ‘‘HEARING AIDS’’;
(ii) by inserting ‘‘and of eyeglasses and con-
tact lenses described in paragraph (2)(F) of such
section,’’ after ‘‘paragraph (2)(E) of such sec-
tion,’’; and
(iii) in clause (i), by inserting ‘‘, or such eye-
glasses and contact lenses’’ after ‘‘such hearing
aids’’.
(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Section 1847(a)(2) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3(a)(2)), as
amended by section 601(e)(2)(B)(ii) and section
602(b)(3)(B)(i), is further amended by adding at
the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(F) EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT LENSES.—Eye-
glasses and contact lenses described in section
1861(s)(8) for which payment would otherwise be
made under section 1834(h).’’.
(ii) EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN ITEMS FROM COM-
PETITIVE ACQUISITION.—Section 1847(a)(7) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3(a)(7)), as
amended by section 601(e)(2)(B)(iii) and section
602(b)(3)(B)(ii), is further amended by adding at
the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) CERTAIN EYEGLASSES AND CONTACT
LENSES.—Those items and services described in
paragraph (2)(F) if furnished by a physician or
other practitioner (as defined by the Secretary)
to the physician’s or practitioner’s own patients
as part of the physician’s or practitioner’s pro-
fessional service.’’.
(g) EXCLUSION MODIFICATIONS.—Section
1862(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395y(a)), as amended by section 601(f), is fur-
ther amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (P), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in subparagraph (Q), by striking the semi-
colon at the end and inserting ‘‘, and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(R) in the case of vision services (as defined
in section 1861(lll)) that are routine eye exami-
nations and contact lens fitting services (as de-
scribed in paragraph (1) or (2), respectively, of
such section), which are furnished more fre-
quently than once during a 2-year period;’’; and
(2) in paragraph (7)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘(other than such an exam-
ination that is a vision service that is covered
under section 1861(s)(2)(JJ))’’ after ‘‘eye exami-
nations’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘(other than such a proce-
dure that is a vision service that is covered
under section 1861(s)(2)(JJ))’’ after ‘‘refractive
state of the eyes’’.
(h) CERTAIN NON-APPLICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The last sentence of section
1839(a)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395r(a)(1)), as added by section 601(g)(1) and
amended by section 602(d)(1), is further amend-
ed by inserting ‘‘, and 603 (other than sub-
section (h))’’ after ‘‘602 (other than subsection
(d))’’.
(2) PAYMENT.—Paragraph (4) of section
1844(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w(a)), as
added by section 601(g)(2) and amended by sec-
tion 602(d)(2), is further amended by inserting ‘‘,
and 603 (other than subsection (h))’’ after ‘‘602
(other than subsection (d))’’.
(i) IMPLEMENTATION FUNDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Health and
Human Services (in this subsection referred to
as the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall provide for the trans-
fer from the Federal Supplementary Medical In-
surance Trust Fund under section 1841 of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395t) to the Cen-
ters for Medicare & Medicaid Services Program
Management Account of—
(A) $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024 for purposes of implementing the
amendments made by this section; and
(B) such sums as determined appropriate by
the Secretary for each subsequent fiscal year for
purposes of administering the provisions of such
amendments.
(2) AVAILABILITY AND ADDITIONAL USE OF
FUNDS.—Funds transferred pursuant to para-
graph (1) shall remain available until expended
and may be used, in addition to the purpose
specified in paragraph (1)(A), to implement the
amendments made by sections 601 and 602.
TITLE VII—NIH, FDA, AND OPIOIDS
FUNDING
Subtitle A—Biomedical Innovation Expansion
SEC. 701. NIH INNOVATION INITIATIVES.
(a) NIH INNOVATION ACCOUNT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1001(b) of the 21st
Century Cures Act (Public Law 114–255) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING AND ADDITIONAL
ACTIVITIES.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10159
December 12, 2019
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In addition to the funds
made available under paragraph (2), there are
authorized to be appropriated, and are hereby
appropriated, to the Account, out of any monies
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to
be available until expended without further ap-
propriation, the following:
‘‘(i) For fiscal year 2021, $255,400,000.
‘‘(ii) For fiscal year 2022, $260,400,000.
‘‘(iii) For fiscal year 2023, $163,400,000.
‘‘(iv) For fiscal year 2024, $547,000,000.
‘‘(v) For fiscal year 2025, $848,000,000.
‘‘(vi) For fiscal year 2026, $842,400,000.
‘‘(vii) For fiscal year 2027, $1,089,600,000.
‘‘(viii) For fiscal year 2028, $1,115,600,000.
‘‘(ix) For fiscal year 2029, $1,170,600,000.
‘‘(x) For fiscal year 2030, $1,207,600,000.
‘‘(B) SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING FOR CERTAIN
PROJECTS.—Of the total amounts made available
under subparagraph (A) for each of fiscal years
2021 through 2030, a total amount not to exceed
the following shall be made available for the fol-
lowing categories of NIH Innovation Projects:
‘‘(i) For projects described in paragraph
(4)(A), an amount not to exceed a total of
$2,070,600,000 as follows:
‘‘(I) For each of fiscal years 2021 and 2022,
$50,000,000.
‘‘(II) For fiscal year 2024, $100,000,000.
‘‘(III) For each of fiscal years 2025 and 2026,
$300,000,000.
‘‘(IV) For each of fiscal years 2027 through
2029, $317,000,000.
‘‘(V) For fiscal year 2030, $319,600,000.
‘‘(ii) For projects described in paragraph
(4)(B), an amount not to exceed a total of
$2,041,900,000 as follows:
‘‘(I) For each of fiscal years 2021 and 2022,
$50,000,000.
‘‘(II) For fiscal year 2024, $128,000,000.
‘‘(III) For fiscal year 2025, $209,000,000.
‘‘(IV) For fiscal year 2026, $100,000,000.
‘‘(V) For fiscal year 2027, $325,000,000.
‘‘(VI) For fiscal year 2028, $350,000,000.
‘‘(VII) For fiscal year 2029, $400,000,000.
‘‘(VIII) For fiscal year 2030, $429,900,000.
‘‘(iii) For projects described in paragraph
(4)(C), an amount not to exceed a total of
$1,558,400,000 as follows:
‘‘(I) For each of fiscal years 2024 and 2025,
$151,200,000.
‘‘(II) For each of fiscal years 2026 through
2030, $251,200,000.
‘‘(iv) For projects described in paragraph
(4)(D), an amount not to exceed $15,400,000 for
each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030.
‘‘(C) ADDITIONAL NIH INNOVATION PROJECTS.—
In addition to funding NIH Innovation Projects
pursuant to subparagraph (B), of the total
amounts made available under subparagraph
(A), a total amount not to exceed the following
shall be made available for the following cat-
egories of NIH Innovation Projects:
‘‘(i) To support research related to combating
antimicrobial resistance and antibiotic resistant
bacteria, including research into new treat-
ments, diagnostics, and vaccines, research, in
consultation with the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention, into stewardship, and the
development of strategies, in coordination with
the Biomedical Advanced Research and Devel-
opment Authority under section 319L of the
Public Health Service Act, to support commer-
cialization of new antibiotics, not to exceed a
total of 1,144,500,000, as follows:
‘‘(I) For each of fiscal years 2021 through
2024, $100,000,000.
‘‘(II) For each of fiscal years 2025 and 2026,
$120,000,000.
‘‘(III) For each of fiscal years 2027 through
2029, $125,000,000.
‘‘(IV) For fiscal year 2030, $129,500,000.
‘‘(ii) To support research and research activi-
ties related to rare diseases or conditions, in-
cluding studies or analyses that help to better
understand the natural history of a rare disease
or condition and translational studies related to
rare diseases or conditions, not to exceed a total
of $530,600,000, as follows:
‘‘(I) For fiscal year 2021, $40,000,000.
‘‘(II) For fiscal year 2022, $45,000,000.
‘‘(III) For fiscal year 2023, $48,000,000.
‘‘(IV) For each of fiscal years 2024 and 2025,
$52,400,000.
‘‘(V) For fiscal year 2026, $55,800,000.
‘‘(VI) For fiscal year 2027, $56,000,000.
‘‘(VII) For fiscal year 2028, $57,000,000.
‘‘(VIII) For each of fiscal years 2029 and 2030,
$62,000,000.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 1001
of the 21st Century Cures Act (Public Law 114–
255) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘subsection
(b)(4)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsections (b)(4) and
(b)(5)’’;
(B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ‘‘para-
graph (4)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraphs (4) and
(5)’’; and
(C) in subsection (c)(2)(A)(ii), by inserting ‘‘or
pursuant to subsection (b)(5)’’ after ‘‘subsection
(b)(3)’’; and
(D) in subsection (d), by inserting ‘‘or pursu-
ant to subsection (b)(5)’’ after ‘‘subsection
(b)(3)’’.
(b) WORKPLAN.—Section 1001(c)(1) of the 21st
Century Cures Act (Public Law 114–255) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) UPDATES.—The Director of NIH shall ,
after seeking recommendations in accordance
with the process described in subparagraph (C),
update the work plan submitted under this sub-
section for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030
to reflect the amendments made to this section
by the Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs
Now Act.’’.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS.—Section 1001(c)(2)(A) of
the 21st Century Cures Act (Public Law 114–255)
is amended by striking ‘‘2027’’ and inserting
‘‘2030’’.
(d) SUNSET.—Section 1001(e) of the 21st Cen-
tury Cures Act (Public Law 114–255) is amended
by striking ‘‘September 30, 2026’’ and inserting
‘‘September 30, 2030’’.
SEC. 702. NIH CLINICAL TRIAL.
Part A of title IV of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 281 et seq.) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 404O. CLINICAL TRIAL ACCELERATION
PILOT INITIATIVE.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PILOT PROGRAM.—
The Secretary, acting through the Director of
the National Institutes of Health, shall, not
later than 2 years after the date of enactment of
this Act, establish and implement a pilot pro-
gram to award multi-year contracts to eligible
entities to support phase II clinical trials and
phase III clinical trials—
‘‘(1) to promote innovation in treatments and
technologies supporting the advanced research
and development and production of high need
cures; and
‘‘(2) to provide support for the development of
medical products and therapies.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—To be eligible to re-
ceive assistance under the pilot program estab-
lished under subsection (a), an entity shall—
‘‘(1) be seeking to market a medical product or
therapy that is the subject of clinical trial or
trials to be supported using such assistance;
‘‘(2) be a public or private entity, which may
include a private or public research institution,
a contract research organization, an institution
of higher education (as defined in section 101 of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1001)), a medical center, a biotechnology com-
pany, or an academic research institution; and
‘‘(3) comply with requirements of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or section 351 of
this Act at all stages of development, manufac-
turing, review, approval, and safety surveil-
lance of a medical product.
‘‘(c) DUTIES.—The Secretary, acting through
the Director of National Institutes of Health,
shall—
‘‘(1) in establishing the pilot program under
subsection (a), consult with—
‘‘(A) the Director of the National Center for
Advancing Translational Sciences and the other
national research institutes in considering their
requests for new or expanded clinical trial sup-
port efforts; and
‘‘(B) the Commissioner of Food and Drugs and
any other head of a Federal agency as the Sec-
retary determines to be appropriate to ensure co-
ordination and efficiently advance clinical trial
activities;
‘‘(2) in implementing the pilot program under
subsection (a), consider consulting with patients
and patient advocates; and
‘‘(3) in awarding contracts under the pilot
program under subsection (a), consider—
‘‘(A) the expected health impacts of the clin-
ical trial or trials to be supported under the con-
tract; and
‘‘(B) the the degree to which the medical prod-
uct or therapy that is the subject of such clin-
ical trial or trials is a high need cure.
‘‘(d) EXCLUSION.—A contract may not be
awarded under the pilot program under sub-
section (a) if the drug that is the subject of the
clinical trial or trials to be supported under the
contract is a drug designated under section 526
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act as
a drug for a rare disease or condition.
‘‘(e) NIH CLINICAL TRIAL ACCELERATOR AC-
COUNT.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established in
the Treasury an account, to be known as the
‘NIH Clinical Trial Accelerator Account’ (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘Account’), for
purposes of carrying out this section.
‘‘(2) TRANSFER OF DIRECT SPENDING SAVINGS.—
There shall be transferred to the Account from
the general fund of the Treasury, $500,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025, to be
available until expended without further appro-
priation.
‘‘(3) WORK PLAN.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor
and Pensions of the Senate a work plan that in-
cludes the proposed implementation of this sec-
tion and the proposed allocation of funds in the
Account.
‘‘(f) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
October 1 of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall
submit to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions of the Senate a report on—
‘‘(1) the implementation of this section;
‘‘(2) any available results on phase II clinical
trials and phase III clinical trials supported
under this section during such fiscal year; and
‘‘(3) the extent to which Federal funds are ob-
ligated to support such clinical trials, including
the specific amount of such support and awards
pursuant to an allocation from the Account
under subsection (e).
‘‘(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) PHASE II CLINICAL TRIAL.—The term
‘phase II clinical trial’ means a phase II clinical
investigation, as described in section 312.21 of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any
successor regulations).
‘‘(2) PHASE III CLINICAL TRIALS.—The term
‘phase III clinical trial’ means a phase III clin-
ical investigation, as described in section 312.21
of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any
successor regulations).
‘‘(3) HIGH NEED CURE.—The term ‘high need
cure’ has the meaning given such term in sec-
tion 480(a)(3).’’.
Subtitle B—Investing in Safety and
Innovation
SEC. 711. FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION.
(a) FDA INNOVATION ACCOUNT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1002(b) of the 21st
Century Cures Act (Public Law 114–255) is
amended—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘paragraph
(4)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraphs (4) and (5)’’;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10160 December 12, 2019
(B) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(5) SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING AND ADDITIONAL
ACTIVITIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In addition to the funds
made available under paragraph (2), there are
authorized to be appropriated, and are hereby
appropriated, to the Account, out of any monies
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to
be available until expended without further ap-
propriation, the following:
‘‘(i) For fiscal year 2020, $417,500,000.
‘‘(ii) For each of fiscal years 2021 and 2022,
$157,500,000.
‘‘(iii) For each of fiscal years 2023 through
2025, $152,500,000.
‘‘(iv) For each of fiscal years 2026 through
2029, $202,500,000.
‘‘(B) SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING FOR CERTAIN AC-
TIVITIES.—Of the total amounts made available
under subparagraph (A) for each of fiscal years
2026 through 2029, a total amount not to exceed
$50,000,000 for each such fiscal year, shall be
made available for the activities under subtitles
A through F (including the amendments made
by such subtitles) of title III of this Act and sec-
tion 1014 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act, as added by section 3073 of this Act.
‘‘(C) ADDITIONAL FDA ACTIVITIES.—In addi-
tion to funding activities pursuant to subpara-
graph (B), of the total amounts made available
under subparagraph (A), a total amount not to
exceed the following shall be made available for
the following categories of activities:
‘‘(i) For modernization of the technical infra-
structure of the Food and Drug Administration,
including enhancements such as interoperability
across the agency, and additional capabilities to
develop an advanced information technology in-
frastructure to support the agency’s regulatory
mission:
‘‘(I) For fiscal year 2020, $180,000,000.
‘‘(II) For each of fiscal years 2021 through
2029, $60,000.
‘‘(ii) For support for continuous manufac-
turing of drugs and biological products, includ-
ing complex biological products such as regen-
erative medicine therapies, through grants to in-
stitutions of higher education and nonprofit or-
ganizations and other appropriate mechanisms,
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2029,
$20,000,000.
‘‘(iii) For support for the Commissioner of
Food and Drugs to engage experts, such as
through the formation and operation of public-
private partnerships or other appropriate col-
laborative efforts, to advance the development
and delivery of individualized human gene ther-
apy products:
‘‘(I) For fiscal year 2020, $50,000,000.
‘‘(II) For each of fiscal years 2021 through
2029, $10,000,000.
‘‘(iv) For support for inspections, enforcement,
and quality surveillance activities across the
Food and Drug Administration, including for-
eign and domestic inspections across products,
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2029,
$20,000,000.
‘‘(v) For support for activities of the Food and
Drug Administration related to customs and bor-
der protection to provide improvements to tech-
nologies, inspection capacity, and sites of import
(including international mail facilities) in which
the Food and Drug Administration operates, for
each of fiscal years 2020 through 2029,
$10,000,000.
‘‘(vi) To further advance the development of a
coordinated postmarket surveillance system for
all medical products, including drugs, biological
products, and devices, linked to electronic
health records in furtherance of the Food and
Drug Administration’s postmarket surveillance
capabilities:
‘‘(I) For fiscal year 2020, $112,500,000.
‘‘(II) For each of fiscal years 2021 through
2029, $12,500,000.
‘‘(vii) For support for Food and Drug Admin-
istration activities to keep pace with the pro-
jected product development of regenerative
therapies, including cellular and somatic cell
gene therapy products:
‘‘(I) For each of fiscal years 2020 through
2022, $10,000,000.
‘‘(II) For each of fiscal years 2023 through
2029, $5,000,000.
‘‘(viii) For carrying out section 714A of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 379d–3a; relating to hiring authority for
scientific, technical, and professional per-
sonnel), for each of fiscal years 2020 through
2029, $2,500,000.
‘‘(ix) For the Food and Drug Administration
to support improvements to the technological in-
frastructure for reporting and analysis of ad-
verse events associated with the use of drugs
and biological products, for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2029, $12,500,000.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 1002
of the 21st Century Cures Act (Public Law 114–
255) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by inserting before the
period at the end the following: ‘‘or pursuant to
subparagraph (A) of subsection (b)(5) to carry
out the activities described in subparagraphs (B)
and (C) of such subsection’’; and
(B) in subsection (d)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or pursuant to subparagraph
(A) of subsection (b)(5)’’ after ‘‘subsection
(b)(3)’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘subsection (b)(4)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘subsections (b)(4) and (b)(5)’’.
(b) ANNUAL REPORT.—Section 1002(c)(2)(A) of
the 21st Century Cures Act (Public Law 114–255)
is amended, in the matter preceding clause (i),
by striking ‘‘2026’’ and inserting ‘‘2030’’.
(c) SUNSET.—Section 1002(e) of the 21st Cen-
tury Cures Act (Public Law 114–255) is amended
by striking ‘‘September 30, 2025’’ and inserting
‘‘September 30, 2030’’.
Subtitle C—Opioid Epidemic Response
SEC. 721. OPIOID EPIDEMIC RESPONSE FUND.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Health and
Human Services (referred to in this section as
the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall use any funds made
available pursuant to subsection (b) to carry out
the programs and activities described in sub-
section (c) to address the opioid and substance
use disorder epidemic. Such funds shall be in
addition to any funds which are otherwise
available to carry out such programs and activi-
ties.
(b) OPIOID EPIDEMIC RESPONSE FUND.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF ACCOUNT.—There is es-
tablished in the Treasury an account, to be
known as the Opioid Epidemic Response Fund
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Fund’’), for
purposes of funding the programs and activities
described in subsection (c).
(2) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be ap-
propriated, and there is appropriated, to the
Fund, out of any monies in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated $1,980,000,000 for each of
fiscal years 2021 through 2025.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts made available
by paragraph (2) shall be made available to the
agencies specified in subsection (c) in accord-
ance with such subsection. Amounts made avail-
able to an agency pursuant to the preceding
sentence for a fiscal year shall remain available
until expended.
(c) PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES.—Of the total
amount in the Fund for each of fiscal years 2021
through 2025, such amount shall be allocated as
follows:
(1) SAMHSA.—For the Substance Abuse and
Mental Health Services Administration to carry
out programs and activities pursuant to section
722, $1,500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021
through 2025.
(2) CDC.—For the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention to carry out programs and ac-
tivities pursuant to section 723, $120,000,000 for
each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.
(3) FDA.—For the Food and Drug Administra-
tion to carry out programs and activities pursu-
ant to section 724, $10,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2021 through 2025.
(4) NIH.—For the National Institutes of
Health to carry out programs and activities pur-
suant to section 725, $240,000,000 for each of fis-
cal years 2021 through 2025.
(5) HRSA.—For the Health Resources and
Services Administration to carry out programs
and activities pursuant to section 726,
$90,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through
2025.
(6) ACF.—For the Administration for Children
and Families to carry out programs and activi-
ties pursuant to section 727, $20,000,000 for each
of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.
(d) ACCOUNTABILITY AND OVERSIGHT.—
(1) WORK PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services shall sub-
mit to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the Senate and the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Appro-
priations, and the Committee on Education and
Labor of the House of Representatives, a work
plan including the proposed allocation of funds
made available pursuant to subsection (b) for
each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025 and the
contents described in subparagraph (B).
(B) CONTENTS.—The work plan submitted
under subparagraph (A) shall include—
(i) the amount of money to be obligated or ex-
pended out of the Fund in each fiscal year for
each program and activity described in sub-
section (c); and
(ii) a description and justification of each
such program and activity.
(2) ANNUAL REPORTS.—Not later than October
1 of each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
submit to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the Senate and the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Appro-
priations, and the Committee on Education and
Labor of the House of Representatives, a report
including—
(A) the amount of money obligated or ex-
pended out of the Fund in the prior fiscal year
for each program and activity described in sub-
section (c);
(B) a description of all programs and activities
using funds made available pursuant to sub-
section (b); and
(C) how the programs and activities are re-
sponding to the opioid and substance use dis-
order epidemic.
(e) LIMITATIONS.—Notwithstanding any au-
thority in this subtitle or any appropriations
Act, any funds made available pursuant to sub-
section (b) may not be used for any purpose
other than the programs and activities described
in subsection (c).
SEC. 722. SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL
HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRA-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The entirety of the funds
made available pursuant to section 721(c)(1)
shall be for the Assistant Secretary for Mental
Health and Substance Use to continue to award
the State Opioid Response Grants funded by the
heading ‘‘Substance Abuse And Mental Health
Services Administration—Substance Abuse
Treatment’’ in title II of the Departments of
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies Appropriations
Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141). Subject to sub-
sections (b) and (c), such grants shall be award-
ed in the same manner and subject to the same
conditions as were applicable to such grants for
fiscal year 2018.
(b) REQUIREMENT THAT TREATMENT BE EVI-
DENCE-BASED.—As a condition on receipt of a
grant pursuant to subsection (a), a grantee shall
agree that—
(1) treatments, practices, or interventions
funded through the grant will be evidence-
based; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10161
December 12, 2019
(2) such treatments, practices, and interven-
tions will include medication-assisted treatment
for individuals diagnosed with opioid use dis-
order, using drugs only if the drugs have been
approved or licensed by the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration under section 505 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355) or
section 351 of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 262).
(c) RESERVATIONS.—Of the amount made
available pursuant to section 731(c)(1) for a fis-
cal year—
(1) not less than $75,000,000 shall be reserved
to make grants under subsection (a) to Indian
Tribes or Tribal organizations; and
(2) not less than $50,000,000 shall be reserved
to make grants under subsection (a) to political
subdivisions of States, such as counties, cities,
or towns.
SEC. 723. CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND
PREVENTION.
(a) ADDRESSING OPIOID USE DISORDER.—The
entirety of the funds made available pursuant to
section 721(c)(2) shall be for the Director of the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
pursuant to applicable authorities in the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), to
continue and expand programs of the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention to address
opioid and substance use disorder, including
by—
(1) improving the timeliness and quality of
data on the opioid use disorder epidemic, in-
cluding improvement of—
(A) data on fatal and nonfatal overdoses;
(B) syndromic surveillance;
(C) data on long-term sequelae (including neo-
natal abstinence syndrome); and
(D) cause of death reporting related to sub-
stance abuse or opioid overdose;
(2) expanding and strengthening evidence-
based prevention and education strategies;
(3) supporting responsible prescribing prac-
tices, including through development and dis-
semination of prescriber guidelines;
(4) improving access to and use of effective
prevention, treatment, and recovery support, in-
cluding through grants and the provision of
technical assistance to States and localities;
(5) strengthening partnerships with first re-
sponders, including to protect their safety;
(6) considering the needs of vulnerable popu-
lations;
(7) addressing infectious diseases linked to the
opioid crisis;
(8) strengthening prescription drug monitoring
programs; and
(9) providing financial and technical assist-
ance to State and local health department ef-
forts to treat and prevent substance use dis-
order.
(b) LIMITATION.—Of the funds made available
pursuant to section 721(c)(2) for carrying out
this section, not more than 20 percent may be
used for intramural purposes.
SEC. 724. FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION.
The entirety of the funds made available pur-
suant to section 721(c)(3) shall be for the Com-
missioner of Food and Drugs, pursuant to appli-
cable authorities in the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.) or the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.)
and other applicable law, to support widespread
innovation in non-opioid and non-addictive
medical products for pain treatment, access to
opioid addiction treatments, appropriate use of
approved opioids, and efforts to reduce illicit im-
portation of opioids. Such support may include
the following:
(1) Facilitating the development of non-opioid
and non-addictive pain treatments.
(2) Advancing guidance documents for spon-
sors of non-opioid pain products.
(3) Developing evidence to inform the poten-
tial for nonprescription overdose therapies.
(4) Examining expanded labeling indications
for medication-assisted treatment.
(5) Conducting public education and out-
reach, including public workshops or public
meetings, regarding the benefits of medication-
assisted treatment, including all drugs approved
by the Food and Drug Administration, and de-
vice treatment options approved or cleared by
the Food and Drug Administration.
(6) Exploring the expansion and possible man-
datory nature of prescriber education regarding
pain management and appropriate opioid pre-
scribing through authorities under section 505–1
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 355–1).
(7) Examining options to limit the duration of
opioid prescriptions for acute pain, including
through packaging options.
(8) Increasing staff and infrastructure capac-
ity to inspect and analyze packages at inter-
national mail facilities and pursue criminal in-
vestigations.
SEC. 725. NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH.
The entirety of the funds made available pur-
suant to section 721(c)(4) shall be for the Direc-
tor of the National Institutes of Health, pursu-
ant to applicable authorities in the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), to
carry out activities related to—
(1) accelerating research for addressing the
opioid use disorder epidemic, including devel-
oping non-opioid medications and interventions,
including non-addictive medications, to manage
pain, as well as developing medications and
interventions to treat and to prevent substance
use disorders;
(2) conducting and supporting research on
which treatments (in terms of pain management
as well as treating and preventing substance use
disorders) are optimal for which patients; and
(3) conducting and supporting research on
creating longer-lasting or faster-acting antidotes
for opioid overdose, particularly in response to
the prevalence of fentanyl and carfentanyl
overdoses.
SEC. 726. HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES AD-
MINISTRATION.
The entirety of the funds made available pur-
suant to section 721(c)(5) shall be for the Admin-
istrator of the Health Resources and Services
Administration, pursuant to applicable authori-
ties in titles III, VII, and VIII of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241 et seq.), to
carry out activities that increase the availability
and capacity of the behavioral health work-
force. Such activities shall include providing
loan repayment assistance for substance use dis-
order treatment providers.
SEC. 727. ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND
FAMILIES.
Of the funds made available pursuant to sec-
tion 721(c)(6) for each of fiscal years 2021
through 2025, $20,000,000 for each such fiscal
year shall be for the Secretary of Health and
Human Services to carry out title I of the Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C.
5101 et seq.).
TITLE VIII—MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 801. GUARANTEED ISSUE OF CERTAIN
MEDIGAP POLICIES.
(a) GUARANTEED ISSUE OF MEDIGAP POLICIES
TO ALL MEDIGAP-ELIGIBLE MEDICARE BENE-
FICIARIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1882(s) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ss(s)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘65 years
of age or older and is enrolled for benefits under
part B’’ and inserting ‘‘entitled to, or enrolled
for, benefits under part A and enrolled for bene-
fits under part B’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)(D), by striking ‘‘who is
65 years of age or older as of the date of
issuance and’’;
(C) in paragraph (3)(B)(ii), by striking ‘‘is 65
years of age or older and’’; and
(D) in paragraph (3)(B)(vi), by striking ‘‘at
age 65’’.
(2) ADDITIONAL ENROLLMENT PERIOD FOR CER-
TAIN INDIVIDUALS.—
(A) ONE-TIME ENROLLMENT PERIOD.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a specified in-
dividual, the Secretary shall establish a one-
time enrollment period described in clause (iii)
during which such an individual may enroll in
any medicare supplemental policy of the indi-
vidual’s choosing.
(ii) APPLICATION.—The provisions of—
(I) paragraph (2) of section 1882(s) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ss(s)) shall
apply with respect to a specified individual who
is described in subclause (I) of subparagraph
(B)(iii) as if references in such paragraph (2) to
the 6 month period described in subparagraph
(A) of such paragraph were references to the
one-time enrollment period established under
clause (i); and
(II) paragraph (3) of such section shall apply
with respect to a specified individual who is de-
scribed in subclause (II) of subparagraph (B)(iii)
as if references in such paragraph (3) to the pe-
riod specified in subparagraph (E) of such para-
graph were references to the one-time enroll-
ment period established under clause (i).
(iii) PERIOD.—The enrollment period estab-
lished under clause (i) shall be the 6-month pe-
riod beginning on January 1, 2024.
(B) SPECIFIED INDIVIDUAL.—For purposes of
this paragraph, the term ‘‘specified individual’’
means an individual who—
(i) is entitled to hospital insurance benefits
under part A of title XVIII of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395c et seq.) pursuant to sec-
tion 226(b) or section 226A of such Act (42 U.S.C.
426(b); 426–1);
(ii) is enrolled for benefits under part B of
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395j et seq.); and
(iii)(I) would not, but for the amendments
made by subparagraphs (A) and (B) of para-
graph (1) and the provisions of this paragraph
(if such provisions applied to such individual),
be eligible for the guaranteed issue of a medi-
care supplemental policy under paragraph (2) of
section 1882(s) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ss(s));
or
(II) would not, but for the amendments made
by subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph (1)
and the provisions of this paragraph (if such
provisions applied to such individual), be eligi-
ble for the guaranteed issue of a medicare sup-
plemental policy under paragraph (3) of such
section.
(C) OUTREACH PLAN.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall develop
an outreach plan to notify specified individuals
of the one-time enrollment period established
under subparagraph (A).
(ii) CONSULTATION.—In implementing the out-
reach plan developed under clause (i), the Sec-
retary shall consult with consumer advocates,
brokers, insurers, the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners, and State Health In-
surance Assistance Programs.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by paragraph (1) shall apply to medicare sup-
plemental policies effective on or after January
1, 2024.
(b) GUARANTEED ISSUE OF MEDIGAP POLICIES
FOR MEDICARE ADVANTAGE ENROLLEES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1882(s)(3) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ss(s)(3)), as
amended by subsection (a), is further amended—
(A) in subparagraph (B), by adding at the end
the following new clause:
‘‘(vii) The individual—
‘‘(I) was enrolled in a Medicare Advantage
plan under part C for not less than 12 months;
‘‘(II) subsequently disenrolled from such plan;
‘‘(III) elects to receive benefits under this title
through the original Medicare fee-for-service
program under parts A and B; and
‘‘(IV) has not previously elected to receive
benefits under this title through the original
Medicare fee-for-service program pursuant to
disenrollment from a Medicare Advantage plan
under part C.’’;
(B) by striking subparagraph (C)(iii) and in-
serting the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10162 December 12, 2019
‘‘(iii) Subject to subsection (v)(1), for purposes
of an individual described in clause (vi) or (vii)
of subparagraph (B), a medicare supplemental
policy described in this subparagraph shall in-
clude any medicare supplemental policy.’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (E)—
(i) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(ii) in clause (v), by striking the period at the
end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following new
clause—
‘‘(vi) in the case of an individual described in
subparagraph (B)(vii), the annual, coordinated
election period (as defined in section
1851(e)(3)(B)) or a continuous open enrollment
period (as defined in section 1851(e)(2)) during
which the individual disenrolls from a Medicare
Advantage plan under part C.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by paragraph (1) shall apply to medicare sup-
plemental policies effective on or after January
1, 2024.
SEC. 802. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PDP
SPONSORS REGARDING POINT-OF-
SALE REJECTIONS UNDER MEDI-
CARE PART D.
Section 1860D–4(g) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–104(g)) is amended by adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS REGARDING
POINT-OF-SALE REJECTIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—With respect to a plan year
beginning on or after January 1, 2020, a PDP
sponsor offering a prescription drug plan shall
submit to the Secretary, in a form and manner
specified by the Secretary, information on point-
of-sale rejections made during a period of time
occurring in such plan year (as specified by the
Secretary), including each of the following:
‘‘(i) The reason for each point-of-sale rejec-
tion.
‘‘(ii) Identifying information for each drug
with respect to which a point-of-sale rejection
was made.
‘‘(iii) With respect to applicable types of
point-of-sale rejections (as specified by the Sec-
retary), each of the following:
‘‘(I) Whether such a rejection was consistent
with the formulary of the plan (as approved by
the Secretary).
‘‘(II) Whether a coverage determination or ap-
peal of a coverage determination was requested
for the drug with respect to which such a rejec-
tion was made.
‘‘(III) The outcome of any such coverage de-
termination or appeal of a coverage determina-
tion.
‘‘(IV) The length of time between when such
a rejection was made and when the drug with
respect to which such rejection was made is dis-
pensed, as applicable.
‘‘(B) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.—
The Secretary shall make publicly available on
the public website of the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services information submitted under
subparagraph (A).
‘‘(C) USE OF INFORMATION.—The Secretary
may use information submitted under subpara-
graph (A), as determined appropriate, in devel-
oping measures for the 5-star rating system
under section 1853(o)(4).
‘‘(D) IMPLEMENTATION.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary may imple-
ment this paragraph through program instruc-
tion or otherwise.
‘‘(E) FUNDING.—The are authorized to be ap-
propriated to the Secretary from the Federal
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund
under section 1841 such sums as may be nec-
essary to implement this paragraph.’’.
SEC. 803. PROVIDING ACCESS TO ANNUAL MEDI-
CARE NOTIFICATIONS IN MULTIPLE
LANGUAGES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1804 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395b–2) is amended by
adding at the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(e) The notice provided under subsection (a)
shall be translated into languages in addition to
English and Spanish. In carrying out the pre-
vious sentence, the Secretary shall prioritize
translation of the notice into languages in
which documents provided by the Commissioner
of Social Security are translated and language
that are the most frequently requested for trans-
lation for purposes of applying for old-age in-
surance benefits under title II.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by subsection (a) shall apply to notices distrib-
uted prior to each Medicare open enrollment pe-
riod beginning after January 1, 2020.
SEC. 804. TEMPORARY INCREASE IN MEDICARE
PART B PAYMENT FOR CERTAIN BIO-
SIMILAR BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS.
Section 1847A(b)(8) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–3a(b)(8)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and
(B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and mov-
ing the margin of each such redesignated clause
2 ems to the right;
(2) by striking ‘‘PRODUCT.—The amount’’ and
inserting the following: ‘‘PRODUCT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the amount’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(B) TEMPORARY PAYMENT INCREASE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a qualifying
biosimilar biological product that is furnished
during the applicable 5-year period for such
product, the amount specified in this paragraph
for such product with respect to such period is
the sum determined under subparagraph (A),
except that clause (ii) of such subparagraph
shall be applied by substituting ‘8 percent’ for ‘6
percent’.
‘‘(ii) APPLICABLE 5-YEAR PERIOD.—For pur-
poses of clause (i), the applicable 5-year period
for a biosimilar biological product is—
‘‘(I) in the case of such a product for which
payment was made under this paragraph as of
December 31, 2019, the 5-year period beginning
on January 1, 2020; and
‘‘(II) in the case of such a product for which
payment is first made under this paragraph dur-
ing a calendar quarter during the period begin-
ning January 1, 2020, and ending December 31,
2024, the 5-year period beginning on the first
day of such calendar quarter during which such
payment is first made.
‘‘(iii) QUALIFYING BIOSIMILAR BIOLOGICAL
PRODUCT DEFINED.—For purposes of this sub-
paragraph, the term ‘qualifying biosimilar bio-
logical product’ means a biosimilar biological
product described in paragraph (1)(C) with re-
spect to which—
‘‘(I) in the case of a product described in
clause (ii)(I), the average sales price is not more
than the average sales price for the reference bi-
ological product; and
‘‘(II) in the case of a product described in
clause (ii)(II), the wholesale acquisition cost is
not more than the wholesale acquisition cost for
the reference biological product.’’.
SEC. 805. WAIVING MEDICARE COINSURANCE FOR
COLORECTAL CANCER SCREENING
TESTS.
Section 1833(a) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395l(a)) is amended—
(1) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 1834(0)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1834(o)’’;
(2) by moving such second sentence 2 ems to
the left; and
(3) by inserting the following third sentence
following such second sentence: ‘‘For services
furnished on or after January 1, 2021, para-
graph (1)(Y) shall apply with respect to a
colorectal cancer screening test regardless of the
code that is billed for the establishment of a di-
agnosis as a result of the test, or for the removal
of tissue or other matter or other procedure that
is furnished in connection with, as a result of,
and in the same clinical encounter as the
screening test.’’.
SEC. 806. MEDICARE COVERAGE OF CERTAIN
LYMPHEDEMA COMPRESSION TREAT-
MENT ITEMS.
(a) COVERAGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1861 of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x), as amended by sec-
tion 601 and section 603, is further amended—
(A) in subsection (s)(2)—
(i) in subparagraph (II), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon at the end;
(ii) in subparagraph (JJ), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(KK) lymphedema compression treatment
items (as defined in subsection (mmm));’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(mmm) LYMPHEDEMA COMPRESSION TREAT-
MENT ITEMS.—The term ‘lymphedema compres-
sion treatment items’ means compression gar-
ments, devices, bandaging systems, components,
and supplies, including multilayer compression
bandaging systems, standard fit gradient com-
pression garments, and other compression gar-
ments, devices, bandaging systems, components,
or supplies (as determined by the Secretary),
that are—
‘‘(1) furnished on or after January 1, 2022, to
an individual with a diagnosis of lymphedema
for the treatment of such condition;
‘‘(2) primarily and customarily used in the
medical treatment of lymphedema, as deter-
mined by the Secretary; and
‘‘(3) prescribed by a physician (or a physician
assistant, nurse practitioner, or a clinical nurse
specialist (as those terms are defined in section
1861(aa)(5)) to the extent authorized under State
law).’’.
(2) PAYMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 1833(a)(1) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395l(a)(1)), as
amended by section 601(c)(1), is further amend-
ed—
(i) by striking ‘‘and’’ before ‘‘(DD)’’; and
(ii) by inserting before the semicolon at the
end the following: ‘‘, and (EE) with respect to
lymphedema compression treatment items (as de-
fined in section 1861(mmm)), the amount paid
shall be equal to 80 percent of the lesser of the
actual charge or the amount determined under
the payment basis determined under section
1834(z)’’.
(B) PAYMENT BASIS AND LIMITATIONS.—Section
1834 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m),
as amended by sections 601(c)(2) and 603(c), is
further amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(z) PAYMENT FOR LYMPHEDEMA COMPRES-
SION TREATMENT ITEMS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall deter-
mine an appropriate payment basis for
lymphedema compression treatment items (as de-
fined in section 1861(mmm)). In making such a
determination, the Secretary may take into ac-
count payment rates for such items under State
plans (or waivers of such plans) under title
XIX, the Veterans Health Administration, and
group health plans and health insurance cov-
erage (as such terms are defined in section 2791
of the Public Health Service Act), and such
other information as the Secretary determines
appropriate.
‘‘(2) FREQUENCY LIMITATION.—No payment
may be made under this part for lymphedema
compression treatment items furnished other
than at such frequency as the Secretary may es-
tablish.
‘‘(3) APPLICATION OF COMPETITIVE ACQUISI-
TION.—In the case of lymphedema compression
treatment items that are included in a competi-
tive acquisition program in a competitive acqui-
sition area under section 1847(a)—
‘‘(A) the payment basis under this subsection
for such items furnished in such area shall be
the payment basis determined under such com-
petitive acquisition program; and
‘‘(B) the Secretary may use information on
the payment determined under such competitive
acquisition programs to adjust the payment
amount otherwise determined under this sub-
section for an area that is not a competitive ac-
quisition area under section 1847, and in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10163
December 12, 2019
case of such adjustment, paragraphs (8) and (9)
of section 1842(b) shall not be applied.’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) EXCLUSIONS.—Section 1862(a)(1) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395y(a)(1)), as
amended by section 601(f) and section 603(g), is
further amended—
(i) in subparagraph (Q), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(ii) in subparagraph (R), by striking the semi-
colon and inserting ‘‘, and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(S) in the case of lymphedema compression
treatment items (as defined in section
1861(mmm)), which are furnished more fre-
quently than is established pursuant to section
1834(z)(2);’’.
(B) APPLICATION OF COMPETITIVE ACQUISI-
TION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Section 1847(a)(2) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3(a)(2)), as
amended by sections 601(e)(2)(B)(ii),
602(b)(3)(B)(i), and 603(f)(2)(B), is further
amended by adding at the end the following
new subparagraph:
‘‘(G) LYMPHEDEMA COMPRESSION TREATMENT
ITEMS.—Lymphedema compression treatment
items (as defined in section 1861(mmm)) for
which payment would otherwise be made under
section 1834(z).’’.
(b) INCLUSION IN REQUIREMENTS FOR SUP-
PLIERS OF MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES.—
Section 1834(j)(5) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395m(j)(5)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) and
(F) as subparagraphs (F) and (G), respectively;
and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the
following new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) lymphedema compression treatment items
(as defined in section 1861(mmm));’’.
(c) STUDY AND REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary of Health and
Human Services (in this section referred to as
the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall conduct a study on the
implementation of Medicare coverage of certain
lymphedema compression treatment items under
the amendments made by this Act. Such study
shall include an evaluation of the following:
(A) Medicare beneficiary utilization of items
and services under parts A and B of title XVIII
of the Social Security Act as a result of the im-
plementation of such amendments.
(B) Whether the Secretary has determined,
pursuant to section 1861(mmm) of the Social Se-
curity Act, as added by subsection (a)(1), that
lymphedema compression treatment items other
than compression bandaging systems and stand-
ard fit gradient compression garments are cov-
ered under such section.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than January 1, 2024,
the Secretary shall submit to Congress and make
available to the public a report on the study
conducted under paragraph (1).
SEC. 807. PHYSICIAN FEE UPDATE.
Section 1848(d)(19) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–4(d)(19)) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(19) UPDATE FOR 2020 THROUGH 2025.—The up-
date to the single conversion factor established
in paragraph (1)(C)—
‘‘(A) for each of 2020 through 2022 shall be 0.5
percent; and
‘‘(B) for each of 2023 through 2025 shall be 0.0
percent.’’.
SEC. 808. ADDITIONAL COMMUNITY HEALTH CEN-
TER FUNDING.
Section 10503 of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 254b–2) is amend-
ed by striking subsection (c) and inserting the
following:
‘‘(c) ADDITIONAL ENHANCED FUNDING; CAPITAL
PROJECTS.—There is authorized to be appro-
priated, and there is appropriated, out of any
monies in the Treasury not otherwise appro-
priated, to the CHC Fund—
‘‘(1) to be transferred to the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to provide addi-
tional enhanced funding for the community
health center program under section 330 of the
Public Health Service Act, $1,000,000,000 for
each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025; and
‘‘(2) to be transferred to the Secretary of
Health and Human Services for capital projects
of the community health center program under
section 330 of the Public Health Service Act,
$5,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2021
through 2025.’’.
SEC. 809. GRANTS TO IMPROVE TRAUMA SUPPORT
SERVICES AND MENTAL HEALTH
CARE FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH IN
EDUCATIONAL SETTINGS.
(a) GRANTS, CONTRACTS, AND COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary, in
coordination with the Assistant Secretary for
Mental Health and Substance Use, is authorized
to award grants to, or enter into contracts or co-
operative agreements with, State educational
agencies, local educational agencies, Indian
Tribes (as defined in section 4 of the Indian
Self-Determination and Education Assistance
Act) or their tribal educational agencies, a
school operated by the Bureau of Indian Edu-
cation, a Regional Corporation, or a Native Ha-
waiian educational organization, for the pur-
pose of increasing student access to evidence-
based trauma support services and mental
health care by developing innovative initiatives,
activities, or programs to link local school sys-
tems with local trauma-informed support and
mental health systems, including those under
the Indian Health Service.
(b) DURATION.—With respect to a grant, con-
tract, or cooperative agreement awarded or en-
tered into under this section, the period during
which payments under such grant, contract, or
agreement are made to the recipient may not ex-
ceed 4 years.
(c) USE OF FUNDS.—An entity that receives a
grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under
this section shall use amounts made available
through such grant, contract, or cooperative
agreement for evidence-based activities, which
shall include any of the following:
(1) Collaborative efforts between school-based
service systems and trauma-informed support
and mental health service systems to provide,
develop, or improve prevention, screening, refer-
ral, and treatment and support services to stu-
dents, such as providing trauma screenings to
identify students in need of specialized support.
(2) To implement schoolwide positive behav-
ioral interventions and supports, or other trau-
ma-informed models of support.
(3) To provide professional development to
teachers, teacher assistants, school leaders, spe-
cialized instructional support personnel, and
mental health professionals that—
(A) fosters safe and stable learning environ-
ments that prevent and mitigate the effects of
trauma, including through social and emotional
learning;
(B) improves school capacity to identify, refer,
and provide services to students in need of trau-
ma support or behavioral health services; or
(C) reflects the best practices for trauma-in-
formed identification, referral, and support de-
veloped by the Interagency Task Force on Trau-
ma-Informed Care.
(4) Services at a full-service community school
that focuses on trauma-informed supports,
which may include a full-time site coordinator,
or other activities consistent with section 4625 of
the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 7275).
(5) Engaging families and communities in ef-
forts to increase awareness of child and youth
trauma, which may include sharing best prac-
tices with law enforcement regarding trauma-in-
formed care and working with mental health
professionals to provide interventions, as well as
longer term coordinated care within the commu-
nity for children and youth who have experi-
enced trauma and their families.
(6) To provide technical assistance to school
systems and mental health agencies.
(7) To evaluate the effectiveness of the pro-
gram carried out under this section in increas-
ing student access to evidence-based trauma
support services and mental health care.
(8) To establish partnerships with or provide
subgrants to Head Start agencies (including
Early Head Start agencies), public and private
preschool programs, child care programs (in-
cluding home-based providers), or other entities
described in subsection (a), to include such enti-
ties described in this paragraph in the evidence-
based trauma initiatives, activities, support
services, and mental health systems established
under this section in order to provide, develop,
or improve prevention, screening, referral, and
treatment and support services to young chil-
dren and their families.
(d) APPLICATIONS.—To be eligible to receive a
grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under
this section, an entity described in subsection
(a) shall submit an application to the Secretary
at such time, in such manner, and containing
such information as the Secretary may reason-
ably require, which shall include the following:
(1) A description of the innovative initiatives,
activities, or programs to be funded under the
grant, contract, or cooperative agreement, in-
cluding how such program will increase access
to evidence-based trauma support services and
mental health care for students, and, as appli-
cable, the families of such students.
(2) A description of how the program will pro-
vide linguistically appropriate and culturally
competent services.
(3) A description of how the program will sup-
port students and the school in improving the
school climate in order to support an environ-
ment conducive to learning.
(4) An assurance that—
(A) persons providing services under the
grant, contract, or cooperative agreement are
adequately trained to provide such services; and
(B) teachers, school leaders, administrators,
specialized instructional support personnel, rep-
resentatives of local Indian Tribes or tribal or-
ganizations as appropriate, other school per-
sonnel, and parents or guardians of students
participating in services under this section will
be engaged and involved in the design and im-
plementation of the services.
(5) A description of how the applicant will
support and integrate existing school-based
services with the program in order to provide
mental health services for students, as appro-
priate.
(6) A description of the entities in the commu-
nity with which the applicant will partner or to
which the applicant will provide subgrants in
accordance with subsection (c)(8).
(e) INTERAGENCY AGREEMENTS.—
(1) LOCAL INTERAGENCY AGREEMENTS.—To en-
sure the provision of the services described in
subsection (c), a recipient of a grant, contract,
or cooperative agreement under this section, or
their designee, shall establish a local inter-
agency agreement among local educational
agencies, agencies responsible for early child-
hood education programs, Head Start agencies
(including Early Head Start agencies), juvenile
justice authorities, mental health agencies, child
welfare agencies, and other relevant agencies,
authorities, or entities in the community that
will be involved in the provision of such serv-
ices.
(2) CONTENTS.—In ensuring the provision of
the services described in subsection (c), the local
interagency agreement shall specify with respect
to each agency, authority, or entity that is a
party to such agreement—
(A) the financial responsibility for the serv-
ices;
(B) the conditions and terms of responsibility
for the services, including quality, account-
ability, and coordination of the services; and
(C) the conditions and terms of reimbursement
among such agencies, authorities, or entities, in-
cluding procedures for dispute resolution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10164 December 12, 2019
(f) EVALUATION.—The Secretary shall reserve
not more than 3 percent of the funds made
available under subsection (l) for each fiscal
year to—
(1) conduct a rigorous, independent evalua-
tion of the activities funded under this section;
and
(2) disseminate and promote the utilization of
evidence-based practices regarding trauma sup-
port services and mental health care.
(g) DISTRIBUTION OF AWARDS.—The Secretary
shall ensure that grants, contracts, and cooper-
ative agreements awarded or entered into under
this section are equitably distributed among the
geographical regions of the United States and
among tribal, urban, suburban, and rural popu-
lations.
(h) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
section shall be construed—
(1) to prohibit an entity involved with a pro-
gram carried out under this section from report-
ing a crime that is committed by a student to ap-
propriate authorities; or
(2) to prevent Federal, State, and tribal law
enforcement and judicial authorities from exer-
cising their responsibilities with regard to the
application of Federal, tribal, and State law to
crimes committed by a student.
(i) SUPPLEMENT, NOT SUPPLANT.—Any serv-
ices provided through programs carried out
under this section shall supplement, and not
supplant, existing mental health services, in-
cluding any special education and related serv-
ices provided under the Individuals with Dis-
abilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.).
(j) CONSULTATION WITH INDIAN TRIBES.—In
carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall,
in a timely manner, meaningfully consult with
Indian Tribes and their representatives to en-
sure notice of eligibility.
(k) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.—The term ‘‘elemen-
tary school’’ has the meaning given such term in
section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
(2) EVIDENCE-BASED.—The term ‘‘evidence-
based’’ has the meaning given such term in sec-
tion 8101(21)(A)(i) of the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
7801(21)(A)(i)).
(3) NATIVE HAWAIIAN EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZA-
TION.—The term ‘‘Native Hawaiian educational
organization’’ has the meaning given such term
in section 6207 of the Elementary and Secondary
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7517).
(4) LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCY.—The term
‘‘local educational agency’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 8101 of the Elemen-
tary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 7801).
(5) REGIONAL CORPORATION.—The term ‘‘Re-
gional Corporation’’ has the meaning given the
term in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602).
(6) SCHOOL.—The term ‘‘school’’ means a pub-
lic elementary school or public secondary
school.
(7) SCHOOL LEADER.—The term ‘‘school lead-
er’’ has the meaning given such term in section
8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
(8) SECONDARY SCHOOL.—The term ‘‘secondary
school’’ has the meaning given such term in sec-
tion 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
(9) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
the Secretary of Education.
(10) SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORT PER-
SONNEL.—The term ‘‘specialized instructional
support personnel’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
(11) STATE EDUCATIONAL AGENCY.—The term
‘‘State educational agency’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 8101 of the Elemen-
tary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 7801).
(l) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated, and
there is appropriated, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to carry
out this section, $20,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2021 through 2025.
SEC. 810. PATHWAY TO HEALTH CAREERS ACT.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be cited
as the ‘‘Pathways to Health Careers Act’’.
(b) EXTENSION THROUGH FISCAL YEAR 2020 OF
FUNDING FOR DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS TO AD-
DRESS HEALTH PROFESSIONS WORKFORCE
NEEDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 2008(c)(1) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397g(c)(1)) is
amended by striking ‘‘2019.’’ and inserting
‘‘2020, and to provide technical assistance and
cover administrative costs associated with imple-
menting the successor to this section $15,000,000
for fiscal year 2020.’’.
(2) AVAILABILITY OF OTHER FUNDS.—Upon the
date of the enactment of this section—
(A) amounts expended pursuant to section
1501 of division B of Public Law 116–59, or any
other prior law making amounts available for
fiscal year 2020 for activities authorized by sec-
tion 2008 of the Social Security Act, shall be
charged to the appropriation made by sub-
section (c)(1) of such section 2008 for fiscal year
2020 (not including the amount for technical as-
sistance and administrative costs); and
(B) if such enactment occurs on or before No-
vember 21, 2019, the availability of funds appro-
priated in, and the authority provided under,
such section 1501 shall terminate.
(c) CAREER PATHWAYS THROUGH HEALTH PRO-
FESSION OPPORTUNITY GRANTS.—Effective Octo-
ber 1, 2020, section 2008 of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1397g) is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘SEC. 2008. CAREER PATHWAYS THROUGH
HEALTH PROFESSION OPPORTUNITY
GRANTS.
‘‘(a) APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.—An eligible
entity desiring a grant under this section for a
project shall submit to the Secretary an applica-
tion for the grant, that includes the following:
‘‘(1) A description of how the applicant will
use a career pathways approach to train eligible
individuals for health professions that pay well
or will put eligible individuals on a career path
to an occupation that pays well, under the
project.
‘‘(2) A description of the adult basic education
and literacy activities, work readiness activities,
training activities, and case management and
career coaching services that the applicant will
use to assist eligible individuals to gain work ex-
perience, connection to employers, and job
placement, and a description of the plan for re-
cruiting, hiring, and training staff to provide
the case management, mentoring, and career
coaching services, under the project directly or
through local governmental, apprenticeship,
educational, or charitable institutions.
‘‘(3) In the case of an application for a grant
under this section for a demonstration project
described in subsection (c)(2)(B)(i)(I)—
‘‘(A) a demonstration that the State in which
the demonstration project is to be conducted has
in effect policies or laws that permit certain al-
lied health and behavioral health care creden-
tials to be awarded to people with certain arrest
or conviction records (which policies or laws
shall include appeals processes, waivers, certifi-
cates, and other opportunities to demonstrate
rehabilitation to obtain credentials, licensure,
and approval to work in the proposed health ca-
reers), and a plan described in the application
that will use a career pathway to assist partici-
pants with such a record in acquiring creden-
tials, licensing, and employment in the specified
careers;
‘‘(B) a discussion of how the project or future
strategic hiring decisions will demonstrate the
experience and expertise of the project in work-
ing with job seekers who have arrest or convic-
tion records or employers with experience work-
ing with people with arrest or conviction
records;
‘‘(C) an identification of promising innova-
tions or best practices that can be used to pro-
vide the training;
‘‘(D) a proof of concept or demonstration that
the applicant has done sufficient research on
workforce shortage or in-demand jobs for which
people with certain types of arrest or conviction
records can be hired;
‘‘(E) a plan for recruiting students who are el-
igible individuals into the project; and
‘‘(F) a plan for providing post-employment
support and ongoing training as part of a career
pathway under the project.
‘‘(4) In the case of an application for a grant
under this section for a demonstration project
described in subsection (c)(2)(B)(i)(II)—
‘‘(A) a description of the partnerships, stra-
tegic staff hiring decisions, tailored program ac-
tivities, or other programmatic elements of the
project, such as training plans for doulas and
other community health workers and training
plans for midwives and other allied health pro-
fessions, that are designed to support a career
pathway in pregnancy, birth, or post-partum
services; and
‘‘(B) a demonstration that the State in which
the demonstration project is to be conducted rec-
ognizes doulas or midwives, as the case may be.
‘‘(5) A demonstration that the applicant has
experience working with low-income popu-
lations, or a description of the plan of the appli-
cant to work with a partner organization that
has the experience.
‘‘(6) A plan for providing post-employment
support and ongoing training as part of a career
pathway under the project.
‘‘(7) A description of the support services that
the applicant will provide under the project, in-
cluding a plan for how child care and transpor-
tation support services will be guaranteed and,
if the applicant will provide a cash stipend or
wage supplement, how the stipend or supple-
ment would be calculated and distributed.
‘‘(8) A certification by the applicant that the
project development included—
‘‘(A) consultation with a local workforce de-
velopment board established under section 107 of
the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act;
‘‘(B) consideration of apprenticeship and pre-
apprenticeship models registered under the Act
of August 16, 1937 (also known as the ‘National
Apprenticeship Act’);
‘‘(C) consideration of career pathway pro-
grams in the State in which the project is to be
conducted; and
‘‘(D) a review of the State plan under section
102 or 103 of the Workforce Innovation and Op-
portunity Act.
‘‘(9) A description of the availability and rel-
evance of recent labor market information and
other pertinent evidence of in-demand jobs or
worker shortages.
‘‘(10) A certification that the applicant will
directly provide or contract for the training
services described in the application.
‘‘(11) A commitment by the applicant that, if
the grant is made to the applicant, the appli-
cant will—
‘‘(A) during the planning period for the
project, provide the Secretary with any informa-
tion needed by the Secretary to establish ade-
quate data reporting and administrative struc-
ture for the project;
‘‘(B) hire a person to direct the project not
later than the end of the planning period appli-
cable to the project;
‘‘(C) accept all technical assistance offered by
the Secretary with respect to the grant;
‘‘(D) participate in such in-person grantee
conferences as are regularly scheduled by the
Secretary;
‘‘(E) provide all data required by the Sec-
retary under subsection (g); and
‘‘(F) notify the local disabled veterans’ out-
reach program specialists under section 4103A of
title 38, United States Code, and the local vet-
erans’ employment representatives under section
4104 of such title, of the grantee’s outreach plan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10165
December 12, 2019
for advertising training opportunities to poten-
tial participants in the project.
‘‘(b) PREFERENCES IN CONSIDERING APPLICA-
TIONS.—In considering applications for a grant
under this section, the Secretary shall give pref-
erence to—
‘‘(1) applications submitted by applicants to
whom a grant was made under this section or
any predecessor to this section;
‘‘(2) applications submitted by applicants who
have business and community partners in each
of the following categories:
‘‘(A) State and local government agencies and
social service providers, including a State or
local entity that administers a State program
funded under part A of this title;
‘‘(B) institutions of higher education, appren-
ticeship programs, and local workforce develop-
ment boards established under section 107 of the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act;
and
‘‘(C) health care employers, health care indus-
try or sector partnerships, labor unions, and
labor-management partnerships;
‘‘(3) applications that include opportunities
for mentoring or peer support, and make career
coaching available, as part of the case manage-
ment plan;
‘‘(4) applications which describe a project that
will serve a rural area in which—
‘‘(A) the community in which the individuals
to be enrolled in the project reside is located;
‘‘(B) the project will be conducted; or
‘‘(C) an employer partnership that has com-
mitted to hiring individuals who successfully
complete all activities under the project is lo-
cated;
‘‘(5) applications that include a commitment
to providing project participants with a cash sti-
pend or wage supplement; and
‘‘(6) applications which have an emergency
cash fund to assist project participants finan-
cially in emergency situations.
‘‘(c) GRANTS.—
‘‘(1) COMPETITIVE GRANTS.—
‘‘(A) GRANT AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Labor and the Sec-
retary of Education, may make a grant in ac-
cordance with this paragraph to an eligible enti-
ty whose application for the grant is approved
by the Secretary, to conduct a project designed
to train low-income individuals for allied health
professions, health information technology,
physicians assistants, nursing assistants, reg-
istered nurse, advanced practice nurse, and
other professions considered part of a health
care career pathway model.
‘‘(ii) GUARANTEE OF GRANTEES IN EACH STATE
AND THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.—For each
grant cycle, the Secretary shall award a grant
under this paragraph to at least 2 eligible enti-
ties in each State that is not a territory, to the
extent there are a sufficient number of applica-
tions submitted by the entities that meet the re-
quirements applicable with respect to such a
grant. If, for a grant cycle, there are fewer than
2 such eligible entities in a State, the Secretary
shall include that information in the report re-
quired by subsection (g)(2) that covers the fiscal
year.
‘‘(B) GUARANTEE OF GRANTS FOR INDIAN POPU-
LATIONS.—From the amount reserved under sub-
section (i)(2)(B) for each fiscal year, the Sec-
retary shall award a grant under this para-
graph to at least 10 eligible entities that are an
Indian tribe, a tribal organization, or a tribal
college or university, to the extent there are a
sufficient number of applications submitted by
the entities that meet the requirements applica-
ble with respect to such a grant.
‘‘(C) GUARANTEE OF GRANTEES IN THE TERRI-
TORIES.—From the amount reserved under sub-
section (i)(2)(C) for each fiscal year, the Sec-
retary shall award a grant under this para-
graph to at least 2 eligible entities that are lo-
cated in a territory, to the extent there are a
sufficient number of applications submitted by
the entities that meet the requirements applica-
ble with respect to such a grant.
‘‘(2) GRANTS FOR DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.—
‘‘(A) GRANT AUTHORITY.—The Secretary, in
consultation with the Secretary of Labor and
the Secretary of Education (and, with respect to
demonstration projects of the type described in
subparagraph (B)(i)(I), the Attorney General)
shall make a grant in accordance with this sub-
section to an eligible entity whose application
for the grant is approved by the Secretary, to
conduct a demonstration project that meets the
requirements of subparagraph (B).
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—The requirements of
this subparagraph are the following:
‘‘(i) TYPE OF PROJECT.—The demonstration
project shall be of 1 of the following types:
‘‘(I) INDIVIDUALS WITH ARREST OR CONVICTION
RECORDS DEMONSTRATION.—The demonstration
project shall be of a type designed to provide
education and training for eligible individuals
with arrest or conviction records to enter and
follow a career pathway in the health profes-
sions through occupations that pay well and are
expected to experience a labor shortage or be in
high demand.
‘‘(II) PREGNANCY AND CHILDBIRTH CAREER
PATHWAY DEMONSTRATION.—The demonstration
project shall be of a type designed to provide
education and training for eligible individuals
to enter and follow a career pathway in the
field of pregnancy, childbirth, or post-partum,
in a State that recognizes doulas or midwives
and that provides payment for services provided
by doulas or midwives, as the case may be,
under private or public health insurance plans.
‘‘(ii) DURATION.—The demonstration project
shall be conducted for not less than 5 years.
‘‘(C) MINIMUM ALLOCATION OF FUNDS FOR
EACH TYPE OF DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.—
‘‘(i) INDIVIDUALS WITH ARREST OR CONVICTION
RECORDS DEMONSTRATIONS.—Not less than 25
percent of the amounts made available for
grants under this paragraph shall be used to
make grants for demonstration projects of the
type described in subparagraph (B)(i)(I).
‘‘(ii) PREGNANCY AND CHILDBIRTH CAREER
PATHWAY DEMONSTRATIONS.—Not less than 25
percent of the amounts made available for
grants under this paragraph shall be used to
make grants for demonstration projects of the
type described in subparagraph (B)(i)(II).
‘‘(3) GRANT CYCLE.—The grant cycle under
this section shall be not less than 5 years, with
a planning period of not more than the 1st 12
months of the grant cycle. During the planning
period, the amount of the grant shall be in such
lesser amount as the Secretary determines ap-
propriate.
‘‘(d) USE OF GRANT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An entity to which a grant
is made under this section shall use the grant in
accordance with the approved application for
the grant.
‘‘(2) SUPPORT TO BE PROVIDED.—
‘‘(A) REQUIRED SUPPORT.—A project for which
a grant is made under this section shall include
the following:
‘‘(i) An assessment for adult basic skill com-
petency, and provision of adult basic skills edu-
cation if necessary for lower-skilled eligible indi-
viduals to enroll in the project and go on to
enter and complete post-secondary training,
through means including the following:
‘‘(I) Establishing a network of partners that
offer pre-training activities for project partici-
pants who need to improve basic academic skills
or English language proficiency before entering
a health occupational training career pathway
program.
‘‘(II) Offering resources to enable project par-
ticipants to continue advancing adult basic skill
proficiency while enrolled in a career pathway
program.
‘‘(III) Embedding adult basic skill mainte-
nance as part of ongoing post-graduation career
coaching and mentoring.
‘‘(ii) A guarantee that child care is an avail-
able and affordable support service for project
participants through means such as the fol-
lowing;
‘‘(I) Referral to, and assistance with, enroll-
ment in a subsidized child care program.
‘‘(II) Direct payment to a child care provider
if a slot in a subsidized child care program is not
available or reasonably accessible.
‘‘(III) Payment of co-payments or associated
fees for child care.
‘‘(iii) Case management plans that include ca-
reer coaching (with the option to offer appro-
priate peer support and mentoring opportunities
to help develop soft skills and social capital),
which may be offered on an ongoing basis be-
fore, during, and after initial training as part of
a career pathway model.
‘‘(iv) A plan to provide project participants
with transportation through means such as the
following:
‘‘(I) Referral to, and assistance with enroll-
ment in, a subsidized transportation program.
‘‘(II) If a subsidized transportation program is
not reasonably available, direct payments to
subsidize transportation costs.
For purposes of this clause, the term ‘transpor-
tation’ includes public transit, or gasoline for a
personal vehicle if public transit is not reason-
ably accessible or available.
‘‘(v) In the case of a demonstration project of
the type described in subsection (c)(2)(B)(i)(I),
access to legal assistance for project participants
for the purpose of addressing arrest or convic-
tion records and associated workforce barriers.
‘‘(B) ALLOWED SUPPORT.—The goods and serv-
ices provided under a project for which a grant
is made under this section may include the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(i) A cash stipend that is at least monthly.
‘‘(ii) A reserve fund for financial assistance to
project participants in emergency situations.
‘‘(iii) Tuition, and training materials such as
books, software, uniforms, shoes, and hair nets.
‘‘(iv) In-kind resource donations such as
interview clothing and conference attendance
fees.
‘‘(v) Assistance with accessing and completing
high school equivalency or adult basic edu-
cation courses as necessary to achieve success in
the project and make progress toward career
goals.
‘‘(vi) Assistance with programs and activities,
including legal assistance, deemed necessary to
address arrest or conviction records as an em-
ployment barrier.
‘‘(vii) Other support services as deemed nec-
essary for family well-being, success in the
project, and progress toward career goals.
‘‘(C) TREATMENT OF SUPPORT FOR PURPOSES
OF MEANS-TESTED PROGRAMS.—Any goods or
services provided to an eligible individual par-
ticipating in a project for which a grant is made
under this section shall not be considered in-
come, and shall not be taken into account for
purposes of determining the eligibility of the in-
dividual for, or amount of benefits to be pro-
vided to the individual, under any means-tested
program.
‘‘(3) TRAINING.—The number of hours of train-
ing provided to an eligible individual under a
project for which a grant is made under this sec-
tion, for a recognized postsecondary credential,
including an industry-recognized credential,
which is awarded in recognition of attainment
of measurable technical or occupational skills
necessary to gain employment or advance with-
in an occupation (including a certificate award-
ed by a local workforce development board es-
tablished under section 107 of the Workforce In-
novation and Opportunity Act), shall be—
‘‘(A) not less than the number of hours of
training required for certification in that level
of skill by the State in which the project is con-
ducted; or
‘‘(B) if there is no such requirement, such
number of hours of training as the Secretary
finds is necessary to achieve that skill level.
‘‘(4) INCOME LIMITATION.—An entity to which
a grant is made under this section shall not use
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10166 December 12, 2019
the grant to provide support to a person who is
not an eligible individual.
‘‘(5) INCLUSION OF TANF RECIPIENTS.—In the
case of a project for which a grant is made
under this section that is conducted in a State
that has a program funded under part A of title
IV, at least 10 percent of the eligible individuals
to whom support is provided under the project
shall meet the income eligibility requirements
under that State program, without regard to
whether the individuals receive benefits or serv-
ices directly under that State program.
‘‘(6) PROHIBITION.—An entity to which a
grant is made under this section shall not use
the grant for purposes of entertainment, except
that case management and career coaching serv-
ices may include celebrations of specific career-
based milestones such as completing a semester,
graduation, or job placement.
‘‘(e) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall provide
technical assistance—
‘‘(A) to assist eligible entities in applying for
grants under this section;
‘‘(B) that is tailored to meet the needs of
grantees at each stage of the administration of
projects for which grants are made under this
section;
‘‘(C) that is tailored to meet the specific needs
of Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal
colleges and universities;
‘‘(D) that is tailored to meet the specific needs
of the territories;
‘‘(E) that is tailored to meet the specific needs
of eligible entities in carrying out demonstration
projects for which a grant is made under this
section; and
‘‘(F) to facilitate the exchange of information
among eligible entities regarding best practices
and promising practices used in the projects.
‘‘(2) CONTINUATION OF PEER TECHNICAL ASSIST-
ANCE CONFERENCES.—The Secretary shall con-
tinue to hold peer technical assistance con-
ferences for entities to which a grant is made
under this section or was made under the imme-
diate predecessor of this section.
‘‘(f) EVALUATION OF DEMONSTRATION
PROJECTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, by
grant, contract, or interagency agreement, con-
duct rigorous and well-designed evaluations of
the demonstration projects for which a grant is
made under this section.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENT APPLICABLE TO INDIVID-
UALS WITH ARREST OR CONVICTION RECORDS DEM-
ONSTRATION.—In the case of a project of the
type described in subsection (c)(2)(B)(i)(I), the
evaluation shall include identification of suc-
cessful activities for creating opportunities for
developing and sustaining, particularly with re-
spect to low-income individuals with arrest or
conviction records, a health professions work-
force that has accessible entry points, that meets
high standards for education, training, certifi-
cation, and professional development, and that
provides increased wages and affordable bene-
fits, including health care coverage, that are re-
sponsive to the needs of the workforce.
‘‘(3) REQUIREMENT APPLICABLE TO PREGNANCY
AND CHILDBIRTH CAREER PATHWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION.—In the case of a project of the type de-
scribed in subsection (c)(2)(B)(i)(II), the evalua-
tion shall include identification of successful ac-
tivities for creating opportunities for developing
and sustaining, particularly with respect to low-
income individuals and other entry-level work-
ers, a career pathway that has accessible entry
points, that meets high standards for education,
training, certification, and professional develop-
ment, and that provides increased wages and af-
fordable benefits, including health care cov-
erage, that are responsive to the needs of the
birth, pregnancy, and post-partum workforce.
‘‘(4) RULE OF INTERPRETATION.—Evaluations
conducted pursuant to this subsection may in-
clude a randomized controlled trial, but this
subsection shall not be interpreted to require an
evaluation to include such a trial.
‘‘(g) REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) TO THE SECRETARY.—An eligible entity
awarded a grant to conduct a project under this
section shall submit interim reports to the Sec-
retary on the activities carried out under the
project, and, on the conclusion of the project, a
final report on the activities. Each such report
shall include data on participant outcomes re-
lated to earnings, employment in health profes-
sions, graduation rate, graduation timeliness,
credential attainment, participant demo-
graphics, and other data specified by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(2) TO THE CONGRESS.—During each Con-
gress, the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Finance of
the Senate a report—
‘‘(A) on the demographics of the participants
in the projects for which a grant is made under
this section;
‘‘(B) on the rate of which project participants
completed all activities under the projects;
‘‘(C) on the employment credentials acquired
by project participants;
‘‘(D) on the employment of project partici-
pants on completion of activities under the
projects, and the earnings of project partici-
pants at entry into employment;
‘‘(E) on best practices and promising practices
used in the projects;
‘‘(F) on the nature of any technical assistance
provided to grantees under this section;
‘‘(G) on, with respect to the period since the
period covered in the most recent prior report
submitted under this paragraph—
‘‘(i) the number of applications submitted
under this section, with a separate statement of
the number of applications referred to in sub-
section (b)(5);
‘‘(ii) the number of applications that were ap-
proved, with a separate statement of the number
of such applications referred to in subsection
(b)(5); and
‘‘(iii) a description of how grants were made
in any case described in the last sentence of sub-
section (c)(1)(A)(ii); and
‘‘(H) that includes an assessment of the effec-
tiveness of the projects with respect to address-
ing health professions workforce shortages or
in-demand jobs.
‘‘(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSION.—The term
‘allied health profession’ has the meaning given
in section 799B(5) of the Public Health Service
Act.
‘‘(2) CAREER PATHWAY.—The term ‘career
pathway’ has the meaning given that term in
section 3(7) of the Workforce Innovation and
Opportunity Act.
‘‘(3) DOULA.—The term ‘doula’ means an indi-
vidual who—
‘‘(A) is certified by an organization that has
been established for not less than 5 years and
that requires the completion of continuing edu-
cation to maintain the certification, to provide
non-medical advice, information, emotional sup-
port, and physical comfort to an individual dur-
ing the individual’s pregnancy, childbirth, and
post-partum period; and
‘‘(B) maintains the certification by completing
the required continuing education.
‘‘(4) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term ‘eligible enti-
ty’ means any of the following entities that
demonstrates in an application submitted under
this section that the entity has the capacity to
fully develop and administer the project de-
scribed in the application:
‘‘(A) A local workforce development board es-
tablished under section 107 of the Workforce In-
novation and Opportunity Act.
‘‘(B) A State or territory, a political subdivi-
sion of a State or territory, or an agency of a
State, territory, or such a political subdivision,
including a State or local entity that admin-
isters a State program funded under part A of
this title.
‘‘(C) An Indian tribe, a tribal organization, or
a tribal college or university.
‘‘(D) An institution of higher education (as
defined in the Higher Education Act of 1965).
‘‘(E) A hospital (as defined in section 1861(e)).
‘‘(F) A high-quality skilled nursing facility.
‘‘(G) A Federally qualified health center (as
defined in section 1861(aa)(4)).
‘‘(H) A nonprofit organization described in
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, a labor organization, or an entity with
shared labor-management oversight, that has a
demonstrated history of providing health profes-
sion training to eligible individuals.
‘‘(I) In the case of a demonstration project of
the type provided for in subsection
(c)(2)(B)(i)(II) of this section, an entity recog-
nized by a State, Indian tribe, or tribal organi-
zation as qualified to train doulas or midwives,
if midwives or doulas, as the case may be, are
permitted to practice in the State involved.
‘‘(J) An opioid treatment program (as defined
in section 1861(jjj)(2)), and other high quality
comprehensive addiction care providers.
‘‘(5) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘eligible
individual’ means an individual whose family
income does not exceed 200 percent of the Fed-
eral poverty level.
‘‘(6) FEDERAL POVERTY LEVEL.—The term
‘Federal poverty level’ means the poverty line
(as defined in section 673(2) of the Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, including
any revision required by such section applicable
to a family of the size involved).
‘‘(7) INDIAN TRIBE; TRIBAL ORGANIZATION.—
The terms ‘Indian tribe’ and ‘tribal organiza-
tion’ have the meaning given the terms in sec-
tion 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and
Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).
‘‘(8) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—The
term ‘institution of higher education’ has the
meaning given the term in section 101 or
102(a)(1)(B) of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
‘‘(9) TERRITORY.—The term ‘territory’ means
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United
States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mar-
iana Islands, and American Samoa.
‘‘(10) TRIBAL COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY.—The
term ‘tribal college or university’ has the mean-
ing given the term in section 316(b) of the High-
er Education Act of 1965.
‘‘(i) FUNDING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Out of any funds in the
Treasury of the United States not otherwise ap-
propriated, there are appropriated to the Sec-
retary to carry out this section $425,000,000 for
each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.
‘‘(2) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Of the amount
appropriated for a fiscal year under paragraph
(1) of this subsection—
‘‘(A) 75 percent shall be available for grants
under subsection (c)(1)(A);
‘‘(B) 4 percent shall be reserved for grants
under subsection (c)(1)(B);
‘‘(C) 5 percent shall be reserved for grants
under subsection (c)(1)(C);
‘‘(D) 6 percent shall be available for dem-
onstration project grants under subsection
(c)(2);
‘‘(E) 6 percent, plus all amounts referred to in
subparagraphs (A) through (D) of this para-
graph that remain unused after all grant
awards are made for the fiscal year, shall be
available for the provision of technical assist-
ance and associated staffing; and
‘‘(F) 4 percent shall be available for studying
the effects of the demonstration and non-dem-
onstration projects for which a grant is made
under this section, and for associated staffing,
for the purpose of supporting the rigorous eval-
uation of the demonstration projects, and sup-
porting the continued study of the short-, me-
dium-, and long-term effects of all such projects,
including the effectiveness of new or added ele-
ments of the non-demonstration projects.
‘‘(j) NONAPPLICABILITY OF PRECEDING SEC-
TIONS OF THIS SUBTITLE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in para-
graph (2), the preceding sections of this subtitle
shall not apply to a grant awarded under this
section.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10167
December 12, 2019
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN LIMITATIONS ON
USE OF GRANTS.—Section 2005(a) (other than
paragraphs (2), (3), (5), (6), and (8)) shall apply
to a grant awarded under this section to the
same extent and in the same manner as such
section applies to payments to States under this
subtitle.’’.
SEC. 811. HOME VISITING TO REDUCE MATERNAL
MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY ACT.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be cited
as the ‘‘Home Visiting to Reduce Maternal Mor-
tality and Morbidity Act’’.
(b) INCREASE IN TRIBAL SET-ASIDE PERCENT-
AGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 511(j)(2)(A) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 711(j)(2)(A)) is
amended by striking ‘‘3’’ and inserting ‘‘6’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by paragraph (1) shall take effect on October 1,
2020.
(c) INCREASE IN FUNDING.—Section 511(j)(1) of
such Act (42 U.S.C. 711(j)(1)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of subpara-
graph (G); and
(2) by striking subparagraph (H) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(H) $400,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017
through 2020;
‘‘(I) $600,000,000 for fiscal year 2021; and
‘‘(J) $800,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.’’.
(d) USE OF ADDITIONAL FUNDS.—Section 511(c)
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 711(c)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) USE OF CERTAIN FUNDS TO PROVIDE ADDI-
TIONAL RESOURCES TO ADDRESS HIGH RATES OF
MATERNAL MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY, SUPPORT
UNMET NEEDS IDENTIFIED BY THE NEEDS ASSESS-
MENT, OR INCREASE ALLOCATIONS TO STATES AND
TERRITORIES BASED ON RELATIVE POPULATION OR
POVERTY.—The Secretary shall ensure that any
amounts exceeding $400,000,000 that are used for
grants under this subsection for a fiscal year are
used to—
‘‘(A) provide additional funding priority to
States, tribes, and territories to address high
rates of maternal mortality and morbidity;
‘‘(B) address unmet needs identified by a
needs assessment conducted under subsection
(b); or
‘‘(C) increase the amounts allocated under
this section to States and to Puerto Rico, Guam,
the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Is-
lands, and American Samoa, based on the pro-
portion of children who have not attained 5
years of age and are living in poverty.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. No further
amendment to the bill, as amended,
shall be in order except those printed
in part B of House Report 116–334. Each
such further amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the
report, by a Member designated in the
report, shall be considered read, shall
be debatable for the time specified in
the report, equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an oppo-
nent, shall not be subject to amend-
ment, and shall not be subject to a de-
mand for division of the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. WALDEN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 1 printed in
part B of House Report 116–334.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Strike all after the enactment clause and
insert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Lower Costs,
More Cures Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
The table of contents for this Act is as fol-
lows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
TITLE I—MEDICARE PARTS B AND D
Subtitle A—Medicare Part B Provisions
Sec. 101. Improvements to Medicare site-of-
service transparency.
Sec. 102. Requiring manufacturers of certain
single-dose container or single-
use package drugs payable
under part B of the Medicare
program to provide refunds
with respect to discarded
amounts of such drugs.
Sec. 103. Providing for variation in payment
for certain drugs covered under
part B of the Medicare pro-
gram.
Sec. 104. Establishment of maximum add-on
payment for drugs and
biologicals.
Sec. 105. Treatment of drug administration
services furnished by certain
excepted off-campus outpatient
departments of a provider.
Subtitle B—Drug Price Transparency
Sec. 111. Reporting on explanation for drug
price increases.
Sec. 112. Public disclosure of drug discounts.
Sec. 113. Study of pharmaceutical supply
chain intermediaries and merg-
er activity.
Sec. 114. Requiring certain manufacturers to
report drug pricing information
with respect to drugs under the
Medicare program.
Sec. 115. Making prescription drug mar-
keting sample information re-
ported by manufacturers avail-
able to certain individuals and
entities.
Sec. 116. Requiring prescription drug plan
sponsors to include real-time
benefit information as part of
such sponsor’s electronic pre-
scription program under the
Medicare program.
Sec. 117. Sense of Congress regarding the
need to expand commercially
available drug pricing compari-
son platforms.
Sec. 118. Technical corrections.
Subtitle C—Medicare Part D Benefit
Redesign
Sec. 121. Medicare Part D Benefit Redesign.
Subtitle D—Other Medicare Part D
Provisions
Sec. 131. Transitional coverage and retro-
active Medicare Part D cov-
erage for certain low-income
beneficiaries.
Sec. 132. Allowing the offering of additional
prescription drug plans under
Medicare part D.
Sec. 133. Allowing certain enrollees of pre-
scription drugs plans and MA–
PD plans under Medicare pro-
gram to spread out cost-sharing
under certain circumstances.
Sec. 134. Establishing a monthly cap on ben-
eficiary incurred costs for insu-
lin products and supplies under
a prescription drug plan or MA–
PD plan.
Sec. 135. Growth rate of Medicare part D
out-of-pocket cost threshold.
Subtitle E—MedPAC
Sec. 141. Providing the Medicare Payment
Advisory Commission and Med-
icaid and CHIP Payment and
Access Commission with access
to certain drug payment infor-
mation, including certain re-
bate information.
TITLE II—MEDICAID
Sec. 201. Sunset of limit on maximum rebate
amount for single source drugs
and innovator multiple source
drugs.
Sec. 202. Medicaid pharmacy and thera-
peutics committee improve-
ments.
Sec. 203. GAO report on conflicts of interest
in State Medicaid program drug
use review boards and phar-
macy and therapeutics (P&T)
committees.
Sec. 204. Ensuring the accuracy of manufac-
turer price and drug product in-
formation under the Medicaid
drug rebate program.
Sec. 205. Improving transparency and pre-
venting the use of abusive
spread pricing and related prac-
tices in Medicaid.
Sec. 206. T–MSIS drug data analytics re-
ports.
Sec. 207. Risk-sharing value-based payment
agreements for covered out-
patient drugs under Medicaid.
Sec. 208. Applying Medicaid drug rebate re-
quirement to drugs provided as
part of outpatient hospital
services.
TITLE III—FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION
Subtitle A—CREATES Act
Sec. 301. Actions for delays of generic drugs
and biosimilar biological prod-
ucts.
Sec. 302. Rems approval process for subse-
quent filers.
Sec. 303. Rule of construction.
Subtitle B—Pay-for-Delay
Sec. 311. Unlawful agreements.
Sec. 312. Notice and certification of agree-
ments.
Sec. 313. Forfeiture of 180-day exclusivity
period.
Sec. 314. Commission litigation authority.
Sec. 315. Statute of limitations.
Subtitle C—BLOCKING Act
Sec. 321. Change conditions of first generic
exclusivity to spur access and
competition.
Subtitle D—Purple Book
Sec. 331. Public Listing.
Sec. 332. Review and report on types of In-
formation To be listed.
Subtitle E—Orange Book
Sec. 341. Orange Book.
Sec. 342. GAO report to Congress.
Subtitle F—Advancing Education on
Biosimilars
Sec. 351. Education on biological products.
Subtitle G—Streamlining Transition of
Biological Products
Sec. 361. Streamlining the transition of bio-
logical products.
Subtitle H—Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform
Sec. 370. Short title; references in subtitle.
PART 1—OTC DRUG REVIEW
Sec. 371. Regulation of certain nonprescrip-
tion drugs that are marketed
without an approved drug appli-
cation.
Sec. 372. Misbranding.
Sec. 373. Drugs excluded from the over-the-
counter drug review.
Sec. 374. Treatment of Sunscreen Innovation
Act.
Sec. 375. Annual update to Congress on ap-
propriate pediatric indication
for certain OTC cough and cold
drugs.
Sec. 376. Technical corrections.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.001 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10168 December 12, 2019
PART 2—USER FEES
Sec. 381. Short title; finding.
Sec. 382. Fees relating to over-the-counter
drugs.
Subtitle I—Other Provisions
Sec. 391. Protecting access to biological
products.
Sec. 392. Orphan drug clarification.
Sec. 393. Conditions of use for biosimilar bi-
ological products.
Sec. 394. Clarifying the meaning of new
chemical entity.
TITLE IV—REVENUE PROVISIONS
Sec. 401. Permanent extension of reduction
in medical expense deduction
floor.
Sec. 402. Safe harbor for high deductible
health plans without deductible
for insulin.
Sec. 403. Inclusion of certain over-the-
counter medical products as
qualified medical expenses.
TITLE V—MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 501. Payment for biosimilar biological
products during initial period.
Sec. 502. GAO study and report on average
sales price.
Sec. 503. Requiring prescription drug plans
and MA–PD plans to report po-
tential fraud, waste, and abuse
to the Secretary of HHS.
Sec. 504. Establishment of pharmacy quality
measures under Medicare part
D.
Sec. 505. Improving coordination between
the Food and Drug Administra-
tion and the Centers for Medi-
care & Medicaid Services.
Sec. 506. Patient consultation in Medicare
national and local coverage de-
terminations in order to miti-
gate barriers to inclusion of
such perspectives.
Sec. 507. MedPAC report on shifting cov-
erage of certain Medicare part
B drugs to Medicare part D.
Sec. 508. Requirement that direct-to-con-
sumer advertisements for pre-
scription drugs and biological
products include truthful and
non-misleading pricing infor-
mation.
Sec. 509. Chief Pharmaceutical Negotiator
at the Office of the United
States Trade Representative.
Sec. 510. Waiving Medicare coinsurance for
colorectal cancer screening
tests.
TITLE I—MEDICARE PARTS B AND D
Subtitle A—Medicare Part B Provisions
SEC. 101. IMPROVEMENTS TO MEDICARE SITE-OF-
SERVICE TRANSPARENCY.
Section 1834(t) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395m(t)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in the heading, by striking ‘‘IN GEN-
ERAL’’ and inserting ‘‘SITE PAYMENT’’;
(B) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘or to’’ and inserting ‘‘, to’’;
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, or to a physician for
services furnished in a physician’s office’’
and ‘‘surgical center’’; and
(iii) by inserting ‘‘(or 2021 with respect to
a physician for services furnished in a physi-
cian’s office)’’ after ‘‘2018’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘and the’’ and inserting ‘‘,
the’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, and the physician fee
schedule under section 1848 (with respect to
the practice expense component of such pay-
ment amount)’’ after ‘‘such section’’;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through
(4) as paragraphs (3) through (5), respec-
tively; and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(2) PHYSICIAN PAYMENT.—Beginning in
2021, the Secretary shall expand the informa-
tion included on the Internet website de-
scribed in paragraph (1) to include—
‘‘(A) the amount paid to a physician under
section 1848 for an item or service for the
settings described in paragraph (1); and
‘‘(B) the estimated amount of beneficiary
liability applicable to the item or service.’’.
SEC. 102. REQUIRING MANUFACTURERS OF CER-
TAIN SINGLE-DOSE CONTAINER OR
SINGLE-USE PACKAGE DRUGS PAY-
ABLE UNDER PART B OF THE MEDI-
CARE PROGRAM TO PROVIDE RE-
FUNDS WITH RESPECT TO DIS-
CARDED AMOUNTS OF SUCH DRUGS.
Section 1847A of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395–3a) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(h) REFUND FOR CERTAIN DISCARDED SIN-
GLE-DOSE CONTAINER OR SINGLE-USE PACKAGE
DRUGS.—
‘‘(1) SECRETARIAL PROVISION OF INFORMA-
TION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For each calendar quar-
ter beginning on or after July 1, 2021, the
Secretary shall, with respect to a refundable
single-dose container or single-use package
drug (as defined in paragraph (8)), report to
each manufacturer (as defined in subsection
(c)(6)(A)) of such refundable single-dose con-
tainer or single-use package drug the fol-
lowing for the calendar quarter:
‘‘(i) Subject to subparagraph (C), informa-
tion on the total number of units of the bill-
ing and payment code of such drug, if any,
that were discarded during such quarter, as
determined using a mechanism such as the
JW modifier used as of the date of enactment
of this subsection (or any such successor
modifier that includes such data as deter-
mined appropriate by the Secretary).
‘‘(ii) The refund amount that the manufac-
turer is liable for pursuant to paragraph (3).
‘‘(B) DETERMINATION OF DISCARDED
AMOUNTS.—For purposes of subparagraph
(A)(i), with respect to a refundable single-
dose container or single-use package drug
furnished during a quarter, the amount of
such drug that was discarded shall be deter-
mined based on the amount of such drug that
was unused and discarded for each drug on
the date of service.
‘‘(C) EXCLUSION OF UNITS OF PACKAGED
DRUGS.—The total number of units of the
billing and payment code of a refundable sin-
gle-dose container or single-use package
drug of a manufacturer furnished during a
calendar quarter for purposes of subpara-
graph (A)(i), and the determination of the es-
timated total allowed charges for the drug in
the quarter for purposes of paragraph
(3)(A)(ii), shall not include such units that
are packaged into the payment amount for
an item or service and are not separately
payable.
‘‘(2) MANUFACTURER REQUIREMENT.—For
each calendar quarter beginning on or after
July 1, 2021, the manufacturer of a refund-
able single-dose container or single-use
package drug shall, for such drug, provide to
the Secretary a refund that is equal to the
amount specified in paragraph (3) for such
drug for such quarter.
‘‘(3) REFUND AMOUNT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The amount of the re-
fund specified in this paragraph is, with re-
spect to a refundable single-dose container
or single-use package drug of a manufacturer
assigned to a billing and payment code for a
calendar quarter beginning on or after July
1, 2021, an amount equal to the estimated
amount (if any) by which—
‘‘(i) the product of—
‘‘(I) the total number of units of the billing
and payment code for such drug that were
discarded during such quarter (as determined
under paragraph (1)); and
‘‘(II)(aa) in the case of a refundable single-
dose container or single-use package drug
that is a single source drug or biological, the
amount determined for such drug under sub-
section (b)(4); or
‘‘(bb) in the case of a refundable single-
dose container or single-use package drug
that is a biosimilar biological product, the
average sales price determined under sub-
section (b)(8)(A); exceeds
‘‘(ii) an amount equal to the applicable
percentage (as defined in subparagraph (B))
of the estimated total allowed charges for
such drug during the quarter.
‘‘(B) APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE DEFINED.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (A)(ii), the term ‘applicable percent-
age’ means—
‘‘(I) subject to subclause (II), 10 percent;
and
‘‘(II) if applicable, in the case of a refund-
able single-dose container or single-use
package drug described in clause (ii), a per-
centage specified by the Secretary pursuant
to such clause.
‘‘(ii) TREATMENT OF DRUGS THAT HAVE
UNIQUE CIRCUMSTANCES.—In the case of a re-
fundable single-dose container or single-use
package drug that has unique circumstances
involving similar loss of product as that de-
scribed in paragraph (8)(B), the Secretary,
through notice and comment rulemaking,
may increase the applicable percentage oth-
erwise applicable under clause (i)(I) as deter-
mined appropriate by the Secretary.
‘‘(4) FREQUENCY.—Amounts required to be
refunded pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be
paid in regular intervals (as determined ap-
propriate by the Secretary).
‘‘(5) REFUND DEPOSITS.—Amounts paid as
refunds pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be
deposited into the Federal Supplementary
Medical Insurance Trust Fund established
under section 1841.
‘‘(6) ENFORCEMENT.—
‘‘(A) AUDITS.—
‘‘(i) MANUFACTURER AUDITS.—Each manu-
facturer of a refundable single-dose con-
tainer or single-use package drug that is re-
quired to provide a refund under this sub-
section shall be subject to periodic audit
with respect to such drug and such refunds
by the Secretary.
‘‘(ii) PROVIDER AUDITS.—The Secretary
shall conduct periodic audits of claims sub-
mitted under this part with respect to re-
fundable single-dose container or single-use
package drugs in accordance with the au-
thority under section 1833(e) to ensure com-
pliance with the requirements applicable
under this subsection.
‘‘(B) CIVIL MONEY PENALTY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall im-
pose a civil money penalty on a manufac-
turer of a refundable single-dose container or
single-use package drug who has failed to
comply with the requirement under para-
graph (2) for such drug for a calendar quarter
in an amount equal to the sum of—
‘‘(I) the amount that the manufacturer
would have paid under such paragraph with
respect to such drug for such quarter; and
‘‘(II) 25 percent of such amount.
‘‘(ii) APPLICATION.—The provisions of sec-
tion 1128A (other than subsections (a) and
(b)) shall apply to a civil money penalty
under this subparagraph in the same manner
as such provisions apply to a penalty or pro-
ceeding under section 1128A(a).
‘‘(7) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary shall
implement this subsection through notice
and comment rulemaking.
‘‘(8) DEFINITION OF REFUNDABLE SINGLE-
DOSE CONTAINER OR SINGLE-USE PACKAGE
DRUG.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10169
December 12, 2019
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), in this subsection, the
term ‘refundable single-dose container or
single-use package drug’ means a single
source drug or biological (as defined in sec-
tion 1847A(c)(6)(D)) or a biosimilar biological
product (as defined in section 1847A(c)(6)(H))
for which payment is established under this
part and that is furnished from a single-dose
container or single-use package.
‘‘(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘refundable
single-dose container or single-use package
drug’ does not include—
‘‘(i) a drug or biological that is either a
radiopharmaceutical or an imaging agent;
‘‘(ii) a drug or biological for which dosage
and administration instructions approved by
the Commissioner of Food and Drugs require
filtration during the drug preparation proc-
ess, prior to dilution and administration, and
require that any unused portion of such drug
after the filtration process be discarded after
the completion of such filtration process; or
‘‘(iii) a drug or biological approved by the
Food and Drug Administration on or after
the date of enactment of this subsection and
with respect to which payment has been
made under this part for less than 18
months.’’.
SEC. 103. PROVIDING FOR VARIATION IN PAY-
MENT FOR CERTAIN DRUGS COV-
ERED UNDER PART B OF THE MEDI-
CARE PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1847A(b) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3a(b)) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting after
‘‘or 106 percent’’ the following: ‘‘(or, for a
multiple source drug (other than autologous
cellular immunotherapy) furnished on or
after January 1, 2021, the applicable percent
specified in paragraph (9)(A) for the drug and
quarter involved)’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1), by
inserting after ‘‘106 percent’’ the following:
‘‘(or, for a single source drug or biological
(other than autologous cellular
immunotherapy) furnished on or after Janu-
ary 1, 2021, the applicable percent specified in
paragraph (9)(A) for the drug or biological
and quarter involved)’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(9) APPLICATION OF VARIABLE PERCENTAGES
BASED ON PERCENTILE RANKING OF PER BENE-
FICIARY ALLOWED CHARGES.—
‘‘(A) APPLICABLE PERCENT TO BE APPLIED.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clauses (ii),
with respect to a drug or biological furnished
in a calendar quarter beginning on or after
January 1, 2021, if the Secretary determines
that the percentile rank of a drug or biologi-
cal under subparagraph (B)(i)(III), with re-
spect to per beneficiary allowed charges for
all such drugs or biologicals, is—
‘‘(I) at least equal to the 85th percentile,
the applicable percent for the drug for such
quarter under this subparagraph is 104 per-
cent;
‘‘(II) at least equal to the 70th percentile,
but less than the 85th percentile, such appli-
cable percent is 106 percent;
‘‘(III) at least equal to the 50th percentile,
but less than the 70th percentile, such appli-
cable percent is 108 percent; or
‘‘(IV) less than the 50th percentile, such
applicable percent is 110 percent.
‘‘(ii) CASES WHERE DATA NOT SUFFICIENTLY
AVAILABLE TO COMPUTE PER BENEFICIARY AL-
LOWED CHARGES.—Subject to clause (iii), in
the case of a drug or biological furnished for
which the amount of payment is determined
under subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph
(1) and not under subsection (c)(4), for cal-
endar quarters during a period in which data
are not sufficiently available to compute a
per beneficiary allowed charges for the drug
or biological, the applicable percent is 106
percent.
‘‘(B) DETERMINATION OF PERCENTILE RANK
OF PER BENEFICIARY ALLOWED CHARGES OF
DRUGS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—With respect to a cal-
endar quarter beginning on or after January
1, 2021, for drugs and biologicals for which
the amount of payment is determined under
subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1), ex-
cept for drugs or biologicals for which data
are not sufficiently available, the Secretary
shall—
‘‘(I) compute the per beneficiary allowed
charges (as defined in subparagraph (C)) for
each such drug or biological;
‘‘(II) adjust such per beneficiary allowed
charges for the quarter, to the extent pro-
vided under subparagraph (D); and
‘‘(III) array such adjusted per beneficiary
allowed charges for all such drugs or
biologicals from high to low and rank such
drugs or biologicals by percentile of such
arrayed per beneficiary allowed charges.
‘‘(ii) FREQUENCY.—The Secretary shall
make the computations under clause (i)(I)
every 6 months (or, if necessary, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, every 9 or 12
months) and such computations shall apply
to succeeding calendar quarters until a new
computation has been made.
‘‘(iii) APPLICABLE DATA PERIOD.—For pur-
poses of this paragraph, the term ‘applicable
data period’ means the most recent period
for which the data necessary for making the
computations under clause (i) are available,
as determined by the Secretary.
‘‘(C) PER BENEFICIARY ALLOWED CHARGES
DEFINED.—In this paragraph, the term ‘per
beneficiary allowed charges’ means, with re-
spect to a drug or biological for which the
amount of payment is determined under sub-
paragraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1)—
‘‘(i) the allowed charges for the drug or bi-
ological for which payment is so made for
the applicable data period, as estimated by
the Secretary; divided by
‘‘(ii) the number of individuals for whom
any payment for the drug or biological was
made under paragraph (1) for the applicable
data period, as estimated by the Secretary.
‘‘(D) ADJUSTMENT TO REFLECT CHANGES IN
AVERAGE SALES PRICE.—In applying this para-
graph for a particular calendar quarter, the
Secretary shall adjust the per beneficiary al-
lowed charges for a drug or biological by
multiplying such per beneficiary allowed
charges under subparagraph (C) for the appli-
cable data period by the ratio of—
‘‘(i) the average sales price for the drug or
biological for the most recent calendar quar-
ter used under subsection (c)(5)(B); to
‘‘(ii) the average sales price for the drug or
biological for the calendar quarter (or the
weighted average for the quarters involved)
included in the applicable data period.’’.
(b) APPLICATION OF JUDICIAL REVIEW PROVI-
SIONS.—Section 1847A(g) of the Social Secu-
rity Act is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of para-
graph (4);
(2) by striking the period at the end of
paragraph (5) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(6) the determination of per beneficiary
allowed charges of drugs or biologicals and
ranking of such charges under subsection
(b)(9).’’.
SEC. 104. ESTABLISHMENT OF MAXIMUM ADD-ON
PAYMENT FOR DRUGS AND
BIOLOGICALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1847A of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3a), as
amended by section 103, is further amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘para-
graph (7)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraphs (7) and
(10)’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(10) MAXIMUM ADD-ON PAYMENT AMOUNT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In determining the pay-
ment amount under the provisions of sub-
paragraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (1) of
this subsection, subsection (c)(4)(A)(ii), or
subsection (d)(3)(C) for a drug or biological
furnished on or after January 1, 2021, if the
applicable add-on payment (as defined in
subparagraph (B)) for each drug or biological
on a claim for a date of service exceeds the
maximum add-on payment amount specified
under subparagraph (C) for the drug or bio-
logical, then the payment amount otherwise
determined for the drug or biological under
those provisions, as applicable, shall be re-
duced by the amount of such excess.
‘‘(B) APPLICABLE ADD-ON PAYMENT DE-
FINED.—In this paragraph, the term ‘applica-
ble add-on payment’ means the following
amounts, determined without regard to the
application of subparagraph (A):
‘‘(i) In the case of a multiple source drug,
an amount equal to the difference between—
‘‘(I) the amount that would otherwise be
applied under paragraph (1)(A); and
‘‘(II) the amount that would be applied
under such paragraph if ‘100 percent’ were
substituted for the applicable percent (as de-
fined in paragraph (9)) for such drug.
‘‘(ii) In the case of a single source drug or
biological, an amount equal to the difference
between—
‘‘(I) the amount that would otherwise be
applied under paragraph (1)(B); and
‘‘(II) the amount that would be applied
under such paragraph if ‘100 percent’ were
substituted for the applicable percent (as de-
fined in paragraph (9)) for such drug or bio-
logical.
‘‘(iii) In the case of a biosimilar biological
product, the amount otherwise determined
under paragraph (8)(B).
‘‘(iv) In the case of a drug or biological
during the initial period described in sub-
section (c)(4)(A), an amount equal to the dif-
ference between—
‘‘(I) the amount that would otherwise be
applied under subsection (c)(4)(A)(ii); and
‘‘(II) the amount that would be applied
under such subsection if ‘100 percent’ were
substituted, as applicable, for—
‘‘(aa) ‘103 percent’ in subclause (I) of such
subsection; or
‘‘(bb) any percent in excess of 100 percent
applied under subclause (II) of such sub-
section.
‘‘(v) In the case of a drug or biological to
which subsection (d)(3)(C) applies, an amount
equal to the difference between—
‘‘(I) the amount that would otherwise be
applied under such subsection; and
‘‘(II) the amount that would be applied
under such subsection if ‘100 percent’ were
substituted, as applicable, for—
‘‘(aa) any percent in excess of 100 percent
applied under clause (i) of such subsection;
or
‘‘(bb) ‘103 percent’ in clause (ii) of such sub-
section.
‘‘(C) MAXIMUM ADD-ON PAYMENT AMOUNT
SPECIFIED.—For purposes of subparagraph
(A), the maximum add-on payment amount
specified in this subparagraph is—
‘‘(i) with respect to a drug or biological
(other than autologous cellular
immunotherapy)—
‘‘(I) for each of 2021 through 2028, $1,000;
and
‘‘(II) for a subsequent year, the amount
specified in this subparagraph for the pre-
ceding year increased by the percentage in-
crease in the consumer price index for all
urban consumers (all items; United States
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10170 December 12, 2019
city average) for the 12-month period ending
with June of the previous year; or
‘‘(ii) with respect to a drug or biological
consisting of autologous cellular
immunotherapy—
‘‘(I) for each of 2021 through 2028, $2,000;
and
‘‘(II) for a subsequent year, the amount
specified in this subparagraph for the pre-
ceding year increased by the percentage in-
crease in the consumer price index for all
urban consumers (all items; United States
city average) for the 12-month period ending
with June of the previous year.
Any amount determined under this subpara-
graph that is not a multiple of $10 shall be
rounded to the nearest multiple of $10.’’
(2) in subsection (c)(4)(A)(ii), by striking
‘‘in the case’’ and inserting ‘‘subject to sub-
section (b)(10), in the case’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO
SEPARATELY PAYABLE DRUGS.—
(1) OPPS.—Section 1833(t)(14) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395l(t)(14)) is amend-
ed—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(iii)(II), by insert-
ing ‘‘, subject to subparagraph (I)’’ after ‘‘are
not available’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(I) APPLICATION OF MAXIMUM ADD-ON PAY-
MENT FOR SEPARATELY PAYABLE DRUGS AND
BIOLOGICALS.—In establishing the amount of
payment under subparagraph (A) for a speci-
fied covered outpatient drug that is fur-
nished as part of a covered OPD service (or
group of services) on or after January 1, 2021,
if such payment is determined based on the
average price for the year established under
section 1847A pursuant to clause (iii)(II) of
such subparagraph, the provisions of sub-
section (b)(10) of section 1847A shall apply to
the amount of payment so established in the
same manner as such provisions apply to the
amount of payment under section 1847A.’’.
(2) ASC.—Section 1833(i)(2)(D) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395l(i)(2)(D)) is
amended—
(A) by moving clause (v) 6 ems to the left;
(B) by redesignating clause (vi) as clause
(vii); and
(C) by inserting after clause (v) the fol-
lowing new clause:
‘‘(vi) If there is a separate payment under
the system described in clause (i) for a drug
or biological furnished on or after January 1,
2021, the provisions of subsection (t)(14)(I)
shall apply to the establishment of the
amount of payment for the drug or biological
under such system in the same manner in
which such provisions apply to the establish-
ment of the amount of payment under sub-
section (t)(14)(A).’’.
SEC. 105. TREATMENT OF DRUG ADMINISTRA-
TION SERVICES FURNISHED BY CER-
TAIN EXCEPTED OFF-CAMPUS OUT-
PATIENT DEPARTMENTS OF A PRO-
VIDER.
Section 1833(t)(16) of the Social Security
Act (42 12 U.S.C. 1395l(t)(16)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new subpara-
graph:
‘‘(G) SPECIAL PAYMENT RULE FOR DRUG AD-
MINISTRATION SERVICES FURNISHED BY AN EX-
CEPTED DEPARTMENT OF A PROVIDER.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a covered
OPD service that is a drug administration
service (as defined by the Secretary) fur-
nished by a department of a provider de-
scribed in clause (ii) or (iv) of paragraph
(21)(B), the payment amount for such service
furnished on or after January 1, 2021, shall be
the same payment amount (as determined in
paragraph (21)(C)) that would apply if the
drug administration service was furnished by
an off-campus outpatient department of a
provider (as defined in paragraph (21)(B)).
‘‘(ii) APPLICATION WITHOUT REGARD TO
BUDGET NEUTRALITY.—The reductions made
under this subparagraph—
‘‘(I) shall not be considered an adjustment
under paragraph (2)(E); and
‘‘(II) shall not be implemented in a budget
neutral manner.’’.
Subtitle B—Drug Price Transparency
SEC. 111. REPORTING ON EXPLANATION FOR
DRUG PRICE INCREASES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘PART W—DRUG PRICE REPORTING;
DRUG VALUE FUND
‘‘SEC. 399OO. REPORTING ON EXPLANATION FOR
DRUG PRICE INCREASES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) MANUFACTURER.—The term ‘manufac-
turer’ means the person—
‘‘(A) that holds the application for a drug
approved under section 505 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or licensed
under section 351 of this Act; or
‘‘(B) who is responsible for setting the
wholesale acquisition cost for the drug.
‘‘(2) QUALIFYING DRUG.—The term ‘quali-
fying drug’ means any drug that is approved
under subsection (c) or (j) of section 505 of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or
licensed under subsection (a) or (k) of sec-
tion 351 of this Act—
‘‘(A) that has a wholesale acquisition cost
of $100 or more, adjusted for inflation occur-
ring after the date of enactment of this sec-
tion, for a month’s supply or a typical course
of treatment that lasts less than a month,
and is—
‘‘(i) subject to section 503(b)(1) of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
‘‘(ii) administered or otherwise dispensed
to treat a disease or condition affecting more
than 200,000 persons in the United States;
and
‘‘(iii) not a vaccine; and
‘‘(B) for which, during the previous cal-
endar year, at least 1 dollar of the total
amount of sales were for individuals enrolled
under the Medicare program under title
XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395 et seq.) or under a State Medicaid plan
under title XIX of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et
seq.) or under a waiver of such plan.
‘‘(3) WHOLESALE ACQUISITION COST.—The
term ‘wholesale acquisition cost’ has the
meaning given that term in section
1847A(c)(6)(B) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395w–3a(c)(6)(B)).
‘‘(b) REPORT.—
‘‘(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—The manufacturer
of a qualifying drug shall submit a report to
the Secretary—
‘‘(A) for each increase in the price of a
qualifying drug that results in an increase in
the wholesale acquisition cost of that drug
that is equal to—
‘‘(i) 10 percent or more within a single cal-
endar year beginning on or after January 1,
2019; or
‘‘(ii) 25 percent or more within three con-
secutive calendar years for which the first
such calendar year begins on or after Janu-
ary 1, 2019; and
‘‘(B) in the case that the qualifying drug is
first covered under title XVIII with respect
to an applicable year, if the estimated cost
or spending under such title per individual or
per user of such drug (as estimated by the
Secretary) for such applicable year (or per
course of treatment in such applicable year,
as defined by the Secretary) is at least
$26,000.
‘‘(2) REPORT DEADLINE.—Each report de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be submitted to
the Secretary—
‘‘(A) in the case of a report with respect to
an increase in the price of a qualifying drug
that occurs during the period beginning on
January 1, 2019, and ending on the day that
is 60 days after the date of enactment of this
section, not later than 90 days after such
date of enactment;
‘‘(B) in the case of a report with respect to
an increase in the price of a qualifying drug
that occurs after the period described in sub-
paragraph (A), not later than 30 days prior to
the planned effective date of such price in-
crease for such qualifying drug; and
‘‘(C) in the case of a report with respect to
a qualifying drug that meets the criteria de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(B), not later than 30
days after such drug meets such criteria.
‘‘(c) CONTENTS.—A report under subsection
(b), consistent with the standard for disclo-
sures described in section 213.3(d) of title 12,
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on
the date of enactment of this section), shall,
at a minimum, include—
‘‘(1) with respect to the qualifying drug—
‘‘(A) the percentage by which the manufac-
turer will raise the wholesale acquisition
cost of the drug within the calendar year or
three consecutive calendar years as de-
scribed in subsection (b)(1)(A) or (b)(1)(B), if
applicable, and the effective date of such
price increase;
‘‘(B) an explanation for, and description of,
each price increase for such drug that will
occur during the calendar year period de-
scribed in subsection (b)(1)(A) or the three
consecutive calendar year period described
in subsection (b)(1)(B), as applicable;
‘‘(C) if known and different from the manu-
facturer of the qualifying drug, the identity
of—
‘‘(i) the sponsor or sponsors of any inves-
tigational new drug applications under sec-
tion 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act for clinical investigations with
respect to such drug, for which the full re-
ports are submitted as part of the applica-
tion—
‘‘(I) for approval of the drug under section
505 of such Act; or
‘‘(II) for licensure of the drug under section
351 of this Act; and
‘‘(ii) the sponsor of an application for the
drug approved under such section 505 of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or li-
censed under section 351 of this Act;
‘‘(D) a description of the history of the
manufacturer’s price increases for the drug
since the approval of the application for the
drug under section 505 of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act or the issuance of
the license for the drug under section 351 of
this Act, or since the manufacturer acquired
such approved application or license, if ap-
plicable;
‘‘(E) the current wholesale acquisition cost
of the drug;
‘‘(F) the total expenditures of the manufac-
turer on—
‘‘(i) materials and manufacturing for such
drug; and
‘‘(ii) acquiring patents and licensing for
such drug;
‘‘(G) the percentage of total expenditures
of the manufacturer on research and develop-
ment for such drug that was derived from
Federal funds;
‘‘(H) the total expenditures of the manu-
facturer on research and development for
such drug that is necessary to demonstrate
that it meets applicable statutory standards
for approval under section 505 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or licensure
under section 351 of this Act, as applicable;
‘‘(I) the total expenditures of the manufac-
turer on pursuing new or expanded indica-
tions or dosage changes for such drug under
section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act or section 351 of this Act;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10171
December 12, 2019
‘‘(J) the total expenditures of the manufac-
turer on carrying out postmarket require-
ments related to such drug, including under
section 505(o)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act;
‘‘(K) the total revenue and the net profit
generated from the qualifying drug for each
calendar year since the approval of the appli-
cation for the drug under section 505 of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or the
issuance of the license for the drug under
section 351, or since the manufacturer ac-
quired such approved application or license;
and
‘‘(L) the total costs associated with mar-
keting and advertising for the qualifying
drug;
‘‘(2) with respect to the manufacturer—
‘‘(A) the total revenue and the net profit of
the manufacturer for each of the 1-year pe-
riod described in subsection (b)(1)(A) or the
3-year period described in subsection
(b)(1)(B), as applicable;
‘‘(B) all stock-based performance metrics
used by the manufacturer to determine exec-
utive compensation for each of the 1-year pe-
riod described in subsection (b)(1)(A) or the
3-year period described in subsection
(b)(1)(B), as applicable; and
‘‘(C) any additional information the manu-
facturer chooses to provide related to drug
pricing decisions, such as total expenditures
on—
‘‘(i) drug research and development; or
‘‘(ii) clinical trials, including on drugs that
failed to receive approval by the Food and
Drug Administration; and
‘‘(3) such other related information as the
Secretary considers appropriate and as speci-
fied by the Secretary through notice-and-
comment rulemaking.
‘‘(d) INFORMATION PROVIDED.—The manu-
facturer of a qualifying drug that is required
to submit a report under subsection (b), shall
ensure that such report and any explanation
for, and description of, each price increase
described in subsection (c)(1)(B) shall be
truthful, not misleading, and accurate.
‘‘(e) CIVIL MONETARY PENALTY.—Any man-
ufacturer of a qualifying drug that fails to
submit a report for the drug as required by
this section, following notification by the
Secretary to the manufacturer that the man-
ufacturer is not in compliance with this sec-
tion, shall be subject to a civil monetary
penalty of $75,000 for each day on which the
violation continues.
‘‘(f) FALSE INFORMATION.—Any manufac-
turer that submits a report for a drug as re-
quired by this section that knowingly pro-
vides false information in such report is sub-
ject to a civil monetary penalty in an
amount not to exceed $75,000 for each item of
false information.
‘‘(g) PUBLIC POSTING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3),
the Secretary shall post each report sub-
mitted under subsection (b) on the public
website of the Department of Health and
Human Services the day the price increase of
a qualifying drug is scheduled to go into ef-
fect.
‘‘(2) FORMAT.—In developing the format in
which reports will be publicly posted under
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult
with stakeholders, including beneficiary
groups, and shall seek feedback from con-
sumer advocates and readability experts on
the format and presentation of the content
of such reports to ensure that such reports
are—
‘‘(A) user-friendly to the public; and
‘‘(B) written in plain language that con-
sumers can readily understand.
‘‘(3) PROTECTED INFORMATION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to authorize
the public disclosure of information sub-
mitted by a manufacturer that is prohibited
from disclosure by applicable laws con-
cerning the protection of trade secrets, com-
mercial information, and other information
covered under such laws.
‘‘SEC. 399OO–1. ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection
(b), the Secretary shall submit to Congress,
and post on the public website of the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services in a way
that is user-friendly to the public and writ-
ten in plain language that consumers can
readily understand, an annual report—
‘‘(1) summarizing the information reported
pursuant to section 399OO;
‘‘(2) including copies of the reports and
supporting detailed economic analyses sub-
mitted pursuant to such section;
‘‘(3) detailing the costs and expenditures
incurred by the Department of Health and
Human Services in carrying out section
399OO; and
‘‘(4) explaining how the Department of
Health and Human Services is improving
consumer and provider information about
drug value and drug price transparency.
‘‘(b) PROTECTED INFORMATION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to authorize
the public disclosure of information sub-
mitted by a manufacturer that is prohibited
from disclosure by applicable laws con-
cerning the protection of trade secrets, com-
mercial information, and other information
covered under such laws.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) takes effect on the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 112. PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DRUG DIS-
COUNTS.
Section 1150A of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1320b–23) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘(other
than as permitted under subsection (e))’’
after ‘‘disclosed by the Secretary’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(e) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF CERTAIN IN-
FORMATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to allow the
comparison of PBMs’ ability to negotiate re-
bates, discounts, direct and indirect remu-
neration fees, administrative fees, and price
concessions and the amount of such rebates,
discounts, direct and indirect remuneration
fees, administrative fees, and price conces-
sions that are passed through to plan spon-
sors, beginning January 1, 2020, the Sec-
retary shall make available on the Internet
website of the Department of Health and
Human Services the information with re-
spect to the second preceding calendar year
provided to the Secretary on generic dis-
pensing rates (as described in paragraph (1)
of subsection (b)) and information provided
to the Secretary under paragraphs (2) and (3)
of such subsection that, as determined by
the Secretary, is with respect to each PBM.
‘‘(2) AVAILABILITY OF DATA.—In carrying
out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure
the following:
‘‘(A) CONFIDENTIALITY.—The information
described in such paragraph is displayed in a
manner that prevents the disclosure of infor-
mation, with respect to an individual drug or
an individual plan, on rebates, discounts, di-
rect and indirect remuneration fees, admin-
istrative fees, and price concessions.
‘‘(B) CLASS OF DRUG.—The information de-
scribed in such paragraph is made available
by class of drug, using an existing classifica-
tion system, but only if the class contains
such number of drugs, as specified by the
Secretary (but not fewer than three drugs),
to ensure confidentiality of proprietary in-
formation or other information that is pre-
vented to be disclosed under subparagraph
(A).’’.
SEC. 113. STUDY OF PHARMACEUTICAL SUPPLY
CHAIN INTERMEDIARIES AND MERG-
ER ACTIVITY.
(a) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Commission shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report that—
(1) addresses at minimum—
(A) whether pharmacy benefit managers—
(i) charge payers a higher price than the
reimbursement rate at which the pharmacy
benefit managers reimburse competing phar-
macies;
(ii) steer patients for anticompetitive pur-
poses to any pharmacies, including retail,
mail-order, or any other type of pharmacy,
in which the pharmacy benefit manager has
an ownership interest;
(iii) audit or review proprietary data, in-
cluding acquisition costs, patient informa-
tion, or dispensing information, of com-
peting pharmacies that can be used for anti-
competitive purposes; or
(iv) use formulary designs to increase the
market share of higher cost prescription
drugs and depress the market share of lower
cost prescription drugs (each net of rebates
and discounts);
(B) how companies and payers assess the
benefits, costs, and risks of contracting with
intermediaries, including pharmacy services
administrative organizations, and whether
more information about the roles of inter-
mediaries should be available to consumers
and payers; and
(C) whether there are any specific legal or
regulatory obstacles the Commission cur-
rently faces in ensuring a competitive and
transparent marketplace in the pharma-
ceutical supply chain, including the phar-
macy benefit manager marketplace and
pharmacy services administrative organiza-
tions; and
(2) provides—
(A) observations or conclusions drawn from
the November 2017 roundtable entitled ‘‘Un-
derstanding Competition in Prescription
Drug Markets: Entry and Supply Chain Dy-
namics’’, and any similar efforts;
(B) specific actions the Commission in-
tends to take as a result of the November
2017 roundtable, and any similar efforts, in-
cluding a detailed description of relevant
forthcoming actions, additional research or
roundtable discussions, consumer education
efforts, or enforcement actions; and
(C) policy or legislative recommendations
to—
(i) improve transparency and competition
in the pharmaceutical supply chain;
(ii) prevent and deter anticompetitive be-
havior in the pharmaceutical supply chain;
and
(iii) best ensure that consumers benefit
from any cost savings or efficiencies that
may result from mergers and consolidations.
(b) INTERIM REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Commission shall submit to the appro-
priate committees of Congress an interim re-
port on the progress of the report required by
subsection (a), along with preliminary find-
ings and conclusions based on information
collected to that date.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
(B) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate; and
(C) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives.
(2) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Trade Commission.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10172 December 12, 2019
SEC. 114. REQUIRING CERTAIN MANUFACTURERS
TO REPORT DRUG PRICING INFOR-
MATION WITH RESPECT TO DRUGS
UNDER THE MEDICARE PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1847A of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3a) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ‘‘or
subsection (f)(2), as applicable’’ before the
period at the end;
(B) in paragraph (3), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or
subsection (f)(2), as applicable,’’ before ‘‘de-
termined by’’; and
(C) in paragraph (6)(A), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by inserting ‘‘or subsection
(f)(2), as applicable,’’ before ‘‘determined
by’’; and
(2) in subsection (f)—
(A) by striking ‘‘For requirements’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For requirements’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) MANUFACTURERS WITHOUT A REBATE
AGREEMENT UNDER TITLE XIX.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the manufacturer of a
drug or biological described in subparagraph
(C), (E), or (G) of section 1842(o)(1) or in sec-
tion 1881(b)(14)(B) that is payable under this
part has not entered into and does not have
in effect a rebate agreement described in
subsection (b) of section 1927, for calendar
quarters beginning on or after January 1,
2020, such manufacturer shall report to the
Secretary the information described in sub-
section (b)(3)(A)(iii) of such section 1927 with
respect to such drug or biological in a time
and manner specified by the Secretary. For
purposes of applying this paragraph, a drug
or biological described in the previous sen-
tence includes items, services, supplies, and
products that are payable under this part as
a drug or biological.
‘‘(B) AUDIT.—Information reported under
subparagraph (A) is subject to audit by the
Inspector General of the Department of
Health and Human Services.
‘‘(C) VERIFICATION.—The Secretary may
survey wholesalers and manufacturers that
directly distribute drugs described in sub-
paragraph (A), when necessary, to verify
manufacturer prices and manufacturer’s av-
erage sales prices (including wholesale acqui-
sition cost) if required to make payment re-
ported under subparagraph (A). The Sec-
retary may impose a civil monetary penalty
in an amount not to exceed $100,000 on a
wholesaler, manufacturer, or direct seller, if
the wholesaler, manufacturer, or direct sell-
er of such a drug refuses a request for infor-
mation about charges or prices by the Sec-
retary in connection with a survey under
this subparagraph or knowingly provides
false information. The provisions of section
1128A (other than subsections (a) (with re-
spect to amounts of penalties or additional
assessments) and (b)) shall apply to a civil
money penalty under this subparagraph in
the same manner as such provisions apply to
a penalty or proceeding under section
1128A(a).
‘‘(D) CONFIDENTIALITY.—Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, information dis-
closed by manufacturers or wholesalers
under this paragraph (other than the whole-
sale acquisition cost for purposes of carrying
out this section) is confidential and shall not
be disclosed by the Secretary in a form
which discloses the identity of a specific
manufacturer or wholesaler or prices
charged for drugs by such manufacturer or
wholesaler, except—
‘‘(i) as the Secretary determines to be nec-
essary to carry out this section (including
the determination and implementation of
the payment amount), or to carry out sec-
tion 1847B;
‘‘(ii) to permit the Comptroller General of
the United States to review the information
provided; and
‘‘(iii) to permit the Director of the Con-
gressional Budget Office to review the infor-
mation provided.’’.
(b) ENFORCEMENT.—Section 1847A of such
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3a) is further amended—
(1) in subsection (d)(4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘IN
GENERAL’’ and inserting ‘‘MISREPRESENTA-
TION’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘sub-
paragraph (B)’’ and inserting ‘‘subparagraph
(A), (B), or (C)’’;
(C) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as
subparagraph (D); and
(D) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following new subparagraphs:
‘‘(B) FAILURE TO PROVIDE TIMELY INFORMA-
TION.—If the Secretary determines that a
manufacturer described in subsection (f)(2)
has failed to report on information described
in section 1927(b)(3)(A)(iii) with respect to a
drug or biological in accordance with such
subsection, the Secretary shall apply a civil
money penalty in an amount of $10,000 for
each day the manufacturer has failed to re-
port such information and such amount shall
be paid to the Treasury.
‘‘(C) FALSE INFORMATION.—Any manufac-
turer required to submit information under
subsection (f)(2) that knowingly provides
false information is subject to a civil money
penalty in an amount not to exceed $100,000
for each item of false information. Such civil
money penalties are in addition to other pen-
alties as may be prescribed by law.’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)(6)(A), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘, except
that, for purposes of subsection (f)(2), the
Secretary may, if the Secretary determines
appropriate, exclude repackagers of a drug or
biological from such term.’’.
(c) MANUFACTURERS WITH A REBATE AGREE-
MENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1927(b)(3)(A) of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–
8(b)(3)(A)) is amended by adding at the end
the following new sentence: ‘‘For purposes of
applying clause (iii), a drug or biological de-
scribed in the flush matter following such
clause includes items, services, supplies, and
products that are payable under this part as
a drug or biological.’’.
(2) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section
1927(b)(3)(A)(iii) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)(3)(A)(iii)) is amended by
striking ‘‘section 1881(b)(13)(A)(ii)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘section 1881(b)(14)(B)’’.
(d) REPORT.—Not later than January 1,
2021, the Inspector General of the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services shall as-
sess and submit to Congress a report on the
accuracy of average sales price information
submitted by manufacturers under section
1847A of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395w–3a). Such report shall include any rec-
ommendations on how to improve the accu-
racy of such information.
SEC. 115. MAKING PRESCRIPTION DRUG MAR-
KETING SAMPLE INFORMATION RE-
PORTED BY MANUFACTURERS
AVAILABLE TO CERTAIN INDIVID-
UALS AND ENTITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1128H of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a–7i) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (e); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing new subsections:
‘‘(b) DATA SHARING AGREEMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
enter into agreements with the specified
data sharing individuals and entities de-
scribed in paragraph (2) under which—
‘‘(A) upon request of such an individual or
entity, as applicable, the Secretary makes
available to such individual or entity the in-
formation submitted under subsection (a) by
manufacturers and authorized distributors of
record; and
‘‘(B) such individual or entity agrees to not
disclose publicly or to another individual or
entity any information that identifies a par-
ticular practitioner or health care facility.
‘‘(2) SPECIFIED DATA SHARING INDIVIDUALS
AND ENTITIES.—For purposes of paragraph (1),
the specified data sharing individuals and
entities described in this paragraph are the
following:
‘‘(A) OVERSIGHT AGENCIES.—Health over-
sight agencies (as defined in section 164.501 of
title 45, Code of Federal Regulations), in-
cluding the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services, the Office of the Inspector General
of the Department of Health and Human
Services, the Government Accountability Of-
fice, the Congressional Budget Office, the
Medicare Payment Advisory Commission,
and the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Ac-
cess Commission.
‘‘(B) RESEARCHERS.—Individuals who con-
duct scientific research (as defined in section
164.501 of title 45, Code of Federal Regula-
tions) in relevant areas as determined by the
Secretary.
‘‘(C) PAYERS.—Private and public health
care payers, including group health plans,
health insurance coverage offered by health
insurance issuers, Federal health programs,
and State health programs.
‘‘(3) EXEMPTION FROM FREEDOM OF INFORMA-
TION ACT.—Except as described in paragraph
(1), the Secretary may not be compelled to
disclose the information submitted under
subsection (a) to any individual or entity.
For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United
States Code (commonly referred to as the
Freedom of Information Act), this paragraph
shall be considered a statute described in
subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section.
‘‘(c) PENALTIES.—
‘‘(1) DATA SHARING AGREEMENTS.—Subject
to paragraph (3), any specified data sharing
individual or entity described in subsection
(b)(2) that violates the terms of a data shar-
ing agreement the individual or entity has
with the Secretary under subsection (b)(1)
shall be subject to a civil money penalty of
not less than $1,000, but not more than
$10,000, for each such violation. Such penalty
shall be imposed and collected in the same
manner as civil money penalties under sub-
section (a) of section 1128A are imposed and
collected under that section.
‘‘(2) FAILURE TO REPORT.—Subject to para-
graph (3), any manufacturer or authorized
distributor of record of an applicable drug
under subsection (a) that fails to submit in-
formation required under such subsection in
a timely manner in accordance with rules or
regulations promulgated to carry out such
subsection shall be subject to a civil money
penalty of not less than $1,000, but not more
than $10,000, for each such failure. Such pen-
alty shall be imposed and collected in the
same manner as civil money penalties under
subsection (a) of section 1128A are imposed
and collected under that section.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—The total amount of civil
money penalties imposed under paragraph (1)
or (2) with respect to a year and an indi-
vidual or entity described in paragraph (1) or
a manufacturer or distributor described in
paragraph (2), respectively, shall not exceed
$150,000.
‘‘(d) DRUG SAMPLE DISTRIBUTION INFORMA-
TION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January 1
of each year (beginning with 2021), the Sec-
retary shall maintain a list containing infor-
mation related to the distribution of samples
of applicable drugs. Such list shall provide
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10173
December 12, 2019
the following information with respect to
the preceding year:
‘‘(A) The name of the manufacturer or au-
thorized distributor of record of an applica-
ble drug for which samples were requested or
distributed under this section.
‘‘(B) The quantity and class of drug sam-
ples requested.
‘‘(C) The quantity and class of drug sam-
ples distributed.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary
shall make the information in such list
available to the public on the Internet
website of the Food and Drug Administra-
tion.’’.
(b) FDA MAINTENANCE OF INFORMATION.—
The Food and Drug Administration shall
maintain information available to affected
reporting companies to ensure their ability
to fully comply with the requirements of sec-
tion 1128H of the Social Security Act.
(c) PROHIBITION ON DISTRIBUTION OF SAM-
PLES OF OPIOIDS.—Section 503(d) of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
353(d)) is amended—
(1) by moving the margin of paragraph (4)
2 ems to the left; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) No person may distribute a drug sam-
ple of a drug that is—
‘‘(A) an applicable drug (as defined in sec-
tion 1128H(e) of the Social Security Act);
‘‘(B) a controlled substance (as defined in
section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act)
for which the findings required under section
202(b)(2) of such Act have been made; and
‘‘(C) approved under section 505 for use in
the management or treatment of pain (other
than for the management or treatment of a
substance use disorder).’’.
(d) MEDPAC REPORT.—Not later than 3
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Medicare Payment Advisory Com-
mission shall conduct a study on the impact
of drug samples on provider prescribing prac-
tices and health care costs and may, as the
Commission deems appropriate, make rec-
ommendations on such study.
SEC. 116. REQUIRING PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN
SPONSORS TO INCLUDE REAL-TIME
BENEFIT INFORMATION AS PART OF
SUCH SPONSOR’S ELECTRONIC PRE-
SCRIPTION PROGRAM UNDER THE
MEDICARE PROGRAM.
Section 1860D–4(e)(2) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–104(e)(2)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘To
the extent’’ and inserting ‘‘Except as pro-
vided in subparagraph (F), to the extent’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(F) REAL-TIME BENEFIT INFORMATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January 1,
2021, the program shall implement real-time
benefit tools that are capable of integrating
with a prescribing health care professional’s
electronic prescribing or electronic health
record system for the transmission of for-
mulary and benefit information in real time
to prescribing health care professionals.
With respect to a covered part D drug, such
tools shall be capable of transmitting such
information specific to an individual en-
rolled in a prescription drug plan. Such in-
formation shall include the following:
‘‘(I) A list of any clinically-appropriate al-
ternatives to such drug included in the for-
mulary of such plan.
‘‘(II) Cost-sharing information for such
drug and such alternatives, including a de-
scription of any variance in cost-sharing
based on the pharmacy dispensing such drug
or such alternatives.
‘‘(III) Information relating to whether such
drug is included in the formulary of such
plan and any prior authorization or other
utilization management requirements appli-
cable to such drug and such alternatives so
included.
‘‘(ii) ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION.—The pro-
visions of subclauses (I) and (II) of clause (ii)
of subparagraph (E) shall apply to an elec-
tronic transmission described in clause (i) in
the same manner as such provisions apply
with respect to an electronic transmission
described in clause (i) of such subparagraph.
‘‘(iii) SPECIAL RULE FOR 2021.—The program
shall be deemed to be in compliance with
clause (i) for 2021 if the program complies
with the provisions of section 423.160(b)(7) of
title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (or a
successor regulation), for such year.
‘‘(iv) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subparagraph shall be construed as to
allow a real-time benefits tool to steer an in-
dividual, without the consent of the indi-
vidual, to a particular pharmacy or phar-
macy setting over their preferred pharmacy
setting nor prohibit the designation of a pre-
ferred pharmacy under such tool.’’.
SEC. 117. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE
NEED TO EXPAND COMMERCIALLY
AVAILABLE DRUG PRICING COM-
PARISON PLATFORMS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) commercially available drug pricing
comparison platforms can, at no cost, help
patients find the lowest price for their medi-
cations at their local pharmacy;
(2) such platforms should be integrated, to
the maximum extent possible, in the health
care delivery ecosystem; and
(3) pharmacy benefit managers should
work to disclose generic and brand name
drug prices to such platforms to ensure
that—
(A) patients can benefit from the lowest
possible price available to them; and
(B) overall drug prices can be reduced as
more educated purchasing decisions are
made based on price transparency.
SEC. 118. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3022(b) of the
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300jj–
52(b)) is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(4) APPLICATION OF AUTHORITIES UNDER IN-
SPECTOR GENERAL ACT OF 1978.—In carrying
out this subsection, the Inspector General
shall have the same authorities as provided
under section 6 of the Inspector General Act
of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect as if
included in the enactment of the 21st Cen-
tury Cures Act (Public Law 114–255).
Subtitle C—Medicare Part D Benefit
Redesign
SEC. 121. MEDICARE PART D BENEFIT REDESIGN.
(a) BENEFIT STRUCTURE REDESIGN.—Section
1860D–2(b) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395w– 102(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by in-
serting ‘‘for a year preceding 2022 and for
costs above the annual deductible specified
in paragraph (1) and up to the annual out-of-
pocket threshold specified in paragraph
(4)(B) for 2022 and each subsequent year’’
after ‘‘paragraph (3)’’; and
(ii) in clause (i), by inserting after ‘‘25 per-
cent’’ the following: ‘‘(or, for 2022 and each
subsequent year, 15 percent)’’;
(B) in subparagraph (C)—
(i) in clause (i), in the matter preceding
subclause (I), by inserting ‘‘for a year pre-
ceding 2022,’’ after ‘‘paragraph (4),’’; and
(ii) in clause (ii)(III), by striking ‘‘and each
subsequent year’’ and inserting ‘‘and 2021’’;
and
(C) in subparagraph (D)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) in the matter preceding subclause (I),
by inserting ‘‘for a year preceding 2022,’’
after ‘‘paragraph (4),’’; and
(II) in subclause (I)(bb), by striking ‘‘a year
after 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘each of years 2018
through 2021’’; and
(ii) in clause (ii)(V), by striking ‘‘2019 and
each subsequent year’’ and inserting ‘‘each
of years 2019 through 2021’’;
(2) in paragraph (3)(A)—
(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
inserting ‘‘for a year preceding 2022,’’ after
‘‘and (4),’’; and
(B) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘for a subse-
quent year’’ and inserting ‘‘for each of years
2007 through 2021’’;
(3) in paragraph (4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) by redesignating subclauses (I) and (II)
as items (aa) and (bb), respectively, and in-
denting appropriately;
(II) in the matter preceding item (aa), as
redesignated by subclause (I), by striking ‘‘is
equal to the greater of—’’ and inserting ‘‘is
equal to—
‘‘(I) for a year preceding 2022, the greater
of—’’.
(III) by striking the period at the end of
item (bb), as redesignated by subclause (I),
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(IV) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(II) for 2022 and each succeeding year,
$0.’’; and
(ii) in clause (ii)—
(I) by striking ‘‘clause (i)(I)’’ and inserting
‘‘clause (i)(I)(aa)’’; and
(II) by adding at the end the following new
sentence: ‘‘The Secretary shall continue to
calculate the dollar amounts specified in
clause (i)(I)(aa), including with the adjust-
ment under this clause, after 2021 for pur-
poses of section 1860D–14(a)(1)(D)(iii).’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) in subclause (V), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end;
(II) in subclause (VI)—
(aa) by striking ‘‘for a subsequent year’’
and inserting ‘‘for 2021’’; and
(bb) by striking the period at the end and
inserting a semicolon; and
(III) by adding at the end the following new
subclauses:
‘‘(VII) for 2022, is equal to $3,100; or
‘‘(VIII) for a subsequent year, is equal to
the amount specified in this subparagraph
for the previous year, increased by the an-
nual percentage increase described in para-
graph (6) for the year involved.’’; and
(ii) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘clause
(i)(II)’’ and inserting ‘‘clause (i)’’;
(C) in subparagraph (C)(i), by striking ‘‘and
for amounts’’ and inserting ‘‘and for a year
preceding 2022 for amounts’’; and
(D) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘In
applying’’ and inserting ‘‘For each of 2011
through 2021, in applying’’.
(b) DECREASING REINSURANCE PAYMENT
AMOUNT.—Section 1860D–15(b)(1) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–115(b)(1)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘equal to 80 percent’’ and
inserting ‘‘equal to–
‘‘(A) for a year preceding 2022, 80 percent’’;
(2) in subparagraph (A), as added by para-
graph (1), by striking the period at the end
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(B) for 2022 and each subsequent year, the
sum of—
‘‘(i) an amount equal to 20 percent of the
allowable reinsurance costs (as specified in
paragraph (2)) attributable to that portion of
gross covered prescription drug costs as spec-
ified in paragraph (3) incurred in the cov-
erage year after such individual has incurred
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10174 December 12, 2019
costs that exceed the annual out-of-pocket
threshold specified in section 1860D–2(b)(4)(B)
with respect to applicable drugs (as defined
in section 1860D–14B(g)(2)); and
‘‘(ii) an amount equal to 30 percent of the
allowable reinsurance costs (as specified in
paragraph (2)) attributable to that portion of
gross covered prescription drug costs as spec-
ified in paragraph (3) incurred in the cov-
erage year after such individual has incurred
costs that exceed the annual out-of-pocket
threshold specified in section 1860D–2(b)(4)(B)
with respect to covered part D drugs that are
not applicable drugs (as so defined).’’.
(c) MANUFACTURER DISCOUNT PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Part D of title XVIII of
the Social Security Act is amended by in-
serting after section 1860D–14A (42 U.S.C.
1495w–114) the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 1860D–14B. MANUFACTURER DISCOUNT
PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish a manufacturer discount program
(in this section referred to as the ‘program’).
Under the program, the Secretary shall enter
into agreements described in subsection (b)
with manufacturers and provide for the per-
formance of the duties described in sub-
section (c). The Secretary shall establish a
model agreement for use under the program
by not later than January 1, 2021, in con-
sultation with manufacturers, and allow for
comment on such model agreement.
‘‘(b) TERMS OF AGREEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(A) AGREEMENT.—An agreement under
this section shall require the manufacturer
to provide applicable beneficiaries access to
discounted prices for applicable drugs of the
manufacturer that are dispensed on or after
January 1, 2022.
‘‘(B) PROVISION OF DISCOUNTED PRICES AT
THE POINT-OF-SALE.—The discounted prices
described in subparagraph (A) shall be pro-
vided to the applicable beneficiary at the
pharmacy or by the mail order service at the
point-of-sale of an applicable drug.
‘‘(2) PROVISION OF APPROPRIATE DATA.—
Each manufacturer with an agreement in ef-
fect under this section shall collect and have
available appropriate data, as determined by
the Secretary, to ensure that it can dem-
onstrate to the Secretary compliance with
the requirements under the program.
‘‘(3) COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS FOR
ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM.—Each manu-
facturer with an agreement in effect under
this section shall comply with requirements
imposed by the Secretary or a third party
with a contract under subsection (d)(3), as
applicable, for purposes of administering the
program, including any determination under
subparagraph (A) of subsection (c)(1) or pro-
cedures established under such subsection
(c)(1).
‘‘(4) LENGTH OF AGREEMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—An agreement under
this section shall be effective for an initial
period of not less than 12 months and shall
be automatically renewed for a period of not
less than 1 year unless terminated under sub-
paragraph (B).
‘‘(B) TERMINATION.—
‘‘(i) BY THE SECRETARY.—The Secretary
may provide for termination of an agreement
under this section for a knowing and willful
violation of the requirements of the agree-
ment or other good cause shown. Such termi-
nation shall not be effective earlier than 30
days after the date of notice to the manufac-
turer of such termination. The Secretary
shall provide, upon request, a manufacturer
with a hearing concerning such a termi-
nation, and such hearing shall take place
prior to the effective date of the termination
with sufficient time for such effective date
to be repealed if the Secretary determines
appropriate.
‘‘(ii) BY A MANUFACTURER.—A manufac-
turer may terminate an agreement under
this section for any reason. Any such termi-
nation shall be effective, with respect to a
plan year—
‘‘(I) if the termination occurs before Janu-
ary 30 of a plan year, as of the day after the
end of the plan year; and
‘‘(II) if the termination occurs on or after
January 30 of a plan year, as of the day after
the end of the succeeding plan year.
‘‘(iii) EFFECTIVENESS OF TERMINATION.—
Any termination under this subparagraph
shall not affect discounts for applicable
drugs of the manufacturer that are due
under the agreement before the effective
date of its termination.
‘‘(iv) NOTICE TO THIRD PARTY.—The Sec-
retary shall provide notice of such termi-
nation to a third party with a contract under
subsection (d)(3) within not less than 30 days
before the effective date of such termination.
‘‘(5) EFFECTIVE DATE OF AGREEMENT.—An
agreement under this section shall take ef-
fect on a date determined appropriate by the
Secretary, which may be at the start of a
calendar quarter.
‘‘(c) DUTIES DESCRIBED.—The duties de-
scribed in this subsection are the following:
‘‘(1) ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM.—Admin-
istering the program, including—
‘‘(A) the determination of the amount of
the discounted price of an applicable drug of
a manufacturer;
‘‘(B) the establishment of procedures under
which discounted prices are provided to ap-
plicable beneficiaries at pharmacies or by
mail order service at the point-of-sale of an
applicable drug;
‘‘(C) the establishment of procedures to en-
sure that, not later than the applicable num-
ber of calendar days after the dispensing of
an applicable drug by a pharmacy or mail
order service, the pharmacy or mail order
service is reimbursed for an amount equal to
the difference between—
‘‘(i) the negotiated price of the applicable
drug; and
‘‘(ii) the discounted price of the applicable
drug;
‘‘(D) the establishment of procedures to en-
sure that the discounted price for an applica-
ble drug under this section is applied before
any coverage or financial assistance under
other health benefit plans or programs that
provide coverage or financial assistance for
the purchase or provision of prescription
drug coverage on behalf of applicable bene-
ficiaries as the Secretary may specify; and
‘‘(E) providing a reasonable dispute resolu-
tion mechanism to resolve disagreements be-
tween manufacturers, applicable bene-
ficiaries, and the third party with a contract
under subsection (d)(3).
‘‘(2) MONITORING COMPLIANCE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
monitor compliance by a manufacturer with
the terms of an agreement under this sec-
tion.
‘‘(B) NOTIFICATION.—If a third party with a
contract under subsection (d)(3) determines
that the manufacturer is not in compliance
with such agreement, the third party shall
notify the Secretary of such noncompliance
for appropriate enforcement under sub-
section (e).
‘‘(3) COLLECTION OF DATA FROM PRESCRIP-
TION DRUG PLANS AND MA–PD PLANS.—The
Secretary may collect appropriate data from
prescription drug plans and MA–PD plans in
a timeframe that allows for discounted
prices to be provided for applicable drugs
under this section.
‘‘(d) ADMINISTRATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Secretary shall provide for the imple-
mentation of this section, including the per-
formance of the duties described in sub-
section (c).
‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—In providing for the im-
plementation of this section, the Secretary
shall not receive or distribute any funds of a
manufacturer under the program.
‘‘(3) CONTRACT WITH THIRD PARTIES.—The
Secretary shall enter into a contract with 1
or more third parties to administer the re-
quirements established by the Secretary in
order to carry out this section. At a min-
imum, the contract with a third party under
the preceding sentence shall require that the
third party—
‘‘(A) receive and transmit information be-
tween the Secretary, manufacturers, and
other individuals or entities the Secretary
determines appropriate;
‘‘(B) receive, distribute, or facilitate the
distribution of funds of manufacturers to ap-
propriate individuals or entities in order to
meet the obligations of manufacturers under
agreements under this section;
‘‘(C) provide adequate and timely informa-
tion to manufacturers, consistent with the
agreement with the manufacturer under this
section, as necessary for the manufacturer to
fulfill its obligations under this section; and
‘‘(D) permit manufacturers to conduct
periodic audits, directly or through con-
tracts, of the data and information used by
the third party to determine discounts for
applicable drugs of the manufacturer under
the program.
‘‘(4) PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS.—The
Secretary shall establish performance re-
quirements for a third party with a contract
under paragraph (3) and safeguards to pro-
tect the independence and integrity of the
activities carried out by the third party
under the program under this section.
‘‘(5) ADMINISTRATION.—Chapter 35 of title
44, United States Code, shall not apply to the
program under this section.
‘‘(e) ENFORCEMENT.—
‘‘(1) AUDITS.—Each manufacturer with an
agreement in effect under this section shall
be subject to periodic audit by the Secretary.
‘‘(2) CIVIL MONEY PENALTY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall im-
pose a civil money penalty on a manufac-
turer that fails to provide applicable bene-
ficiaries discounts for applicable drugs of the
manufacturer in accordance with such agree-
ment for each such failure in an amount the
Secretary determines is commensurate with
the sum of—
‘‘(i) the amount that the manufacturer
would have paid with respect to such dis-
counts under the agreement, which will then
be used to pay the discounts which the man-
ufacturer had failed to provide; and
‘‘(ii) 25 percent of such amount.
‘‘(B) APPLICATION.—The provisions of sec-
tion 1128A (other than subsections (a) and
(b)) shall apply to a civil money penalty
under this paragraph in the same manner as
such provisions apply to a penalty or pro-
ceeding under section 1128A(a).
‘‘(f) CLARIFICATION REGARDING AVAIL-
ABILITY OF OTHER COVERED PART D DRUGS.—
Nothing in this section shall prevent an ap-
plicable beneficiary from purchasing a cov-
ered part D drug that is not on the formulary
of the prescription drug plan or MA–PD plan
that the applicable beneficiary is enrolled in.
‘‘(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) APPLICABLE BENEFICIARY.—The term
‘applicable beneficiary’ means an individual
who, on the date of dispensing a covered part
D drug—
‘‘(A) is enrolled in a prescription drug plan
or an MA–PD plan;
‘‘(B) is not enrolled in a qualified retiree
prescription drug plan; and
‘‘(C) has incurred costs for covered part D
drugs in the year that are equal to or exceed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10175
December 12, 2019
the annual deductible specified in section
1860D–2(b)(1) for such year.
‘‘(2) APPLICABLE DRUG.—The term ‘applica-
ble drug’ means, with respect to an applica-
ble beneficiary, a covered part D drug—
‘‘(A) approved under a new drug applica-
tion under section 505(c) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act or, in the case of a
biologic product, licensed under section 351
of the Public Health Service Act (including a
product licensed under subsection (k) of such
section); and
‘‘(B)(i) if the PDP sponsor of the prescrip-
tion drug plan or the MA organization offer-
ing the MA–PD plan uses a formulary, which
is on the formulary of the prescription drug
plan or MA–PD plan that the applicable ben-
eficiary is enrolled in;
‘‘(ii) if the PDP sponsor of the prescription
drug plan or the MA organization offering
the MA–PD plan does not use a formulary,
for which benefits are available under the
prescription drug plan or MA–PD plan that
the applicable beneficiary is enrolled in; or
‘‘(iii) is provided through an exception or
appeal.
‘‘(3) APPLICABLE NUMBER OF CALENDAR
DAYS.—The term ‘applicable number of cal-
endar days’ means—
‘‘(A) with respect to claims for reimburse-
ment submitted electronically, 14 days; and
‘‘(B) with respect to claims for reimburse-
ment submitted otherwise, 30 days.
‘‘(4) DISCOUNTED PRICE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘discounted
price’ means, with respect to an applicable
drug of a manufacturer furnished during a
year to an applicable beneficiary, 90 percent
of the negotiated price of such drug.
‘‘(B) CLARIFICATION.—Nothing in this sec-
tion shall be construed as affecting the re-
sponsibility of an applicable beneficiary for
payment of a dispensing fee for an applicable
drug.
‘‘(C) SPECIAL CASE FOR CLAIMS SPANNING DE-
DUCTIBLE.—In the case where the entire
amount of the negotiated price of an indi-
vidual claim for an applicable drug with re-
spect to an applicable beneficiary does not
fall at or above the annual deductible speci-
fied in section 1860D–2(b)(1) for the year, the
manufacturer of the applicable drug shall
provide the discounted price under this sec-
tion on only the portion of the negotiated
price of the applicable drug that falls at or
above such annual deductible.
‘‘(5) MANUFACTURER.—The term ‘manufac-
turer’ means any entity which is engaged in
the production, preparation, propagation,
compounding, conversion, or processing of
prescription drug products, either directly or
indirectly by extraction from substances of
natural origin, or independently by means of
chemical synthesis, or by a combination of
extraction and chemical synthesis. Such
term does not include a wholesale dis-
tributor of drugs or a retail pharmacy li-
censed under State law.
‘‘(6) NEGOTIATED PRICE.—The term ‘nego-
tiated price’ has the meaning given such
term in section 1860D–2(d)(1)(B), except that
such negotiated price shall not include any
dispensing fee for an applicable drug.
‘‘(7) QUALIFIED RETIREE PRESCRIPTION DRUG
PLAN.—The term ‘qualified retiree prescrip-
tion drug plan’ has the meaning given such
term in section 11860D–22(a)(2).’’.
(2) SUNSET OF MEDICARE COVERAGE GAP DIS-
COUNT PROGRAM.—Section 1860D–14A of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395–114a) is
amended—
(A) in subsection (a), in the first sentence,
by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and inserting
‘‘Subject to subsection (h), the Secretary’’;
and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(h) SUNSET OF PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The program shall not
apply to applicable drugs dispensed on or
after January 1, 2022, and, subject to para-
graph (2), agreements under this section
shall be terminated as of such date.
‘‘(2) CONTINUED APPLICATION FOR APPLICA-
BLE DRUGS DISPENSED PRIOR TO SUNSET.—The
provisions of this section (including all re-
sponsibilities and duties) shall continue to
apply after January 1, 2022, with respect to
applicable drugs dispensed prior to such
date.’’.
(3) INCLUSION OF ACTUARIAL VALUE OF MANU-
FACTURER DISCOUNTS IN BIDS.—Section 1860D–
11 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395w–111) is amended—
(A) in subsection (b)(2)(C)(iii)—
(i) by striking ‘‘assumptions regarding the
reinsurance’’ and inserting ‘‘assumptions re-
garding—
‘‘(I) the reinsurance’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(II) for 2022 and each subsequent year, the
manufacturer discounts provided under sec-
tion 1860D–14B subtracted from the actuarial
value to produce such bid; and’’; and
(B) in subsection (c)(1)(C)—
(i) by striking ‘‘an actuarial valuation of
the reinsurance’’ and inserting ‘‘an actuarial
valuation of—
‘‘(i) the reinsurance’’;
(ii) in clause (i), as added by clause (i) of
this subparagraph, by adding ‘‘and’’ at the
end; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) for 2022 and each subsequent year, the
manufacturer discounts provided under sec-
tion 1860D–14B;’’.
(d) DETERMINATION OF ALLOWABLE REINSUR-
ANCE COSTS.—Section 1860D–15(b) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–115(b)) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘COSTS.—For purposes’’
and inserting ‘‘COSTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), for purposes’’.
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(B) INCLUSION OF MANUFACTURER DIS-
COUNTS ON APPLICABLE DRUGS.—For purposes
of applying subparagraph (A), the term ‘al-
lowable reinsurance costs’ shall include the
portion of the negotiated price (as defined in
section 1860D–14B(g)(6)) of an applicable drug
(as defined in section 1860D–14(g)(2)) that was
paid by a manufacturer under the manufac-
turer discount program under section 1860D–
14B.’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3)—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘For
purposes’’ and inserting ‘‘Subject to para-
graph (2)(B), for purposes’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by inserting
‘‘or, in the case of an applicable drug, by a
manufacturer’’ after ‘‘by the individual or
under the plan’’.
(e) UPDATING RISK ADJUSTMENT METH-
ODOLOGIES TO ACCOUNT FOR PART D MOD-
ERNIZATION REDESIGN.—Section 1860D–15(c) of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–
115(c)) is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) UPDATING RISK ADJUSTMENT METH-
ODOLOGIES TO ACCOUNT FOR PART D MOD-
ERNIZATION REDESIGN.—The Secretary shall
update the risk adjustment model used to
adjust bid amounts pursuant to this sub-
section as appropriate to take into account
changes in benefits under this part pursuant
to the amendments made by section 121 of
the Lower Costs, More Cures Act of 2019.’’.
(f) CONDITIONS FOR COVERAGE OF DRUGS
UNDER THIS PART.—Section 1860D–43 of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–153) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period
at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(4) participate in the manufacturer dis-
count program under section 1860D–14B;
‘‘(5) have entered into and have in effect an
agreement described in subsection (b) of such
section 1860D–14B with the Secretary; and
‘‘(6) have entered into and have in effect,
under terms and conditions specified by the
Secretary, a contract with a third party that
the Secretary has entered into a contract
with under subsection (d)(3) of such section
1860D–14B.’’;
(2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Paragraphs (1)
through (3) of subsection (a) shall apply to
covered part D drugs dispensed under this
part on or after January 1, 2011, and before
January 1, 2022, and paragraphs (4) through
(6) of such subsection shall apply to covered
part D drugs dispensed on or after January 1,
2022.’’; and
(3) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph
(2) and inserting the following:
‘‘(2) the Secretary determines that in the
period beginning on January 1, 2011, and end-
ing on December 31, 2011 (with respect to
paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a))
or the period beginning on January 1, 2022,
and ending December 31, 2022 (with respect to
paragraphs (4) through (6) of such sub-
section), there were extenuating cir-
cumstances.’’.
(g) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 1860D–2 of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–102) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(2)(A)(i)(I), by striking
‘‘, or an increase in the initial’’ and inserting
‘‘or for a year preceding 2022 an increase in
the initial’’;
(B) in subsection (c)(1)(C)—
(i) in the subparagraph heading, by strik-
ing ‘‘AT INITIAL COVERAGE LIMIT’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘for a year preceding 2022
or the annual out-of-pocket threshold speci-
fied in subsection (b)(4)(B) for the year for
2022 and each subsequent year’’ after ‘‘sub-
section (b)(3) for the year’’ each place it ap-
pears; and
(C) in subsection (d)(1)(A), by striking ‘‘or
an initial’’ and inserting ‘‘or for a year pre-
ceding 2022, an initial’’.
(2) Section 1860D–4(a)(4)(B)(i) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–104(a)(4)(B)(i))
is amended by striking ‘‘the initial’’ and in-
serting ‘‘for a year preceding 2022, the ini-
tial’’.
(3) Section 1860D–14(a) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–114(a)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘The
continuation’’ and inserting ‘‘For a year pre-
ceding 2022, the continuation’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (D)(iii), by striking
‘‘1860D–2(b)(4)(A)(i)(I)’’ and inserting ‘‘1860D–
2(b)(4)(A)(i)(I)(aa)’’; and
(iii) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘The
elimination’’ and inserting ‘‘For a year pre-
ceding 2022, the elimination’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘The
continuation’’ and inserting ‘‘For a year pre-
ceding 2022, the continuation’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (E)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘for a year preceding 2022,’’
after ‘‘subsection (c)’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘1860D– 2(b)(4)(A)(i)(I)’’ and
inserting ‘‘1860D–2(b)(4)(A)(i)(I)(aa)’’.
(4) Section 1860D–21(d)(7) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–131(d)(7)) is
amended by striking ‘‘section 1860D–
2(b)(4)(B)(i)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1860D–
2(b)(4)(C)(i)’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10176 December 12, 2019
(5) Section 1860D–22(a)(2)(A) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–132(a)(2)(A)) is
amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘the value of any discount’’
and inserting the following: ‘‘the value of—
‘‘(i) for years prior to 2022, any discount’’;
(B) in clause (i), as inserted by subpara-
graph (A) of this paragraph, by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(ii) for 2022 and each subsequent year, any
discount provided pursuant to section 1860D–
14B.’’.
(6) Section 1860D–41(a)(6) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–151(a)(6)) is
amended—
(A) by inserting ‘‘for a year before 2022’’
after ‘‘1860D–2(b)(3)’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘for such year’’ before the
period.
(h) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to plan year
2022 and subsequent plan years.
Subtitle D—Other Medicare Part D
Provisions
SEC. 131. TRANSITIONAL COVERAGE AND RETRO-
ACTIVE MEDICARE PART D COV-
ERAGE FOR CERTAIN LOW-INCOME
BENEFICIARIES.
Section 1860D–14 of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–114) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (e) as sub-
section (f); and
(2) by adding after subsection (d) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(e) LIMITED INCOME NEWLY ELIGIBLE
TRANSITION PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning not later than
January 1, 2021, the Secretary shall carry out
a program to provide transitional coverage
for covered part D drugs for LI NET eligible
individuals in accordance with this sub-
section.
‘‘(2) LI NET ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL DEFINED.—
For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘LI
NET eligible individual’ means a part D eli-
gible individual who—
‘‘(A) meets the requirements of clauses (ii)
and (iii) of subsection (a)(3)(A); and
‘‘(B) has not yet enrolled in a prescription
drug plan or an MA–PD plan, or, who has so
enrolled, but with respect to whom coverage
under such plan has not yet taken effect.
‘‘(3) TRANSITIONAL COVERAGE.—For pur-
poses of this subsection, the term ‘transi-
tional coverage’ means, with respect to an LI
NET eligible individual—
‘‘(A) immediate access to covered part D
drugs at the point-of-sale during the period
that begins on the first day of the month
such individual is determined to meet the re-
quirements of clauses (ii) and (iii) of sub-
section (a)(3)(A) and ends on the date that
coverage under a prescription drug plan or
MA–PD plan takes effect with respect to
such individual; and
‘‘(B) in the case of an LI NET eligible indi-
vidual who is a full-benefit dual eligible indi-
vidual (as defined in section 1935(c)(6)) or a
recipient of supplemental security income
benefits under title XVI, retroactive cov-
erage (in the form of reimbursement of the
amounts that would have been paid under
this part had such individual been enrolled
in a prescription drug plan or MA–PD plan)
of covered part D drugs purchased by such
individual during the period that begins on
the date that is the later of—
‘‘(i) the date that such individual was first
eligible for a low-income subsidy under this
part; or
‘‘(ii) the date that is 36 months prior to the
date such individual enrolls in a prescription
drug plan or MA–PD plan, and ends on the
date that coverage under such plan takes ef-
fect.
‘‘(4) PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.—
‘‘(A) SINGLE POINT OF CONTACT.—The Sec-
retary shall, to the extent feasible, admin-
ister the program under this subsection
through a contract with a single program ad-
ministrator.
‘‘(B) BENEFIT DESIGN.—The Secretary shall
ensure that the transitional coverage pro-
vided to LI NET eligible individuals under
this subsection—
‘‘(i) provides access to all covered part D
drugs under an open formulary;
‘‘(ii) permits all pharmacies determined by
the Secretary to be in good standing to proc-
ess claims under the program;
‘‘(iii) is consistent with such requirements
as the Secretary considers necessary to im-
prove patient safety and ensure appropriate
dispensing of medication; and
‘‘(iv) meets such other requirements as the
Secretary may establish.
‘‘(5) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER PROVISIONS OF
THIS TITLE; WAIVER AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The following provisions
shall not apply with respect to the program
under this subsection:
‘‘(i) Paragraphs (1) and (3)(B) of section
1860D–4(a) (relating to dissemination of gen-
eral information; availability of information
on changes in formulary through the inter-
net).
‘‘(ii) Subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section
1860D–4(b)(3) (relating to requirements on de-
velopment and application of formularies;
formulary development).
‘‘(iii) Paragraphs (1)(C) and (2) of section
1860D–4(c) (relating to medication therapy
management program).
‘‘(B) WAIVER AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may waive such other requirements of title
XI and this title as may be necessary to
carry out the purposes of the program estab-
lished under this subsection.’’.
SEC. 132. ALLOWING THE OFFERING OF ADDI-
TIONAL PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLANS
UNDER MEDICARE PART D.
(a) RESCINDING AND ISSUANCE OF NEW GUID-
ANCE.—Not later than one year after the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Health and Human Services (in this sec-
tion referred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall—
(1) rescind sections of any sub-regulatory
guidance that limit the number of prescrip-
tion drug plans in each PDP region that may
be offered by a PDP sponsor under part D of
title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395w–101 et seq.); and
(2) issue new guidance specifying that a
PDP sponsor may offer up to 4 (or a greater
number if determined appropriate by the
Secretary) prescription drug plans in each
PDP region, except in cases where the PDP
sponsor may offer up to 2 additional plans in
a PDP region pursuant to section 1860D–
11(d)(4) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395w–111(d)(4)), as added by subsection (b).
(b) OFFERING OF ADDITIONAL PLANS.—Sec-
tion 1860D–11(d) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–111(d)) is amended by adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(4) OFFERING OF ADDITIONAL PLANS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For plan year 2022 and
each subsequent plan year, a PDP sponsor
may offer up to 2 additional prescription
drug plans in a PDP region (in addition to
any limit established by the Secretary under
this part) provided that the PDP sponsor
complies with subparagraph (B) with respect
to at least one such prescription drug plan.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—In order to be eligi-
ble to offer up to 2 additional plans in a PDP
region pursuant to subparagraph (A), a PDP
sponsor must ensure that, with respect to at
least one such prescription drug plan, the
sponsor or any entity that provides phar-
macy benefits management services under a
contract with any such sponsor or plan does
not receive direct or indirect remuneration,
as defined in section 423.308 of title 42, Code
of Federal Regulations (or any successor reg-
ulation), unless at least 25 percent of the ag-
gregate reductions in price or other remu-
neration received by the PDP sponsor or en-
tity from drug manufacturers with respect
to the plan and plan year—
‘‘(i) are reflected at the point-of-sale to the
enrollee; or
‘‘(ii) are used to reduce total beneficiary
cost-sharing estimated by the PDP sponsor
for prescription drug coverage under the plan
in the annual bid submitted by the PDP
sponsor under section 1860D–11(b).
‘‘(C) DEFINITION OF REDUCTIONS IN PRICE.—
For purposes of subparagraph (B), the term
‘reductions in price’ refers only to collectible
amounts, as determined by the Secretary,
which excludes amounts which after adju-
dication and reconciliation with pharmacies
and manufacturers are duplicate in nature,
contrary to other contractual clauses, or
otherwise ineligible (such as due to bene-
ficiary disenrollment or coordination of ben-
efits).’’.
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in the
provisions of, or amendments made by, this
section shall be construed as limiting the
ability of the Secretary to increase any limit
otherwise applicable on the number of pre-
scription drug plans that a PDP sponsor may
offer, at the discretion of the PDP sponsor,
in a PDP region under part D of title XVIII
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–
101 et seq.).
SEC. 133. ALLOWING CERTAIN ENROLLEES OF
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS PLANS AND
MA–PD PLANS UNDER MEDICARE
PROGRAM TO SPREAD OUT COST-
SHARING UNDER CERTAIN CIR-
CUMSTANCES.
(a) STANDARD PRESCRIPTION DRUG COV-
ERAGE.—Section 1860D–2(b)(2) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–102(b)(2)), as
amended by section 121, is further amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘Sub-
ject to subparagraphs (C) and (D)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Subject to subparagraphs (C), (D),
and (E)’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(E) ENROLLEE OPTION REGARDING SPREAD-
ING COST-SHARING.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish by regulation a process under which,
with respect to plan year 2022 and subsequent
plan years, a prescription drug plan or an
MA–PD plan shall, in the case of a part D eli-
gible individual enrolled with such plan for
such plan year with respect to whom the
plan projects that the dispensing of a cov-
ered part D drug to such individual will re-
sult in the individual incurring costs within
a 30-day period that are equal to a signifi-
cant percentage (as specified by the Sec-
retary pursuant to such regulation) of the
annual out-of-pocket threshold specified in
paragraph (4)(B) for such plan year, provide
such individual with the option to make the
coinsurance payment required under sub-
paragraph (A) for such costs in the form of
equal monthly installments over the remain-
der of such plan year.
‘‘(ii) SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE LIMITA-
TIONS.—In specifying a significant percent-
age pursuant to the regulation established
by the Secretary under clause (i), the Sec-
retary may not specify a percentage that is
less than 30 percent or greater than 100 per-
cent.’’.
(b) ALTERNATIVE PRESCRIPTION DRUG COV-
ERAGE.—Section 1860D–2(c) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–102(c)) is amended
by adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(4) SAME ENROLLEE OPTION REGARDING
SPREADING COST-SHARING.—For plan year 2022
and subsequent plan years, the coverage pro-
vides the enrollee option regarding spreading
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10177
December 12, 2019
cost-sharing described in and required under
subsection (b)(2)(E).’’.
SEC. 134. ESTABLISHING A MONTHLY CAP ON
BENEFICIARY INCURRED COSTS FOR
INSULIN PRODUCTS AND SUPPLIES
UNDER A PRESCRIPTION DRUG
PLAN OR MA–PD PLAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1860D–2 of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–102), as
amended by sections 121 and 133, is further
amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and
(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘(E), and (F)’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and
(D)’’ and inserting ‘‘(D), and (F)’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(F) CAP ON INCURRED COSTS FOR INSULIN
PRODUCTS AND SUPPLIES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The coverage provides
benefits, for costs above the annual deduct-
ible specified in paragraph (1) and up to the
annual out-of-pocket threshold described in
paragraph (4)(B) and with respect to a month
(beginning with January of 2022), with cost
sharing that is equal to $0 for a specified cov-
ered part D drug (as defined in clause (iii))
furnished to an individual who has incurred
costs during such month with respect to
specified covered part D drugs equal to—
‘‘(I) for months occurring in 2022, $50; or
‘‘(II) for months occurring in a subsequent
year, the amount applicable under this
clause for months occurring in the year pre-
ceding such subsequent year, increased by
the annual percentage increase specified in
paragraph (6) for such subsequent year and
rounded to the nearest dollar.
‘‘(ii) APPLICATION.—The provisions of
clauses (i) through (iii) of paragraph (4)(C)
shall apply with respect to the determina-
tion of the incurred costs for specified cov-
ered part D drugs for purposes of clause (i) in
the same manner as such provisions apply
with respect to the determination of in-
curred costs for covered part D drugs for pur-
poses of paragraph (4)(A).
‘‘(iii) SPECIFIED COVERED PART D DRUG.—
For purposes of this subparagraph, the term
‘specified covered part D drug’ means a cov-
ered part D drug that is—
‘‘(I) insulin; or
‘‘(II) a medical supply associated with the
injection of insulin (as defined in regulations
of the Secretary promulgated pursuant to
subsection (e)(1)(B)).’’; and
(2) in subsection (c), by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
‘‘(5) SAME PROTECTION WITH RESPECT TO EX-
PENDITURES FOR INSULIN AND CERTAIN MED-
ICAL SUPPLIES.—The coverage provides the
coverage required under subsection
(b)(2)(F).’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1860D–14(a)(1)(D)
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–
114(a)(1)(D)), as amended by section 121, is
further amended—
(A) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘section
1860D–2(b)(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1860D–
2(b)(2)(A)’’; and
(B) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘section
1860D–2(b)(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1860D–
2(b)(2)(A)’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by paragraph (1) shall apply with re-
spect to plan year 2022 and each subsequent
plan year.
SEC. 135. GROWTH RATE OF MEDICARE PART D
OUT-OF-POCKET COST THRESHOLD.
(a) PROVIDING MEDICARE PART D BENE-
FICIARIES WITH CERTAIN 2020 OFFSET PAY-
MENTS.—Section 1860D–2(b)(4) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–102(b)(4)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new subparagraph:
‘‘(F) 2020 OFFSET PAYMENTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (iv),
the Secretary shall provide for payment
from the Medicare Prescription Drug Ac-
count as follows:
‘‘(I) In the case of a specified individual (as
defined in clause (ii)(I)) who as of the last
day of a calendar quarter in 2020 has incurred
costs for covered part D drugs so that the in-
dividual has exceeded the annual out-of-
pocket threshold applied under subparagraph
(B)(i)(V) for 2020, payment to the individual
by not later than 15th day of the third month
following the end of such quarter of the
amount by which such threshold so applied
exceeded the target threshold for 2020.
‘‘(II) In the case of a specified individual
who is not described in subclause (I) and who
as of the last day of 2020 has incurred costs
for covered part D drugs so that the indi-
vidual has exceeded the target threshold for
2020, payment to the individual by not later
than December 31, 2021 of the amount by
which such incurred costs exceeded the tar-
get threshold for 2020.
‘‘(ii) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this
subparagraph:
‘‘(I) SPECIFIED INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘spec-
ified individual’ means an individual who—
‘‘(aa) is enrolled in a prescription drug plan
or an MA–PD plan;
‘‘(bb) is not enrolled in a qualified retiree
prescription drug plan; and
‘‘(cc) is not entitled to an income-related
subsidy under section 1860D–14(a).
‘‘(II) TARGET THRESHOLD FOR 2020.—the term
‘target threshold for 2020’ means the annual
out-of-pocket threshold that would have
been applied under subparagraph (B)(i) for
2020 if such threshold had been determined in
accordance with subclause (IV) of such sub-
paragraph instead of subclause (V) of such
subparagraph.
‘‘(iii) NOTIFICATION.—In the case of any
specified individual who during 2020 has in-
curred costs for covered part D drugs so that
the individual has exceeded the target
threshold for 2020, the Secretary shall, not
later than September 30, 2021, provide to
such individual a notification informing
such individual of such individual’s right to
a payment described in clause (i) and the es-
timated timing of such payment.
‘‘(iv) CLARIFICATION.—The Secretary shall
provide only 1 payment under this subpara-
graph with respect to any individual.
‘‘(v) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary may
implement this subparagraph by program in-
struction or otherwise.’’.
(b) REDUCED GROWTH RATE FOR 2021 OF
MEDICARE PART D OUT-OF-POCKET COST
THRESHOLD.—Section 1860D–2(b)(4)(B)(i) of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–
102(b)(4)(B)(i)) is amended—
(1) in subclause (V), by striking at the end
‘‘or’’;
(2) by redesignating subclause (VI) as sub-
clause (VIII); and
(3) by inserting after subclause (V) the fol-
lowing new subclauses:
‘‘(VI) for 2021, is equal to the amount that
would have been applied under this subpara-
graph for 2020 if such amount had been deter-
mined in accordance with subclause (IV) in-
stead of subclause (V), increased by the less-
er of—
‘‘(aa) the annual percentage increase de-
scribed in paragraph (7) for 2021, plus 2 per-
centage points; or
‘‘(bb) the annual percentage increase de-
scribed in paragraph (6) for 2021;
‘‘(VII) for 2022, is equal to the amount that
would have been applied under this subpara-
graph for 2022 if the amendments made by
section 1101(d)(1) of the Health Care and Edu-
cation Reconciliation Act of 2010 and by sec-
tion 135 of the Lower Costs, More Cures Act
of 2019 had not been enacted; or’’.
Subtitle E—MedPAC
SEC. 141. PROVIDING THE MEDICARE PAYMENT
ADVISORY COMMISSION AND MED-
ICAID AND CHIP PAYMENT AND AC-
CESS COMMISSION WITH ACCESS TO
CERTAIN DRUG PAYMENT INFORMA-
TION, INCLUDING CERTAIN REBATE
INFORMATION.
(a) ACCESS TO CERTAIN PART D PAYMENT
DATA.—Section 1860D–15(f) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–115(f)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking
‘‘and’’ at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by inserting at the end the following
new subparagraph:
‘‘(C) by the Executive Director of the Medi-
care Payment Advisory Commission for pur-
poses of monitoring, making recommenda-
tions, and analysis of the program under this
title and by the Executive Director of the
Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access
Commission for purposes of monitoring,
making recommendations, and analysis of
the Medicaid program established under title
XIX and the Children’s Health Insurance
Program under title XXI.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DISCLO-
SURE OF INFORMATION.—The Executive Direc-
tors described in paragraph (2)(C) shall not
disclose any of the following information
disclosed to such Executive Directors or ob-
tained by such Executive Directors pursuant
to such paragraph, with respect to a pre-
scription drug plan offered by a PDP spon-
sor:
‘‘(A) The specific amounts or the identity
of the source of any rebates, price conces-
sions, or other forms of direct or indirect re-
muneration under such prescription drug
plan.
‘‘(B) Information submitted with the bid
submitted under section 1860D–11 by such
PDP sponsor.
‘‘(C) In the case of such information from
prescription drug event records, in a form
that would not be permitted under section
423.505(m) of title 42, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, or any successor regulation, if made
by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services.’’.
(b) ACCESS TO CERTAIN REBATE AND PAY-
MENT DATA UNDER MEDICARE AND MED-
ICAID.—Section 1927(b)(3)(D) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)(3)(D)) is
amended—
(1) in the matter before clause (i), by strik-
ing ‘‘subsection (a)(6)(A)(ii)’’ and inserting
‘‘subsection (a)(6)(A)’’;
(2) in clause (v), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(3) in clause (vi), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘, and’’;
(4) by inserting after clause (vi) the fol-
lowing new clause:
‘‘(vii) to permit the Executive Director of
the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission
and the Executive Director of the Medicaid
and CHIP Payment and Access Commission
to review the information provided.’’;
(5) in the matter at the end, by striking
‘‘1860D–4(c)(2)(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘1860D–
4(c)(2)(G)’’; and
(6) by adding at the end the following new
sentence: ‘‘Any information disclosed to the
Executive Director of the Medicare Payment
Advisory Commission or the Executive Di-
rector of the Medicaid and CHIP Payment
and Access Commission pursuant to this sub-
paragraph shall not be disclosed by either
such Executive Director in a form which dis-
closes the identity of a specific manufac-
turer or wholesaler or prices charged for
drugs by such manufacturer or wholesaler.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10178 December 12, 2019
TITLE II—MEDICAID
SEC. 201. SUNSET OF LIMIT ON MAXIMUM RE-
BATE AMOUNT FOR SINGLE SOURCE
DRUGS AND INNOVATOR MULTIPLE
SOURCE DRUGS.
Section 1927(c)(2)(D) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(c)(2)(D)) is amended by
inserting after ‘‘December 31, 2009,’’ the fol-
lowing: ‘‘and before January 1, 2023,’’.
SEC. 202. MEDICAID PHARMACY AND THERA-
PEUTICS COMMITTEE IMPROVE-
MENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) of sec-
tion 1927(d)(4) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8(d)(4)) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(A)(i) The formulary is developed and re-
viewed by a pharmacy and therapeutics com-
mittee consisting of physicians, pharmacists,
and other appropriate individuals appointed
by the Governor of the State.
‘‘(ii) Subject to clause (vi), the State estab-
lishes and implements a conflict of interest
policy for the pharmacy and therapeutics
committee that—
‘‘(I) is publicly accessible;
‘‘(II) requires all committee members to
complete, on at least an annual basis, a dis-
closure of relationships, associations, and fi-
nancial dealings that may affect their inde-
pendence of judgement in committee mat-
ters; and
‘‘(III) contains clear processes, such as
recusal from voting or discussion, for those
members who report a conflict of interest,
along with appropriate processes to address
any instance where a member fails to report
a conflict of interest.
‘‘(iii) The membership of the pharmacy and
therapeutics committee—
‘‘(I) includes at least 1 actively practicing
physician and at least 1 actively practicing
pharmacist, each of whom—
‘‘(aa) is independent and free of conflict
with respect to manufacturers and Medicaid
participating plans or subcontractors, in-
cluding pharmacy benefit managers; and
‘‘(bb) has expertise in the care of 1 or more
Medicaid-specific populations such as elderly
or disabled individuals, children with com-
plex medical needs, or low-income individ-
uals with chronic illnesses; and
‘‘(II) is made publicly available.
‘‘(iv) At the option of the State, the
State’s drug use review board established
under subsection (g)(3) may serve as the
pharmacy and therapeutics committee pro-
vided the State ensures that such board
meets the requirements of clauses (ii) and
(iii).
‘‘(v) The State reviews and has final ap-
proval of the formulary established by the
pharmacy and therapeutics committee.
‘‘(vi) If the Secretary determines it appro-
priate or necessary based on the findings and
recommendations of the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States in the report sub-
mitted to Congress under section 203 of the
Lower Costs, More Cures Act of 2019, the Sec-
retary shall issue guidance that States must
follow for establishing conflict of interest
policies for the pharmacy and therapeutics
committee in accordance with the require-
ments of clause (ii), including appropriate
standards and requirements for identifying,
addressing, and reporting on conflicts of in-
terest.’’.
(b) APPLICATION TO MEDICAID MANAGED
CARE ORGANIZATIONS.—Clause (xiii) of sec-
tion 1903(m)(2)(A) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1396b(m)(2)(A)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and (III)’’ and inserting
‘‘(III)’’;
(2) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘, and (IV) any formulary used by the
entity for covered outpatient drugs dis-
pensed to individuals eligible for medical as-
sistance who are enrolled with the entity is
developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and
therapeutics committee that meets the re-
quirements of clauses (ii) and (iii) of section
1927(d)(4)(A).’’; and
(3) by moving the left margin 2 ems to the
left.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
date that is 1 year after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 203. GAO REPORT ON CONFLICTS OF INTER-
EST IN STATE MEDICAID PROGRAM
DRUG USE REVIEW BOARDS AND
PHARMACY AND THERAPEUTICS
(P&T) COMMITTEES.
(a) INVESTIGATION.—The Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall conduct an in-
vestigation of potential or existing conflicts
of interest among members of State Med-
icaid program State drug use review boards
(in this section referred to as ‘‘DUR Boards’’)
and pharmacy and therapeutics committees
(in this section referred to as ‘‘P&T Commit-
tees’’).
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 24 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General shall submit to Con-
gress a report on the investigation conducted
under subsection (a) that includes the fol-
lowing:
(1) A description outlining how DUR
Boards and P&T Committees operate in
States, including details with respect to—
(A) the structure and operation of DUR
Boards and statewide P&T Committees;
(B) States that operate separate P&T Com-
mittees for their fee-for-service Medicaid
program and their Medicaid managed care
organizations or other Medicaid managed
care arrangements (collectively referred to
in this section as ‘‘Medicaid MCOs)’’; and
(C) States that allow Medicaid MCOs to
have their own P&T Committees and the ex-
tent to which pharmacy benefit managers
administer or participate in such P&T Com-
mittees.
(2) A description outlining the differences
between DUR Boards established in accord-
ance with section 1927(g)(3) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r(g)(3)) and P&T
Committees.
(3) A description outlining the tools P&T
Committees may use to determine Medicaid
drug coverage and utilization management
policies.
(4) An analysis of whether and how States
or P&T Committees establish participation
and independence requirements for DUR
Boards and P&T Committees, including with
respect to entities with connections with
drug manufacturers, State Medicaid pro-
grams, managed care organizations, and
other entities or individuals in the pharma-
ceutical industry.
(5) A description outlining how States,
DUR Boards, or P&T Committees define con-
flicts of interest.
(6) A description of how DUR Boards and
P&T Committees address conflicts of inter-
est, including who is responsible for imple-
menting such policies.
(7) A description of the tools, if any, States
use to ensure that there are no conflicts of
interest on DUR Boards and P&T Commit-
tees.
(8) An analysis of the effectiveness of tools
States use to ensure that there are no con-
flicts of interest on DUR Boards and P&T
Committees and, if applicable, recommenda-
tions as to how such tools could be improved.
(9) A review of strategies States may use
to guard against conflicts of interest on DUR
Boards and P&T Committees and to ensure
compliance with the requirements of titles
XI and XIX of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1301 et seq., 1396 et seq.) and access to
effective, clinically appropriate, and medi-
cally necessary drug treatments for Med-
icaid beneficiaries, including recommenda-
tions for such legislative and administrative
actions as the Comptroller General deter-
mines appropriate.
SEC. 204. ENSURING THE ACCURACY OF MANU-
FACTURER PRICE AND DRUG PROD-
UCT INFORMATION UNDER THE
MEDICAID DRUG REBATE PROGRAM.
(a) AUDIT OF MANUFACTURER PRICE AND
DRUG PRODUCT INFORMATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (B) of sec-
tion 1927(b)(3) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)(3)) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(B) AUDITS AND SURVEYS OF MANUFAC-
TURER PRICE AND DRUG PRODUCT INFORMA-
TION.—
‘‘(i) AUDITS.—The Secretary shall conduct
ongoing audits of the price and drug product
information reported by manufacturers
under subparagraph (A) for the most re-
cently ended rebate period to ensure the ac-
curacy and timeliness of such information.
In conducting such audits, the Secretary
may employ evaluations, surveys, statistical
sampling, predictive analytics and other rel-
evant tools and methods.
‘‘(ii) VERIFICATIONS SURVEYS OF AVERAGE
MANUFACTURER PRICE AND MANUFACTURER’S
AVERAGE SALES PRICE.—In addition to the au-
dits required under clause (i), the Secretary
may survey wholesalers and manufacturers
(including manufacturers that directly dis-
tribute their covered outpatient drugs (in
this subparagraph referred to as ‘direct sell-
ers’)), when necessary, to verify manufac-
turer prices and manufacturer’s average
sales prices (including wholesale acquisition
cost) to make payment reported under sub-
paragraph (A).
‘‘(iii) PENALTIES.—In addition to other pen-
alties as may be prescribed by law, including
under subparagraph (C) of this paragraph,
the Secretary may impose a civil monetary
penalty in an amount not to exceed $185,000
on an annual basis on a wholesaler, manufac-
turer, or direct seller, if the wholesaler,
manufacturer, or direct seller of a covered
outpatient drug refuses a request for infor-
mation about charges or prices by the Sec-
retary in connection with an audit or survey
under this subparagraph or knowingly pro-
vides false information. The provisions of
section 1128A (other than subsections (a)
(with respect to amounts of penalties or ad-
ditional assessments) and (b)) shall apply to
a civil money penalty under this clause in
the same manner as such provisions apply to
a penalty or proceeding under section
1128A(a).
‘‘(iv) REPORTS.—
‘‘(I) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The Secretary
shall, not later than 18 months after date of
enactment of this subparagraph, submit a re-
port to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Finance of the Senate re-
garding additional regulatory or statutory
changes that may be required in order to en-
sure accurate and timely reporting and over-
sight of manufacturer price and drug product
information, including whether changes
should be made to reasonable assumption re-
quirements to ensure such assumptions are
reasonable and accurate or whether another
methodology for ensuring accurate and time-
ly reporting of price and drug product infor-
mation should be considered to ensure the
integrity of the drug rebate program under
this section.
‘‘(II) ANNUAL REPORTS.—The Secretary
shall, on at least an annual basis, submit a
report to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Finance of the Senate
summarizing the results of the audits and
surveys conducted under this subparagraph
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10179
December 12, 2019
during the period that is the subject of the
report.
‘‘(III) CONTENT.—Each report submitted
under subclause (II) shall, with respect to
the period that is the subject of the report,
include summaries of—
‘‘(aa) error rates in the price, drug product,
and other relevant information supplied by
manufacturers under subparagraph (A);
‘‘(bb) the timeliness with which manufac-
turers, wholesalers, and direct sellers pro-
vide information required under subpara-
graph (A) or under clause (i) or (ii) of this
subparagraph;
‘‘(cc) the number of manufacturers, whole-
salers, and direct sellers and drug products
audited under this subparagraph;
‘‘(dd) the types of price and drug product
information reviewed under the audits con-
ducted under this subparagraph;
‘‘(ee) the tools and methodologies em-
ployed in such audits;
‘‘(ff) the findings of such audits, including
which manufacturers, if any, were penalized
under this subparagraph; and
‘‘(gg) such other relevant information as
the Secretary shall deem appropriate.
‘‘(IV) PROTECTION OF INFORMATION.—In pre-
paring a report required under subclause (II),
the Secretary shall redact such proprietary
information as the Secretary determines ap-
propriate to prevent disclosure of, and to
safeguard, such information.
‘‘(v) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For purposes of carrying out this subpara-
graph, there is authorized to be appropriated
$2,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal
year thereafter.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection shall take effect on
the first day of the first fiscal quarter that
begins after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(b) INCREASED PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLI-
ANCE WITH REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) INCREASED PENALTY FOR LATE REPORTING
OF INFORMATION.—Section 1927(b)(3)(C)(i) of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–
8(b)(3)(C)(i)) is amended by striking ‘‘in-
creased by $10,000 for each day in which such
information has not been provided and such
amount shall be paid to the Treasury’’ and
inserting ‘‘, for each covered outpatient drug
with respect to which such information is
not provided, $50,000 for the first day that
such information is not provided on a timely
basis and $19,000 for each subsequent day
that such information is not provided’’.
(2) INCREASED PENALTY FOR KNOWINGLY RE-
PORTING FALSE INFORMATION.—Section
1927(b)(3)(C)(ii) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)(3)(C)(ii)) is amended by
striking ‘‘$100,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$500,000’’.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection shall take effect on
the first day of the first fiscal quarter that
begins after the date of enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 205. IMPROVING TRANSPARENCY AND PRE-
VENTING THE USE OF ABUSIVE
SPREAD PRICING AND RELATED
PRACTICES IN MEDICAID.
(a) PASS-THROUGH PRICING REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1927(e) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(e)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) PASS-THROUGH PRICING REQUIRED.—A
contract between the State and a pharmacy
benefit manager (referred to in this para-
graph as a ‘PBM’), or a contract between the
State and a managed care entity or other
specified entity (as such terms are defined in
section 1903(m)(9)(D)) that includes provi-
sions making the entity responsible for cov-
erage of covered outpatient drugs dispensed
to individuals enrolled with the entity, shall
require that payment for such drugs and re-
lated administrative services (as applicable),
including payments made by a PBM on be-
half of the State or entity, is based on a
pass-through pricing model under which—
‘‘(A) any payment made by the entity of
the PBM (as applicable) for such a drug—
‘‘(i) is limited to—
‘‘(I) ingredient cost; and
‘‘(II) a professional dispensing fee that is
not less than the professional dispensing fee
that the State plan or waiver would pay if
the plan or waiver was making the payment
directly;
‘‘(ii) is passed through in its entirety by
the entity or PBM to the pharmacy that dis-
penses the drug; and
‘‘(iii) is made in a manner that is con-
sistent with section 1902(a)(30)(A) and sec-
tions 447.512, 447.514, and 447.518 of title 42,
Code of Federal Regulations (or any suc-
cessor regulation) as if such requirements
applied directly to the entity or the PBM;
‘‘(B) payment to the entity or the PBM (as
applicable) for administrative services per-
formed by the entity or PBM is limited to a
reasonable administrative fee that covers
the reasonable cost of providing such serv-
ices;
‘‘(C) the entity or the PBM (as applicable)
shall make available to the State, and the
Secretary upon request, all costs and pay-
ments related to covered outpatient drugs
and accompanying administrative services
incurred, received, or made by the entity or
the PBM, including ingredient costs, profes-
sional dispensing fees, administrative fees,
post-sale and post-in-voice fees. Discounts,
or related adjustments such as direct and in-
direct remuneration fees, and any and all re-
muneration; and
‘‘(D) any form of spread pricing whereby
any amount charged or claimed by the enti-
ty or the PBM (as applicable) is in excess of
the amount paid to the pharmacies on behalf
of the entity, including any post-sale or
post-invoice fees, discounts, or related ad-
justments such as direct and indirect remu-
neration fees or assessments (after allowing
for a reasonable administrative fee as de-
scribed in subparagraph (B)) is not allowable
for purposes of claiming Federal matching
payments under this title.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Clause (xiii)
of section 1903(m)(2)(A) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1396b(m)(2)(A)), as amended by section 202, is
further amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘and (IV)’’ and inserting
‘‘(IV)’’; and
(B) by inserting before the period at the
end the following: ‘‘, and (V) pharmacy ben-
efit management services provided by the
entity, or provided by a pharmacy benefit
manager on behalf of the entity under a con-
tract or other arrangement between the enti-
ty and the pharmacy benefit manager, shall
comply with the requirements of section
1927(e)(6)’’.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection apply to contracts
between States and managed care entities,
other specified entities, or pharmacy bene-
fits managers that are entered into or re-
newed on or after the date that is 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act.
(b) SURVEY OF RETAIL PRICES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1927(f) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(f)) is
amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ after the semicolon
at the end of paragraph (1)(A)(i) and all that
precedes it through ‘‘(1)’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(1) SURVEY OF RETAIL PRICES.—The Sec-
retary shall conduct a survey of retail com-
munity drug prices, to include at least the
national average drug acquisition cost, as
follows:
‘‘(A) USE OF VENDOR.—The Secretary may
contract services for—
‘‘(i) with respect to retail community phar-
macies, the determination on a monthly
basis of retail survey prices of the national
average drug acquisition cost for covered
outpatient drugs for such pharmacies, net of
all discounts and rebates (to the extent any
information with respect to such discounts
and rebates is available), the average reim-
bursement received for such drugs by such
pharmacies from all sources of payment, in-
cluding third parties, and, to the extent
available, the usual and customary charges
to consumers for such drugs; and’’;
(B) by adding at the end of paragraph (1)
the following:
‘‘(F) SURVEY REPORTING.—In order to meet
the requirement of section 1902(a)(54), a
State shall require that any retail commu-
nity pharmacy in the State that receives any
payment, administrative fee, discount, or re-
bate related to the dispensing of covered out-
patient drugs to individuals receiving bene-
fits under this title, regardless of whether
such payment, fee, discount, or rebate is re-
ceived from the State or a managed care en-
tity directly or from a pharmacy benefit
manager or another entity that has a con-
tract with the State or a managed care enti-
ty, shall respond to surveys of retail prices
conducted under this subsection.
‘‘(G) SURVEY INFORMATION.—Information
on retail community prices obtained under
this paragraph shall be made publicly avail-
able and shall include at least the following:
‘‘(i) The monthly response rate of the sur-
vey including a list of pharmacies not in
compliance with subparagraph (F).
‘‘(ii) The sampling frame and number of
pharmacies sampled monthly.
‘‘(iii) Characteristics of reporting phar-
macies, including type (such as independent
or chain), geographic or regional location,
and dispensing volume.
‘‘(iv) Reporting of a separate national aver-
age drug acquisition cost for each drug for
independent retail pharmacies and chain op-
erated pharmacies.
‘‘(v) Information on price concessions in-
cluding on and off invoice discounts, rebates,
and other price concessions.
‘‘(vi) Information on average professional
dispensing fees paid.
‘‘(H) PENALTIES.—
‘‘(i) FAILURE TO PROVIDE TIMELY INFORMA-
TION.—A retail community pharmacy that
fails to respond to a survey conducted under
this subsection on a timely basis may be sub-
ject to a civil monetary penalty in the
amount of $10,000 for each day in which such
information has not been provided.
‘‘(ii) FALSE INFORMATION.—A retail commu-
nity pharmacy that knowingly provides false
information in response to a survey con-
ducted under this subsection may be subject
to a civil money penalty in an amount not to
exceed $100,000 for each item of false infor-
mation.
‘‘(iii) OTHER PENALTIES.—Any civil money
penalties imposed under this subparagraph
shall be in addition to other penalties as
may be prescribed by law. The provisions of
section 1128A (other than subsections (a) and
(b)) shall apply to a civil money penalty
under this subparagraph in the same manner
as such provisions apply to a penalty or pro-
ceedings under section 1128A(a).
‘‘(I) REPORT ON SPECIALTY PHARMACIES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the effective date of this subparagraph,
the Secretary shall submit a report to Con-
gress examining specialty drug coverage and
reimbursement under this title.
‘‘(ii) CONTENT OF REPORT.—Such report
shall include a description of how State Med-
icaid programs define specialty drugs, how
much State Medicaid programs pay for spe-
cialty drugs, how States and managed care
plans determine payment for specialty drugs,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10180 December 12, 2019
the settings in which specialty drugs are dis-
pensed (such as retail community phar-
macies or specialty pharmacies), whether ac-
quisition costs for specialty drugs are cap-
tured in the national average drug acquisi-
tion cost survey, and recommendations as to
whether specialty pharmacies should be in-
cluded in the survey of retail prices to en-
sure national average drug acquisition costs
capture drugs sold at specialty pharmacies
and how such specialty pharmacies should be
defined.’’;
(C) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘, in-
cluding payments rates under Medicaid man-
aged care plans,’’ after ‘‘under this title’’;
and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘and
the basis for such dispensing fees’’ before the
semicolon; and
(D) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘, and
$5,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal
year thereafter,’’ after ‘‘2010’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection take effect on the
1st day of the 1st quarter that begins on or
after the date that is 18 months after the
date of enactment of this Act.
(c) MANUFACTURER REPORTING OF WHOLE-
SALE ACQUISITION COST.—Section 1927(b)(3) of
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)(3)), as amended
by section 141, is further amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A)(i)—
(A) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(B) in subclause (II), by adding ‘‘and’’ after
the semicolon;
(C) by moving the left margins of subclause
(I) and (II) 2 ems to the right; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(III) in the case of rebate periods that
begin on or after the date of enactment of
this subclause, on the wholesale acquisition
cost (as defined in section 1847A(c)(6)(B)) for
covered outpatient drugs for the rebate pe-
riod under the agreement (including for all
such drugs that are sold under a new drug
application approved under section 505(c) of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act);’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (D)—
(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
inserting ‘‘and clause (vii) of this subpara-
graph’’ after ‘‘1847A’’;
(B) in clause (vi), by striking ‘‘and’’ after
the comma;
(C) in clause (vii), by striking the period
and inserting ‘‘, and’’; and
(D) by inserting after clause (vii) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(viii) to the Secretary to disclose
(through a website accessible to the public)
the most recently reported wholesale acqui-
sition cost (as defined in section
1847A(c)(6)(B)) for each covered outpatient
drug (including for all such drugs that are
sold under a new drug application approved
under section 505(c) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act), as reported under
subparagraph (A)(i)(III).’’.
SEC. 206. T–MSIS DRUG DATA ANALYTICS RE-
PORTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than May 1 of
each calendar year beginning with calendar
year 2021, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services (in this section referred to
as the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall publish on a
website of the Centers for Medicare & Med-
icaid Services that is accessible to the public
a report of the most recently available data
on provider prescribing patterns under the
Medicaid program.
(b) CONTENT OF REPORT.—
(1) REQUIRED CONTENT.—Each report re-
quired under subsection (a) for a calendar
year shall include the following information
with respect to each State (and, to the ex-
tent available, with respect to Puerto Rico,
the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the
Northern Mariana Islands, and American
Samoa):
(A) A comparison of covered outpatient
drug (as defined in section 1927(k)(2) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(k)(2)))
prescribing patterns under the State Med-
icaid plan or waiver of such plan (including
drugs prescribed on a fee-for-service basis
and drugs prescribed under managed care ar-
rangements under such plan or waiver)—
(i) across all forms or models of reimburse-
ment used under the plan or waiver;
(ii) within specialties and subspecialties,
as defined by the Secretary;
(iii) by episodes of care for—
(I) each chronic disease category, as de-
fined by the Secretary, that is represented in
the 10 conditions that accounted for the
greatest share of total spending under the
plan or waiver during the year that is the
subject of the report;
(II) procedural groupings; and
(III) rare disease diagnosis codes;
(iv) by patient demographic characteris-
tics, including race (to the extent that the
Secretary determines that there is sufficient
data available with respect to such char-
acteristic in a majority of States), gender,
and age;
(v) by patient high-utilizer or risk status;
and
(vi) by high and low resource settings by
facility and place of service categories, as
determined by the Secretary.
(B) In the case of medical assistance for
covered outpatient drugs (as so defined) pro-
vided under a State Medicaid plan or waiver
of such plan in a managed care setting, an
analysis of the differences in managed care
prescribing patterns when a covered out-
patient drug is prescribed in a managed care
setting as compared to when the drug is pre-
scribed in a fee-for-service setting.
(2) ADDITIONAL CONTENT.—A report required
under subsection (a) for a calendar year may
include State-specific information about pre-
scription utilization management tools
under State Medicaid plans or waivers of
such plans, including—
(A) a description of prescription utilization
management tools under State programs to
provide long-term services and supports
under a State Medicaid plan or a waiver of
such plan;
(B) a comparison of prescription utiliza-
tion management tools applicable to popu-
lations covered under a State Medicaid plan
waiver under section 1115 of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1315) and the models ap-
plicable to populations that are not covered
under the waiver;
(C) a comparison of the prescription utili-
zation management tools employed by dif-
ferent Medicaid managed care organizations,
pharmacy benefit managers, and related en-
tities within the State;
(D) a comparison of the prescription utili-
zation management tools applicable to each
enrollment category under a State Medicaid
plan or waiver; and
(E) a comparison of the prescription utili-
zation management tools applicable under
the State Medicaid plan or waiver by patient
high-utilizer or risk status.
(3) ADDITIONAL ANALYSIS.—To the extent
practicable, the Secretary shall include in
each report published under subsection (a)—
(A) analyses of national, State, and local
patterns of Medicaid population-based pre-
scribing behaviors; and
(B) recommendations for administrative or
legislative action to improve the effective-
ness of, and reduce costs for, covered out-
patient drugs under Medicaid while ensuring
timely beneficiary access to medically nec-
essary covered outpatient drugs.
(c) USE OF T–MSIS DATA.—Each report re-
quired under subsection (a) shall—
(1) be prepared using data and definitions
from the Transformed Medicaid Statistical
Information System (T–MSIS) data set (or a
successor data set) that is not more than 24
months old on the date that the report is
published; and
(2) as appropriate, include a description
with respect to each State of the quality and
completeness of the data, as well as any nec-
essary caveats describing the limitations of
the data reported to the Secretary by the
State that are sufficient to communicate the
appropriate uses for the information.
(d) PREPARATION OF REPORT.—Each report
required under subsection (a) shall be pre-
pared by the Administrator for the Centers
for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For purposes of carrying out this section,
there is authorized to be appropriated
$2,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal
year thereafter.
SEC. 207. RISK-SHARING VALUE-BASED PAYMENT
AGREEMENTS FOR COVERED OUT-
PATIENT DRUGS UNDER MEDICAID.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1927 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8) is amended
by adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(l) STATE OPTION TO PAY FOR COVERED
OUTPATIENT DRUGS THROUGH RISK-SHARING
VALUE-BASED AGREEMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning January 1,
2022, a State shall have the option to pay
(whether on a fee-for-service or managed
care basis) for covered outpatient drugs that
are potentially curative treatments intended
for one-time use that are administered to in-
dividuals under this title by entering into a
risk-sharing value-based payment agreement
with the manufacturer of the drug in accord-
ance with the requirements of this sub-
section.
‘‘(2) SECRETARIAL APPROVAL.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A State shall submit a
request to the Secretary to enter into a risk-
sharing value based payment agreement, and
the Secretary shall not approve a proposed
risk-sharing value-based payment agreement
between a State and a manufacturer for pay-
ment for a covered outpatient drug of the
manufacturer unless the following require-
ments are met:
‘‘(i) MANUFACTURER IS PARTY TO REBATE
AGREEMENT AND IN COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The manufacturer has a rebate
agreement in effect as required under sub-
section (a) and (b) of this section and is in
compliance with all applicable requirements
under this title.
‘‘(ii) NO INCREASE TO PROJECTED NET FED-
ERAL SPENDING.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—The Chief Actuary cer-
tifies that the projected payments for each
covered outpatient drug under such proposed
agreement would not result in greater esti-
mated Federal spending under this title than
the net Federal spending that would result
in the absence of the agreement.
‘‘(II) NET FEDERAL SPENDING DEFINED.—For
purposes of this subsection, the term ‘net
Federal spending’ means the amount of Fed-
eral payments the Chief Actuary estimates
would be made under this title for admin-
istering a covered outpatient drug to an indi-
vidual eligible for medical assistance under a
State plan or a waiver of such plan, reduced
by the amount of all rebates the Chief Actu-
ary estimates would be paid with respect to
the administering of such drug, including all
rebates under this title and any supple-
mental or other additional rebates, in the
absence of such an agreement.
‘‘(III) INFORMATION.—The Chief Actuary
shall make the certifications required under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10181
December 12, 2019
this clause based on the most recently avail-
able and reliable drug pricing and product in-
formation. The State and manufacturer shall
provide the Secretary and the Chief Actuary
with all necessary information required to
make the estimates needed for such certifi-
cations.
‘‘(iii) LAUNCH AND LIST PRICE JUSTIFICA-
TIONS.—The manufacturer submits all rel-
evant information and supporting docu-
mentation necessary for pricing decisions as
deemed appropriate by the Secretary, which
shall be truthful and non-misleading, includ-
ing manufacturer information and sup-
porting documentation for launch price or
list price increases, and any applicable jus-
tification required under section 1128L.
‘‘(iv) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION;
PENALTIES.—The provisions of subparagraphs
(C) and (D) of subsection (b)(3) shall apply to
a manufacturer that fails to submit the in-
formation and documentation required under
clauses (ii) and (iii) on a timely basis, or that
knowingly provides false or misleading infor-
mation, in the same manner as such provi-
sions apply to a manufacturer with a rebate
agreement under this section.
‘‘(B) CONSIDERATION OF STATE REQUEST FOR
APPROVAL.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall treat
a State request for approval of a risk-sharing
value-based payment agreement in the same
manner that the Secretary treats a State
plan amendment, and subpart B of part 430 of
title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, includ-
ing, subject to clause (ii), the timing require-
ments of section 430.16 of such title (as in ef-
fect on the date of enactment of this sub-
section), shall apply to a request for ap-
proval of a risk-sharing value-based payment
agreement in the same manner as such sub-
part applies to a State plan amendment.
‘‘(ii) TIMING.—The Secretary shall consult
with the Commissioner of Food and Drugs as
required under subparagraph (C) and make a
determination on whether to approve a re-
quest from a State for approval of a proposed
risk-sharing value-based payment agreement
(or request additional information necessary
to allow the Secretary to make a determina-
tion with respect to such request for ap-
proval) within the time period, to the extent
practicable, specified in section 430.16 of title
42, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
on the date of enactment of this subsection),
but in no case shall the Secretary take more
than 180 days after the receipt of such re-
quest for approval or response to such re-
quest for additional information to make
such a determination (or request additional
information).
‘‘(C) CONSULTATION WITH THE COMMISSIONER
OF FOOD AND DRUGS.—In considering whether
to approve a risk-sharing value-based pay-
ment agreement, the Secretary, to the ex-
tent necessary, shall consult with the Com-
missioner of Food and Drugs to determine
whether the relevant clinical parameters
specified in such agreement are appropriate.
‘‘(3) INSTALLMENT-BASED PAYMENT STRUC-
TURE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A risk-sharing value-
based payment agreement shall provide for a
payment structure under which, for every in-
stallment year of the agreement (subject to
subparagraph (B)), the State shall pay the
total installment year amount in equal in-
stallments to be paid at regular intervals
over a period of time that shall be specified
in the agreement.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLMENT PAY-
MENTS.—
‘‘(i) TIMING OF FIRST PAYMENT.—The State
shall make the first of the installment pay-
ments described in subparagraph (A) for an
installment year not later than 30 days after
the end of such year.
‘‘(ii) LENGTH OF INSTALLMENT PERIOD.—The
period of time over which the State shall
make the installment payments described in
subparagraph (A) for an installment year
shall not be longer than 5 years.
‘‘(iii) NONPAYMENT OR REDUCED PAYMENT OF
INSTALLMENTS FOLLOWING A FAILURE TO MEET
CLINICAL PARAMETER.—If, prior to the pay-
ment date (as specified in the agreement) of
any installment payment described in sub-
paragraph (A) or any other alternative date
or time frame (as otherwise specified in the
agreement), the covered outpatient drug
which is subject to the agreement fails to
meet a relevant clinical parameter of the
agreement, the agreement shall provide
that—
‘‘(I) the installment payment shall not be
made; or
‘‘(II) the installment payment shall be re-
duced by a percentage specified in the agree-
ment that is based on the outcome achieved
by the drug relative to the relevant clinical
parameter.
‘‘(4) NOTICE OF INTENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), a manufacturer of a covered outpatient
drug shall not be eligible to enter into a
risk-sharing value-based payment agreement
under this subsection with respect to such
drug unless the manufacturer notifies the
Secretary that the manufacturer is inter-
ested in entering into such an agreement
with respect to such drug. The decision to
submit and timing of a request to enter into
a proposed risk-sharing value-based payment
agreement shall remain solely within the
discretion of the State and shall only be ef-
fective upon Secretarial approval as required
under this subsection.
‘‘(B) TREATMENT OF SUBSEQUENTLY AP-
PROVED DRUGS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a manufac-
turer of a covered outpatient drug approved
under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act or licensed under section
351 of the Public Health Service Act after the
date of enactment of this subsection, not
more than 90 days after meeting with the
Food and Drug Administration following
phase II clinical trials for such drug (or, in
the case of a drug described in clause (ii), not
later than March 31, 2022), the manufacturer
must notify the Secretary of the manufac-
turer’s intent to enter into a risk-sharing
value-based payment agreement under this
subsection with respect to such drug. If no
such meeting has occurred, the Secretary
may use discretion as to whether a poten-
tially curative treatment intended for one-
time use may qualify for a risk-sharing
value-based payment agreement under this
section. A manufacturer notification of in-
terest shall not have any influence on a deci-
sion for approval by the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration.
‘‘(ii) APPLICATION TO CERTAIN SUBSE-
QUENTLY APPROVED DRUGS.—A drug described
in this clause is a covered outpatient drug of
a manufacturer—
‘‘(I) that is approved under section 505 of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or
licensed under section 351 of the Public
Health Service Act after the date of enact-
ment of this subsection; and
‘‘(II) with respect to which, as of January
1, 2022, more than 90 days have passed after
the manufacturer’s meeting with the Food
and Drug Administration following phase II
clinical trials for such drug.
‘‘(iii) PARALLEL APPROVAL.—The Secretary,
in coordination with the Administrator of
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Serv-
ices and the Commissioner of Food and
Drugs, shall, to the extent practicable, ap-
prove a State’s request to enter into a pro-
posed risk-sharing value-based payment
agreement that otherwise meets the require-
ments of this subsection at the time that
such a drug is approved by the Food and
Drug Administration to help provide that no
State that wishes to enter into such an
agreement is required to pay for the drug in
full at one time if the State is seeking to pay
over a period of time as outlined in the pro-
posed agreement.
‘‘(iv) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this paragraph shall be applied or construed
to modify or affect the timeframes or factors
involved in the Secretary’s determination of
whether to approve or license a drug under
section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act or section 351 of the Public
Health Service Act.
‘‘(5) SPECIAL PAYMENT RULES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided in this paragraph, with respect to an
individual who is administered a unit of a
covered outpatient drug that is purchased
under a State plan by a State Medicaid agen-
cy under a risk-sharing value-based payment
agreement in an installment year, the State
shall remain liable to the manufacturer of
such drug for payment for such unit without
regard to whether the individual remains en-
rolled in the State plan under this title (or a
waiver of such plan) for each installment
year for which the State is to make install-
ment payments for covered outpatient drugs
purchased under the agreement in such year.
‘‘(B) DEATH.—In the case of an individual
described in subparagraph (A) who dies dur-
ing the period described in such subpara-
graph, the State plan shall not be liable for
any remaining payment for the unit of the
covered outpatient drug administered to the
individual which is owed under the agree-
ment described in such subparagraph.
‘‘(C) WITHDRAWAL OF APPROVAL.—In the
case of a covered outpatient drug that is the
subject of a risk-sharing value-based agree-
ment between a State and a manufacturer
under this subsection, including a drug ap-
proved in accordance with section 506(c) of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act,
and such drug is the subject of an applica-
tion that has been withdrawn by the Sec-
retary, the State plan shall not be liable for
any remaining payment that is owed under
the agreement.
‘‘(D) ALTERNATIVE ARRANGEMENT UNDER
AGREEMENT.—Subject to approval by the Sec-
retary, the terms of a proposed risk-sharing
value-based payment agreement submitted
for approval by a State may provide that
subparagraph (A) shall not apply.
‘‘(E) GUIDANCE.—Not later than January 1,
2022, the Secretary shall issue guidance to
States establishing a process for States to
notify the Secretary when an individual who
is administered a unit of a covered out-
patient drug that is purchased by a State
plan under a risk-sharing value-based pay-
ment agreement ceases to be enrolled under
the State plan under this title (or a waiver of
such plan) or dies before the end of the in-
stallment period applicable to such unit
under the agreement.
‘‘(6) TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS UNDER RISK-
SHARING VALUE-BASED AGREEMENTS FOR PUR-
POSES OF AVERAGE MANUFACTURER PRICE;
BEST PRICE.—The Secretary shall treat any
payments made to the manufacturer of a
covered outpatient drug under a risk-sharing
value-based payment agreement under this
subsection during a rebate period in the
same manner that the Secretary treats pay-
ments made under a State supplemental re-
bate agreement under sections 447.504(c)(19)
and 447.505(c)(7) of title 42, Code of Federal
Regulations (or any successor regulations)
for purposes of determining average manu-
facturer price and best price under this sec-
tion with respect to the covered outpatient
drug and a rebate period and for purposes of
offsets required under subsection (b)(1)(B).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10182 December 12, 2019
‘‘(7) ASSESSMENTS AND REPORT TO CON-
GRESS.—
‘‘(A) ASSESSMENTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the end of each assessment period of
any risk-sharing value-based payment agree-
ment for a State approved under this sub-
section, the Secretary shall conduct an eval-
uation of such agreement which shall include
an evaluation by the Chief Actuary to deter-
mine whether program spending under the
risk-sharing value-based payment agreement
aligned with the projections for the agree-
ment made under paragraph (2)(A)(ii), in-
cluding an assessment of whether actual
Federal spending under this title under the
agreement was less or more than net Federal
spending would have been in the absence of
the agreement.
‘‘(ii) ASSESSMENT PERIOD.—For purposes of
clause (i)—
‘‘(I) the first assessment period for a risk-
sharing value-based payment agreement
shall be the period of time over which pay-
ments are scheduled to be made under the
agreement for the first 10 individuals who
are administered covered outpatient drugs
under the agreement except that such period
shall not exceed the 5-year period after the
date on which the Secretary approves the
agreement; and
‘‘(II) each subsequent assessment period for
a risk-sharing value-based payment agree-
ment shall be the 5-year period following the
end of the previous assessment period.
‘‘(B) RESULTS OF ASSESSMENTS.—
‘‘(i) TERMINATION OPTION.—If the Secretary
determines as a result of the assessment by
the Chief Actuary under subparagraph (A)
that the actual Federal spending under this
title for any covered outpatient drug that
was the subject of the State’s risk-sharing
value-based payment agreement was greater
than the net Federal spending that would
have resulted in the absence of the agree-
ment, the Secretary may terminate approval
of such agreement and shall immediately
conduct an assessment under this paragraph
of any other ongoing risk-sharing value-
based payment agreement to which the same
manufacturer is a party.
‘‘(ii) REPAYMENT REQUIRED.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines as a result of the assessment by the
Chief Actuary under subparagraph (A) that
the Federal spending under the risk-sharing
value-based agreement for a covered out-
patient drug that was subject to such agree-
ment was greater than the net Federal
spending that would have resulted in the ab-
sence of the agreement, the manufacturer
shall repay the difference to the State and
Federal governments in a timely manner as
determined by the Secretary.
‘‘(II) TERMINATION FOR FAILURE TO PAY.—
The failure of a manufacturer to make re-
payments required under subclause (I) in a
timely manner shall result in immediate ter-
mination of all risk-sharing value-based
agreements to which the manufacturer is a
party.
‘‘(III) ADDITIONAL PENALTIES.—In the case
of a manufacturer that fails to make repay-
ments required under subclause (I), the Sec-
retary may treat such manufacturer in the
same manner as a manufacturer that fails to
pay required rebates under this section, and
the Secretary may—
‘‘(aa) suspend or terminate the manufac-
turer’s rebate agreement under this section;
and
‘‘(bb) pursue any other remedy that would
be available if the manufacturer had failed
to pay required rebates under this section.
‘‘(C) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
5 years after the first risk-sharing value-
based payment agreement is approved under
this subsection, the Secretary shall submit
to Congress and make available to the public
a report that includes—
‘‘(i) an assessment of the impact of risk-
sharing value-based payment agreements on
access for individuals who are eligible for
benefits under a State plan or waiver under
this title to medically necessary covered
outpatient drugs and related treatments;
‘‘(ii) an analysis of the impact of such
agreements on overall State and Federal
spending under this title;
‘‘(iii) an assessment of the impact of such
agreements on drug prices, including launch
price and price increases; and
‘‘(iv) such recommendations to Congress as
the Secretary deems appropriate.
‘‘(8) GUIDANCE AND REGULATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January
1, 2022, the Secretary shall issue guidance to
States seeking to enter into risk-sharing
value-based payment agreements under this
subsection that includes a model template
for such agreements. The Secretary may
issue any additional guidance or promulgate
regulations as necessary to implement and
enforce the provisions of this subsection.
‘‘(B) MODEL AGREEMENTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a State expresses an
interest in pursuing a risk-sharing value-
based payment agreement under this sub-
section with a manufacturer for the purchase
of a covered outpatient drug, the Secretary
may share with such State any risk-sharing
value-based agreement between a State and
the manufacturer for the purchase of such
drug that has been approved under this sub-
section. While such shared agreement may
serve as a template for a State that wishes
to propose, the use of a previously approved
agreement shall not affect the submission
and approval process for approval of a pro-
posed risk-sharing value-based payment
agreement under this subsection, including
the requirements under paragraph (2)(A).
‘‘(ii) CONFIDENTIALITY.—In the case of a
risk-sharing value-based payment agreement
that is disclosed to a State by the Secretary
under this subparagraph and that is only in
effect with respect to a single State, the con-
fidentiality of information provisions de-
scribed in subsection (b)(3)(D) shall apply to
such information.
‘‘(C) OIG CONSULTATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
sult with the Office of the Inspector General
of the Department of Health and Human
Services to determine whether there are po-
tential program integrity concerns with
agreement approvals or templates and ad-
dress accordingly.
‘‘(ii) OIG POLICY UPDATES AS NECESSARY.—
The Inspector General of the Department of
Health and Human Services shall review and
update, as necessary, any policies or guide-
lines of the Office of the Inspector General of
the Department of Human Services (includ-
ing policies related to the enforcement of
section 1128B) to accommodate the use of
risk-sharing value-based payment agree-
ments in accordance with this section.
‘‘(9) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—
‘‘(A) MODIFICATIONS.—Nothing in this sub-
section or any regulations promulgated
under this subsection shall prohibit a State
from requesting a modification from the Sec-
retary to the terms of a risk-sharing value-
based payment agreement. A modification
that is expected to result in any increase to
projected net State or Federal spending
under the agreement shall be subject to re-
certification by the Chief Actuary as de-
scribed in paragraph (2)(A)(ii) before the
modification may be approved.
‘‘(B) REBATE AGREEMENTS.—Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed as requiring a
State to enter into a risk-sharing value-
based payment agreement or as limiting or
superseding the ability of a State to enter
into a supplemental rebate agreement for a
covered outpatient drug.
‘‘(C) FFP FOR PAYMENTS UNDER RISK-SHAR-
ING VALUE-BASED PAYMENT AGREEMENTS.—
Federal financial participation shall be
available under this title for any payment
made by a State to a manufacturer for a cov-
ered outpatient drug under a risk-sharing
value-based payment agreement in accord-
ance with this subsection, except that no
Federal financial participation shall be
available for any payment made by a State
to a manufacturer under such an agreement
on and after the effective date of a dis-
approval of such agreement by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(D) CONTINUED APPLICATION OF OTHER PRO-
VISIONS.—Except as expressly provided in
this subsection, nothing in this subsection or
in any regulations promulgated under this
subsection shall affect the application of any
other provision of this Act.
‘‘(10) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For purposes of carrying out this subsection,
there is authorized to be appropriated
$5,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal
year thereafter.
‘‘(11) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) CHIEF ACTUARY.—The term ‘Chief Ac-
tuary’ means the Chief Actuary of the Cen-
ters for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
‘‘(B) INSTALLMENT YEAR.—The term ‘in-
stallment year’ means, with respect to a
risk-sharing value-based payment agree-
ment, a 12-month period during which a cov-
ered outpatient drug is administered under
the agreement.
‘‘(C) POTENTIALLY CURATIVE TREATMENT IN-
TENDED FOR ONE-TIME USE.—The term ‘poten-
tially curative treatment intended for one-
time use’ means a treatment that consists of
the administration of a covered outpatient
drug that—
‘‘(i) is a form of gene therapy for a rare dis-
ease, as defined by the Commissioner of Food
and Drugs, designated under section 526 of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act,
and approved under section 505 of such Act or
licensed under subsection (a) or (k) of sec-
tion 351 of the Public Health Service Act to
treat a serious or life-threatening disease or
condition;
‘‘(ii) if administered in accordance with
the labeling of such drug, is expected to re-
sult in either—
‘‘(I) the cure of such disease or condition;
or
‘‘(II) a reduction in the symptoms of such
disease or condition to the extent that such
disease or condition is not expected to lead
to early mortality; and
‘‘(iii) is expected to achieve a result de-
scribed in clause (ii), which may be achieved
over an extended period of time, after not
more than 3 administrations.
‘‘(D) RELEVANT CLINICAL PARAMETER.—The
term ‘relevant clinical parameter’ means,
with respect to a covered outpatient drug
that is the subject of a risk-sharing value-
based payment agreement—
‘‘(i) a clinical endpoint specified in the
drug’s labeling or supported by one or more
of the compendia described in section
1861(t)(2)(B)(ii)(I) that—
‘‘(I) is able to be measured or evaluated on
an annual basis for each year of the agree-
ment on an independent basis by a provider
or other entity; and
‘‘(II) is required to be achieved (based on
observed metrics in patient populations)
under the terms of the agreement; or
‘‘(ii) a surrogate endpoint (as defined in
section 507(e)(9) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act), including those devel-
oped by patient-focused drug development
tools, that—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10183
December 12, 2019
‘‘(I) is able to be measured or evaluated on
an annual basis for each year of the agree-
ment on an independent basis by a provider
or other entity; and
‘‘(II) has been qualified by the Food and
Drug Administration.
‘‘(E) RISK-SHARING VALUE-BASED PAYMENT
AGREEMENT.—The term ‘risk-sharing value-
based payment agreement’ means an agree-
ment between a State plan and a manufac-
turer—
‘‘(i) for the purchase of a covered out-
patient drug of the manufacturer that is a
potentially curative treatment intended for
one-time use;
‘‘(ii) under which payment for such drug
shall be made pursuant to an installment-
based payment structure that meets the re-
quirements of paragraph (3);
‘‘(iii) which conditions payment on the
achievement of at least 2 relevant clinical
parameters (as defined in subparagraph (C));
‘‘(iv) which provides that—
‘‘(I) the State plan will directly reimburse
the manufacturer for the drug; or
‘‘(II) a third party will reimburse the man-
ufacture in a manner approved by the Sec-
retary; and
‘‘(v) is approved by the Secretary in ac-
cordance with paragraph (2).
‘‘(F) TOTAL INSTALLMENT YEAR AMOUNT.—
The term ‘total installment year amount’
means, with respect to a risk-sharing value-
based payment agreement for the purchase
of a covered outpatient drug and an install-
ment year, an amount equal to the product
of—
‘‘(i) the unit price of the drug charged
under the agreement; and
‘‘(ii) the number of units of such drug ad-
ministered under the agreement during such
installment year.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 1903(i)(10)(A) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(i)(10)(A)) is amended
by striking ‘‘or unless section 1927(a)(3) ap-
plies’’ and inserting ‘‘, section 1927(a)(3) ap-
plies with respect to such drugs, or such
drugs are the subject of a risk-sharing value-
based payment agreement under section
1927(l)’’.
(2) Section 1927(b) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ‘‘(ex-
cept for drugs for which payment is made by
a State under a risk-sharing value-based
payment agreement under subsection (l))’’
after ‘‘under the State plan for such period’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in subparagraph (C)(i), by inserting ‘‘or
subsection (l)(2)(A)’’ after ‘‘subparagraph
(A)’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (D), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by inserting ‘‘, under sub-
section (l)(2)(A),’’ after ‘‘under this para-
graph’’.
SEC. 208. APPLYING MEDICAID DRUG REBATE RE-
QUIREMENT TO DRUGS PROVIDED
AS PART OF OUTPATIENT HOSPITAL
SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1927(k)(3) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(k)(3))
is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(3) LIMITING DEFINITION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘covered out-
patient drug’ does not include any drug, bio-
logical product, or insulin provided as part
of, or as incident to and in the same setting
as, any of the following (and for which pay-
ment may be made under this title as part of
payment for the following and not as direct
reimbursement for the drug):
‘‘(i) Inpatient hospital services.
‘‘(ii) Hospice services.
‘‘(iii) Dental services, except that drugs for
which the State plan authorizes direct reim-
bursement to the dispensing dentist are cov-
ered outpatient drugs.
‘‘(iv) Physicians’ services.
‘‘(v) Outpatient hospital services.
‘‘(vi) Nursing facility services and services
provided by an intermediate care facility for
the mentally retarded.
‘‘(vii) Other laboratory and x-ray services.
‘‘(viii) Renal dialysis.
‘‘(B) OTHER EXCLUSIONS.—Such term also
does not include any such drug or product for
which a National Drug Code number is not
required by the Food and Drug Administra-
tion or a drug or biological used for a med-
ical indication which is not a medically ac-
cepted indication.
‘‘(C) STATE OPTION.—At the option of a
State, such term may include any drug, bio-
logical product, or insulin for which the
State is the primary payer under this title or
a demonstration project concerning this
title, and that is provided on an outpatient
basis as part of, or as incident to and in the
same setting as, described in clause (iv) or
(v) of subparagraph (A) and for which pay-
ment is made as part of payment for such
services.
‘‘(D) NO EFFECT ON BEST PRICE.—Any drug,
biological product, or insulin excluded from
the definition of such term as a result of this
paragraph shall be treated as a covered out-
patient drug for purposes of determining the
best price (as defined in subsection (c)(1)(C))
for such drug, biological product, or insu-
lin.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE; IMPLEMENTATION
GUIDANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendment made by
subsection (a) shall take effect on the date
that is 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(2) IMPLEMENTATION AND GUIDANCE.—Not
later than 1 year after the date of enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall issue guidance and rel-
evant informational bulletins for States,
manufacturers (as defined in section
1927(k)(5) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8(k)(5)), and other relevant
stakeholders, including health care pro-
viders, regarding implementation of the
amendment made by subsection (a).
TITLE III—FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION
Subtitle A—CREATES Act
SEC. 301. ACTIONS FOR DELAYS OF GENERIC
DRUGS AND BIOSIMILAR BIOLOGI-
CAL PRODUCTS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘commercially reasonable,
market-based terms’’ means—
(A) a nondiscriminatory price for the sale
of the covered product at or below, but not
greater than, the most recent wholesale ac-
quisition cost for the drug, as defined in sec-
tion 1847A(c)(6)(B) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–3a(c)(6)(B));
(B) a schedule for delivery that results in
the transfer of the covered product to the el-
igible product developer consistent with the
timing under subsection (b)(2)(A)(iv); and
(C) no additional conditions are imposed on
the sale of the covered product;
(2) the term ‘‘covered product’’—
(A) means—
(i) any drug approved under subsection (c)
or (j) of section 505 of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355) or bio-
logical product licensed under subsection (a)
or (k) of section 351 of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262);
(ii) any combination of a drug or biological
product described in clause (i); or
(iii) when reasonably necessary to support
approval of an application under section 505
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 355), or section 351 of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262), as applica-
ble, or otherwise meet the requirements for
approval under either such section, any prod-
uct, including any device, that is marketed
or intended for use with such a drug or bio-
logical product; and
(B) does not include any drug or biological
product that appears on the drug shortage
list in effect under section 506E of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
356e), unless—
(i) the drug or biological product has been
on the drug shortage list in effect under such
section 506E continuously for more than 6
months; or
(ii) the Secretary determines that inclu-
sion of the drug or biological product as a
covered product is likely to contribute to al-
leviating or preventing a shortage;
(3) the term ‘‘device’’ has the meaning
given the term in section 201 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321);
(4) the term ‘‘eligible product developer’’
means a person that seeks to develop a prod-
uct for approval pursuant to an application
for approval under subsection (b)(2) or (j) of
section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355) or for licensing
pursuant to an application under section
351(k) of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 262(k));
(5) the term ‘‘license holder’’ means the
holder of an application approved under sub-
section (c) or (j) of section 505 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355)
or the holder of a license under subsection
(a) or (k) of section 351 of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262) for a covered prod-
uct;
(6) the term ‘‘REMS’’ means a risk evalua-
tion and mitigation strategy under section
505–1 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act (21 U.S.C. 355–1);
(7) the term ‘‘REMS with ETASU’’ means a
REMS that contains elements to assure safe
use under section 505–1(f) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355–
1(f));
(8) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services;
(9) the term ‘‘single, shared system of ele-
ments to assure safe use’’ means a single,
shared system of elements to assure safe use
under section 505–1(f) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355–1(f));
and
(10) the term ‘‘sufficient quantities’’ means
an amount of a covered product that the eli-
gible product developer determines allows it
to—
(A) conduct testing to support an applica-
tion under—
(i) subsection (b)(2) or (j) of section 505 of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 355); or
(ii) section 351(k) of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(k)); and
(B) fulfill any regulatory requirements re-
lating to approval of such an application.
(b) CIVIL ACTION FOR FAILURE TO PROVIDE
SUFFICIENT QUANTITIES OF A COVERED PROD-
UCT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An eligible product devel-
oper may bring a civil action against the li-
cense holder for a covered product seeking
relief under this subsection in an appropriate
district court of the United States alleging
that the license holder has declined to pro-
vide sufficient quantities of the covered
product to the eligible product developer on
commercially reasonable, market-based
terms.
(2) ELEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—To prevail in a civil ac-
tion brought under paragraph (1), an eligible
product developer shall prove, by a prepon-
derance of the evidence—
(i) that—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10184 December 12, 2019
(I) the covered product is not subject to a
REMS with ETASU; or
(II) if the covered product is subject to a
REMS with ETASU—
(aa) the eligible product developer has ob-
tained a covered product authorization from
the Secretary in accordance with subpara-
graph (B); and
(bb) the eligible product developer has pro-
vided a copy of the covered product author-
ization to the license holder;
(ii) that, as of the date on which the civil
action is filed, the product developer has not
obtained sufficient quantities of the covered
product on commercially reasonable, mar-
ket-based terms;
(iii) that the eligible product developer has
submitted a written request to purchase suf-
ficient quantities of the covered product to
the license holder and such request—
(I) was sent to a named corporate officer of
the license holder;
(II) was made by certified or registered
mail with return receipt requested;
(III) specified an individual as the point of
contact for the license holder to direct com-
munications related to the sale of the cov-
ered product to the eligible product devel-
oper and a means for electronic and written
communications with that individual; and
(IV) specified an address to which the cov-
ered product was to be shipped upon reaching
an agreement to transfer the covered prod-
uct; and
(iv) that the license holder has not deliv-
ered to the eligible product developer suffi-
cient quantities of the covered product on
commercially reasonable, market-based
terms—
(I) for a covered product that is not subject
to a REMS with ETASU, by the date that is
31 days after the date on which the license
holder received the request for the covered
product; and
(II) for a covered product that is subject to
a REMS with ETASU, by 31 days after the
later of—
(aa) the date on which the license holder
received the request for the covered product;
or
(bb) the date on which the license holder
received a copy of the covered product au-
thorization issued by the Secretary in ac-
cordance with subparagraph (B).
(B) AUTHORIZATION FOR COVERED PRODUCT
SUBJECT TO A REMS WITH ETASU.—
(i) REQUEST.—An eligible product developer
may submit to the Secretary a written re-
quest for the eligible product developer to be
authorized to obtain sufficient quantities of
an individual covered product subject to a
REMS with ETASU.
(ii) AUTHORIZATION.—Not later than 120
days after the date on which a request under
clause (i) is received, the Secretary shall, by
written notice, authorize the eligible product
developer to obtain sufficient quantities of
an individual covered product subject to a
REMS with ETASU for purposes of—
(I) development and testing that does not
involve human clinical trials, if the eligible
product developer has agreed to comply with
any conditions the Secretary determines
necessary; or
(II) development and testing that involves
human clinical trials, if the eligible product
developer has—
(aa)(AA) submitted protocols, informed
consent documents, and informational mate-
rials for testing that include protections
that provide safety protections comparable
to those provided by the REMS for the cov-
ered product; or
(BB) otherwise satisfied the Secretary that
such protections will be provided; and
(bb) met any other requirements the Sec-
retary may establish.
(iii) NOTICE.—A covered product authoriza-
tion issued under this subparagraph shall
state that the provision of the covered prod-
uct by the license holder under the terms of
the authorization will not be a violation of
the REMS for the covered product.
(3) AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.—In a civil action
brought under paragraph (1), it shall be an
affirmative defense, on which the defendant
has the burden of persuasion by a preponder-
ance of the evidence—
(A) that, on the date on which the eligible
product developer requested to purchase suf-
ficient quantities of the covered product
from the license holder—
(i) neither the license holder nor any of its
agents, wholesalers, or distributors was en-
gaged in the manufacturing or commercial
marketing of the covered product; and
(ii) neither the license holder nor any of its
agents, wholesalers, or distributors other-
wise had access to inventory of the covered
product to supply to the eligible product de-
veloper on commercially reasonable, mar-
ket-based terms;
(B) that—
(i) the license holder sells the covered
product through agents, distributors, or
wholesalers;
(ii) the license holder has placed no restric-
tions, explicit or implicit, on its agents, dis-
tributors, or wholesalers to sell covered
products to eligible product developers; and
(iii) the covered product can be purchased
by the eligible product developer in suffi-
cient quantities on commercially reasonable,
market-based terms from the agents, dis-
tributors, or wholesalers of the license hold-
er; or
(C) that the license holder made an offer to
the individual specified pursuant to para-
graph (2)(A)(iii)(III), by a means of commu-
nication (electronic, written, or both) speci-
fied pursuant to such paragraph, to sell suffi-
cient quantities of the covered product to
the eligible product developer at commer-
cially reasonable market-based terms—
(i) for a covered product that is not subject
to a REMS with ETASU, by the date that is
14 days after the date on which the license
holder received the request for the covered
product, and the eligible product developer
did not accept such offer by the date that is
7 days after the date on which the eligible
product developer received such offer from
the license holder; or
(ii) for a covered product that is subject to
a REMS with ETASU, by the date that is 20
days after the date on which the license
holder received the request for the covered
product, and the eligible product developer
did not accept such offer by the date that is
10 days after the date on which the eligible
product developer received such offer from
the license holder.
(4) REMEDIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If an eligible product de-
veloper prevails in a civil action brought
under paragraph (1), the court shall—
(i) order the license holder to provide to
the eligible product developer without delay
sufficient quantities of the covered product
on commercially reasonable, market-based
terms;
(ii) award to the eligible product developer
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of the
civil action; and
(iii) award to the eligible product devel-
oper a monetary amount sufficient to deter
the license holder from failing to provide eli-
gible product developers with sufficient
quantities of a covered product on commer-
cially reasonable, market-based terms, if the
court finds, by a preponderance of the evi-
dence—
(I) that the license holder delayed pro-
viding sufficient quantities of the covered
product to the eligible product developer
without a legitimate business justification;
or
(II) that the license holder failed to comply
with an order issued under clause (i).
(B) MAXIMUM MONETARY AMOUNT.—A mone-
tary amount awarded under subparagraph
(A)(iii) shall not be greater than the revenue
that the license holder earned on the covered
product during the period—
(i) beginning on—
(I) for a covered product that is not subject
to a REMS with ETASU, the date that is 31
days after the date on which the license
holder received the request; or
(II) for a covered product that is subject to
a REMS with ETASU, the date that is 31
days after the later of—
(aa) the date on which the license holder
received the request; or
(bb) the date on which the license holder
received a copy of the covered product au-
thorization issued by the Secretary in ac-
cordance with paragraph (2)(B); and
(ii) ending on the date on which the eligi-
ble product developer received sufficient
quantities of the covered product.
(C) AVOIDANCE OF DELAY.—The court may
issue an order under subparagraph (A)(i) be-
fore conducting further proceedings that
may be necessary to determine whether the
eligible product developer is entitled to an
award under clause (ii) or (iii) of subpara-
graph (A), or the amount of any such award.
(c) LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.—A license
holder for a covered product shall not be lia-
ble for any claim under Federal, State, or
local law arising out of the failure of an eli-
gible product developer to follow adequate
safeguards to assure safe use of the covered
product during development or testing ac-
tivities described in this section, including
transportation, handling, use, or disposal of
the covered product by the eligible product
developer.
(d) NO VIOLATION OF REMS.—Section 505–1
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 355–1) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
‘‘(l) PROVISION OF SAMPLES NOT A VIOLA-
TION OF STRATEGY.—The provision of samples
of a covered product to an eligible product
developer (as those terms are defined in sec-
tion 301(a) of the Lower Costs, More Cures
Act of 2019) shall not be considered a viola-
tion of the requirements of any risk evalua-
tion and mitigation strategy that may be in
place under this section for such drug.’’.
(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—
(1) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘antitrust laws’’—
(A) has the meaning given the term in sub-
section (a) of the first section of the Clayton
Act (15 U.S.C. 12); and
(B) includes section 5 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45) to the extent
that such section applies to unfair methods
of competition.
(2) ANTITRUST LAWS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion shall be construed to limit the oper-
ation of any provision of the antitrust laws.
SEC. 302. REMS APPROVAL PROCESS FOR SUBSE-
QUENT FILERS.
Section 505–1 of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355–1), as amend-
ed by section 301, is further amended—
(1) in subsection (g)(4)(B)—
(A) in clause (i) by striking ‘‘or’’ after the
semicolon;
(B) in clause (ii) by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iii) accommodate different, comparable
aspects of the elements to assure safe use for
a drug that is the subject of an application
under section 505(j), and the applicable listed
drug.’’;
(2) in subsection (i)(1), by striking subpara-
graph (C) and inserting the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10185
December 12, 2019
‘‘(C)(i) Elements to assure safe use, if re-
quired under subsection (f) for the listed
drug, which, subject to clause (ii), for a drug
that is the subject of an application under
section 505(j) may use—
‘‘(I) a single, shared system with the listed
drug under subsection (f); or
‘‘(II) a different, comparable aspect of the
elements to assure safe use under subsection
(f).
‘‘(ii) The Secretary may require a drug
that is the subject of an application under
section 505(j) and the listed drug to use a sin-
gle, shared system under subsection (f), if
the Secretary determines that no different,
comparable aspect of the elements to assure
safe use could satisfy the requirements of
subsection (f).’’;
(3) in subsection (i), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(3) SHARED REMS.—If the Secretary ap-
proves, in accordance with paragraph
(1)(C)(i)(II), a different, comparable aspect of
the elements to assure safe use under sub-
section (f) for a drug that is the subject of an
abbreviated new drug application under sec-
tion 505(j), the Secretary may require that
such different comparable aspect of the ele-
ments to assure safe use can be used with re-
spect to any other drug that is the subject of
an application under section 505(j) or 505(b)
that references the same listed drug.’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(m) SEPARATE REMS.—When used in this
section, the terms ‘different, comparable as-
pect of the elements to assure safe use’ or
‘different, comparable approved risk evalua-
tion and mitigation strategies’ means a risk
evaluation and mitigation strategy for a
drug that is the subject of an application
under section 505(j) that uses different meth-
ods or operational means than the strategy
required under subsection (a) for the applica-
ble listed drug, or other application under
section 505(j) with the same such listed drug,
but achieves the same level of safety as such
strategy.’’.
SEC. 303. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this subtitle,
the amendments made by this subtitle, or in
section 505–1 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355–1), shall be con-
strued as—
(1) prohibiting a license holder from pro-
viding an eligible product developer access
to a covered product in the absence of an au-
thorization under this subtitle; or
(2) in any way negating the applicability of
a REMS with ETASU, as otherwise required
under such section 505–1, with respect to
such covered product.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the terms
‘‘covered product’’, ‘‘eligible product devel-
oper’’, ‘‘license holder’’, and ‘‘REMS with
ETASU’’ have the meanings given such
terms in section 301(a).
Subtitle B—Pay-for-Delay
SEC. 311. UNLAWFUL AGREEMENTS.
(a) AGREEMENTS PROHIBITED.—Subject to
subsections (b) and (c), it shall be unlawful
for an NDA or BLA holder and a subsequent
filer (or for two subsequent filers) to enter
into, or carry out, an agreement resolving or
settling a covered patent infringement claim
on a final or interim basis if under such
agreement—
(1) a subsequent filer directly or indirectly
receives from such holder (or in the case of
such an agreement between two subsequent
filers, the other subsequent filer) anything of
value, including a license; and
(2) the subsequent filer agrees to limit or
forego research on, or development, manu-
facturing, marketing, or sales, for any period
of time, of the covered product that is the
subject of the application described in sub-
paragraph (A) or (B) of subsection (g)(8).
(b) EXCLUSION.—It shall not be unlawful
under subsection (a) if a party to an agree-
ment described in such subsection dem-
onstrates by clear and convincing evidence
that the value described in subsection (a)(1)
is compensation solely for other goods or
services that the subsequent filer has prom-
ised to provide.
(c) LIMITATION.—Nothing in this section
shall prohibit an agreement resolving or set-
tling a covered patent infringement claim in
which the consideration granted by the NDA
or BLA holder to the subsequent filer (or
from one subsequent filer to another) as part
of the resolution or settlement includes only
one or more of the following:
(1) The right to market the covered prod-
uct that is the subject of the application de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) or (B) of sub-
section (g)(8) in the United States before the
expiration of—
(A) any patent that is the basis of the cov-
ered patent infringement claim; or
(B) any patent right or other statutory ex-
clusivity that would prevent the marketing
of such covered product.
(2) A payment for reasonable litigation ex-
penses not to exceed $7,500,000 in the aggre-
gate.
(3) A covenant not to sue on any claim that
such covered product infringes a patent.
(d) ENFORCEMENT BY FEDERAL TRADE COM-
MISSION.—
(1) GENERAL APPLICATION.—The require-
ments of this section apply, according to
their terms, to an NDA or BLA holder or
subsequent filer that is—
(A) a person, partnership, or corporation
over which the Commission has authority
pursuant to section 5(a)(2) of the Federal
Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45(a)(2)); or
(B) a person, partnership, or corporation
over which the Commission would have au-
thority pursuant to such section but for the
fact that such person, partnership, or cor-
poration is not organized to carry on busi-
ness for its own profit or that of its mem-
bers.
(2) UNFAIR OR DECEPTIVE ACTS OR PRACTICES
ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A violation of this sec-
tion shall be treated as an unfair or decep-
tive act or practice in violation of section
5(a)(1) of the Federal Trade Commission Act
(15 U.S.C. 45(a)(1)).
(B) POWERS OF COMMISSION.—Except as pro-
vided in subparagraph (C) and paragraphs
(1)(B) and (3)—
(i) the Commission shall enforce this sec-
tion in the same manner, by the same
means, and with the same jurisdiction, pow-
ers, and duties as though all applicable
terms and provisions of the Federal Trade
Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.) were
incorporated into and made a part of this
section; and
(ii) any NDA or BLA holder or subsequent
filer that violates this section shall be sub-
ject to the penalties and entitled to the
privileges and immunities provided in the
Federal Trade Commission Act.
(C) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—In the case of a cease
and desist order issued by the Commission
under section 5 of the Federal Trade Com-
mission Act (15 U.S.C. 45) for violation of
this section, a party to such order may ob-
tain judicial review of such order as provided
in such section 5, except that—
(i) such review may only be obtained in—
(I) the United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit;
(II) the United States Court of Appeals for
the circuit in which the ultimate parent en-
tity, as defined in section 801.1(a)(3) of title
16, Code of Federal Regulations, or any suc-
cessor thereto, of the NDA or BLA holder (if
any such holder is a party to such order) is
incorporated as of the date that the applica-
tion described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of
subsection (g)(8) or an approved application
that is deemed to be a license for a biological
product under section 351(k) of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(k)) pursu-
ant to section 7002(e)(4) of the Biologics
Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009
(Public Law 111–148; 124 Stat. 817) is sub-
mitted to the Commissioner of Food and
Drugs; or
(III) the United States Court of Appeals for
the circuit in which the ultimate parent en-
tity, as so defined, of any subsequent filer
that is a party to such order is incorporated
as of the date that the application described
in subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection
(g)(8) is submitted to the Commissioner of
Food and Drugs; and
(ii) the petition for review shall be filed in
the court not later than 30 days after such
order is served on the party seeking review.
(3) ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—
(A) CIVIL PENALTY.—The Commission may
commence a civil action to recover a civil
penalty in a district court of the United
States against any NDA or BLA holder or
subsequent filer that violates this section.
(B) SPECIAL RULE FOR RECOVERY OF PEN-
ALTY IF CEASE AND DESIST ORDER ISSUED.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—If the Commission has
issued a cease and desist order in a pro-
ceeding under section 5 of the Federal Trade
Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45) for violation
of this section—
(I) the Commission may commence a civil
action under subparagraph (A) to recover a
civil penalty against any party to such order
at any time before the expiration of the 1-
year period beginning on the date on which
such order becomes final under section 5(g)
of such Act (15 U.S.C. 45(g)); and
(II) in such civil action, the findings of the
Commission as to the material facts in such
proceeding shall be conclusive, unless—
(aa) the terms of such order expressly pro-
vide that the Commission’s findings shall
not be conclusive; or
(bb) such order became final by reason of
section 5(g)(1) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 45(g)(1)),
in which case such findings shall be conclu-
sive if supported by evidence.
(ii) RELATIONSHIP TO PENALTY FOR VIOLA-
TION OF AN ORDER.—The penalty provided in
clause (i) for violation of this section is sepa-
rate from and in addition to any penalty
that may be incurred for violation of an
order of the Commission under section 5(l) of
the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C.
45(l)).
(C) AMOUNT OF PENALTY.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The amount of a civil pen-
alty imposed in a civil action under subpara-
graph (A) on a party to an agreement de-
scribed in subsection (a) shall be sufficient
to deter violations of this section, but in no
event greater than—
(I) if such party is the NDA or BLA holder
(or, in the case of an agreement between two
subsequent filers, the subsequent filer who
gave the value described in subsection (a)(1)),
the greater of—
(aa) 3 times the value received by such
NDA or BLA holder (or by such subsequent
filer) that is reasonably attributable to the
violation of this section; or
(bb) 3 times the value given to the subse-
quent filer (or to the other subsequent filer)
reasonably attributable to the violation of
this section; and
(II) if such party is the subsequent filer (or,
in the case of an agreement between two sub-
sequent filers, the subsequent filer who re-
ceived the value described in subsection
(a)(1)), 3 times the value received by such
subsequent filer that is reasonably attrib-
utable to the violation of this section.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10186 December 12, 2019
(ii) FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION.—In deter-
mining such amount, the court shall take
into account—
(I) the nature, circumstances, extent, and
gravity of the violation;
(II) with respect to the violator, the degree
of culpability, any history of violations, the
ability to pay, any effect on the ability to
continue doing business, profits earned by
the NDA or BLA holder (or, in the case of an
agreement between two subsequent filers,
the subsequent filer who gave the value de-
scribed in subsection (a)(1)), compensation
received by the subsequent filer (or, in the
case of an agreement between two subse-
quent filers, the subsequent filer who re-
ceived the value described in subsection
(a)(1)), and the amount of commerce af-
fected; and
(III) other matters that justice requires.
(D) INJUNCTIONS AND OTHER EQUITABLE RE-
LIEF.—In a civil action under subparagraph
(A), the United States district courts are em-
powered to grant mandatory injunctions and
such other and further equitable relief as
they deem appropriate.
(4) REMEDIES IN ADDITION.—Remedies pro-
vided in this subsection are in addition to,
and not in lieu of, any other remedy provided
by Federal law.
(5) PRESERVATION OF AUTHORITY OF COMMIS-
SION.—Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to affect any authority of the Com-
mission under any other provision of law.
(e) FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION RULE-
MAKING.—The Commission may, in its discre-
tion, by rule promulgated under section 553
of title 5, United States Code, exempt from
this section certain agreements described in
subsection (a) if the Commission finds such
agreements to be in furtherance of market
competition and for the benefit of con-
sumers.
(f) ANTITRUST LAWS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion shall modify, impair, limit, or supersede
the applicability of the antitrust laws as de-
fined in subsection (a) of the first section of
the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 12(a)), and of sec-
tion 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act
(15 U.S.C. 45) to the extent that such section
5 applies to unfair methods of competition.
Nothing in this section shall modify, impair,
limit, or supersede the right of a subsequent
filer to assert claims or counterclaims
against any person, under the antitrust laws
or other laws relating to unfair competition.
(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AGREEMENT RESOLVING OR SETTLING A
COVERED PATENT INFRINGEMENT CLAIM.—The
term ‘‘agreement resolving or settling a cov-
ered patent infringement claim’’ means any
agreement that—
(A) resolves or settles a covered patent in-
fringement claim; or
(B) is contingent upon, provides for a con-
tingent condition for, or is otherwise related
to the resolution or settlement of a covered
patent infringement claim.
(2) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Trade Commission.
(3) COVERED PATENT INFRINGEMENT CLAIM.—
The term ‘‘covered patent infringement
claim’’ means an allegation made by the
NDA or BLA holder to a subsequent filer (or,
in the case of an agreement between two sub-
sequent filers, by one subsequent filer to an-
other), whether or not included in a com-
plaint filed with a court of law, that—
(A) the submission of the application de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) or (B) of para-
graph (9), or the manufacture, use, offering
for sale, sale, or importation into the United
States of a covered product that is the sub-
ject of such an application—
(i) in the case of an agreement between an
NDA or BLA holder and a subsequent filer,
infringes any patent owned by, or exclu-
sively licensed to, the NDA or BLA holder of
the covered product; or
(ii) in the case of an agreement between
two subsequent filers, infringes any patent
owned by the subsequent filer; or
(B) in the case of an agreement between an
NDA or BLA holder and a subsequent filer,
the covered product to be manufactured
under such application uses a covered prod-
uct as claimed in a published patent applica-
tion.
(4) COVERED PRODUCT.—The term ‘‘covered
product’’ means a drug (as defined in section
201(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(g))), including a bio-
logical product (as defined in section 351(i) of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
262(i)).
(5) NDA OR BLA HOLDER.—The term ‘‘NDA
or BLA holder’’ means—
(A) the holder of—
(i) an approved new drug application filed
under section 505(b)(1) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(b)(1))
for a covered product; or
(ii) a biologics license application filed
under section 351(a) of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(a)) with respect to
a biological product;
(B) a person owning or controlling enforce-
ment of the patent on—
(i) the list published under section 505(j)(7)
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 355(j)(7)) in connection with the ap-
plication described in subparagraph (A)(i); or
(ii) any list published under section 351 of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262)
comprised of patents associated with bio-
logics license applications filed under sec-
tion 351(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 262(a)); or
(C) the predecessors, subsidiaries, divi-
sions, groups, and affiliates controlled by,
controlling, or under common control with
any entity described in subparagraph (A) or
(B) (such control to be presumed by direct or
indirect share ownership of 50 percent or
greater), as well as the licensees, licensors,
successors, and assigns of each of the enti-
ties.
(6) PATENT.—The term ‘‘patent’’ means a
patent issued by the United States Patent
and Trademark Office.
(7) STATUTORY EXCLUSIVITY.—The term
‘‘statutory exclusivity’’ means those prohibi-
tions on the submission or approval of drug
applications under clauses (ii) through (iv) of
section 505(c)(3)(E) (5- and 3-year exclu-
sivity), clauses (ii) through (iv) of section
505(j)(5)(F) (5-year and 3-year exclusivity),
section 505(j)(5)(B)(iv) (180-day exclusivity),
section 527 (orphan drug exclusivity), section
505A (pediatric exclusivity), or section 505E
(qualified infectious disease product exclu-
sivity) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(c)(3)(E),
355(j)(5)(B)(iv), 355(j)(5)(F), 360cc, 355a, 355f),
or prohibitions on the submission or licens-
ing of biologics license applications under
section 351(k)(6) (interchangeable biological
product exclusivity) or section 351(k)(7) (bio-
logical product reference product exclu-
sivity) of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 262(k)(6), (7)).
(8) SUBSEQUENT FILER.—The term ‘‘subse-
quent filer’’ means—
(A) in the case of a drug, a party that owns
or controls an abbreviated new drug applica-
tion submitted pursuant to section 505(j) of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 355(j)) or a new drug application
submitted pursuant to section 505(b)(2) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21U.S.C. 355(b)(2)) and filed under section
505(b)(1) of such Act (21 U.S.C. 355(b)(1)) or
has the exclusive rights to distribute the
covered product that is the subject of such
application; or
(B) in the case of a biological product, a
party that owns or controls an application
filed with the Food and Drug Administration
under section 351(k) of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(k)) or has the ex-
clusive rights to distribute the biological
product that is the subject of such applica-
tion.
(h) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section applies
with respect to agreements described in sub-
section (a) entered into on or after the date
of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 312. NOTICE AND CERTIFICATION OF
AGREEMENTS.
(a) NOTICE OF ALL AGREEMENTS.—Section
1111(7) of the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003
(21 U.S.C. 355 note) is amended by inserting
‘‘or the owner of a patent for which a claim
of infringement could reasonably be asserted
against any person for making, using, offer-
ing to sell, selling, or importing into the
United States a biological product that is
the subject of a biosimilar biological product
application’’ before the period at the end.
(b) CERTIFICATION OF AGREEMENTS.—Sec-
tion 1112 of such Act (21 U.S.C. 355 note) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) CERTIFICATION.—The Chief Executive
Officer or the company official responsible
for negotiating any agreement under sub-
section (a) or (b) that is required to be filed
under subsection (c) shall, within 30 days of
such filing, execute and file with the Assist-
ant Attorney General and the Commission a
certification as follows: ‘I declare that the
following is true, correct, and complete to
the best of my knowledge: The materials
filed with the Federal Trade Commission and
the Department of Justice under section 1112
of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improve-
ment, and Modernization Act of 2003, with
respect to the agreement referenced in this
certification—
‘‘ ‘(1) represent the complete, final, and ex-
clusive agreement between the parties;
‘‘ ‘(2) include any ancillary agreements
that are contingent upon, provide a contin-
gent condition for, were entered into within
30 days of, or are otherwise related to, the
referenced agreement; and
‘‘ ‘(3) include written descriptions of any
oral agreements, representations, commit-
ments, or promises between the parties that
are responsive to subsection (a) or (b) of such
section 1112 and have not been reduced to
writing.’.’’.
SEC. 313. FORFEITURE OF 180-DAY EXCLUSIVITY
PERIOD.
Section 505(j)(5)(D)(i)(V) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
355(j)(5)(D)(i)(V)) is amended by inserting
‘‘section 311 of the Lower Costs, More Cures
Act of 2019 or’’ after ‘‘that the agreement has
violated’’.
SEC. 314. COMMISSION LITIGATION AUTHORITY.
Section 16(a)(2) of the Federal Trade Com-
mission Act (15 U.S.C. 56(a)(2)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘or’’
after the semicolon;
(2) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ‘‘or’’
after the semicolon; and
(3) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the
following:
‘‘(F) under section 311(d)(3)(A) of the Lower
Costs, More Cures Act of 2019;’’.
SEC. 315. STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), the Commission shall com-
mence any administrative proceeding or
civil action to enforce section 311 of this Act
not later than 6 years after the date on
which the parties to the agreement file the
Notice of Agreement as provided by section
1112(c)(2) and (d) of the Medicare Prescrip-
tion Drug, Improvement, and Modernization
Act of 2003 (21 U.S.C. 355 note).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10187
December 12, 2019
(b) CIVIL ACTION AFTER ISSUANCE OF CEASE
AND DESIST ORDER.—If the Commission has
issued a cease and desist order under section
5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15
U.S.C. 45) for violation of section 311 of this
Act and the proceeding for the issuance of
such order was commenced within the period
required by subsection (a) of this section,
such subsection does not prohibit the com-
mencement, after such period, of a civil ac-
tion under section 311(d)(3)(A) against a
party to such order or a civil action under
subsection (l) of such section 5 for violation
of such order.
Subtitle C—BLOCKING Act
SEC. 321. CHANGE CONDITIONS OF FIRST GE-
NERIC EXCLUSIVITY TO SPUR AC-
CESS AND COMPETITION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 505(j)(5)(B)(iv) of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 355(j)(5)(B)(iv)) is amended—
(1) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘180 days
after’’ and all that follows through the pe-
riod at the end and inserting the following:
‘‘180 days after the earlier of—
‘‘(aa) the date of the first commercial mar-
keting of the drug (including the commercial
marketing of the listed drug) by any first ap-
plicant; or
‘‘(bb) the applicable date specified in sub-
clause (III).’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subclause:
‘‘(III) APPLICABLE DATE.—The applicable
date specified in this subclause, with respect
to an application for a drug described in sub-
clause (I), is the date on which each of the
following conditions is first met:
‘‘(aa) The approval of such an application
could be made effective, but for the eligi-
bility of a first applicant for 180-day exclu-
sivity under this clause.
‘‘(bb) At least 30 months have passed since
the date of submission of an application for
the drug by at least one first applicant.
‘‘(cc) Approval of an application for the
drug submitted by at least one first appli-
cant is not precluded under clause (iii).
‘‘(dd) No application for the drug sub-
mitted by any first applicant is approved at
the time the conditions under items (aa),
(bb), and (cc) are all met, regardless of
whether such an application is subsequently
approved.’’.
(b) INFORMATION.—The Secretary of Health
and Human Services shall—
(1) not later than 120 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, publish, as appro-
priate and available, information sufficient
to allow applicants to assess whether the
conditions described in section
505(j)(5)(B)(iv)(III) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (as added by subsection
(a)) are satisfied for all applications where
the exclusivity period under clause (iv)(I) of
section 505(j)(5)(B) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (as amended by such sub-
section) has not expired; and
(2) publish updates to such information to
reflect the most recent information avail-
able to the Secretary.
Subtitle D—Purple Book
SEC. 331. PUBLIC LISTING.
Section 351(k) of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 262(k)) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(9) PUBLIC LISTING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(i) INITIAL PUBLICATION.—Not later than
180 days after the date of enactment of the
Lower Costs, More Cures Act of 2019, the Sec-
retary shall publish and make available to
the public in a searchable, electronic for-
mat—
‘‘(I) a list in alphabetical order of the non-
proprietary or proper name of each biologi-
cal product for which a biologics license
under subsection (a) or this subsection is in
effect, or that has been deemed to be li-
censed under this section pursuant to section
7002(e)(4) of the Biologics Price Competition
and Innovation Act of 2009, as of such date of
enactment;
‘‘(II) the date of approval of the marketing
application and the application number; and
‘‘(III) the marketing or licensure status of
the biological product for which a biologics
license under subsection (a) or this sub-
section is in effect or that has been deemed
to be licensed under this section pursuant to
section 7002(e)(4) of the Biologics Price Com-
petition and Innovation Act of 2009.
‘‘(ii) REVISIONS.—Every 30 days after the
publication of the first list under clause (i),
the Secretary shall revise the list to include
each biological product which has been li-
censed under subsection (a) or this sub-
section during the 30-day period.
‘‘(iii) PATENT INFORMATION.—Not later than
30 days after a list of patents under sub-
section (l)(3)(A), or a supplement to such list
under subsection (l)(7), has been provided by
the reference product sponsor to the sub-
section (k) applicant respecting a biological
product included on the list published under
this subparagraph, the reference product
sponsor shall provide such list of patents (or
supplement thereto) and their corresponding
expiry dates to the Secretary, and the Sec-
retary shall, in revisions made under clause
(ii), include such information for such bio-
logical product. Within 30 days of providing
any subsequent or supplemental list of pat-
ents to any subsequent subsection (k) appli-
cant under subsection (l)(3)(A) or (l)(7), the
reference product sponsor shall update the
information provided to the Secretary under
this clause with any additional patents from
such subsequent or supplemental list and
their corresponding expiry dates.
‘‘(iv) LISTING OF EXCLUSIVITIES.—For each
biological product included on the list pub-
lished under this subparagraph, the Sec-
retary shall specify each exclusivity period
that is applicable and has not concluded
under paragraph (6) or paragraph (7).
‘‘(B) WITHDRAWAL OR SUSPENSION OF LICEN-
SURE.—If the licensing of a biological prod-
uct was withdrawn or suspended for safety,
purity, or potency reasons, it may not be
published in the list under subparagraph (A).
If the withdrawal or suspension occurred
after its publication in such list, the ref-
erence product sponsor shall notify the Sec-
retary that—
‘‘(i) the biological product shall be imme-
diately removed from such list—
‘‘(I) for the same period as the withdrawal
or suspension; or
‘‘(II) if the biological product has been
withdrawn from sale, for the period of with-
drawal from sale or, if earlier, the period
ending on the date the Secretary determines
that the withdrawal from sale is not for safe-
ty, purity, or potency reasons; and
‘‘(ii) a notice of the removal shall be pub-
lished in the Federal Register.’’.
SEC. 332. REVIEW AND REPORT ON TYPES OF IN-
FORMATION TO BE LISTED.
Not later than 3 years after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary of Health
and Human Services shall—
(1) solicit public comment regarding the
type of information, if any, that should be
added to or removed from the list required
by paragraph (9) of section 351(k) of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(k)), as
added by section 331; and
(2) transmit to Congress an evaluation of
such comments, including any recommenda-
tions about the types of information that
should be added to or removed from the list.
Subtitle E—Orange Book
SEC. 341. ORANGE BOOK.
(a) SUBMISSION OF PATENT INFORMATION FOR
BRAND NAME DRUGS.—Paragraph (1) of sec-
tion 505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(b)) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(b)(1) Any person may file with the Sec-
retary an application with respect to any
drug subject to the provisions of subsection
(a). Such persons shall submit to the Sec-
retary as part of the application—
‘‘(A) full reports of investigations which
have been made to show whether or not such
drug is safe for use and whether such drug is
effective in use;
‘‘(B) a full list of the articles used as com-
ponents of such drug;
‘‘(C) a full statement of the composition of
such drug;
‘‘(D) a full description of the methods used
in, and the facilities and controls used for,
the manufacture, processing, and packing of
such drug;
‘‘(E) such samples of such drug and of the
articles used as components thereof as the
Secretary may require;
‘‘(F) specimens of the labeling proposed to
be used for such drug;
‘‘(G) any assessments required under sec-
tion 505B; and
‘‘(H) patent information, with respect to
each patent for which a claim of patent in-
fringement could reasonably be asserted if a
person not licensed by the owner engaged in
the manufacture, use, or sale of the drug,
and consistent with the following require-
ments:
‘‘(i) The applicant shall file with the appli-
cation the patent number and the expiration
date of—
‘‘(I) any patent which claims the drug for
which the applicant submitted the applica-
tion and is a drug substance (including ac-
tive ingredient) patent or a drug product (in-
cluding formulation and composition) pat-
ent; and
‘‘(II) any patent which claims the method
of using such drug.
‘‘(ii) If an application is filed under this
subsection for a drug and a patent of the
type described in clause (i) which claims
such drug or a method of using such drug is
issued after the filing date but before ap-
proval of the application, the applicant shall
amend the application to include such patent
information.
Upon approval of the application, the Sec-
retary shall publish the information sub-
mitted under subparagraph (H). The Sec-
retary shall, in consultation with the Direc-
tor of the National Institutes of Health and
with representatives of the drug manufac-
turing industry, review and develop guid-
ance, as appropriate, on the inclusion of
women and minorities in clinical trials re-
quired by subparagraph (A).’’.
(b) CONFORMING CHANGES TO REQUIREMENTS
FOR SUBSEQUENT SUBMISSION OF PATENT IN-
FORMATION.—Section 505(c)(2) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
355(j)(7)) is amended—
(1) by inserting after ‘‘the patent number
and the expiration date of any patent which’’
the following: ‘‘fulfills the criteria in sub-
section (b) and’’;
(2) by inserting after the first sentence the
following: ‘‘Patent information that is not
the type of patent information required by
subsection (b) shall not be submitted.’’; and
(3) by inserting after ‘‘could not file patent
information under subsection (b) because no
patent’’ the following: ‘‘of the type required
to be submitted in subsection (b)’’.
(c) LISTING OF EXCLUSIVITIES.—Subpara-
graph (A) of section 505(j)(7) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10188 December 12, 2019
355(j)(7)) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(iv) For each drug included on the list,
the Secretary shall specify each exclusivity
period that is applicable and has not con-
cluded under—
‘‘(I) clause (ii), (iii), or (iv) of subsection
(c)(3)(E) of this section;
‘‘(II) clause (iv) or (v) of paragraph (5)(B) of
this subsection;
‘‘(III) clause (ii), (iii), or (iv) of paragraph
(5)(F) of this subsection;
‘‘(IV) section 505A;
‘‘(V) section 505E; or
‘‘(VI) section 527(a).’’.
(d) REMOVAL OF INVALID PATENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 505(j)(7) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 355(j)(7)) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(D)(i) The holder of an application ap-
proved under subsection (c) for a drug on the
list shall notify within 14 days the Secretary
in writing if either of the following occurs:
‘‘(I) The Patent Trial and Appeals Board
issues a decision from which no appeal has
been or can be taken that a patent for such
drug is invalid.
‘‘(II) A court issues a decision from which
no appeal has been or can be taken that a
patent for such drug is invalid.
‘‘(ii) The holder of an approved application
shall include in any notification under
clause (i) a copy of the decision described in
subclause (I) or (II) of clause (i).
‘‘(iii) The Secretary shall remove from the
list any patent that is determined to be in-
valid in a decision described in subclause (I)
or (II) of clause (i)—
‘‘(I) promptly; but
‘‘(II) not before the expiration of any 180-
day exclusivity period under paragraph
(5)(B)(iv) that relies on a certification de-
scribed in paragraph (2)(A)(vii)(IV) that such
patent was invalid.’’.
(2) APPLICABILITY.—Subparagraph (D) of
section 505(j)(7) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(j)(7)), as
added by paragraph (1), applies only with re-
spect to a decision described in such subpara-
graph that is issued on or after the date of
enactment of this Act.
(e) REVIEW AND REPORT.—Not later than
one year after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, acting through the Commissioner
of Food and Drugs, shall—
(1) solicit public comment regarding the
types of patent information that should be
included on the list under section 507(j)(7) of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 355(j)(7)); and
(2) transmit to the Congress an evaluation
of such comments, including any rec-
ommendations about the types of patent in-
formation that should be included on or re-
moved from such list.
SEC. 342. GAO REPORT TO CONGRESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Comp-
troller General’’) shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives a report on the
patents included in the list published under
section 505(j)(7) of the Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(j)(7)), includ-
ing an analysis and evaluation of the types
of patents included in such list and the
claims such patents make about the prod-
ucts they claim.
(b) CONTENTS.—The Comptroller General
shall include in the report under subsection
(a)—
(1) data on the number of—
(A) patents included in the list published
under paragraph (7) of section 505(j) of the
Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 355(j)), that claim the active ingre-
dient or formulation of a drug in combina-
tion with a device that is used for delivery of
the drug, together comprising the finished
dosage form of the drug; and
(B) claims in each patent that claim a de-
vice that is used for the delivery of the drug,
but do not claim such device in combination
with an active ingredient or formulation of a
drug;
(2) data on the date of inclusion in the list
under paragraph (7) of such section 505(j) for
all patents under such list, as compared to
patents that claim a method of using the
drug in combination with a device;
(3) an analysis regarding the impact of in-
cluding on the list under paragraph (7) of
such section 505(j) certain types of patent in-
formation for drug product applicants and
approved application holders, including an
analysis of whether—
(A) the listing of the patents described in
paragraph (1)(A) delayed the market entry of
one or more drugs approved under such sec-
tion 505(j); and
(B) not listing the patents described in
paragraph (1)(A) would delay the market
entry of one or more such drugs; and
(4) recommendations about which kinds of
patents relating to devices described in para-
graph (1)(A) should be submitted to the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services for in-
clusion on the list under paragraph (7) of
such section 505(j) and which patents should
not be required to be so submitted.
Subtitle F—Advancing Education on
Biosimilars
SEC. 351. EDUCATION ON BIOLOGICAL PROD-
UCTS.
(a) WEBSITE; CONTINUING EDUCATION.—Sub-
part 1 of part F of title III of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 352A. EDUCATION ON BIOLOGICAL PROD-
UCTS.
‘‘(a) INTERNET WEBSITE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
maintain and operate an internet website to
provide educational materials for health
care providers, patients, and caregivers, re-
garding the meaning of the terms, and the
standards for review and licensing of, bio-
logical products, including biosimilar bio-
logical products and interchangeable bio-
similar biological products.
‘‘(2) CONTENT.—Educational materials pro-
vided under paragraph (1) may include—
‘‘(A) explanations of key statutory and
regulatory terms, including ‘biosimilar’ and
‘interchangeable’, and clarification regard-
ing the use of interchangeable biosimilar bi-
ological products;
‘‘(B) information related to development
programs for biological products, including
biosimilar biological products and inter-
changeable biosimilar biological products
and relevant clinical considerations for pre-
scribers, which may include, as appropriate
and applicable, information related to the
comparability of such biological products;
‘‘(C) an explanation of the process for re-
porting adverse events for biological prod-
ucts, including biosimilar biological prod-
ucts and interchangeable biosimilar biologi-
cal products; and
‘‘(D) an explanation of the relationship be-
tween biosimilar biological products and
interchangeable biosimilar biological prod-
ucts licensed under section 351(k) and ref-
erence products (as defined in section 351(i)),
including the standards for review and li-
censing of each such type of biological prod-
uct.
‘‘(3) FORMAT.—The educational materials
provided under paragraph (1) may be—
‘‘(A) in formats such as webinars, con-
tinuing medical education modules, videos,
fact sheets, infographics, stakeholder tool-
kits, or other formats as appropriate and ap-
plicable; and
‘‘(B) tailored for the unique needs of health
care providers, patients, caregivers, and
other audiences, as the Secretary determines
appropriate.
‘‘(4) OTHER INFORMATION.—In addition to
the information described in paragraph (2),
the Secretary shall continue to publish the
following information:
‘‘(A) The action package of each biological
product licensed under subsection (a) or (k).
‘‘(B) The summary review of each biologi-
cal product licensed under subsection (a) or
(k).
‘‘(5) CONFIDENTIAL AND TRADE SECRET IN-
FORMATION.—This subsection does not au-
thorize the disclosure of any trade secret,
confidential commercial or financial infor-
mation, or other matter described in section
552(b) of title 5.
‘‘(b) CONTINUING EDUCATION.—The Sec-
retary shall advance education and aware-
ness among health care providers regarding
biological products, including biosimilar bio-
logical products and interchangeable bio-
similar biological products, as appropriate,
including by developing or improving con-
tinuing education programs that advance the
education of such providers on the pre-
scribing of, and relevant clinical consider-
ations with respect to, biological products,
including biosimilar biological products and
interchangeable biosimilar biological prod-
ucts.’’.
(b) APPLICATION UNDER THE MEDICARE
MERIT-BASED INCENTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEM.—
Section 1848(q)(5)(C) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–4(q)(5)(C)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new clause:
‘‘(iv) CLINICAL MEDICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
ON BIOSIMILAR BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS.—Com-
pletion of a clinical medical education pro-
gram developed or improved under section
352A(b) of the Public Health Service Act by
a MIPS eligible professional during a per-
formance period shall earn such eligible pro-
fessional one-half of the highest potential
score for the performance category described
in paragraph (2)(A)(iii) for such performance
period. A MIPS eligible professional may
only count the completion of such a program
for purposes of such category one time dur-
ing the eligible professional’s lifetime.’’.
Subtitle G—Streamlining Transition of
Biological Products
SEC. 361. STREAMLINING THE TRANSITION OF BI-
OLOGICAL PRODUCTS.
Section 7002(e)(4) of the Biologics Price
Competition and Innovation Act of 2009
(Public Law 111–148) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘An approved application’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—An approved applica-
tion’’;
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN APPLICA-
TIONS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—With respect to an appli-
cation for a biological product submitted
under subsection (b) or (j) of section 505 of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 355) that is filed not later than
March 23, 2019, the Secretary shall continue
to review such application under such sec-
tion 505, even if such review continues after
March 23, 2020.
‘‘(ii) EFFECT ON LISTED DRUGS.—Only for
purposes of carrying out clause (i), with re-
spect to any applicable listed drug with re-
spect to such application, the following shall
apply:
‘‘(I) Any drug that is a biological product
that has been deemed licensed under section
351 of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 262) pursuant to subparagraph (A) and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10189
December 12, 2019
that is referenced in an application described
in clause (i), shall continue to be identified
as a listed drug on the list published pursu-
ant to section 505(j)(7) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and the information
for such drug on such list shall not be revised
after March 20, 2020, until—
‘‘(aa) such drug is removed from such list
in accordance with subclause (III) or sub-
paragraph (C) of such section 505(j)(7); or
‘‘(bb) this subparagraph no longer has force
or effect.
‘‘(II) Any drug that is a biological product
that has been deemed licensed under section
351 of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 262) pursuant to subparagraph (A) and
that is referenced in an application described
in clause (i) shall be subject only to require-
ments applicable to biological products li-
censed under such section.
‘‘(III) Upon approval under subsection (c)
or (j) of section 505 of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act of an application de-
scribed in clause (i), the Secretary shall re-
move from the list published pursuant to
section 505(j)(7) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act any listed drug that is a
biological product that has been deemed li-
censed under section 351 of the Public Health
Service Act pursuant to subparagraph (A)
and that is referenced in such approved ap-
plication, unless such listed drug is ref-
erenced in one or more additional applica-
tions described in clause (i).
‘‘(iii) DEEMED LICENSURE.—Upon approval
of an application described in clause (i), such
approved application shall be deemed to be a
license for the biological product under sec-
tion 351 of the Public Health Service Act,
pursuant to subparagraph (A), and any pe-
riod of exclusivity, as applicable, shall be de-
termined in accordance with such section.
‘‘(iv) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—
‘‘(I) APPLICATION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS.—
‘‘(aa) PATENT CERTIFICATION OR STATE-
MENT.—An application described in clause (i)
shall contain a patent certification or state-
ment described in, as applicable, section
505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act or clauses (vii) and (viii) of section
505(j)(2)(A) of such Act and, with respect to
any listed drug referenced in such applica-
tion, comply with related requirements con-
cerning any timely filed patent information
listed pursuant to section 505(j)(7).
‘‘(bb) DATE OF APPROVAL.—The earliest pos-
sible date on which any pending application
described in clause (i) may be approved shall
be determined based on—
‘‘(AA) the last expiration date of any appli-
cable period of exclusivity that would pre-
vent such approval and that is described in
section 505(c)(3)(E), 505(j)(5)(B)(iv),
505(j)(5)(F), 505A, 505E, or 527 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; and
‘‘(BB) if the application was submitted
under section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act and references any
listed drug, the last applicable date deter-
mined under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of
section 505(c)(3) of such Act, or, if the appli-
cation was submitted under section 505(j) of
such Act, the last applicable date deter-
mined under clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of section
505(j)(5)(B).
‘‘(II) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION WITH RESPECT
TO EXCLUSIVITY.—Nothing in this subpara-
graph shall be construed to affect section
351(k)(7)(D) of the Public Health Service Act.
‘‘(v) AUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE.—The Sec-
retary may continue to review an applica-
tion after March 23, 2020, pursuant to clause
(i), and continue to identify any applicable
listed drug pursuant to clause (ii) on the list
published pursuant to section 505(j)(7) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, even
if such review or listing may reveal the ex-
istence of such application and the identity
of any listed drug for which the investiga-
tions described in section 505(b)(1)(A) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act are
relied upon by the applicant for approval of
the pending application. Nothing in this sub-
paragraph shall be construed as authorizing
the Secretary to disclose any other informa-
tion that is a trade secret or confidential in-
formation described in section 552(b)(4) of
title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(vi) SUNSET.—Beginning on October 1,
2022, this subparagraph shall have no force or
effect and any applications described in
clause (i) that have not been approved shall
be deemed withdrawn.’’.
Subtitle H—Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform
SEC. 370. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES IN SUB-
TITLE.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This subtitle may be
cited as the ‘‘Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act of 2019’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Except as otherwise
specified, any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ con-
tained in this subtitle shall be treated as re-
ferring only to the provisions of this sub-
title.
PART 1—OTC DRUG REVIEW
SEC. 371. REGULATION OF CERTAIN NON-
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS THAT ARE
MARKETED WITHOUT AN APPROVED
DRUG APPLICATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter V of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act is amended by
inserting after section 505F of such Act (21
U.S.C. 355g) the following:
‘‘SEC. 505G. REGULATION OF CERTAIN NON-
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS THAT ARE
MARKETED WITHOUT AN APPROVED
DRUG APPLICATION.
‘‘(a) NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS MARKETED
WITHOUT AN APPROVED APPLICATION.—Non-
prescription drugs marketed without an ap-
proved drug application under section 505, as
of the date of the enactment of this section,
shall be treated in accordance with this sub-
section.
‘‘(1) DRUGS SUBJECT TO A FINAL MONOGRAPH;
CATEGORY I DRUGS SUBJECT TO A TENTATIVE
FINAL MONOGRAPH.—A drug is deemed to be
generally recognized as safe and effective
under section 201(p)(1), not a new drug under
section 201(p), and not subject to section
503(b)(1), if—
‘‘(A) the drug is—
‘‘(i) in conformity with the requirements
for nonprescription use of a final monograph
issued under part 330 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (except as provided in para-
graph (2)), the general requirements for non-
prescription drugs, and conditions or re-
quirements under subsections (b), (c), and
(k); and
‘‘(ii) except as permitted by an order issued
under subsection (b) or, in the case of a
minor change in the drug, in conformity
with an order issued under subsection (c), in
a dosage form that, immediately prior to the
date of the enactment of this section, has
been used to a material extent and for a ma-
terial time under section 201(p)(2); or
‘‘(B) the drug is—
‘‘(i) classified in category I for safety and
effectiveness under a tentative final mono-
graph that is the most recently applicable
proposal or determination issued under part
330 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations;
‘‘(ii) in conformity with the proposed re-
quirements for nonprescription use of such
tentative final monograph, any applicable
subsequent determination by the Secretary,
the general requirements for nonprescription
drugs, and conditions or requirements under
subsections (b), (c), and (k); and
‘‘(iii) except as permitted by an order
issued under subsection (b) or, in the case of
a minor change in the drug, in conformity
with an order issued under subsection (c), in
a dosage form that, immediately prior to the
date of the enactment of this section, has
been used to a material extent and for a ma-
terial time under section 201(p)(2).
‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF SUNSCREEN DRUGS.—
With respect to sunscreen drugs subject to
this section, the applicable requirements in
terms of conformity with a final monograph,
for purposes of paragraph (1)(A)(i), shall be
the requirements specified in part 352 of title
21, Code of Federal Regulations, as published
on May 21, 1999, beginning on page 27687 of
volume 64 of the Federal Register, except
that the applicable requirements governing
effectiveness and labeling shall be those
specified in section 201.327 of title 21, Code of
Federal Regulations.
‘‘(3) CATEGORY III DRUGS SUBJECT TO A TEN-
TATIVE FINAL MONOGRAPH; CATEGORY I DRUGS
SUBJECT TO PROPOSED MONOGRAPH OR AD-
VANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING.—A
drug that is not described in paragraph (1),
(2), or (4) is not required to be the subject of
an application approved under section 505,
and is not subject to section 503(b)(1), if—
‘‘(A) the drug is—
‘‘(i) classified in category III for safety or
effectiveness in the preamble of a proposed
rule establishing a tentative final mono-
graph that is the most recently applicable
proposal or determination for such drug
issued under part 330 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations;
‘‘(ii) in conformity with—
‘‘(I) the conditions of use, including indica-
tion and dosage strength, if any, described
for such category III drug in such preamble
or in an applicable subsequent proposed rule;
‘‘(II) the proposed requirements for drugs
classified in such tentative final monograph
in category I in the most recently proposed
rule establishing requirements related to
such tentative final monograph and in any
final rule establishing requirements that are
applicable to the drug; and
‘‘(III) the general requirements for non-
prescription drugs and conditions or require-
ments under subsection (b) or (k); and
‘‘(iii) in a dosage form that, immediately
prior to the date of the enactment of this
section, had been used to a material extent
and for a material time under section
201(p)(2); or
‘‘(B) the drug is—
‘‘(i) classified in category I for safety and
effectiveness under a proposed monograph or
advance notice of proposed rulemaking that
is the most recently applicable proposal or
determination for such drug issued under
part 330 of title 21, Code of Federal Regula-
tions;
‘‘(ii) in conformity with the requirements
for nonprescription use of such proposed
monograph or advance notice of proposed
rulemaking, any applicable subsequent de-
termination by the Secretary, the general
requirements for nonprescription drugs, and
conditions or requirements under subsection
(b) or (k); and
‘‘(iii) in a dosage form that, immediately
prior to the date of the enactment of this
section, has been used to a material extent
and for a material time under section
201(p)(2).
‘‘(4) CATEGORY II DRUGS DEEMED NEW
DRUGS.—A drug that is classified in category
II for safety or effectiveness under a ten-
tative final monograph or that is subject to
a determination to be not generally recog-
nized as safe and effective in a proposed rule
that is the most recently applicable proposal
issued under part 330 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, shall be deemed to be a
new drug under section 201(p), misbranded
under section 502(ee), and subject to the re-
quirement for an approved new drug applica-
tion under section 505 beginning on the day
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10190 December 12, 2019
that is 180 calendar days after the date of the
enactment of this section, unless, before
such day, the Secretary determines that it is
in the interest of public health to extend the
period during which the drug may be mar-
keted without such an approved new drug ap-
plication.
‘‘(5) DRUGS NOT GRASE DEEMED NEW
DRUGS.—A drug that the Secretary has deter-
mined not to be generally recognized as safe
and effective under section 201(p)(1) under a
final determination issued under part 330 of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, shall be
deemed to be a new drug under section 201(p),
misbranded under section 502(ee), and subject
to the requirement for an approved new drug
application under section 505.
‘‘(6) OTHER DRUGS DEEMED NEW DRUGS.—Ex-
cept as provided in subsection (m), a drug is
deemed to be a new drug under section 201(p)
and misbranded under section 502(ee) if the
drug—
‘‘(A) is not subject to section 503(b)(1); and
‘‘(B) is not described in paragraph (1), (2),
(3), (4), or (5), or subsection (b)(1)(B).
‘‘(b) ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(A) DETERMINATION.—The Secretary may,
on the initiative of the Secretary or at the
request of one or more requestors, issue an
administrative order determining whether
there are conditions under which a specific
drug, a class of drugs, or a combination of
drugs, is determined to be—
‘‘(i) not subject to section 503(b)(1); and
‘‘(ii) generally recognized as safe and effec-
tive under section 201(p)(1).
‘‘(B) EFFECT.—A drug or combination of
drugs shall be deemed to not require ap-
proval under section 505 if such drug or com-
bination of drugs—
‘‘(i) is determined by the Secretary to meet
the conditions specified in clauses (i) and (ii)
of subparagraph (A);
‘‘(ii) is marketed in conformity with an ad-
ministrative order under this subsection;
‘‘(iii) meets the general requirements for
nonprescription drugs; and
‘‘(iv) meets the requirements under sub-
sections (c) and (k).
‘‘(C) STANDARD.—The Secretary shall find
that a drug is not generally recognized as
safe and effective under section 201(p)(1) if—
‘‘(i) the evidence shows that the drug is not
generally recognized as safe and effective
under section 201(p)(1); or
‘‘(ii) the evidence is inadequate to show
that the drug is generally recognized as safe
and effective under section 201(p)(1).
‘‘(2) ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS INITIATED BY
THE SECRETARY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In issuing an adminis-
trative order under paragraph (1) upon the
Secretary’s initiative, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) make reasonable efforts to notify in-
formally, not later than 2 business days be-
fore the issuance of the proposed order, the
sponsors of drugs who have a listing in effect
under section 510(j) for the drugs or combina-
tion of drugs that will be subject to the ad-
ministrative order;
‘‘(ii) after any such reasonable efforts of
notification—
‘‘(I) issue a proposed administrative order
by publishing it on the website of the Food
and Drug Administration and include in such
order the reasons for the issuance of such
order; and
‘‘(II) publish a notice of availability of
such proposed order in the Federal Register;
‘‘(iii) except as provided in subparagraph
(B), provide for a public comment period
with respect to such proposed order of not
less than 45 calendar days; and
‘‘(iv) if, after completion of the pro-
ceedings specified in clauses (i) through (iii),
the Secretary determines that it is appro-
priate to issue a final administrative order—
‘‘(I) issue the final administrative order,
together with a detailed statement of rea-
sons, which order shall not take effect until
the time for requesting judicial review under
paragraph (3)(D)(ii) has expired;
‘‘(II) publish a notice of such final adminis-
trative order in the Federal Register;
‘‘(III) afford requestors of drugs that will
be subject to such order the opportunity for
formal dispute resolution up to the level of
the Director of the Center for Drug Evalua-
tion and Research, which initially must be
requested within 45 calendar days of the
issuance of the order, and, for subsequent
levels of appeal, within 30 calendar days of
the prior decision; and
‘‘(IV) except with respect to drugs de-
scribed in paragraph (3)(B), upon completion
of the formal dispute resolution procedure,
inform the persons which sought such dis-
pute resolution of their right to request a
hearing.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—When issuing an admin-
istrative order under paragraph (1) on the
Secretary’s initiative proposing to deter-
mine that a drug described in subsection
(a)(3) is not generally recognized as safe and
effective under section 201(p)(1), the Sec-
retary shall follow the procedures in sub-
paragraph (A), except that—
‘‘(i) the proposed order shall include notice
of—
‘‘(I) the general categories of data the Sec-
retary has determined necessary to establish
that the drug is generally recognized as safe
and effective under section 201(p)(1); and
‘‘(II) the format for submissions by inter-
ested persons;
‘‘(ii) the Secretary shall provide for a pub-
lic comment period of no less than 180 cal-
endar days with respect to such proposed
order, except when the Secretary deter-
mines, for good cause, that a shorter period
is in the interest of public health; and
‘‘(iii) any person who submits data in such
comment period shall include a certification
that the person has submitted all evidence
created, obtained, or received by that person
that is both within the categories of data
identified in the proposed order and relevant
to a determination as to whether the drug is
generally recognized as safe and effective
under section 201(p)(1).
‘‘(3) HEARINGS; JUDICIAL REVIEW.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Only a person who par-
ticipated in each stage of formal dispute res-
olution under subclause (III) of paragraph
(2)(A)(iv) of an administrative order with re-
spect to a drug may request a hearing con-
cerning a final administrative order issued
under such paragraph with respect to such
drug. If a hearing is sought, such person
must submit a request for a hearing, which
shall be based solely on information in the
administrative record, to the Secretary not
later than 30 calendar days after receiving
notice of the final decision of the formal dis-
pute resolution procedure.
‘‘(B) NO HEARING REQUIRED WITH RESPECT TO
ORDERS RELATING TO CERTAIN DRUGS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall not
be required to provide notice and an oppor-
tunity for a hearing pursuant to paragraph
(2)(A)(iv) if the final administrative order in-
volved relates to a drug—
‘‘(I) that is described in subsection
(a)(3)(A); and
‘‘(II) with respect to which no human or
non-human data studies relevant to the safe-
ty or effectiveness of such drug have been
submitted to the administrative record since
the issuance of the most recent tentative
final monograph relating to such drug.
‘‘(ii) HUMAN DATA STUDIES AND NON-HUMAN
DATA DEFINED.—In this subparagraph:
‘‘(I) The term ‘human data studies’ means
clinical trials of safety or effectiveness (in-
cluding actual use studies), pharmaco-
kinetics studies, or bioavailability studies.
‘‘(II) The term ‘non-human data’ means
data from testing other than with human
subjects which provides information con-
cerning safety or effectiveness.
‘‘(C) HEARING PROCEDURES.—
‘‘(i) DENIAL OF REQUEST FOR HEARING.—If
the Secretary determines that information
submitted in a request for a hearing under
subparagraph (A) with respect to a final ad-
ministrative order issued under paragraph
(2)(A)(iv) does not identify the existence of a
genuine and substantial question of material
fact, the Secretary may deny such request.
In making such a determination, the Sec-
retary may consider only information and
data that are based on relevant and reliable
scientific principles and methodologies.
‘‘(ii) SINGLE HEARING FOR MULTIPLE RE-
LATED REQUESTS.—If more than one request
for a hearing is submitted with respect to
the same administrative order under sub-
paragraph (A), the Secretary may direct that
a single hearing be conducted in which all
persons whose hearing requests were granted
may participate.
‘‘(iii) PRESIDING OFFICER.—The presiding
officer of a hearing requested under subpara-
graph (A) shall—
‘‘(I) be designated by the Secretary;
‘‘(II) not be an employee of the Center for
Drug Evaluation and Research; and
‘‘(III) not have been previously involved in
the development of the administrative order
involved or proceedings relating to that ad-
ministrative order.
‘‘(iv) RIGHTS OF PARTIES TO HEARING.—The
parties to a hearing requested under sub-
paragraph (A) shall have the right to present
testimony, including testimony of expert
witnesses, and to cross-examine witnesses
presented by other parties. Where appro-
priate, the presiding officer may require that
cross-examination by parties representing
substantially the same interests be consoli-
dated to promote efficiency and avoid dupli-
cation.
‘‘(v) FINAL DECISION.—
‘‘(I) At the conclusion of a hearing re-
quested under subparagraph (A), the pre-
siding officer of the hearing shall issue a de-
cision containing findings of fact and conclu-
sions of law. The decision of the presiding of-
ficer shall be final.
‘‘(II) The final decision may not take effect
until the period under subparagraph (D)(ii)
for submitting a request for judicial review
of such decision expires.
‘‘(D) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF FINAL ADMINISTRA-
TIVE ORDER.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The procedures described
in section 505(h) shall apply with respect to
judicial review of final administrative orders
issued under this subsection in the same
manner and to the same extent as such sec-
tion applies to an order described in such
section except that the judicial review shall
be taken by filing in an appropriate district
court of the United States in lieu of the ap-
pellate courts specified in such section.
‘‘(ii) PERIOD TO SUBMIT A REQUEST FOR JUDI-
CIAL REVIEW.—A person eligible to request a
hearing under this paragraph and seeking ju-
dicial review of a final administrative order
issued under this subsection shall file such
request for judicial review not later than 60
calendar days after the latest of—
‘‘(I) the date on which notice of such order
is published;
‘‘(II) the date on which a hearing with re-
spect to such order is denied under subpara-
graph (B) or (C)(i);
‘‘(III) the date on which a final decision is
made following a hearing under subpara-
graph (C)(v); or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10191
December 12, 2019
‘‘(IV) if no hearing is requested, the date
on which the time for requesting a hearing
expires.
‘‘(4) EXPEDITED PROCEDURE WITH RESPECT
TO ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS INITIATED BY THE
SECRETARY.—
‘‘(A) IMMINENT HAZARD TO THE PUBLIC
HEALTH.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a deter-
mination by the Secretary that a drug, class
of drugs, or combination of drugs subject to
this section poses an imminent hazard to the
public health, the Secretary, after first mak-
ing reasonable efforts to notify, not later
than 48 hours before issuance of such order
under this subparagraph, sponsors who have
a listing in effect under section 510(j) for
such drug or combination of drugs—
‘‘(I) may issue an interim final administra-
tive order for such drug, class of drugs, or
combination of drugs under paragraph (1),
together with a detailed statement of the
reasons for such order;
‘‘(II) shall publish in the Federal Register
a notice of availability of any such order;
and
‘‘(III) shall provide for a public comment
period of at least 45 calendar days with re-
spect to such interim final order.
‘‘(ii) NONDELEGATION.—The Secretary may
not delegate the authority to issue an in-
terim final administrative order under this
subparagraph.
‘‘(B) SAFETY LABELING CHANGES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a deter-
mination by the Secretary that a change in
the labeling of a drug, class of drugs, or com-
bination of drugs subject to this section is
reasonably expected to mitigate a signifi-
cant or unreasonable risk of a serious ad-
verse event associated with use of the drug,
the Secretary may—
‘‘(I) make reasonable efforts to notify in-
formally, not later than 48 hours before the
issuance of the interim final order, the spon-
sors of drugs who have a listing in effect
under section 510(j) for such drug or com-
bination of drugs;
‘‘(II) after reasonable efforts of notifica-
tion, issue an interim final administrative
order in accordance with paragraph (1) to re-
quire such change, together with a detailed
statement of the reasons for such order;
‘‘(III) publish in the Federal Register a no-
tice of availability of such order; and
‘‘(IV) provide for a public comment period
of at least 45 calendar days with respect to
such interim final order.
‘‘(ii) CONTENT OF ORDER.—An interim final
order issued under this subparagraph with
respect to the labeling of a drug may provide
for new warnings and other information re-
quired for safe use of the drug.
‘‘(C) EFFECTIVE DATE.—An order under sub-
paragraph (A) or (B) shall take effect on a
date specified by the Secretary.
‘‘(D) FINAL ORDER.—After the completion
of the proceedings in subparagraph (A) or
(B), the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) issue a final order in accordance with
paragraph (1);
‘‘(ii) publish a notice of availability of such
final administrative order in the Federal
Register; and
‘‘(iii) afford sponsors of such drugs that
will be subject to such an order the oppor-
tunity for formal dispute resolution up to
the level of the Director of the Center for
Drug Evaluation and Research, which must
initially be within 45 calendar days of the
issuance of the order, and for subsequent lev-
els of appeal, within 30 calendar days of the
prior decision.
‘‘(E) HEARINGS.—A sponsor of a drug sub-
ject to a final order issued under subpara-
graph (D) and that participated in each stage
of formal dispute resolution under clause
(iii) of such subparagraph may request a
hearing on such order. The provisions of sub-
paragraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (3),
other than paragraph (3)(C)(v)(II), shall
apply with respect to a hearing on such order
in the same manner and to the same extent
as such provisions apply with respect to a
hearing on an administrative order issued
under paragraph (2)(A)(iv).
‘‘(F) TIMING.—
‘‘(i) FINAL ORDER AND HEARING.—The Sec-
retary shall—
‘‘(I) not later than 6 months after the date
on which the comment period closes under
subparagraph (A) or (B), issue a final order in
accordance with paragraph (1); and
‘‘(II) not later than 12 months after the
date on which such final order is issued,
complete any hearing under subparagraph
(E).
‘‘(ii) DISPUTE RESOLUTION REQUEST.—The
Secretary shall specify in an interim final
order issued under subparagraph (A) or (B)
such shorter periods for requesting dispute
resolution under subparagraph (D)(iii) as are
necessary to meet the requirements of this
subparagraph.
‘‘(G) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—A final order issued
pursuant to subparagraph (F) shall be sub-
ject to judicial review in accordance with
paragraph (3)(D).
‘‘(5) ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER INITIATED AT
THE REQUEST OF A REQUESTOR.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In issuing an adminis-
trative order under paragraph (1) at the re-
quest of a requestor with respect to certain
drugs, classes of drugs, or combinations of
drugs—
‘‘(i) the Secretary shall, after receiving a
request under this subparagraph, determine
whether the request is sufficiently complete
and formatted to permit a substantive re-
view;
‘‘(ii) if the Secretary determines that the
request is sufficiently complete and for-
matted to permit a substantive review, the
Secretary shall—
‘‘(I) file the request; and
‘‘(II) initiate proceedings with respect to
issuing an administrative order in accord-
ance with paragraphs (2) and (3); and
‘‘(iii) except as provided in paragraph (6), if
the Secretary determines that a request does
not meet the requirements for filing or is not
sufficiently complete and formatted to per-
mit a substantive review, the requestor may
demand that the request be filed over pro-
test, and the Secretary shall initiate pro-
ceedings to review the request in accordance
with paragraph (2)(A).
‘‘(B) REQUEST TO INITIATE PROCEEDINGS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A requestor seeking an
administrative order under paragraph (1)
with respect to certain drugs, classes of
drugs, or combinations of drugs, shall submit
to the Secretary a request to initiate pro-
ceedings for such order in the form and man-
ner as specified by the Secretary. Such re-
questor may submit a request under this
subparagraph for the issuance of an adminis-
trative order—
‘‘(I) determining whether a drug is gen-
erally recognized as safe and effective under
section 201(p)(1), exempt from section
503(b)(1), and not required to be the subject
of an approved application under section 505;
or
‘‘(II) determining whether a change to a
condition of use of a drug is generally recog-
nized as safe and effective under section
201(p)(1), exempt from section 503(b)(1), and
not required to be the subject of an approved
application under section 505, if, absent such
a changed condition of use, such drug is—
‘‘(aa) generally recognized as safe and ef-
fective under section 201(p)(1) in accordance
with subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or an order
under this subsection; or
‘‘(bb) subject to subsection (a)(3), but only
if such requestor initiates such request in
conjunction with a request for the Secretary
to determine whether such drug is generally
recognized as safe and effective under sec-
tion 201(p)(1), which is filed by the Secretary
under subparagraph (A)(ii).
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary is not re-
quired to complete review of a request for a
change described in clause (i)(II) if the Sec-
retary determines that there is an inad-
equate basis to find the drug is generally rec-
ognized as safe and effective under section
201(p)(1) under paragraph (1) and issues a
final order announcing that determination.
‘‘(iii) WITHDRAWAL.—The requestor may
withdraw a request under this paragraph, ac-
cording to the procedures set forth pursuant
to subsection (d)(2)(B). Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, if such re-
quest is withdrawn, the Secretary may cease
proceedings under this subparagraph.
‘‘(C) EXCLUSIVITY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A final administrative
order issued in response to a request under
this section shall have the effect of author-
izing solely the order requestor (or the li-
censees, assignees, or successors in interest
of such requestor with respect to the subject
of such order), for a period of 18 months fol-
lowing the effective date of such final order
and beginning on the date the requestor may
lawfully market such drugs pursuant to the
order, to market drugs—
‘‘(I) incorporating changes described in
clause (ii); and
‘‘(II) subject to the limitations under
clause (iv).
‘‘(ii) CHANGES DESCRIBED.—A change de-
scribed in this clause is a change subject to
an order specified in clause (i), which—
‘‘(I) provides for a drug to contain an ac-
tive ingredient (including any ester or salt of
the active ingredient) not previously incor-
porated in a drug described in clause (iii); or
‘‘(II) provides for a change in the condi-
tions of use of a drug, for which new human
data studies conducted or sponsored by the
requestor (or for which the requestor has an
exclusive right of reference) were essential
to the issuance of such order.
‘‘(iii) DRUGS DESCRIBED.—The drugs de-
scribed in this clause are drugs—
‘‘(I) specified in subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or
(a)(3);
‘‘(II) subject to a final order issued under
this section;
‘‘(III) subject to a final sunscreen order (as
defined in section 586(2)(A)); or
‘‘(IV) described in subsection (m)(1), other
than drugs subject to an active enforcement
action under chapter III of this Act.
‘‘(iv) LIMITATIONS ON EXCLUSIVITY.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Only one 18-month pe-
riod under this subparagraph shall be grant-
ed, under each order described in clause (i),
with respect to changes (to the drug subject
to such order) which are either—
‘‘(aa) changes described in clause (ii)(I), re-
lating to active ingredients; or
‘‘(bb) changes described in clause (ii)(II),
relating to conditions of use.
‘‘(II) NO EXCLUSIVITY ALLOWED.—No exclu-
sivity shall apply to changes to a drug which
are—
‘‘(aa) the subject of a Tier 2 OTC mono-
graph order request (as defined in section
744L);
‘‘(bb) safety-related changes, as defined by
the Secretary, or any other changes the Sec-
retary considers necessary to assure safe use;
or
‘‘(cc) changes related to methods of testing
safety or efficacy.
‘‘(v) NEW HUMAN DATA STUDIES DEFINED.—In
this subparagraph, the term ‘new human
data studies’ means clinical trials of safety
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10192 December 12, 2019
or effectiveness (including actual use stud-
ies), pharmacokinetics studies, or bio-
availability studies, the results of which—
‘‘(I) have not been relied on by the Sec-
retary to support—
‘‘(aa) a proposed or final determination
that a drug described in subclause (I), (II), or
(III) of clause (iii) is generally recognized as
safe and effective under section 201(p)(1); or
‘‘(bb) approval of a drug that was approved
under section 505; and
‘‘(II) do not duplicate the results of an-
other study that was relied on by the Sec-
retary to support—
‘‘(aa) a proposed or final determination
that a drug described in subclause (I), (II), or
(III) of clause (iii) is generally recognized as
safe and effective under section 201(p)(1); or
‘‘(bb) approval of a drug that was approved
under section 505.
‘‘(6) INFORMATION REGARDING SAFE NON-
PRESCRIPTION MARKETING AND USE AS CONDI-
TION FOR FILING A GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE REQUEST.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In response to a request
under this section that a drug described in
subparagraph (B) be generally recognized as
safe and effective, the Secretary—
‘‘(i) may file such request, if the request
includes information specified under sub-
paragraph (C) with respect to safe non-
prescription marketing and use of such drug;
or
‘‘(ii) if the request fails to include informa-
tion specified under subparagraph (C), shall
refuse to file such request and require that
nonprescription marketing of the drug be
pursuant to a new drug application as de-
scribed in subparagraph (D).
‘‘(B) DRUG DESCRIBED.—A drug described in
this subparagraph is a nonprescription drug
which contains an active ingredient not pre-
viously incorporated in a drug—
‘‘(i) specified in subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or
(a)(3);
‘‘(ii) subject to a final order under this sec-
tion; or
‘‘(iii) subject to a final sunscreen order (as
defined in section 586(2)(A)).
‘‘(C) INFORMATION DEMONSTRATING PRIMA
FACIE SAFE NONPRESCRIPTION MARKETING AND
USE.—Information specified in this subpara-
graph, with respect to a request described in
subparagraph (A)(i), is—
‘‘(i) information sufficient for a prima
facie demonstration that the drug subject to
such request has a verifiable history of being
marketed and safely used by consumers in
the United States as a nonprescription drug
under comparable conditions of use;
‘‘(ii) if the drug has not been previously
marketed in the United States as a non-
prescription drug, information sufficient for
a prima facie demonstration that the drug
was marketed and safely used under com-
parable conditions of marketing and use in a
country listed in section 802(b)(1)(A) or des-
ignated by the Secretary in accordance with
section 802(b)(1)(B)—
‘‘(I) for such period as needed to provide
reasonable assurances concerning the safe
nonprescription use of the drug; and
‘‘(II) during such time was subject to suffi-
cient monitoring by a regulatory body con-
sidered acceptable by the Secretary for such
monitoring purposes, including for adverse
events associated with nonprescription use
of the drug; or
‘‘(iii) if the Secretary determines that in-
formation described in clause (i) or (ii) is not
needed to provide a prima facie demonstra-
tion that the drug can be safely marketed
and used as a nonprescription drug, such
other information the Secretary determines
is sufficient for such purposes.
‘‘(D) MARKETING PURSUANT TO NEW DRUG
APPLICATION.—In the case of a request de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(ii), the drug sub-
ject to such request may be resubmitted for
filing only if—
‘‘(i) the drug is marketed as a nonprescrip-
tion drug, under conditions of use com-
parable to the conditions specified in the re-
quest, for such period as the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate (not to exceed 5 consecu-
tive years) pursuant to an application ap-
proved under section 505; and
‘‘(ii) during such period, 1,000,000 retail
packages of the drug, or an equivalent quan-
tity as determined by the Secretary, were
distributed for retail sale, as determined in
such manner as the Secretary finds appro-
priate.
‘‘(E) RULE OF APPLICATION.—Except in the
case of a request involving a drug described
in section 586(9), as in effect on January 1,
2017, if the Secretary refuses to file a request
under this paragraph, the requestor may not
file such request over protest under para-
graph (5)(A)(iii).
‘‘(7) PACKAGING.—An administrative order
issued under paragraph (2), (4)(A), or (5) may
include requirements for the packaging of a
drug to encourage use in accordance with la-
beling. Such requirements may include unit
dose packaging, requirements for products
intended for use by pediatric populations, re-
quirements to reduce risk of harm from un-
supervised ingestion, and other appropriate
requirements. This paragraph does not au-
thorize the Food and Drug Administration to
require standards or testing procedures as
described in part 1700 of title 16, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations.
‘‘(8) FINAL AND TENTATIVE FINAL MONO-
GRAPHS FOR CATEGORY I DRUGS DEEMED FINAL
ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A final monograph or
tentative final monograph described in sub-
paragraph (B) shall be deemed to be a final
administrative order under this subsection
and may be amended, revoked, or otherwise
modified in accordance with the procedures
of this subsection.
‘‘(B) MONOGRAPHS DESCRIBED.—For pur-
poses of subparagraph (A), a final monograph
or tentative final monograph is described in
this subparagraph if it—
‘‘(i) establishes conditions of use for a drug
described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection
(a); and
‘‘(ii) represents the most recently promul-
gated version of such conditions, including
as modified, in whole or in part, by any pro-
posed or final rule.
‘‘(C) DEEMED ORDERS INCLUDE HARMONIZING
TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—The deemed estab-
lishment of a final administrative order
under subparagraph (A) shall be construed to
include any technical amendments to such
order as the Secretary determines necessary
to ensure that such order is appropriately
harmonized, in terms of terminology or
cross-references, with the applicable provi-
sions of this Act (and regulations there-
under) and any other orders issued under this
section.
‘‘(c) PROCEDURE FOR MINOR CHANGES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Minor changes in the
dosage form of a drug that is described in
paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a) or the
subject of an order issued under subsection
(b) may be made by a requestor without the
issuance of an order under subsection (b) if—
‘‘(A) the requestor maintains such infor-
mation as is necessary to demonstrate that
the change—
‘‘(i) will not affect the safety or effective-
ness of the drug; and
‘‘(ii) will not materially affect the extent
of absorption or other exposure to the active
ingredient in comparison to a suitable ref-
erence product; and
‘‘(B) the change is in conformity with the
requirements of an applicable administrative
order issued by the Secretary under para-
graph (3).
‘‘(2) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—
‘‘(A) ACCESS TO RECORDS.—A sponsor shall
submit records requested by the Secretary
relating to such a minor change under sec-
tion 704(a)(4), within 15 business days of re-
ceiving such a request, or such longer period
as the Secretary may provide.
‘‘(B) INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION.—If the
Secretary determines that the information
contained in such records is not sufficient to
demonstrate that the change does not affect
the safety or effectiveness of the drug or ma-
terially affect the extent of absorption or
other exposure to the active ingredient, the
Secretary—
‘‘(i) may so inform the sponsor of the drug
in writing; and
‘‘(ii) if the Secretary so informs the spon-
sor, shall provide the sponsor of the drug
with a reasonable opportunity to provide ad-
ditional information.
‘‘(C) FAILURE TO SUBMIT SUFFICIENT INFOR-
MATION.—If the sponsor fails to provide such
additional information within a time pre-
scribed by the Secretary, or if the Secretary
determines that such additional information
does not demonstrate that the change does
not—
‘‘(i) affect the safety or effectiveness of the
drug; or
‘‘(ii) materially affect the extent of absorp-
tion or other exposure to the active ingre-
dient in comparison to a suitable reference
product,
the drug as modified is a new drug under sec-
tion 201(p) and shall be deemed to be mis-
branded under section 502(ee).
‘‘(3) DETERMINING WHETHER A CHANGE WILL
AFFECT SAFETY OR EFFECTIVENESS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
issue one or more administrative orders
specifying requirements for determining
whether a minor change made by a sponsor
pursuant to this subsection will affect the
safety or effectiveness of a drug or materi-
ally affect the extent of absorption or other
exposure to an active ingredient in the drug
in comparison to a suitable reference prod-
uct, together with guidance for applying
those orders to specific dosage forms.
‘‘(B) STANDARD PRACTICES.—The orders and
guidance issued by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall take into account rel-
evant public standards and standard prac-
tices for evaluating the quality of drugs, and
may take into account the special needs of
populations, including children.
‘‘(d) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION SUB-
MITTED TO THE SECRETARY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
any information, including reports of testing
conducted on the drug or drugs involved,
that is submitted by a requestor in connec-
tion with proceedings on an order under this
section (including any minor change under
subsection (c)) and is a trade secret or con-
fidential information subject to section
552(b)(4) of title 5, United States Code, or sec-
tion 1905 of title 18, United States Code, shall
not be disclosed to the public unless the re-
questor consents to that disclosure.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) make any information submitted by a
requestor in support of a request under sub-
section (b)(5)(A) available to the public not
later than the date on which the proposed
order is issued; and
‘‘(ii) make any information submitted by
any other person with respect to an order re-
quested (or initiated by the Secretary) under
subsection (b), available to the public upon
such submission.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10193
December 12, 2019
‘‘(B) LIMITATIONS ON PUBLIC AVAIL-
ABILITY.—Information described in subpara-
graph (A) shall not be made public if—
‘‘(i) the information pertains to pharma-
ceutical quality information, unless such in-
formation is necessary to establish standards
under which a drug is generally recognized
as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1);
‘‘(ii) the information is submitted in a re-
questor-initiated request, but the requestor
withdraws such request, in accordance with
withdrawal procedures established by the
Secretary, before the Secretary issues the
proposed order;
‘‘(iii) the Secretary requests and obtains
the information under subsection (c) and
such information is not submitted in rela-
tion to an order under subsection (b); or
‘‘(iv) the information is of the type con-
tained in raw datasets.
‘‘(e) UPDATES TO DRUG LISTING INFORMA-
TION.—A sponsor who makes a change to a
drug subject to this section shall submit up-
dated drug listing information for the drug
in accordance with section 510(j) within 30
calendar days of the date when the drug is
first commercially marketed, except that a
sponsor who was the order requestor with re-
spect to an order subject to subsection
(b)(5)(C) (or a licensee, assignee, or successor
in interest of such requestor) shall submit
updated drug listing information on or be-
fore the date when the drug is first commer-
cially marketed.
‘‘(f) APPROVALS UNDER SECTION 505.—The
provisions of this section shall not be con-
strued to preclude a person from seeking or
maintaining the approval of an application
for a drug under sections 505(b)(1), 505(b)(2),
and 505(j). A determination under this sec-
tion that a drug is not subject to section
503(b)(1), is generally recognized as safe and
effective under section 201(p)(1), and is not a
new drug under section 201(p) shall con-
stitute a finding that the drug is safe and ef-
fective that may be relied upon for purposes
of an application under section 505(b)(2), so
that the applicant shall be required to sub-
mit for purposes of such application only in-
formation needed to support any modifica-
tion of the drug that is not covered by such
determination under this section.
‘‘(g) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF ADMINISTRA-
TIVE ORDERS.—The Secretary shall establish,
maintain, update (as determined necessary
by the Secretary but no less frequently than
annually), and make publicly available, with
respect to orders issued under this section—
‘‘(1) a repository of each final order and in-
terim final order in effect, including the
complete text of the order; and
‘‘(2) a listing of all orders proposed and
under development under subsection (b)(2),
including—
‘‘(A) a brief description of each such order;
and
‘‘(B) the Secretary’s expectations, if re-
sources permit, for issuance of proposed or-
ders over a 3-year period.
‘‘(h) DEVELOPMENT ADVICE TO SPONSORS OR
REQUESTORS.—The Secretary shall establish
procedures under which sponsors or reques-
tors may meet with appropriate officials of
the Food and Drug Administration to obtain
advice on the studies and other information
necessary to support submissions under this
section and other matters relevant to the
regulation of nonprescription drugs and the
development of new nonprescription drugs
under this section.
‘‘(i) PARTICIPATION OF MULTIPLE SPONSORS
OR REQUESTORS.—The Secretary shall estab-
lish procedures to facilitate efficient partici-
pation by multiple sponsors or requestors in
proceedings under this section, including
provision for joint meetings with multiple
sponsors or requestors or with organizations
nominated by sponsors or requestors to rep-
resent their interests in a proceeding.
‘‘(j) ELECTRONIC FORMAT.—All submissions
under this section shall be in electronic for-
mat.
‘‘(k) EFFECT ON EXISTING REGULATIONS
GOVERNING NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.—
‘‘(1) REGULATIONS OF GENERAL APPLICA-
BILITY TO NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.—Except
as provided in this subsection, nothing in
this section supersedes regulations estab-
lishing general requirements for non-
prescription drugs, including regulations of
general applicability contained in parts 201,
250, and 330 of title 21, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, or any successor regulations. The
Secretary shall establish or modify such reg-
ulations by means of rulemaking in accord-
ance with section 553 of title 5, United States
Code.
‘‘(2) REGULATIONS ESTABLISHING REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR SPECIFIC NONPRESCRIPTION
DRUGS.—
‘‘(A) The provisions of section 310.545 of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, as in
effect on the day before the date of the en-
actment of this section, shall be deemed to
be a final order under subsection (b).
‘‘(B) Regulations in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this sec-
tion, establishing requirements for specific
nonprescription drugs marketed pursuant to
this section (including such requirements in
parts 201 and 250 of title 21, Code of Federal
Regulations), shall be deemed to be final or-
ders under subsection (b), only as they apply
to drugs—
‘‘(i) subject to paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4)
of subsection (a); or
‘‘(ii) otherwise subject to an order under
this section.
‘‘(3) WITHDRAWAL OF REGULATIONS.—The
Secretary shall withdraw regulations estab-
lishing final monographs and the procedures
governing the over-the-counter drug review
under part 330 and other relevant parts of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (as in
effect on the day before the date of the en-
actment of this section), or make technical
changes to such regulations to ensure con-
formity with appropriate terminology and
cross references. Notwithstanding sub-
chapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United
States Code, any such withdrawal or tech-
nical changes shall be made without public
notice and comment and shall be effective
upon publication through notice in the Fed-
eral Register (or upon such date as specified
in such notice).
‘‘(l) GUIDANCE.—The Secretary shall issue
guidance that specifies—
‘‘(1) the procedures and principles for for-
mal meetings between the Secretary and
sponsors or requestors for drugs subject to
this section;
‘‘(2) the format and content of data sub-
missions to the Secretary under this section;
‘‘(3) the format of electronic submissions
to the Secretary under this section;
‘‘(4) consolidated proceedings for appeal
and the procedures for such proceedings
where appropriate; and
‘‘(5) for minor changes in drugs, rec-
ommendations on how to comply with the
requirements in orders issued under sub-
section (c)(3).
‘‘(m) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—This section shall not af-
fect the treatment or status of a non-
prescription drug—
‘‘(A) that is marketed without an applica-
tion approved under section 505 as of the
date of the enactment of this section;
‘‘(B) that is not subject to an order issued
under this section; and
‘‘(C) to which paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), or
(5) of subsection (a) do not apply.
‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF PRODUCTS PREVIOUSLY
FOUND TO BE SUBJECT TO TIME AND EXTENT RE-
QUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) Notwithstanding subsection (a), a
drug described in subparagraph (B) may only
be lawfully marketed, without an applica-
tion approved under section 505, pursuant to
an order issued under this section.
‘‘(B) A drug described in this subparagraph
is a drug which, prior to the date of the en-
actment of this section, the Secretary deter-
mined in a proposed or final rule to be ineli-
gible for review under the OTC drug review
(as such phrase ‘OTC drug review’ was used
in section 330.14 of title 21, Code of Federal
Regulations, as in effect on the day before
the date of the enactment of this section).
‘‘(3) PRESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(A) Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be con-
strued to preclude or limit the applicability
of any provision of this Act other than this
section.
‘‘(B) Nothing in subsection (a) shall be con-
strued to prohibit the Secretary from issuing
an order under this section finding a drug to
be not generally recognized as safe and effec-
tive under section 201(p)(1), as the Secretary
determines appropriate.
‘‘(n) INVESTIGATIONAL NEW DRUGS.—A drug
is not subject to this section if an exemption
for investigational use under section 505(i) is
in effect for such drug.
‘‘(o) INAPPLICABILITY OF PAPERWORK RE-
DUCTION ACT.—Chapter 35 of title 44, United
States Code, shall not apply to collections of
information made under this section.
‘‘(p) INAPPLICABILITY OF NOTICE AND COM-
MENT RULEMAKING AND OTHER REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The requirements of subsection (b)
shall apply with respect to orders issued
under this section instead of the require-
ments of subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5,
United States Code.
‘‘(q) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘nonprescription drug’ refers
to a drug not subject to the requirements of
section 503(b)(1).
‘‘(2) The term ‘sponsor’ refers to any per-
son marketing, manufacturing, or processing
a drug that—
‘‘(A) is listed pursuant to section 510(j);
and
‘‘(B) is or will be subject to an administra-
tive order under this section of the Food and
Drug Administration.
‘‘(3) The term ‘requestor’ refers to any per-
son or group of persons marketing, manufac-
turing, processing, or developing a drug.’’.
(b) GAO STUDY.—Not later than 4 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit a study to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Sen-
ate addressing the effectiveness and overall
impact of exclusivity under section 505G of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act,
as added by subsection (a), and section 586C
of such Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–3), including the
impact of such exclusivity on consumer ac-
cess. Such study shall include—
(1) an analysis of the impact of exclusivity
under such section 505G for nonprescription
drug products, including—
(A) the number of nonprescription drug
products that were granted exclusivity and
the indication for which the nonprescription
drug products were determined to be gen-
erally recognized as safe and effective;
(B) whether the exclusivity for such drug
products was granted for—
(i) a new active ingredient (including any
ester or salt of the active ingredient); or
(ii) changes in the conditions of use of a
drug, for which new human data studies con-
ducted or sponsored by the requestor were
essential;
(C) whether, and to what extent, the exclu-
sivity impacted the requestor’s or sponsor’s
decision to develop the drug product;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10194 December 12, 2019
(D) an analysis of the implementation of
the exclusivity provision in such section
505G, including—
(i) the resources used by the Food and Drug
Administration;
(ii) the impact of such provision on innova-
tion, as well as research and development in
the nonprescription drug market;
(iii) the impact of such provision on com-
petition in the nonprescription drug market;
(iv) the impact of such provision on con-
sumer access to nonprescription drug prod-
ucts;
(v) the impact of such provision on the
prices of nonprescription drug products; and
(vi) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 505G
have been sufficient to encourage the devel-
opment of nonprescription drug products
that would likely not be otherwise devel-
oped, or developed in as timely a manner;
and
(E) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 505G
have been sufficient incentive to encourage
innovation in the nonprescription drug mar-
ket; and
(2) an analysis of the impact of exclusivity
under such section 586C for sunscreen ingre-
dients, including—
(A) the number of sunscreen ingredients
that were granted exclusivity and the spe-
cific ingredient that was determined to be
generally recognized as safe and effective;
(B) whether, and to what extent, the exclu-
sivity impacted the requestor’s or sponsor’s
decision to develop the sunscreen ingredient;
(C) whether, and to what extent, the sun-
screen ingredient granted exclusivity had
previously been available outside of the
United States;
(D) an analysis of the implementation of
the exclusivity provision in such section
586C, including—
(i) the resources used by the Food and Drug
Administration;
(ii) the impact of such provision on innova-
tion, as well as research and development in
the sunscreen market;
(iii) the impact of such provision on com-
petition in the sunscreen market;
(iv) the impact of such provision on con-
sumer access to sunscreen products;
(v) the impact of such provision on the
prices of sunscreen products; and
(vi) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 505G
have been utilized by sunscreen ingredient
sponsors and whether such process has been
sufficient to encourage the development of
sunscreen ingredients that would likely not
be otherwise developed, or developed in as
timely a manner; and
(E) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 586C
have been sufficient incentive to encourage
innovation in the sunscreen market.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
751(d)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act (21 U.S.C. 379r(d)(1)) is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘final regulation promul-
gated’’ and inserting ‘‘final order under sec-
tion 505G’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘and not misbranded’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘regu-
lation in effect’’ and inserting ‘‘regulation or
order in effect’’.
SEC. 372. MISBRANDING.
Section 502 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 352) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ee) If it is a nonprescription drug that is
subject to section 505G, is not the subject of
an application approved under section 505,
and does not comply with the requirements
under section 505G.
‘‘(ff) If it is a drug and it was manufac-
tured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or
processed in a facility for which fees have
not been paid as required by section 744M.’’.
SEC. 373. DRUGS EXCLUDED FROM THE OVER-
THE-COUNTER DRUG REVIEW.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this Act (or
the amendments made by this Act) shall
apply to any nonprescription drug (as de-
fined in section 505G(q) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by section
1001 of this Act) which was excluded by the
Food and Drug Administration from the
Over-the-Counter Drug Review in accordance
with the paragraph numbered 25 on page 9466
of volume 37 of the Federal Register, pub-
lished on May 11, 1972.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to preclude or
limit the applicability of any other provision
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.).
SEC. 374. TREATMENT OF SUNSCREEN INNOVA-
TION ACT.
(a) REVIEW OF NONPRESCRIPTION SUNSCREEN
ACTIVE INGREDIENTS.—
(1) APPLICABILITY OF SECTION 505G FOR PEND-
ING SUBMISSIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A sponsor of a non-
prescription sunscreen active ingredient or
combination of nonprescription sunscreen
active ingredients that, as of the date of en-
actment of this Act, is subject to a proposed
sunscreen order under section 586C of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 360fff–3) may elect, by means of giving
written notification to the Secretary of
Health and Human Services within 180 cal-
endar days of the enactment of this Act, to
transition into the review of such ingredient
or combination of ingredients pursuant to
the process set out in section 505G of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as
added by section 1001 of this Act.
(B) ELECTION EXERCISED.—Upon receipt by
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
of a timely notification under subparagraph
(A)—
(i) the proposed sunscreen order involved is
deemed to be a request for an order under
subsection (b) of section 505G of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by
section 1001 of this Act; and
(ii) such order is deemed to have been ac-
cepted for filing under subsection (b)(6)(A)(i)
of such section 505G.
(C) ELECTION NOT EXERCISED.—If a notifica-
tion under subparagraph (A) is not received
by the Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices within 180 calendar days of the date of
enactment of this Act, the review of the pro-
posed sunscreen order described in subpara-
graph (A)—
(i) shall continue under section 586C of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 360fff–3); and
(ii) shall not be eligible for review under
section 505G, added by section 1001 of this
Act.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the
terms ‘‘sponsor’’, ‘‘nonprescription’’, ‘‘sun-
screen active ingredient’’, and ‘‘proposed
sunscreen order’’ have the meanings given to
those terms in section 586 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
360fff).
(b) AMENDMENTS TO SUNSCREEN PROVI-
SIONS.—
(1) FINAL SUNSCREEN ORDERS.—Paragraph
(3) of section 586C(e) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–3(e))
is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(3) RELATIONSHIP TO ORDERS UNDER SEC-
TION 505G.—A final sunscreen order shall be
deemed to be a final order under section
505G.’’.
(2) MEETINGS.—Paragraph (7) of section
586C(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–3(b)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘A sponsor may request’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A sponsor may request’’;
and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) CONFIDENTIAL MEETINGS.—A sponsor
may request one or more confidential meet-
ings with respect to a proposed sunscreen
order, including a letter deemed to be a pro-
posed sunscreen order under paragraph (3), to
discuss matters relating to data require-
ments to support a general recognition of
safety and effectiveness involving confiden-
tial information and public information re-
lated to such proposed sunscreen order, as
appropriate. The Secretary shall convene a
confidential meeting with such sponsor in a
reasonable time period. If a sponsor requests
more than one confidential meeting for the
same proposed sunscreen order, the Sec-
retary may refuse to grant an additional
confidential meeting request if the Secretary
determines that such additional confidential
meeting is not reasonably necessary for the
sponsor to advance its proposed sunscreen
order, or if the request for a confidential
meeting fails to include sufficient informa-
tion upon which to base a substantive discus-
sion. The Secretary shall publish a post-
meeting summary of each confidential meet-
ing under this subparagraph that does not
disclose confidential commercial informa-
tion or trade secrets. This subparagraph does
not authorize the disclosure of confidential
commercial information or trade secrets
subject to 552(b)(4) of title 5, United States
Code, or section 1905 of title 18, United
States Code.’’.
(3) EXCLUSIVITY.—Section 586C of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
360fff–3) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(f) EXCLUSIVITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A final sunscreen order
shall have the effect of authorizing solely
the order requestor (or the licensees, assign-
ees, or successors in interest of such re-
questor with respect to the subject of such
request and listed under paragraph (5)) for a
period of 18 months, to market a sunscreen
ingredient under this section incorporating
changes described in paragraph (2) subject to
the limitations under paragraph (4), begin-
ning on the date the requestor (or any licens-
ees, assignees, or successors in interest of
such requestor with respect to the subject of
such request and listed under paragraph (5))
may lawfully market such sunscreen ingre-
dient pursuant to the order.
‘‘(2) CHANGES DESCRIBED.—A change de-
scribed in this paragraph is a change subject
to an order specified in paragraph (1) that
permits a sunscreen to contain an active
sunscreen ingredient not previously incor-
porated in a marketed sunscreen listed in
paragraph (3).
‘‘(3) MARKETED SUNSCREEN.—The marketed
sunscreen ingredients described in this para-
graph are sunscreen ingredients—
‘‘(A) marketed in accordance with a final
monograph for sunscreen drug products set
forth at part 352 of title 21, Code of Federal
Regulations (as published at 64 Fed. Reg.
27687); or
‘‘(B) marketed in accordance with a final
order issued under this section.
‘‘(4) LIMITATIONS ON EXCLUSIVITY.—Only
one 18-month period may be granted per in-
gredient under paragraph (1).
‘‘(5) LISTING OF LICENSEES, ASSIGNEES, OR
SUCCESSORS IN INTEREST.—Requestors shall
submit to the Secretary at the time when a
drug subject to such request is introduced or
delivered for introduction into interstate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10195
December 12, 2019
commerce, a list of licensees, assignees, or
successors in interest under paragraph (1).’’.
(4) SUNSET PROVISION.—Subchapter I of
chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 586H. SUNSET.
‘‘This subchapter shall cease to be effec-
tive at the end of fiscal year 2022.’’.
(5) TREATMENT OF FINAL SUNSCREEN
ORDER.—The Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act is amended by striking section
586E of such Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–5).
(c) TREATMENT OF AUTHORITY REGARDING
FINALIZATION OF SUNSCREEN MONOGRAPH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) REVISION OF FINAL SUNSCREEN ORDER.—
Not later than November 26, 2019, the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services (re-
ferred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’) shall amend and revise the final ad-
ministrative order concerning nonprescrip-
tion sunscreen (referred to in this subsection
as the ‘‘sunscreen order’’) for which the con-
tent, prior to the date of enactment of this
Act, was represented by the final monograph
for sunscreen drug products set forth in part
352 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations
(as in effect on May 21, 1999).
(B) ISSUANCE OF REVISED SUNSCREEN ORDER;
EFFECTIVE DATE.—A revised sunscreen order
described in subparagraph (A) shall be—
(i) issued in accordance with the proce-
dures described in section 505G(c)(2) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(ii) issued in proposed form not later than
May 28, 2019;
(iii) effective not later than November 26,
2020; and
(iv) issued by the Secretary at least 1 year
prior to the effective date of the revised
order.
(2) REPORTS.—If a revised sunscreen order
issued under paragraph (1) does not include
provisions related to the effectiveness of var-
ious sun protection factor levels, and does
not address all dosage forms known to the
Secretary to be used in sunscreens marketed
in the United States without a new drug ap-
plication approved under section 505 of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 355), the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions of the Senate on the rationale
for omission of such provisions from such
order, and a plan and timeline to compile
any information necessary to address such
provisions through such order.
(d) TREATMENT OF NON-SUNSCREEN TIME
AND EXTENT APPLICATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Any application described
in section 586F of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–6) that was
submitted to the Secretary pursuant to sec-
tion 330.14 of title 21, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, as such provisions were in effect im-
mediately prior to the date of enactment
date of this Act, shall be extinguished as of
such date of enactment, subject to paragraph
(2).
(2) ORDER REQUEST.—Nothing in paragraph
(1) precludes the submission of an order re-
quest under section 505G(b) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by
section 1001 of this Act, with respect to a
drug that was the subject of an application
extinguished under paragraph (1).
SEC. 375. ANNUAL UPDATE TO CONGRESS ON AP-
PROPRIATE PEDIATRIC INDICATION
FOR CERTAIN OTC COUGH AND
COLD DRUGS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (c),
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall, beginning not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, annually
submit to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a letter
describing the progress of the Food and Drug
Administration—
(1) in evaluating the cough and cold mono-
graph described in subsection (b) with re-
spect to children under age 6; and
(2) as appropriate, revising such cough and
cold monograph to address such children
through the order process under section
505G(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act, as added by section 1001 of this
Act.
(b) COUGH AND COLD MONOGRAPH DE-
SCRIBED.—The cough and cold monograph de-
scribed in this subsection consists of the con-
ditions under which nonprescription drugs
containing antitussive, expectorant, nasal
decongestant, or antihistamine active ingre-
dients (or combinations thereof) are gen-
erally recognized as safe and effective, as
specified in part 341 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (as in effect immediately
prior to the date of enactment of this Act),
and included in an order deemed to be estab-
lished under section 505G(b) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by
section 1001 of this Act.
(c) DURATION OF AUTHORITY.—The require-
ment under subsection (a) shall terminate as
of the date of a letter submitted by the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services pursu-
ant to such subsection in which the Sec-
retary indicates that the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration has completed its evaluation
and revised, in a final order, as applicable,
the cough and cold monograph as described
in subsection (a)(2).
SEC. 376. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
(a) IMPORTS AND EXPORTS.—Section
801(e)(4)(E)(iii) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 381(e)(4)(E)(iii))
is amended by striking ‘‘subparagraph’’ each
place such term appears and inserting ‘‘para-
graph’’.
(b) FDA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2017.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 905(b)(4) of the
FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 (Public
Law115–52) is amended by striking ‘‘Section
744H(e)(2)(B)’’ and inserting ‘‘Section
744H(f)(2)(B)’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by paragraph (1) shall take effect as of
the enactment of the FDA Reauthorization
Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–52).
PART 2—USER FEES
SEC. 381. SHORT TITLE; FINDING.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This part may be cited
as the ‘‘Over-the-Counter Monograph User
Fee Act of 2019’’.
(b) FINDING.—The Congress finds that the
fees authorized by the amendments made in
this part will be dedicated to OTC mono-
graph drug activities, as set forth in the
goals identified for purposes of part 10 of sub-
chapter C of chapter VII of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, in the letters from
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
to the Chairman of the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate and the Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives, as set forth in the
Congressional Record.
SEC. 382. FEES RELATING TO OVER-THE-
COUNTER DRUGS.
Subchapter C of chapter VII of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 379f
et seq.) is amended by inserting after part 9
the following:
‘‘PART 10—FEES RELATING TO OVER-THE-
COUNTER DRUGS
‘‘SEC. 744L. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this part:
‘‘(1) The term ‘affiliate’ means a business
entity that has a relationship with a second
business entity if, directly or indirectly—
‘‘(A) one business entity controls, or has
the power to control, the other business enti-
ty; or
‘‘(B) a third party controls, or has power to
control, both of the business entities.
‘‘(2) The term ‘contract manufacturing or-
ganization facility’ means an OTC mono-
graph drug facility where neither the owner
of such manufacturing facility nor any affil-
iate of such owner or facility sells the OTC
monograph drug produced at such facility di-
rectly to wholesalers, retailers, or consumers
in the United States.
‘‘(3) The term ‘costs of resources allocated
for OTC monograph drug activities’ means
the expenses in connection with OTC mono-
graph drug activities for—
‘‘(A) officers and employees of the Food
and Drug Administration, contractors of the
Food and Drug Administration, advisory
committees, and costs related to such offi-
cers, employees, and committees and costs
related to contracts with such contractors;
‘‘(B) management of information, and the
acquisition, maintenance, and repair of com-
puter resources;
‘‘(C) leasing, maintenance, renovation, and
repair of facilities and acquisition, mainte-
nance, and repair of fixtures, furniture, sci-
entific equipment, and other necessary ma-
terials and supplies; and
‘‘(D) collecting fees under section 744M and
accounting for resources allocated for OTC
monograph drug activities.
‘‘(4) The term ‘FDA establishment identi-
fier’ is the unique number automatically
generated by Food and Drug Administra-
tion’s Field Accomplishments and Compli-
ance Tracking System (FACTS) (or any suc-
cessor system).
‘‘(5) The term ‘OTC monograph drug’
means a nonprescription drug without an ap-
proved new drug application which is gov-
erned by the provisions of section 505G.
‘‘(6) The term ‘OTC monograph drug activi-
ties’ means activities of the Secretary asso-
ciated with OTC monograph drugs and in-
spection of facilities associated with such
products, including the following activities:
‘‘(A) The activities necessary for review
and evaluation of OTC monographs and OTC
monograph order requests, including—
‘‘(i) orders proposing or finalizing applica-
ble conditions of use for OTC monograph
drugs;
‘‘(ii) orders affecting status regarding gen-
eral recognition of safety and effectiveness
of an OTC monograph ingredient or combina-
tion of ingredients under specified conditions
of use;
‘‘(iii) all OTC monograph drug develop-
ment and review activities, including intra-
agency collaboration;
‘‘(iv) regulation and policy development
activities related to OTC monograph drugs;
‘‘(v) development of product standards for
products subject to review and evaluation;
‘‘(vi) meetings referred to in section
505G(i);
‘‘(vii) review of labeling prior to issuance
of orders related to OTC monograph drugs or
conditions of use; and
‘‘(viii) regulatory science activities related
to OTC monograph drugs.
‘‘(B) Inspections related to OTC monograph
drugs.
‘‘(C) Monitoring of clinical and other re-
search conducted in connection with OTC
monograph drugs.
‘‘(D) Safety activities with respect to OTC
monograph drugs, including—
‘‘(i) collecting, developing, and reviewing
safety information on OTC monograph drugs,
including adverse event reports;
‘‘(ii) developing and using improved ad-
verse event data-collection systems, includ-
ing information technology systems; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10196 December 12, 2019
‘‘(iii) developing and using improved ana-
lytical tools to assess potential safety risks,
including access to external databases.
‘‘(E) Other activities necessary for imple-
mentation of section 505G.
‘‘(7) The term ‘OTC monograph order re-
quest’ means a request for an order sub-
mitted under section 505G(b)(5).
‘‘(8) The term ‘Tier 1 OTC monograph order
request’ means any OTC monograph order re-
quest not determined to be a Tier 2 OTC
monograph order request.
‘‘(9)(A) The term ‘Tier 2 OTC monograph
order request’ means, subject to subpara-
graph (B), an OTC monograph order request
for—
‘‘(i) the reordering of existing information
in the drug facts label of an OTC monograph
drug;
‘‘(ii) the addition of information to the
other information section of the drug facts
label of an OTC monograph drug, as limited
by section 201.66(c)(7) of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (or any successor regula-
tions);
‘‘(iii) modification to the directions for use
section of the drug facts label of an OTC
monograph drug, if such changes conform to
changes made pursuant to section
505G(c)(3)(A);
‘‘(iv) the standardization of the concentra-
tion or dose of a specific finalized ingredient
within a particular finalized monograph;
‘‘(v) a change to ingredient nomenclature
to align with nomenclature of a standards-
setting organization; or
‘‘(vi) addition of an interchangeable term
in accordance with section 330.1 of title 21,
Code of Federal Regulations (or any suc-
cessor regulations).
‘‘(B) The Secretary may, based on program
implementation experience or other factors
found appropriate by the Secretary, charac-
terize any OTC monograph order request as a
Tier 2 OTC monograph order request (includ-
ing recharacterizing a request from Tier 1 to
Tier 2) and publish such determination in a
proposed order issued pursuant to section
505G.
‘‘(10)(A) The term ‘OTC monograph drug fa-
cility’ means a foreign or domestic business
or other entity that—
‘‘(i) is—
‘‘(I) under one management, either direct
or indirect; and
‘‘(II) at one geographic location or address
engaged in manufacturing or processing the
finished dosage form of an OTC monograph
drug;
‘‘(ii) includes a finished dosage form manu-
facturer facility in a contractual relation-
ship with the sponsor of one or more OTC
monograph drugs to manufacture or process
such drugs; and
‘‘(iii) does not include a business or other
entity whose only manufacturing or proc-
essing activities are one or more of the fol-
lowing: production of clinical research sup-
plies, testing, or placement of outer pack-
aging on packages containing multiple prod-
ucts, for such purposes as creating
multipacks, when each monograph drug
product contained within the overpackaging
is already in a final packaged form prior to
placement in the outer overpackaging.
‘‘(B) For purposes of subparagraph
(A)(i)(II), separate buildings or locations
within close proximity are considered to be
at one geographic location or address if the
activities conducted in such buildings or lo-
cations are—
‘‘(i) closely related to the same business
enterprise;
‘‘(ii) under the supervision of the same
local management; and
‘‘(iii) under a single FDA establishment
identifier and capable of being inspected by
the Food and Drug Administration during a
single inspection.
‘‘(C) If a business or other entity would
meet criteria specified in subparagraph (A),
but for being under multiple management,
the business or other entity is deemed to
constitute multiple facilities, one per man-
agement entity, for purposes of this para-
graph.
‘‘(11) The term ‘OTC monograph drug meet-
ing’ means any meeting regarding the con-
tent of a proposed OTC monograph order re-
quest.
‘‘(12) The term ‘person’ includes an affil-
iate of a person.
‘‘(13) The terms ‘requestor’ and ‘sponsor’
have the meanings given such terms in sec-
tion 505G.
‘‘SEC. 744M. AUTHORITY TO ASSESS AND USE OTC
MONOGRAPH FEES.
‘‘(a) TYPES OF FEES.—Beginning with fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall assess and col-
lect fees in accordance with this section as
follows:
‘‘(1) FACILITY FEE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each person that owns a
facility identified as an OTC monograph drug
facility on December 31 of the fiscal year or
at any time during the preceding 12-month
period shall be assessed an annual fee for
each such facility as determined under sub-
section (c).
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(i) A fee shall not be assessed under sub-
paragraph (A) if the identified OTC mono-
graph drug facility—
‘‘(I) has ceased all activities related to
OTC monograph drugs prior to January 31,
2019, for the first program year, and Decem-
ber 31 of the fiscal year for subsequent fiscal
years; and
‘‘(II) has updated its registration to reflect
such change under the requirements for drug
establishment registration set forth in sec-
tion 510.
‘‘(ii) The amount of the fee for a contract
manufacturing organization facility shall be
equal to two-thirds of the amount of the fee
for an OTC monograph drug facility that is
not a contract manufacturing organization
facility.
‘‘(C) AMOUNT.—The amount of fees estab-
lished under subparagraph (A) shall be estab-
lished under subsection (c).
‘‘(D) DUE DATE.—
‘‘(i) FOR FIRST PROGRAM YEAR.—For fiscal
year 2019, the facility fees required under
subparagraph (A) shall be due 45 calendar
days after publication of the Federal Reg-
ister notice provided for under subsection
(c)(4)(A).
‘‘(ii) SUBSEQUENT FISCAL YEARS.—For each
fiscal year after fiscal year 2019, the facility
fees required under subparagraph (A) shall be
due on the later of—
‘‘(I) the first business day of June of such
year; or
‘‘(II) the first business day after the enact-
ment of an appropriations Act providing for
the collection and obligation of fees under
this section for such year.
‘‘(2) OTC MONOGRAPH ORDER REQUEST FEE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each person that sub-
mits an OTC monograph order request shall
be subject to a fee for an OTC monograph
order request. The amount of such fee shall
be—
‘‘(i) for a Tier 1 OTC monograph order re-
quest, $500,000, adjusted for inflation for the
fiscal year (as determined under subsection
(c)(1)(B)); and
‘‘(ii) for a Tier 2 OTC monograph order re-
quest, $100,000 adjusted for inflation for the
fiscal year (as determined under subsection
(c)(1)(B)).
‘‘(B) DUE DATE.—The OTC monograph order
request fees required under subparagraph (A)
shall be due on the date of submission of the
OTC monograph order request.
‘‘(C) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN SAFETY
CHANGES.—A person who is named as the re-
questor in an OTC monograph order shall not
be subject to a fee under subparagraph (A) if
the Secretary finds that the OTC monograph
order request seeks to change the drug facts
labeling of an OTC monograph drug in a way
that would add to or strengthen—
‘‘(i) a contraindication, warning, or pre-
caution;
‘‘(ii) a statement about risk associated
with misuse or abuse; or
‘‘(iii) an instruction about dosage and ad-
ministration that is intended to increase the
safe use of the OTC monograph drug.
‘‘(D) REFUND OF FEE IF ORDER REQUEST IS
RECATEGORIZED AS A TIER 2 OTC MONOGRAPH
ORDER REQUEST.—If the Secretary determines
that an OTC monograph request initially
characterized as Tier 1 shall be re-character-
ized as a Tier 2 OTC monograph order re-
quest, and the requestor has paid a Tier 1 fee
in accordance with subparagraph (A)(i), the
Secretary shall refund the requestor the dif-
ference between the Tier 1 and Tier 2 fees de-
termined under subparagraphs (A)(i) and
(A)(ii), respectively.
‘‘(E) REFUND OF FEE IF ORDER REQUEST RE-
FUSED FOR FILING OR WITHDRAWN BEFORE FIL-
ING.—The Secretary shall refund 75 percent
of the fee paid under subparagraph (B) for
any order request which is refused for filing
or was withdrawn before being accepted or
refused for filing.
‘‘(F) FEES FOR ORDER REQUESTS PREVIOUSLY
REFUSED FOR FILING OR WITHDRAWN BEFORE
FILING.—An OTC monograph order request
that was submitted but was refused for fil-
ing, or was withdrawn before being accepted
or refused for filing, shall be subject to the
full fee under subparagraph (A) upon being
resubmitted or filed over protest.
‘‘(G) REFUND OF FEE IF ORDER REQUEST
WITHDRAWN.—If an order request is with-
drawn after the order request was filed, the
Secretary may refund the fee or a portion of
the fee if no substantial work was performed
on the order request after the application
was filed. The Secretary shall have the sole
discretion to refund a fee or a portion of the
fee under this subparagraph. A determina-
tion by the Secretary concerning a refund
under this subparagraph shall not be review-
able.
‘‘(3) REFUNDS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Other than refunds pro-
vided pursuant to any of subparagraphs (D)
through (G) of paragraph (2), the Secretary
shall not refund any fee paid under para-
graph (1) except as provided in subparagraph
(B).
‘‘(B) DISPUTES CONCERNING FEES.—To qual-
ify for the return of a fee claimed to have
been paid in error under paragraph (1) or (2),
a person shall submit to the Secretary a
written request justifying such return within
180 calendar days after such fee was paid.
‘‘(4) NOTICE.—Within the timeframe speci-
fied in subsection (c), the Secretary shall
publish in the Federal Register the amount
of the fees under paragraph (1) for such fiscal
year.
‘‘(b) FEE REVENUE AMOUNTS.—
‘‘(1) FISCAL YEAR 2019.—For fiscal year 2019,
fees under subsection (a)(1) shall be estab-
lished to generate a total facility fee revenue
amount equal to the sum of—
‘‘(A) the annual base revenue for fiscal
year 2019 (as determined under paragraph
(3));
‘‘(B) the dollar amount equal to the oper-
ating reserve adjustment for the fiscal year,
if applicable (as determined under subsection
(c)(2)); and
‘‘(C) additional direct cost adjustments (as
determined under subsection (c)(3)).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10197
December 12, 2019
‘‘(2) SUBSEQUENT FISCAL YEARS.—For each
of the fiscal years 2020 through 2023, fees
under subsection (a)(1) shall be established
to generate a total facility fee revenue
amount equal to the sum of—
‘‘(A) the annual base revenue for the fiscal
year (as determined under paragraph (3));
‘‘(B) the dollar amount equal to the infla-
tion adjustment for the fiscal year (as deter-
mined under subsection (c)(1));
‘‘(C) the dollar amount equal to the oper-
ating reserve adjustment for the fiscal year,
if applicable (as determined under subsection
(c)(2));
‘‘(D) additional direct cost adjustments (as
determined under subsection (c)(3)); and
‘‘(E) additional dollar amounts for each fis-
cal year as follows:
‘‘(i) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2020.
‘‘(ii) $6,000,000 for fiscal year 2021.
‘‘(iii) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.
‘‘(iv) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
‘‘(3) ANNUAL BASE REVENUE.—For purposes
of paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A), the dollar
amount of the annual base revenue for a fis-
cal year shall be—
‘‘(A) for fiscal year 2019, $8,000,000; and
‘‘(B) for fiscal years 2020 through 2023, the
dollar amount of the total revenue amount
established under this subsection for the pre-
vious fiscal year, not including any adjust-
ments made under subsection (c)(2) or (c)(3).
‘‘(c) ADJUSTMENTS; ANNUAL FEE SETTING.—
‘‘(1) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of sub-
section (b)(2)(B), the dollar amount of the in-
flation adjustment to the annual base rev-
enue for fiscal year 2020 and each subsequent
fiscal year shall be equal to the product of—
‘‘(i) such annual base revenue for the fiscal
year under subsection (b)(2); and
‘‘(ii) the inflation adjustment percentage
under subparagraph (C).
‘‘(B) OTC MONOGRAPH ORDER REQUEST
FEES.—For purposes of subsection (a)(2), the
dollar amount of the inflation adjustment to
the fee for OTC monograph order requests for
fiscal year 2020 and each subsequent fiscal
year shall be equal to the product of—
‘‘(i) the applicable fee under subsection
(a)(2) for the preceding fiscal year; and
‘‘(ii) the inflation adjustment percentage
under subparagraph (C).
‘‘(C) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT PERCENTAGE.—
The inflation adjustment percentage under
this subparagraph for a fiscal year is equal
to—
‘‘(i) for each of fiscal years 2020 and 2021,
the average annual percent change that oc-
curred in the Consumer Price Index for
urban consumers (Washington-Baltimore,
DC–MD–VA–WV; Not Seasonally Adjusted;
All items; Annual Index) for the first 3 years
of the preceding 4 years of available data;
and
‘‘(ii) for each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023,
the sum of—
‘‘(I) the average annual percent change in
the cost, per full-time equivalent position of
the Food and Drug Administration, of all
personnel compensation and benefits paid
with respect to such positions for the first 3
years of the preceding 4 fiscal years, multi-
plied by the proportion of personnel com-
pensation and benefits costs to total costs of
OTC monograph drug activities for the first
3 years of the preceding 4 fiscal years; and
‘‘(II) the average annual percent change
that occurred in the Consumer Price Index
for urban consumers (Washington-Baltimore,
DC–MD–VA–WV; Not Seasonally Adjusted;
All items; Annual Index) for the first 3 years
of the preceding 4 years of available data
multiplied by the proportion of all costs
other than personnel compensation and ben-
efits costs to total costs of OTC monograph
drug activities for the first 3 years of the
preceding 4 fiscal years.
‘‘(2) OPERATING RESERVE ADJUSTMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For fiscal year 2019 and
subsequent fiscal years, for purposes of sub-
sections (b)(1)(B) and (b)(2)(C), the Secretary
may, in addition to adjustments under para-
graph (1), further increase the fee revenue
and fees if such an adjustment is necessary
to provide operating reserves of carryover
user fees for OTC monograph drug activities
for not more than the number of weeks spec-
ified in subparagraph (B).
‘‘(B) NUMBER OF WEEKS.—The number of
weeks specified in this subparagraph is—
‘‘(i) 3 weeks for fiscal year 2019;
‘‘(ii) 7 weeks for fiscal year 2020;
‘‘(iii) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2021;
‘‘(iv) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2022; and
‘‘(v) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2023.
‘‘(C) DECREASE.—If the Secretary has car-
ryover balances for such process in excess of
10 weeks of the operating reserves referred to
in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall de-
crease the fee revenue and fees referred to in
such subparagraph to provide for not more
than 10 weeks of such operating reserves.
‘‘(D) RATIONALE FOR ADJUSTMENT.—If an
adjustment under this paragraph is made,
the rationale for the amount of the increase
or decrease (as applicable) in fee revenue and
fees shall be contained in the annual Federal
Register notice under paragraph (4) estab-
lishing fee revenue and fees for the fiscal
year involved.
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL DIRECT COST ADJUST-
MENT.—The Secretary shall, in addition to
adjustments under paragraphs (1) and (2),
further increase the fee revenue and fees for
purposes of subsection (b)(2)(D) by an
amount equal to—
‘‘(A) $14,000,000 for fiscal year 2019;
‘‘(B) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2020;
‘‘(C) $4,000,000 for fiscal year 2021;
‘‘(D) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2022; and
‘‘(E) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
‘‘(4) ANNUAL FEE SETTING.—
‘‘(A) FISCAL YEAR 2019.—The Secretary
shall, not later than the second Monday in
March of 2019—
‘‘(i) establish OTC monograph drug facility
fees for fiscal year 2019 under subsection (a),
based on the revenue amount for such year
under subsection (b) and the adjustments
provided under this subsection; and
‘‘(ii) publish fee revenue, facility fees, and
OTC monograph order requests in the Fed-
eral Register.
‘‘(B) SUBSEQUENT FISCAL YEARS.—The Sec-
retary shall, not later than the second Mon-
day in March of each fiscal year that begins
after September 30, 2019—
‘‘(i) establish for each such fiscal year,
based on the revenue amounts under sub-
section (b) and the adjustments provided
under this subsection—
‘‘(I) OTC monograph drug facility fees
under subsection (a)(1); and
‘‘(II) OTC monograph order request fees
under subsection (a)(2); and
‘‘(ii) publish such fee revenue amounts, fa-
cility fees, and OTC monograph order re-
quest fees in the Federal Register.
‘‘(d) IDENTIFICATION OF FACILITIES.—Each
person that owns an OTC monograph drug fa-
cility shall submit to the Secretary the in-
formation required under this subsection
each year. Such information shall, for each
fiscal year—
‘‘(1) be submitted as part of the require-
ments for drug establishment registration
set forth in section 510; and
‘‘(2) include for each such facility, at a
minimum, identification of the facility’s
business operation as that of an OTC mono-
graph drug facility.
‘‘(e) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO PAY FEES.—
‘‘(1) OTC MONOGRAPH DRUG FACILITY FEE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Failure to pay the fee
under subsection (a)(1) within 20 calendar
days of the due date as specified in subpara-
graph (D) of such subsection shall result in
the following:
‘‘(i) The Secretary shall place the facility
on a publicly available arrears list.
‘‘(ii) All OTC monograph drugs manufac-
tured in such a facility or containing an in-
gredient manufactured in such a facility
shall be deemed misbranded under section
502(ff).
‘‘(B) APPLICATION OF PENALTIES.—The pen-
alties under this paragraph shall apply until
the fee established by subsection (a)(1) is
paid.
‘‘(2) ORDER REQUESTS.—An OTC monograph
order request submitted by a person subject
to fees under subsection (a) shall be consid-
ered incomplete and shall not be accepted for
filing by the Secretary until all fees owed by
such person under this section have been
paid.
‘‘(3) MEETINGS.—A person subject to fees
under this section shall be considered ineli-
gible for OTC monograph drug meetings
until all such fees owed by such person have
been paid.
‘‘(f) CREDITING AND AVAILABILITY OF
FEES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Fees authorized under
subsection (a) shall be collected and avail-
able for obligation only to the extent and in
the amount provided in advance in appro-
priations Acts. Such fees are authorized to
remain available until expended.
‘‘(2) COLLECTIONS AND APPROPRIATION
ACTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(C), the fees authorized by this section shall
be collected and available in each fiscal year
in an amount not to exceed the amount spec-
ified in appropriation Acts, or otherwise
made available for obligation, for such fiscal
year.
‘‘(B) USE OF FEES AND LIMITATION.—The
fees authorized by this section shall be avail-
able to defray increases in the costs of the
resources allocated for OTC monograph drug
activities (including increases in such costs
for an additional number of full-time equiva-
lent positions in the Department of Health
and Human Services to be engaged in such
activities), only if the Secretary allocates
for such purpose an amount for such fiscal
year (excluding amounts from fees collected
under this section) no less than $12,000,000,
multiplied by the adjustment factor applica-
ble to the fiscal year involved under sub-
section (c)(1).
‘‘(C) COMPLIANCE.—The Secretary shall be
considered to have met the requirements of
subparagraph (B) in any fiscal year if the
costs funded by appropriations and allocated
for OTC monograph drug activities are not
more than 15 percent below the level speci-
fied in such subparagraph.
‘‘(D) PROVISION FOR EARLY PAYMENTS IN
SUBSEQUENT YEARS.—Payment of fees author-
ized under this section for a fiscal year (after
fiscal year 2019), prior to the due date for
such fees, may be accepted by the Secretary
in accordance with authority provided in ad-
vance in a prior year appropriations Act.
‘‘(3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For each of the fiscal years 2019 through 2023,
there is authorized to be appropriated for
fees under this section an amount equal to
the total amount of fees assessed for such
fiscal year under this section.
‘‘(g) COLLECTION OF UNPAID FEES.—In any
case where the Secretary does not receive
payment of a fee assessed under subsection
(a) within 30 calendar days after it is due,
such fee shall be treated as a claim of the
United States Government subject to sub-
chapter II of chapter 37 of title 31, United
States Code.
‘‘(h) CONSTRUCTION.—This section may not
be construed to require that the number of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10198 December 12, 2019
full-time equivalent positions in the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, for offi-
cers, employers, and advisory committees
not engaged in OTC monograph drug activi-
ties, be reduced to offset the number of offi-
cers, employees, and advisory committees so
engaged.
‘‘SEC. 744N. REAUTHORIZATION; REPORTING RE-
QUIREMENTS.
‘‘(a) PERFORMANCE REPORT.—Beginning
with fiscal year 2019, and not later than 120
calendar days after the end of each fiscal
year thereafter for which fees are collected
under this part, the Secretary shall prepare
and submit to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report
concerning the progress of the Food and
Drug Administration in achieving the goals
identified in the letters described in section
2001(b) of the Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act of 2019
during such fiscal year and the future plans
of the Food and Drug Administration for
meeting such goals.
‘‘(b) FISCAL REPORT.—Not later than 120
calendar days after the end of fiscal year 2019
and each subsequent fiscal year for which
fees are collected under this part, the Sec-
retary shall prepare and submit to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate a report on the implementation
of the authority for such fees during such fis-
cal year and the use, by the Food and Drug
Administration, of the fees collected for such
fiscal year.
‘‘(c) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary
shall make the reports required under sub-
sections (a) and (b) available to the public on
the internet website of the Food and Drug
Administration.
‘‘(d) REAUTHORIZATION.—
‘‘(1) CONSULTATION.—In developing rec-
ommendations to present to the Congress
with respect to the goals described in sub-
section (a), and plans for meeting the goals,
for OTC monograph drug activities for the
first 5 fiscal years after fiscal year 2023, and
for the reauthorization of this part for such
fiscal years, the Secretary shall consult
with—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
‘‘(B) the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;
‘‘(C) scientific and academic experts;
‘‘(D) health care professionals;
‘‘(E) representatives of patient and con-
sumer advocacy groups; and
‘‘(F) the regulated industry.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC REVIEW OF RECOMMENDATIONS.—
After negotiations with the regulated indus-
try, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) present the recommendations devel-
oped under paragraph (1) to the congres-
sional committees specified in such para-
graph;
‘‘(B) publish such recommendations in the
Federal Register;
‘‘(C) provide for a period of 30 calendar
days for the public to provide written com-
ments on such recommendations;
‘‘(D) hold a meeting at which the public
may present its views on such recommenda-
tions; and
‘‘(E) after consideration of such public
views and comments, revise such rec-
ommendations as necessary.
‘‘(3) TRANSMITTAL OF RECOMMENDATIONS.—
Not later than January 15, 2023, the Sec-
retary shall transmit to the Congress the re-
vised recommendations under paragraph (2),
a summary of the views and comments re-
ceived under such paragraph, and any
changes made to the recommendations in re-
sponse to such views and comments.’’.
Subtitle I—Other Provisions
SEC. 391. PROTECTING ACCESS TO BIOLOGICAL
PRODUCTS.
Section 351(k)(7) of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act (42 U.S.C. 262(k)(7)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) DEEMED LICENSES.—
‘‘(i) NO ADDITIONAL EXCLUSIVITY THROUGH
DEEMING.—An approved application that is
deemed to be a license for a biological prod-
uct under this section pursuant to section
7002(e)(4) of the Biologics Price Competition
and Innovation Act of 2009 shall not be treat-
ed as having been first licensed under sub-
section (a) for purposes of subparagraphs (A)
and (B).
‘‘(ii) APPLICATION OF LIMITATIONS ON EXCLU-
SIVITY.—Subparagraph (C) shall apply with
respect to a reference product referred to in
such subparagraph that was the subject of an
approved application that was deemed to be
a license pursuant to section 7002(e)(4) of the
Biologics Price Competition and Innovation
Act of 2009.
‘‘(iii) APPLICABILITY.—The exclusivity peri-
ods described in section 527, section
505A(b)(1)(A)(ii), and section 505A(c)(1)(A)(ii)
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
shall continue to apply to a biological prod-
uct after an approved application for the bio-
logical product is deemed to be a license for
the biological product under subsection (a)
pursuant to section 7002(e)(4) of the Biologics
Price Competition and Innovation Act of
2009.’’.
SEC. 392. ORPHAN DRUG CLARIFICATION.
Section 527(c) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360cc(c)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) APPLICABILITY.—This subsection ap-
plies to any drug designated under section
526 for which an application was approved
under section 505 of this Act or licensed
under section 351 of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act after the date of enactment of the
FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017, regardless
of the date on which such drug was des-
ignated under section 526.’’.
SEC. 393. CONDITIONS OF USE FOR BIOSIMILAR
BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS.
Section 351(k)(2)(A)(iii) of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(k)(2)(A)(iii)
is amended—
(1) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
(2) in subclause (II), by striking the period
and inserting ‘‘; and’’ ; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(III) may include information to show
that the conditions of use prescribed, rec-
ommended, or suggested in the labeling pro-
posed for the biological product have been
previously approved for the reference prod-
uct.’’.
SEC. 394. CLARIFYING THE MEANING OF NEW
CHEMICAL ENTITY.
Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act is amended—
(1) in section 505 (21 U.S.C. 355)—
(A) in subsection (c)(3)(E)—
(i) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘active ingre-
dient (including any ester or salt of the ac-
tive ingredient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active moi-
ety (as defined by the Secretary in section
314.3 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations
(or any successor regulations))’’; and
(ii) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘active in-
gredient (including any ester or salt of the
active ingredient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active
moiety (as defined by the Secretary in sec-
tion 314.3 of title 21, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (or any successor regulations))’’;
(B) in subsection (j)(5)(F)—
(i) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘active ingre-
dient (including any ester or salt of the ac-
tive ingredient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active moi-
ety (as defined by the Secretary in section
314.3 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations
(or any successor regulations))’’; and
(ii) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘active in-
gredient (including any ester or salt of the
active ingredient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active
moiety (as defined by the Secretary in sec-
tion 314.3 of title 21, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (or any successor regulations))’’;
(C) in subsection (l)(2)(A)(i), by striking
‘‘active ingredient (including any ester or
salt of the active ingredient)’’ and inserting
‘‘active moiety (as defined by the Secretary
in section 314.3 of title 21, Code of Federal
Regulations (or any successor regulations))’’;
(D) in subsection (s), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘active in-
gredient (including any ester or salt of the
active ingredient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active
moiety (as defined by the Secretary in sec-
tion 314.3 of title 21, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (or any successor regulations))’’; and
(E) in subsection (u)(1), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘active ingredient (includ-
ing any ester or salt of the active ingre-
dient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active moiety (as de-
fined by the Secretary in section 314.3 of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any
successor regulations))’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘same active ingredient’’
and inserting ‘‘same active moiety’’;
(2) in section 512(c)(2)(F) (21 U.S.C.
360b(c)(2)(F))—
(A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘active ingre-
dient (including any ester or salt of the ac-
tive ingredient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active moi-
ety (as defined by the Secretary in section
314.3 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations
(or any successor regulations))’’;
(B) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘active ingre-
dient (including any ester or salt of the ac-
tive ingredient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active moi-
ety (as defined by the Secretary in section
314.3 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations
(or any successor regulations))’’; and
(C) in clause (v), by striking ‘‘active ingre-
dient (including any ester or salt of the ac-
tive ingredient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active moi-
ety (as defined by the Secretary in section
314.3 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations
(or any successor regulations))’’;
(3) in section 524(a)(4)(C) (21 U.S.C.
360n(a)(4)(C)), by striking ‘‘active ingredient
(including any ester or salt of the active in-
gredient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active moiety (as
defined by the Secretary in section 314.3 of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any
successor regulations))’’;
(4) in section 529(a)(4)(A)(ii) (21 U.S.C.
360ff(a)(4)(A)(ii)), by striking ‘‘active ingre-
dient (including any ester or salt of the ac-
tive ingredient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active moi-
ety (as defined by the Secretary in section
314.3 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations
(or any successor regulations))’’; and
(5) in section 565A(a)(4)(D) (21 U.S.C.
360bbb–4a(a)(4)(D)), by striking ‘‘active ingre-
dient (including any ester or salt of the ac-
tive ingredient)’’ and inserting ‘‘active moi-
ety (as defined by the Secretary in section
314.3 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations
(or any successor regulations))’’.
TITLE IV—REVENUE PROVISIONS
SEC. 401. PERMANENT EXTENSION OF REDUC-
TION IN MEDICAL EXPENSE DEDUC-
TION FLOOR.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 213(a) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
striking ‘‘10 percent’’ and inserting ‘‘7.5 per-
cent’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 213 of such Code is amended by
striking subsection (f).
(2) Section 56(b)(1) of such Code is amended
by striking subparagraph (B) and by redesig-
nating subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), and (F),
as subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E), re-
spectively.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10199
December 12, 2019
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by this section shall apply to taxable
years ending after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 402. SAFE HARBOR FOR HIGH DEDUCTIBLE
HEALTH PLANS WITHOUT DEDUCT-
IBLE FOR INSULIN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 223(c)(2)(C) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
inserting ‘‘or for insulin or any device for
the delivery of insulin’’ before the period at
the end.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by this section shall apply to months
beginning after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
SEC. 403. INCLUSION OF CERTAIN OVER-THE-
COUNTER MEDICAL PRODUCTS AS
QUALIFIED MEDICAL EXPENSES.
(a) HSAS.—Section 223(d)(2) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—
(1) by striking the last sentence of sub-
paragraph (A) and inserting the following:
‘‘For purposes of this subparagraph, amounts
paid for menstrual care products shall be
treated as paid for medical care.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(D) MENSTRUAL CARE PRODUCT.—For pur-
poses of this paragraph, the term ‘menstrual
care product’ means a tampon, pad, liner,
cup, sponge, or similar product used by indi-
viduals with respect to menstruation or
other genital-tract secretions.’’.
(b) ARCHER MSAS.—Section 220(d)(2)(A) of
such Code is amended by striking the last
sentence and inserting the following: ‘‘For
purposes of this subparagraph, amounts paid
for menstrual care products (as defined in
section 223(d)(2)(D)) shall be treated as paid
for medical care.’’.
(c) HEALTH FLEXIBLE SPENDING ARRANGE-
MENTS AND HEALTH REIMBURSEMENT AR-
RANGEMENTS.—Section 106 of such Code is
amended by striking subsection (f) and in-
serting the following new subsection:
‘‘(f) REIMBURSEMENTS FOR MENSTRUAL CARE
PRODUCTS.—For purposes of this section and
section 105, expenses incurred for menstrual
care products (as defined in section
223(d)(2)(D)) shall be treated as incurred for
medical care.’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATES.—
(1) DISTRIBUTIONS FROM SAVINGS AC-
COUNTS.—The amendment made by sub-
sections (a) and (b) shall apply to amounts
paid after December 31, 2019.
(2) REIMBURSEMENTS.—The amendment
made by subsection (c) shall apply to ex-
penses incurred after December 31, 2019.
TITLE V—MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 501. PAYMENT FOR BIOSIMILAR BIOLOGI-
CAL PRODUCTS DURING INITIAL PE-
RIOD.
Section 1847A(c)(4) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–3a(c)(4)) is amended—
(1) in each of subparagraphs (A) and (B), by
redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as sub-
clauses (I) and (II), respectively, and moving
such subclauses 2 ems to the right;
(2) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and
(B) as clauses (i) and (ii) and moving such
clauses 2 ems to the right;
(3) by striking ‘‘UNAVAILABLE.—In the
case’’ and inserting ‘‘UNAVAILABLE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), in the case’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(B) LIMITATION ON PAYMENT AMOUNT FOR
BIOSIMILAR BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS DURING INI-
TIAL PERIOD.—In the case of a biosimilar bio-
logical product furnished on or after July 1,
2020, in lieu of applying subparagraph (A)
during the initial period described in such
subparagraph with respect to the biosimilar
biological product, the amount payable
under this section for the biosimilar biologi-
cal product is the lesser of the following:
‘‘(i) The amount determined under clause
(ii) of such subparagraph for the biosimilar
biological product.
‘‘(ii) The amount determined under sub-
section (b)(1)(B) for the reference biological
product.’’.
SEC. 502. GAO STUDY AND REPORT ON AVERAGE
SALES PRICE.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
of the United States (in this section referred
to as the ‘‘Comptroller General’’) shall con-
duct a study on spending for applicable drugs
under part B of title XVIII of the Social Se-
curity Act.
(2) APPLICABLE DRUGS DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘applicable drugs’’ means
drugs and biologicals—
(A) for which reimbursement under such
part B is based on the average sales price of
the drug or biological; and
(B) that account for the largest percentage
of total spending on drugs and biologicals
under such part B (as determined by the
Comptroller General, but in no case less that
25 drugs or biologicals).
(3) REQUIREMENTS.—The study under para-
graph (1) shall include an analysis of the fol-
lowing:
(A) The extent to which each applicable
drug is paid for—
(i) under such part B for Medicare bene-
ficiaries; or
(ii) by private payers in the commercial
market.
(B) Any change in Medicare spending or
Medicare beneficiary cost-sharing that
would occur if the average sales price of an
applicable drug was based solely on pay-
ments by private payers in the commercial
market.
(C) The extent to which drug manufactur-
ers provide rebates, discounts, or other price
concessions to private payers in the commer-
cial market for applicable drugs, which the
manufacturer includes in its average sales
price calculation, for—
(i) formulary placement;
(ii) utilization management consider-
ations; or
(iii) other purposes.
(D) Barriers to drug manufacturers pro-
viding such price concessions for applicable
drugs.
(E) Other areas determined appropriate by
the Comptroller General.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General shall submit to Con-
gress a report on the study conducted under
subsection (a), together with recommenda-
tions for such legislation and administrative
action as the Secretary determines appro-
priate.
SEC. 503. REQUIRING PRESCRIPTION DRUG
PLANS AND MA–PD PLANS TO RE-
PORT POTENTIAL FRAUD, WASTE,
AND ABUSE TO THE SECRETARY OF
HHS.
Section 1860D–4 of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–104) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(p) REPORTING POTENTIAL FRAUD, WASTE,
AND ABUSE.—Beginning January 1, 2021, the
PDP sponsor of a prescription drug plan
shall report to the Secretary, as specified by
the Secretary—
‘‘(1) any substantiated or suspicious activi-
ties (as defined by the Secretary) with re-
spect to the program under this part as it re-
lates to fraud, waste, and abuse; and
‘‘(2) any steps made by the PDP sponsor
after identifying such activities to take cor-
rective actions.’’.
SEC. 504. ESTABLISHMENT OF PHARMACY QUAL-
ITY MEASURES UNDER MEDICARE
PART D.
Section 1860D–4(c) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–104(c)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(8) APPLICATION OF PHARMACY QUALITY
MEASURES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A PDP sponsor that im-
plements incentive payments to a pharmacy
or price concessions paid by a pharmacy
based on quality measures shall use meas-
ures established or approved by the Sec-
retary under subparagraph (B) with respect
to payment for covered part D drugs dis-
pensed by such pharmacy.
‘‘(B) STANDARD PHARMACY QUALITY MEAS-
URES.—The Secretary shall establish or ap-
prove standard quality measures from a con-
sensus and evidence-based organization for
payments described in subparagraph (A).
Such measures shall focus on patient health
outcomes and be based on proven criteria
measuring pharmacy performance.
‘‘(C) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The requirement
under subparagraph (A) shall take effect for
plan years beginning on or after January 1,
2023, or such earlier date specified by the
Secretary if the Secretary determines there
are sufficient measures established or ap-
proved under subparagraph (B) to meet the
requirement under subparagraph (A).’’.
SEC. 505. IMPROVING COORDINATION BETWEEN
THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRA-
TION AND THE CENTERS FOR MEDI-
CARE & MEDICAID SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) PUBLIC MEETING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 12 months
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’) shall convene a public meeting for
the purposes of discussing and providing
input on improvements to coordination be-
tween the Food and Drug Administration
and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services in preparing for the availability of
novel medical products described in sub-
section (c) on the market in the United
States.
(B) ATTENDEES.—The public meeting shall
include—
(i) representatives of relevant Federal
agencies, including representatives from
each of the medical product centers within
the Food and Drug Administration and rep-
resentatives from the coding, coverage, and
payment offices within the Centers for Medi-
care & Medicaid Services;
(ii) stakeholders with expertise in the re-
search and development of novel medical
products, including manufacturers of such
products;
(iii) representatives of commercial health
insurance payers;
(iv) stakeholders with expertise in the ad-
ministration and use of novel medical prod-
ucts, including physicians; and
(v) stakeholders representing patients and
with expertise in the utilization of patient
experience data in medical product develop-
ment.
(C) TOPICS.—The public meeting shall in-
clude a discussion of—
(i) the status of the drug and medical de-
vice development pipeline related to the
availability of novel medical products;
(ii) the anticipated expertise necessary to
review the safety and effectiveness of such
products at the Food and Drug Administra-
tion and current gaps in such expertise, if
any;
(iii) the expertise necessary to make cod-
ing, coverage, and payment decisions with
respect to such products within the Centers
for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and cur-
rent gaps in such expertise, if any;
(iv) trends in the differences in the data
necessary to determine the safety and effec-
tiveness of a novel medical product and the
data necessary to determine whether a novel
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10200 December 12, 2019
medical product meets the reasonable and
necessary requirements for coverage and
payment under title XVIII of the Social Se-
curity Act pursuant to section 1862(a)(1)(A)
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395y(a)(1)(A));
(v) the availability of information for
sponsors of such novel medical products to
meet each of those requirements; and
(vi) the coordination of information re-
lated to significant clinical improvement
over existing therapies for patients between
the Food and Drug Administration and the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
with respect to novel medical products.
(D) TRADE SECRETS AND CONFIDENTIAL IN-
FORMATION.—No information discussed as a
part of the public meeting under this para-
graph shall be construed as authorizing the
Secretary to disclose any information that is
a trade secret or confidential information
subject to section 552(b)(4) of title 5, United
States Code.
(2) IMPROVING TRANSPARENCY OF CRITERIA
FOR MEDICARE COVERAGE.—
(A) DRAFT GUIDANCE.—Not later than 18
months after the public meeting under para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall update the
final guidance titled ‘‘National Coverage De-
terminations with Data Collection as a Con-
dition of Coverage: Coverage with Evidence
Development’’ to address any opportunities
to improve the availability and coordination
of information as described in clauses (iv)
through (vi) of paragraph (1)(C).
(B) FINAL GUIDANCE.—Not later than 12
months after issuing draft guidance under
subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall final-
ize the updated guidance to address any such
opportunities.
(b) REPORT ON CODING, COVERAGE, AND PAY-
MENT PROCESSES UNDER MEDICARE FOR NOVEL
MEDICAL PRODUCTS.—Not later than 12
months after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall publish a report
on the Internet website of the Department of
Health and Human Services regarding proc-
esses under the Medicare program under title
XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395 et seq.) with respect to the coding, cov-
erage, and payment of novel medical prod-
ucts described in subsection (c). Such report
shall include the following:
(1) A description of challenges in the cod-
ing, coverage, and payment processes under
the Medicare program for novel medical
products.
(2) Recommendations to—
(A) incorporate patient experience data
(such as the impact of a disease or condition
on the lives of patients and patient treat-
ment preferences) into the coverage and pay-
ment processes within the Centers for Medi-
care & Medicaid Services;
(B) decrease the length of time to make na-
tional and local coverage determinations
under the Medicare program (as those terms
are defined in subparagraph (A) and (B), re-
spectively, of section 1862(l)(6) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395y(l)(6));
(C) streamline the coverage process under
the Medicare program and incorporate input
from relevant stakeholders into such cov-
erage determinations; and
(D) identify potential mechanisms to in-
corporate novel payment designs similar to
those in development in commercial insur-
ance plans and State plans under title XIX of
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) into the
Medicare program.
(c) NOVEL MEDICAL PRODUCTS DESCRIBED.—
For purposes of this section, a novel medical
product described in this subsection is a
medical product, including a drug, biological
(including gene and cell therapy), or medical
device, that has been designated as a break-
through therapy under section 506(a) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 356(a)), a breakthrough device under
section 515B of such Act (21 U.S.C. 360e–3), or
a regenerative advanced therapy under sec-
tion 506(g) of such Act (21 U.S.C. 356(g)).
SEC. 506. PATIENT CONSULTATION IN MEDICARE
NATIONAL AND LOCAL COVERAGE
DETERMINATIONS IN ORDER TO
MITIGATE BARRIERS TO INCLUSION
OF SUCH PERSPECTIVES.
Section 1862(l) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395y(l)) is amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(7) PATIENT CONSULTATION IN NATIONAL
AND LOCAL COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS.—The
Secretary may consult with patients and or-
ganizations representing patients in making
national and local coverage determina-
tions.’’.
SEC. 507. MEDPAC REPORT ON SHIFTING COV-
ERAGE OF CERTAIN MEDICARE
PART B DRUGS TO MEDICARE PART
D.
(a) STUDY.—The Medicare Payment Advi-
sory Commission (in this section referred to
as the ‘‘Commission’’) shall conduct a study
on shifting coverage of certain drugs and
biologicals for which payment is currently
made under part B of title XVIII of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395j et seq.) to
part D of such title (42 U.S.C. 1395w–21 et
seq.). Such study shall include an analysis
of—
(1) differences in program structures and
payment methods for drugs and biologicals
covered under such parts B and D, including
effects of such a shift on program spending,
beneficiary cost-sharing liability, and utili-
zation management techniques for such
drugs and biologicals; and
(2) the feasibility and policy implications
of shifting coverage of drugs and biologicals
for which payment is currently made under
such part B to such part D.
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than June 30,
2021, the Commission shall submit to Con-
gress a report containing the results of the
study conducted under subsection (a).
(2) CONTENTS.—The report under paragraph
(1) shall include information, and rec-
ommendations as the Commission deems ap-
propriate, regarding—
(A) formulary design under such part D;
(B) the ability of the benefit structure
under such part D to control total spending
on drugs and biologicals for which payment
is currently made under such part B;
(C) changes to the bid process under such
part D, if any, that may be necessary to inte-
grate coverage of such drugs and biologicals
into such part D; and
(D) any other changes to the program that
Congress should consider in determining
whether to shift coverage of such drugs and
biologicals from such part B to such part D.
(E) the feasibility and policy implications
of creating a methodology to preserve the
healthcare provider’s ability to take title of
the drug, including a methodology under
which—
(i) prescription drug plans negotiate reim-
bursement rates and other arrangements
with drug manufacturers on behalf of a
wholesaler;
(ii) wholesalers purchase the drugs from
the manufacturers at the negotiated rate
and ship them through distributors to physi-
cians to administer to patients;
(iii) physicians and hospitals purchase the
drug from the wholesaler via the distributor;
(iv) after administering the drug, the phy-
sician submits a claim to the MAC for their
drug administration fee;
(v) to be reimbursed for the purchase of the
drug from the distributor, the physician fur-
nishes the claim for the drug itself to the
wholesaler and the wholesaler would refund
the cost of the drug to the physician; and
(vi) the wholesaler passes this claim to the
PDP to receive reimbursement.
SEC. 508. REQUIREMENT THAT DIRECT-TO-CON-
SUMER ADVERTISEMENTS FOR PRE-
SCRIPTION DRUGS AND BIOLOGICAL
PRODUCTS INCLUDE TRUTHFUL
AND NON-MISLEADING PRICING IN-
FORMATION.
Part A of title XI of the Social Security
Act is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 1150C. REQUIREMENT THAT DIRECT-TO-
CONSUMER ADVERTISEMENTS FOR
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS AND BIO-
LOGICAL PRODUCTS INCLUDE
TRUTHFUL AND NON-MISLEADING
PRICING INFORMATION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall re-
quire that each direct-to-consumer adver-
tisement for a prescription drug or biological
product for which payment is available
under title XVIII or XIX includes an appro-
priate disclosure of truthful and non-mis-
leading pricing information with respect to
the drug or product.
‘‘(b) DETERMINATION BY CMS.—The Sec-
retary, acting through the Administrator of
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Serv-
ices, shall determine the components of the
requirement under subsection (a), such as
the forms of advertising, the manner of dis-
closure, the price point listing, and the price
information for disclosure.’’.
SEC. 509. CHIEF PHARMACEUTICAL NEGOTIATOR
AT THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED
STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 141 of the Trade
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2171) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘and one Chief Innovation
and Intellectual Property Negotiator’’ and
inserting ‘‘one Chief Innovation and Intellec-
tual Property Negotiator, and one Chief
Pharmaceutical Negotiator’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘or the Chief Innovation
and Intellectual Property Negotiator’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Chief Innovation and Intellec-
tual Property Negotiator, or the Chief Phar-
maceutical Negotiator’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘and the Chief Innovation
and Intellectual Property Negotiator’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Chief Innovation and Intellec-
tual Property Negotiator, and the Chief
Pharmaceutical Negotiator’’; and
(2) in subsection (c), by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
‘‘(7) The principal function of the Chief
Pharmaceutical Negotiator shall be to con-
duct trade negotiations and to enforce trade
agreements relating to United States phar-
maceutical products and services. The Chief
Pharmaceutical Negotiator shall be a vig-
orous advocate on behalf of United States
pharmaceutical interests. The Chief Pharma-
ceutical Negotiator shall perform such other
functions as the United States Trade Rep-
resentative may direct.’’.
(b) COMPENSATION.—Section 5314 of title 5,
United States Code, is amended by striking
‘‘Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property
Negotiator, Office of the United States Trade
Representative.’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘Chief Innovation and Intellectual Prop-
erty Negotiator, Office of the United States
Trade Representative.
‘‘Chief Pharmaceutical Negotiator, Office
of the United States Trade Representative.’’.
(c) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than the
date that is one year after the appointment
of the first Chief Pharmaceutical Negotiator
pursuant to paragraph (2) of section 141(b) of
the Trade Act of 1974, as amended by sub-
section (a), and annually thereafter, the
United States Trade Representative shall
submit to the Committee on Finance of the
Senate and the Committee on Ways and
Means of the House of Representatives a re-
port describing in detail—
(1) enforcement actions taken by the
United States Trade Representative during
the one-year period preceding the submission
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10201
December 12, 2019
of the report to ensure the protection of
United States pharmaceutical products and
services; and
(2) other actions taken by the United
States Trade Representative to advance
United States pharmaceutical products and
services.
SEC. 510. WAIVING MEDICARE COINSURANCE
FOR COLORECTAL CANCER SCREEN-
ING TESTS.
Section 1833(a) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1395l(a)) is amended—
(1) by moving the flush text following para-
graph (9) 2 ems to the left; and
(2) by adding at the end of such flush text
the following new sentence: ‘‘For items and
services furnished on or after January 1, 2021,
paragraph (1)(Y) shall apply with respect to
a colorectal cancer screening test regardless
of the code that is billed for the establish-
ment of a diagnosis as a result of the test, or
for the removal of tissue or other matter or
other procedure that is furnished in connec-
tion with, as a result of, and in the same
clinical encounter as the screening test.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentleman
from Oregon (Mr. WALDEN) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oregon.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself 2 minutes.
I rise in support of the substitute
amendment, H.R. 19, the Lower Costs,
More Cures Act.
There is a better way, ladies and gen-
tlemen. We can reduce the high costs of
drugs. We can improve health and
lower long-term costs without stifling
innovation and restricting patients’ ac-
cess to new, lifesaving medications.
H.R. 19, the Lower Costs, More Cures
Act, is the bipartisan solution that can
be signed into law this year and imme-
diately begin to provide relief to pa-
tients and seniors from high prescrip-
tion costs.
This bill lowers out-of-pocket spend-
ing. It protects access to new medi-
cines and cures. It strengthens trans-
parency and accountability and cham-
pions competition.
Every single proposal in this sub-
stitute is bipartisan, Democrats and
Republicans coming together.
First, H.R. 19 encourages innovation
of groundbreaking new cures and pro-
motes the introduction of more low-
cost generic and biosimilar competi-
tion to the marketplace faster, through
inclusion of the CREATES Act, which
streamlines the regulation of over-the-
counter products, stopping the pay-for-
delay agreements and patent system
gamesmanship.
These policies unanimously passed
the Energy and Commerce Committee
earlier this year. They would have
unanimously passed on this House
floor, had a poison pill not been put in
up in the Rules Committee.
H.R. 19 also has a critical provision
to make insulin more affordable by re-
quiring insurance companies to cap the
costs of insulin for seniors at $50 a
month.
H.R. 19 increases transparency and
removes uncertainty at the pharmacy
counter by requiring insurance compa-
nies to make information about drug
costs available in the doctor’s office
before a prescription is written.
It reduces the cost of drug adminis-
tration, including for cancer treat-
ment. We can cut that in half. We will
pay for quality, not sites.
H.R. 19, for the first time, places a
cap on seniors’ out-of-pocket costs for
the year.
Critically, it stops the U.S. from sub-
sidizing other freeloader foreign coun-
tries by having a strong trade rep to
negotiate better deals for Americans.
This will lower costs, and it will
bring about cures.
Mr. Chairman, I urge bipartisan sup-
port, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Chair, I rise in op-
position to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. PHILLIPS).
The gentlewoman from California is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I made a promise to my constituents
when I was elected that I would lower
drug prices, and that requires a strong,
robust plan for negotiating fair prices
for Americans.
Our constituents are demanding
lower drug prices, and this amendment
fails to deliver. It does nothing to ad-
dress the root causes of high drug
prices and would let pharma companies
continue to raise prices unreasonably
for the same drug year after year.
I have a bill to stop that, which is in-
cluded in H.R. 3. The Freedom from
Price Gouging Act recovers taxpayer
dollars from pharmaceutical companies
when they try to hike their prices not
just once per year but multiple times
every year in order to boost their prof-
its.
This legislation has bipartisan sup-
port. It is included in Republican Sen-
ator GRASSLEY’s drug pricing package
in the Senate.
Without a way to hold drug price in-
creases to at most the rate of inflation,
drug companies can just counter your
amendment’s required discounts by
jacking up drug prices and setting sky-
high launch prices. They can continue
to raise those prices year after year,
and the American people will have no
choice but to pay those prices because
without a way to truly hold drug com-
panies accountable, nothing will
change.
I believe we need real, substantive re-
forms, and for a while, so did our Presi-
dent. Though he has recently walked
back this commitment, he once prom-
ised the American people that he would
authorize the HHS Secretary to nego-
tiate a fair deal on drugs. Do you know
why he did that? Because drug price
negotiation only upsets Big Pharma’s
CEOs. Everybody else—in fact, 90 per-
cent of Americans—support giving the
Secretary the power to negotiate prices
for drugs, Democrats, Republicans,
independents alike.
H.R. 3 does just that. It pairs real re-
forms on drug pricing with a Medicare
part D redesign that caps out-of-pocket
expenses for seniors and more equi-
tably shares the responsibility to de-
termine prices among the Federal Gov-
ernment part D plans and drug manu-
facturers.
The Walden amendment fails to
achieve that goal. This amendment
doesn’t help the 150 million Americans
with employer insurance, and many of
those Americans even with good insur-
ance still can’t afford their medica-
tions. This amendment will gut protec-
tions in H.R. 3 and leave us with legis-
lation that doesn’t do nearly enough to
rein in the costs of prescription drugs.
It is time for all of us to take real ac-
tion to lower drug prices for our con-
stituents.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. BRADY), the leading Repub-
lican on the powerful House Ways and
Means Committee.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the gentleman for yielding and for his
strong leadership on this. It has been
invaluable.
Like impeachment, Speaker PELOSI’s
fewer cures bill was written in secret,
highly partisan, and is dead when it
goes to the Senate. The President
won’t sign it. The Senate won’t take it
up. It is losing support every day.
Here is an idea. Let’s pass a bill.
Let’s come together. The only bill that
has bipartisan provisions, bicameral
provisions, a bill that lowers prices, de-
serves to become law, a bill you can be
proud of, the Lower Costs, More Cures
Act, our Republican bill.
It doesn’t kill cures; it accelerates
them. It makes it easier for patients to
use their personal healthcare plans to
lower costs for medicines, holds
pharma accountable by insisting they
pay more of the drug costs for seniors.
It pulls back the curtain on drug pric-
ing. It forces these companies to jus-
tify their prices. It can help seniors
lower their medicine costs by $300 a
year.
Every Member of Congress who
pledged to deliver lower costs for fami-
lies and seniors and who truly wants
more cures for diseases will fulfill that
promise with H.R. 19. I urge support.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Chairman, I agree
with my Republican colleagues that we
do need bipartisan action on drug pric-
ing. Negotiating drug prices is not par-
tisan to the American people; it is
common sense.
But let’s be clear. The amendment to
this bill is not bipartisan. Only Repub-
licans have cosponsored this amend-
ment.
Mr. WALDEN. Will the gentlewoman
yield?
Ms. PORTER. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Oregon.
Mr. WALDEN. That is true on the bi-
partisan, but every provision in the bill
has Democratic support as individual
bills in other sectors. We brought only
bipartisan bills into this alternative.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.002 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10202 December 12, 2019
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Chairman, the gen-
tleman is correct that there are many
provisions in the amendment that do
have strong bipartisan support, includ-
ing, for example, making permanent
the medical expense tax deduction.
The problem with the amendment is
it doesn’t tackle the fundamental prob-
lem, which is reducing drug prices.
This amendment fails to solve the
main problem of actually lowering
drug prices.
This is why Senator GRASSLEY has
been a sponsor on the Republican side
in the Senate of the kinds of things I
have worked on that are included in
this bill that would address price
gouging, the ability of pharmaceutical
companies to raise prices multiple
times in a single year. This bill, H.R. 3,
would let us capture the taxpayer sav-
ings from that.
The GAO found that fewer than one
in five new drugs are truly innovative.
It is true that we need new cures, new
cures for Alzheimer’s, new cures for
ALS, but H.R. 3 makes sure not just
that we have new cures by increasing
science research, but makes sure that
those new cures are going to be afford-
able and can actually get into the
hands of Americans.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, let me
say in response, the CBO also said 38
new cures as a result of H.R. 3 will
never come about. The Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers says 100 new cures will
never come about.
H.R. 3, the underlying bill the major-
ity wants to put into law, actually de-
nies people who are desperately hoping
for cures, that innovation.
To answer further your question,
there are 138 different Democratic
sponsors of the bill that we have put
together here.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from North Carolina (Ms.
FOXX).
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, Democrats are putting poli-
tics over progress by advancing a so-
cialist drug pricing scheme that will
hurt the development of money-saving
treatments and, more importantly,
people’s lives.
Sadly, workers and families are being
let down by Democrats. That is why I
am proud to sponsor and support H.R.
19, the Lower Costs, More Cures Act.
This legislation includes 40 provisions
backed by Democrats and Republicans,
and it can go to the President’s desk
today.
b 1100
Unlike H.R. 3, which the nonpartisan
Congressional Budget Office predicts
will result in 38 fewer cures, H.R. 19
protects access to new medicines and
cures. It also lowers out-of-pocket
spending, strengthens transparency
and accountability, and champions
competition.
Mr. Chair, the Lower Costs, More
Cures Act is policy that acts in the in-
terests of hardworking Americans. I
urge my colleagues to support this bi-
partisan, commonsense amendment.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Chair, claims that
H.R. 3 will devastate research and stop
cures are fearmongering.
H.R. 3 makes substantial investment
in public research to help create new
cures and, most importantly, will
make sure those cures actually can
help people in their lives.
It is only fair that the government,
elected by the taxpayers, and the ad-
ministration, appointed by elected offi-
cials, should get to negotiate drug
prices, and it will not come at the ex-
pense of innovation.
Mr. Chair, may I inquire as to how
much time remains.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
has 30 seconds remaining.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Chair, I look for-
ward to working with my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to continue to
come up with ways to support drug in-
novation and support the kind of inno-
vation that is happening in Orange
County, the area that I represent.
But we have to tackle the funda-
mental problem here, which is that
pharmaceutical companies are gouging
Americans; they are overcharging
them; and they are leaving lifesaving
drugs out of the hands of the American
people each and every day. This amend-
ment does not tackle that fundamental
problem. Today, 9 out of 10 big pharma-
ceutical companies spend more on mar-
keting, sales, and overhead than they
do on research.
I am proud to support the package of
H.R. 3 because it will tackle the funda-
mental problem of permitting price ne-
gotiation and making drugs more af-
fordable for Americans.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I appreciate the gentlewoman’s com-
ments.
Ours is the only bipartisan bill. Thir-
ty-six different provisions passed out of
either the Ways and Means or Energy
and Commerce Committee with unani-
mous, bipartisan support, all these pro-
visions cosponsored by Democrats. Sev-
enteen different bills passed out of the
House of Representatives with bipar-
tisan support in here. This is the bipar-
tisan package.
I have always worked across the line
to get things done, whether it was in
opioids or 21st Century Cures or mod-
ernizing the FDA. I pledge to continue
to do that.
The partisan bill on the floor today is
H.R. 3. The facts of the matter show
that it will deny new innovation in
America and new cures for patients
whose lives are on the line.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on H.R.
3 and a ‘‘yes’’ on the substitute.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Oregon (Mr. WALDEN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Oregon will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. TONKO
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 2 printed in
part B of House Report 116–334.
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add at the end of title VIII the following
(and conform the table of contents accord-
ingly):
SEC. 812. ADDITION OF NEW MEASURES BASED
ON ACCESS TO BIOSIMILAR BIO-
LOGICAL PRODUCTS TO THE 5-STAR
RATING SYSTEM UNDER MEDICARE
ADVANTAGE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1853(o)(4) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(o)(4))
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) ADDITION OF NEW MEASURES BASED ON
ACCESS TO BIOSIMILAR BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—For 2021 and subsequent
years, the Secretary shall add a new set of
measures to the 5-star rating system based
on access to biosimilar biological products
covered under part B and, in the case of MA–
PD plans, such products that are covered
part D drugs. Such measures shall assess the
impact a plan’s benefit structure may have
on enrollees’ utilization of or ability to ac-
cess biosimilar biological products, including
in comparison to the reference biological
product, and shall include measures, as ap-
plicable, with respect to the following:
‘‘(I) COVERAGE.—Assessing whether a bio-
similar biological product is on the plan for-
mulary in lieu of or in addition to the ref-
erence biological product.
‘‘(II) PREFERENCING.—Assessing tier place-
ment or cost-sharing for a biosimilar biologi-
cal product relative to the reference biologi-
cal product.
‘‘(III) UTILIZATION MANAGEMENT TOOLS.—
Assessing whether and how utilization man-
agement tools are used with respect to a bio-
similar biological product relative to the ref-
erence biological product.
‘‘(IV) UTILIZATION.—Assessing the percent-
age of enrollees prescribed the biosimilar bi-
ological product when the reference biologi-
cal product is also available.
‘‘(ii) DEFINITIONS.—In this subparagraph,
the terms ‘biosimilar biological product’ and
‘reference biological product’ have the mean-
ing given those terms in section 1847A(c)(6).
‘‘(iii) PROTECTING PATIENT INTERESTS.—In
developing such measures, the Secretary
shall ensure that each measure developed to
address coverage, preferencing, or utilization
management is constructed such that pa-
tients retain equal access to appropriate
therapeutic options without undue adminis-
trative burden.’’.
(b) CLARIFICATION REGARDING APPLICATION
TO PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLANS.—To the ex-
tent the Secretary of Health and Human
Services applies the 5-star rating system
under section 1853(o)(4) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(o)(4)), or a simi-
lar system, to prescription drug plans under
part D of title XVIII of such Act, the provi-
sions of subparagraph (E) of such section, as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.026 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10203
December 12, 2019
added by subsection (a) of this section, shall
apply under the system with respect to such
plans in the same manner as such provisions
apply to the 5-star rating system under such
section 1853(o)(4).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentleman
from New York (Mr. TONKO) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Chair, I yield myself
as much time as I may consume.
Despite the passage in 2010 of the
Biologics Price Competition and Inno-
vation Act through the Affordable Care
Act, which created the modern path-
way for bringing biosimilar drugs to
market, consumers in the United
States are still not reaping the cost-
saving benefits that a full, mature
biosimilars market would provide. As
of May, only 19 biosimilars had been
approved by the FDA, and many of
those that have been approved are not
on the market for a number of reasons.
Economics 101 teaches us that, when
more competition is introduced into
the market, prices come down. We have
seen this with the overwhelming suc-
cess of the generic pharmaceuticals
market here at home, and we are see-
ing it with biosimilars in other parts of
the globe.
In Europe, for example, the introduc-
tion of biosimilar competition for
Humira led to the brand manufacturer
dropping the price by more than 80 per-
cent in some countries.
Unfortunately, here in the United
States, biosimilars still face very low
market share and utilization, despite
the fact they could generate much-
needed savings for patients and for tax-
payers.
If we want to continue to meaning-
fully lower drug costs for American pa-
tients, Congress can, and should, do
more to create a policy environment
that is ripe for greater biosimilar adop-
tion.
That is the underlying rationale be-
hind my amendment, which is based on
legislation I introduced with Congress-
man BOB GIBBS, known as the Star
Ratings for Biosimilars Act.
This amendment would require the
Department of Health and Human
Services to incorporate into the exist-
ing Star Ratings system for Medicare
Advantage and part D plans a measure
that evaluates how plans promote ac-
cess to biosimilar drugs.
In creating such a measure, HHS
would look at things such as coverage
on a plan’s formulary, tier placement,
cost sharing, and other utilization
management techniques.
By evaluating plans on biosimilar ac-
cess, this amendment would motivate
health plans to improve performance
and implement changes to improve ac-
cess to biosimilars, creating a policy
environment ripe for further biosimilar
development. A similar measure has al-
ready been adopted by the Senate Fi-
nance Committee as they worked
through their prescription drug legisla-
tion.
I have heard from some criticism
that the Star Ratings system has tradi-
tionally not been used for this type of
measure. To that, I would contend that
star ratings have already been used in
several ways to influence plan behavior
and improve plan quality, such as eval-
uating plans on how well they provide
cancer screenings, care coordination,
and Medicaid management, for exam-
ple.
All of these metrics are designed to
incent plans into behavior that will im-
prove plan transparency and bene-
ficiary health.
Likewise, access to affordable medi-
cations has significant implications for
beneficiary health, as patients will ab-
stain from needed medications if costs
are simply too high. The CBO score for
the underlying legislation makes this
connection crystal clear.
By evaluating plans on biosimilar ac-
cess, we are ensuring that patients
have the information they need that
will allow them to live healthier lives.
In closing, Mr. Chair, I would simply
urge my colleagues to support this im-
portant amendment that will help lay
the groundwork for greater biosimilar
adoption and continue to lower drug
costs for patients, obviously a common
cause for each and every person in this
Chamber.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I rise
in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Oregon is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I commend my friend, and
he is my friend, Mr. TONKO. He is a
very thoughtful legislator, and we have
worked together on a lot of different
bills.
He offered and withdrew this amend-
ment at full committee markup of H.R.
3, and I continue to extend the offer to
sit down and try to work out the dif-
ferences in the language.
Unfortunately, as it is currently con-
structed, though, this could have unin-
tended consequences, we believe, in-
cluding actually increasing drug prices,
which none of us wants, which I know
is not the gentleman’s goal either.
Star ratings to measure the quality
of an insurance plan or a specific ben-
efit are a good tool for consumers and
the government, but to apply an auto-
matic star rating change to a plan’s
coverage of biosimilars could give a
manufacturer too much negotiating le-
verage, and we don’t want to do that.
This would be a major shift in the
type of quality measure the plans
would be rated on and would actually
affect the way they would negotiate
with manufacturers and, unfortu-
nately, we believe, not necessarily be
in a way that lowers costs for con-
sumers in Medicare Advantage.
Star ratings are an important factor
consumers consider when they are
choosing their plan. If a plan knows
they will be rated and reimbursed
based on coverage of one biosimilar,
they do not have much ground to stand
on if they want to negotiate the cost of
that drug down to benefit the patient.
That means the manufacturer of the
biosimilar has all the leverage and
they can keep the price high, knowing
they will likely still be placed on the
plan’s formulary because the plan is
being rated on it.
But the gentleman is right. We
should do more to incentivize bio-
similar development and coverage in
this country. This is an important
issue. And, again, I would be happy to
work with him and others on the other
side of the aisle on this and many other
provisions.
Mr. Chair, how much time do I have
remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Oregon has 31⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Mon-
tana (Mr. GIANFORTE).
Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Chair, I thank
the gentleman for yielding, and I ap-
preciate the intent that the gentleman
has here with this bill.
The costs of prescription drugs have
continued to rise, putting Montanans
with critical health issues in jeopardy.
I recently heard from a senior in
Libby, Montana, with colon cancer. He
was diagnosed in 2010, and his disease
has bankrupted his family.
He confided that the cancer drug he
takes costs $17,000 per month. It is the
only drug that works for his cancer,
and Medicare only covers $11,000. He is
forced to either give up his fight
against cancer or pay an extra $6,000 a
month for a lifesaving drug. That is an
extra $72,000 a year.
As he put it: ‘‘I find it rather dis-
concerting that one must sell his home
and all his possessions just to survive
cancer.’’
I agree. This has to stop. No one
should have to end up like my con-
stituent in Libby.
The fact is that we could lower pre-
scription costs while capping seniors’
out-of-pocket costs by the end of 2019.
It is also disheartening that Repub-
licans have been working in good faith
all year on a bipartisan basis to do just
that.
Unfortunately, House Democrats, led
by Speaker NANCY PELOSI, are putting
partisan politics in front of patients.
Her plan would have devastating con-
sequences for Montanans. It will lead
to rationing of lifesaving medication,
Big Government price fixing, and gov-
ernment bureaucrats between you and
your medication.
The truth is her partisan bill will
never move past the House floor.
We have heard from Majority Leader
MCCONNELL that the Pelosi plan is dead
on arrival in the Senate, and it doesn’t
have a chance of being signed into law
by President Trump.
Unfortunately, as we wait on Demo-
crats to act in a bipartisan way, costs
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.007 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10204 December 12, 2019
continue to rise and hardworking Mon-
tanans continue to choose between
their needed medication and paying
their bills.
On the other hand, Republicans have
introduced the Lower Costs, More
Cures Act. This is a bipartisan bill that
could be signed into law by the end of
2019. This bill increases transparency,
encourages innovation for new drugs
and cures, and places a cap on seniors’
out-of-pocket costs.
I have also been working to lower
costs and shed light on the true cost of
prescription drugs. Last week, I intro-
duced bipartisan legislation to bring
much-needed transparency into the
practice of middlemen in the pharma-
ceutical supply chain, called pharmacy
benefit managers. My bill increases
competition between PBMs and lowers
costs for patients. It is truly a win-win.
Waiting any longer to pass bills that
lower costs for patients to score polit-
ical points is unacceptable. Enough is
enough. Let’s stop the political theater
and get back to work.
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Chair, we have no
further speakers on this side, and I am
prepared to close.
Mr. Chair, I respect the opinions of
Mr. WALDEN. We have worked in a bi-
partisan fashion on several issues be-
fore in Energy and Commerce, but I be-
lieve the claim that this would in-
crease costs is simply false. Like the
Senate Finance Committee that is
moving forward with this proposition
on biosimilars, we believe it is a way to
lower costs.
To date, the nine biosimilars acces-
sible to patients are at an average dis-
count of 28 percent. It is simply a false
claim that a biosimilar would not
launch at a lower price.
Certainly, we must do better. We are
reminded constantly that we can do
better and we must do better. As the
namesake of this legislation had con-
stantly implored, Representative Eli-
jah Cummings always knew that we
must score for the public. That is why
we must pass this amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I un-
derstand my friend’s comments. None
of us wants to accidentally create a sit-
uation where prices go up rather than
down, and I know that is not his in-
tent. We have that concern on this
side.
Perhaps we can work this out along
the way and get to the same place here,
because I think we share a similar
goal.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
b 1115
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. TONKO).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. PETERS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 3 printed in
part B of House Report 116–334.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 195, line 9, strike ‘‘$500,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$400,000,000’’.
At the end of subtitle A of title VII, add
the following:
SEC. 703. INNOVATION NETWORK.
Part A of title IV of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 281 et seq.), as amend-
ed by section 702, is further amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 404P. INNOVATION NETWORK.
‘‘(a) FUNDS.—The Director of NIH shall
award grants or contracts to eligible entities
to develop, expand, and enhance the com-
mercialization of biomedical products.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—In this section, the
term ‘eligible entity’ means an entity receiv-
ing funding under—
‘‘(1) the Small Business Innovation Re-
search program of the National Institutes of
Health; or
‘‘(2) the Small Business Technology Trans-
fer program of the National Institutes of
Health.
‘‘(c) USE OF FUNDS.—An eligible entity
shall use the funds received through such
grant or contract to support—
‘‘(1) the Commercialization Readiness
Pilot program of the National Institutes of
Health;
‘‘(2) the Innovation Corps program of the
National Institutes of Health;
‘‘(3) the Commercialization Accelerator
program of the National Institutes of Health;
‘‘(4) the Commercialization Assistance pro-
gram of the National Institutes of Health;
and
‘‘(5) such other programs and activities as
the Director of NIH determines to be appro-
priate, to support the commercialization
stage of research, later stage research and
development, technology transfer, and com-
mercialization technical assistance.
‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of
fiscal years 2021 through 2025, to be available
until expended.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentleman
from California (Mr. PETERS) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
H.R. 3 is not perfect. No bill is. But I
will support it today because it is our
best chance to get moving on the very
pressing issue of high prescription drug
prices. I hope the Senate will work
with us in a good-faith manner to come
up with a final bill that both lowers
prices and preserves incentives for in-
novation.
The concerns and some outstanding
questions about the effect of this bill
on innovation in the private sector are
legitimate. My colleagues have ref-
erenced the CBO studies. Also, the
California Life Sciences Association re-
leased a report in October that pre-
dicted that H.R. 3 would make drug de-
velopment particularly challenging for
small and emerging companies in Cali-
fornia.
The amendment I offer today will go
a long way toward preserving and sup-
porting biopharmaceutical innovation,
and that is not an abstraction. It can
be measured in jobs, breakthrough
cures, and even state-of-the-art re-
search facilities.
Innovation, research, and develop-
ment are the economic lifeblood of
California and, particularly, San
Diego. Over the past decade, California
firms have received more than 30 per-
cent of total biotech investment in the
country, and in San Diego County
there are over 48,000 jobs in the life
sciences sector supported by $1.5 billion
in venture capital.
In San Diego alone, we have five in-
stitutions that rank among the top re-
cipients of National Institutes of
Health funding in the country, and
they are doing amazing things.
One La Jolla-based research and de-
velopment facility in my district re-
cently launched a one-time gene re-
placement therapy that essentially
halts the progression of a rare and
deadly genetic childhood disorder: spi-
nal muscular atrophy. This company is
also currently investing in research to
cure a genetic form of ALS.
If we aren’t careful, we might put
those kinds of breakthrough therapies
at risk of never treating a single pa-
tient.
From the NIH and academic research
institutions to philanthropy and bio-
pharmaceutical industry, there is a
network of capital today in the public
and private sectors that supports inno-
vation.
At the risk of oversimplifying, the
NIH focuses on basic biomedical
science, investigating the underlying
mechanisms of disease, while smaller
biotech companies supported by insti-
tutional investors take the basic
science to the preclinical and early-
phase stages of drug development.
Drug companies conduct later-stage
research, fund clinical trials, and in-
vest in startups. These financial back-
ers, like drug companies and venture
capitalists, are important because they
can help close the funding gap that ex-
ists between preclinical research and
the early-and later-stage clinical
trials.
If H.R. 3 changes investor behavior as
some predict, that could widen the gap
for smaller biotech companies, the so-
called ‘‘valley of death.’’ I think we can
all agree that these are consequences
we want to avoid.
Securing funding for the high cost of
clinical trials is often cited as the key
hurdle facing smaller biotech compa-
nies at the precipice of the so-called
valley of death.
While the biopharmaceutical indus-
try and the Federal Government both
fund clinical trials, NIH’s ability to
bring drugs to market is constrained
by its limited budget and a mandate to
carry out its core mission of advancing
biomedical research, which is not nec-
essarily the same as bringing drugs to
market.
Over time, these limitations have re-
sulted in the declining number of NIH-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.030 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10205
December 12, 2019
sponsored clinical trials. The
biopharma industry is really good at
bringing drugs to market because it
can afford expensive failures. The Fed-
eral Government is really good at re-
search and development because it can
ignore constraining signals of the com-
mercial market.
We do patients no favors by pitting
biopharma against government. And I
want to thank Chairman PALLONE and
his staff on the Energy and Commerce
Committee for working with me to in-
clude two priorities of mine in his bill.
I establish a pilot program that will
award multiyear contracts to public
and private entities like research insti-
tutions, medical centers, and biotech
companies to support phase 2 and phase
3 clinical trials. That pilot program
will receive $500 million every year for
5 years.
The bill also includes this amend-
ment No. 3 before you today, which is
based on my bill, the Innovation and
Capital Network Act of 2019.
My amendment creates an innova-
tion startup fund at NIH that will sup-
port the commercialization stage of re-
search, later-stage research and devel-
opment, as well as technology, trans-
fer, and technical assistance. Specifi-
cally, it directs $500 million over 5
years to incentivize incubators, accel-
erators, and other financial backers to
support biotech companies through
early- to mid-stage clinical studies.
These two things are mutually rein-
forcing. NIH is free to do more drug de-
velopment, and more small to midsize
biotech companies can freely follow
the science. In other words, these small
biotechs can pursue unforeseen oppor-
tunities that could lead to a cure for
cancer.
Whether you vote for H.R. 3 or not,
we must continue to support and
strengthen the network of capital that
sustains innovation.
Mr. Chair, I hope my colleagues will
support this amendment and the free-
dom to follow science, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I am op-
posed to the amendment and seek time
in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Oregon is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I ap-
preciate my colleague’s amendment on
this. I understand it. And I think it is
important because it does strike at the
heart of the issue and the concerns
many of us on this side of the aisle
have.
The California Life Sciences Associa-
tion told us that, if enacted, H.R. 3’s
Medicare part D foreign reference pric-
ing proposal would reduce by 88 percent
the number of drugs brought to market
by small and emerging companies in
California alone due to changed inves-
tor behavior.
So they think up to 88 percent of the
great innovations and cures they are
working on will never come to market.
They also think it would eliminate
80,000 biotech R&D jobs nationwide and
reduce revenues by $71 billion a year.
So, these are the people, predomi-
nantly out in California, that do this
every day, that are living in this world
of trying to create innovation and new
lifesaving drugs. And they are saying
up to 88 percent of the new drugs they
are working on would never come to
market. These are the small startups.
We have heard a lot from others on
the floor in the last 24 hours about Big
Pharma. Well, we are not talking about
Big Pharma here. We are talking about
small, little startups, American entre-
preneurs. If you think about Silicon
Valley in the high-tech world, this is
the equivalent in the biotech world.
These are individuals who have an
idea and a big brain, and they are com-
ing together to come up with a cure to
these diseases like SMA, Alzheimer’s,
sickle cell anemia, and things like that
that we all struggle with in our com-
munities.
Our fear on this side of the aisle, as
Republicans, is we know, based on the
facts and the independent analysis of
our Congressional Budget Office, based
on the Council of Economic Advisers,
based on the input of the very people
who are in the trenches every day in
these laboratories across America,
where two-thirds of the world’s innova-
tion comes from in this space, that
H.R. 3 will significantly reduce new
cures coming to market.
Now, we are all for lowering drug
prices. I think we would have a unani-
mous vote on the provisions in our al-
ternative here if we had a fair oppor-
tunity to take these one at a time. We
are glad we have the opportunity to
have the vote.
I think, because there are 138 Demo-
crats on the measures that are in what
I would call our bipartisan proposal
here, that we could get bipartisan sup-
port for it. And we could lower drug
costs. We can stop the gaming in the
system. And we can continue to have
more cures in America, not less.
And, let’s face it—I do not believe it
is an overstatement to say people will
die if we have fewer cures. We know
that to be a fact. It is not just a talk-
ing point. It is a fact. It is a truth. And
in a time when we should rely on more
facts, this is one we should think about
seriously before we vote on H.R. 3.
That is why, Mr. Chairman, we came
up with this combination of really
thoughtful proposals, some of which
have passed out of committees in the
House or in the Senate—bipartisan sup-
port for them.
Now, on the Peters amendment itself:
It is a laudable amendment. It will not
be able to substitute for the destruc-
tion, however, of the American bio-
medical industry under H.R. 3.
The Congressional Budget Office says
the effects on the new drug introduc-
tions from increased Federal spending
under the bill on biomedical research
would be modest. That is CBO.
I will let our Members vote as they
want. Certainly, we all want to do
more to invest in our National Insti-
tutes of Health.
I have no real objection to the gen-
tleman’s amendment, but the under-
lying bill eviscerates what he is trying
to accomplish here in terms of medical
research and breakthrough cures.
Mr. Chairman, with that, I yield back
the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. PETERS).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. KENNEDY
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 4 printed in
part B of House Report 116–334.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
In section 1192 of the Social Security Act,
as proposed to be added by section 101(a)—
(1) in subsection (a), strike ‘‘the Secretary
shall’’ and insert ‘‘subject to subsection (h),
the Secretary shall’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(h) CONFLICT OF INTEREST.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case the Inspector
General of the Department of Health and
Human Services determines the Secretary
has a conflict, with respect to a matter de-
scribed in paragraph (2), the individual de-
scribed in paragraph (3) shall carry out the
duties of the Secretary under this part, with
respect to a negotiation-eligible drug, that
would otherwise be such a conflict.
‘‘(2) MATTER DESCRIBED.—A matter de-
scribed in this paragraph is—
‘‘(A) a financial interest (as described in
section 2635.402 of title 5, Code of Federal
Regulations (except for an interest described
in subsection (b)(2)(iv) of such section)) on
the date of the selected drug publication
date, with respect the price applicability
year (as applicable);
‘‘(B) a personal or business relationship (as
described in section 2635.502 of such title) on
the date of the selected drug publication
date, with respect the price applicability
year;
‘‘(C) employment by a manufacturer of a
negotiation-eligible drug during the pre-
ceding 10-year period beginning on the date
of the selected drug publication date, with
respect to each price applicability year; and
‘‘(D) any other matter the General Counsel
determines appropriate.
‘‘(3) INDIVIDUAL DESCRIBED.—An individual
described in this paragraph is—
‘‘(A) the highest-ranking officer or em-
ployee of the Department of Health and
Human Services (as determined by the orga-
nizational chart of the Department) that
does not have a conflict under this sub-
section; and
‘‘(B) is nominated by the President and
confirmed by the Senate with respect to the
position;’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentleman
from Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Massachusetts.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I want to thank Speaker PELOSI,
Chairman PALLONE, Chairman NEAL,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.032 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10206 December 12, 2019
and Chairman SCOTT for their extraor-
dinary leadership on this legislation
and for helping bring this historic re-
form of our prescription drug system to
the floor today.
In the last few years, President
Trump has demonstrated how quickly
the revolving door between industry
lobbyists and high-ranking government
officials and offices can spin.
It is a practice that may not have
started when he entered office, but it is
certainly one that he has perfected.
Even after promising to drain the
swamp, President Trump has appointed
more former industry lobbyists to his
cabinet in under 3 years than both
President Obama and President Bush
did in their entire time in office.
With those appointments, conflicts of
interest run rampant, and corruption
has not been hard to find. That is what
this amendment attempts to address.
It is about good, clean, ethical govern-
ance.
If we are giving the Secretary of
Health and Human Services the au-
thority to negotiate drug prices, which
we absolutely should, we must ensure
that those negotiations cannot be
tainted by past business relationships
or potential personal financial gain,
because it is not fair for a secretary to
be put into a position where his or her
motives may be questioned. And it is
certainly not fair to the public to be
forced to question the intentions of
that secretary.
Put simply, a secretary who was pre-
viously responsible for price increases
on insulin and numerous other drugs
while working for a Big Pharma com-
pany may be inclined to choose profits
of that former employer over the pa-
tients he now serves. That same sec-
retary may choose to increase those
prices higher or negotiate in something
other than good faith based on inside
knowledge, past relationships, or a po-
tential future return to that same job
after his government service has ended.
That would give patients rightful
doubt that their interests will guide
the negotiations taking place on their
behalf.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, I would
like to claim time in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Texas is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chair, at first
glance, Mr. KENNEDY’s amendment
sounds like a good idea. Of course Re-
publicans don’t want administration
officials to have a conflict of interest
in carrying out their official duties on
behalf of the American people.
But, in reality, this amendment is
narrowly tailored to be a petty jab at
the current Secretary of Health and
Human Services.
Look, people want more cures and
lower drug costs. They don’t want more
cheap political shots. Luckily, the un-
derlying bill, H.R. 3, stands no chance
of becoming law, so this amendment
means nothing.
We do, as Republicans, oppose H.R.
3’s government price-setting regime be-
cause it will kill lifesaving cures for
Americans struggling with the ravages
of Alzheimer’s and dementia, ALS,
Parkinson’s, the many cancers we face,
leukemia, pulmonary hypertension—
all those costly and stubborn diseases.
b 1130
We know, and the Congressional
Budget Office has already confirmed,
at least 38 fewer medicines and cures
the next two decades. The Council of
Economic Advisers estimates it will be
close to 100 lost cures. Even in the
Speaker’s home State of California, the
California Life Sciences Association,
those small firms that do three-fourths
of our clinical trials to bring new drugs
to America, they modeled the gentle-
woman’s bill and said nearly 9 out of 10
of the drugs that they would be work-
ing on would never come to market if
this Democratic drug bill becomes
laws.
We think, rather than kill cures, you
should accelerate it. Because when you
look at the ravages to these families
and our loved ones, really the costliest
drug is the one that never gets devel-
oped. That is what we strongly oppose.
For those reasons, I urge my col-
leagues to oppose this amendment. I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Chairman, how
much time do I have remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Massachusetts has 21⁄2 minutes re-
maining.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Chair, I yield 11⁄2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. DINGELL.)
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Chairman, I
thank my colleague, Representative
KENNEDY, for adding an amendment to
this bill that will tighten it even fur-
ther. I also thank Speaker PELOSI,
Chairman PALLONE, Chairman NEAL,
and Chairman SCOTT for their leader-
ship and efforts on this historic legisla-
tion, which brings desperately needed
relief to America’s patients and seniors
from the high drug prices that are scar-
ing too many of them.
There is a reason that we pay nearly
four times more for prescription drugs
than other industrialized nations. They
use negotiation to lower drug prices.
We don’t.
Negotiating lower drug prices is a
promise that the President, Democrats,
and Republicans have made, and the
Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs
Now Act makes good to this commit-
ment.
Representative KENNEDY’s amend-
ment further strengthens this provi-
sion to ensure that the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, who is re-
sponsible for these negotiations, is free
from conflicts of interest. A public of-
fice is a public trust, and America’s
seniors and patients deserve to have
confidence that the Secretary’s inter-
ests are aligned with theirs.
That is why this amendment is so
important. It puts American people
first when negotiating drug prices so
that they receive the best deal pos-
sible.
I urge my colleagues to support this
amendment, which will ensure that the
American people, not special interests,
are represented in drug price negotia-
tions.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Chairman, I
would like to close by stating a couple
of things.
First, to my friend, the chairman
from Texas, the intent of this amend-
ment is not directed at any one indi-
vidual. It is directed at an intent,
which I think we do share, to ensure
the integrity of a position and an office
that is focused on the well-being of
every American.
Second, nobody here wants to do any-
thing that is somehow going to hinder
anyone’s cure or the potential for a
new cure to come to market.
We do, however, have to wrestle with
the fact that 26 percent of the patients
across this country in need of insulin
ration it. We have to reconcile the fact
that 55 percent of the counties in this
country do not have a single practicing
psychiatrist, psychologist, or social
worker. We have to wrestle with the
fact that one-third of the donations on
GoFundMe are for healthcare costs.
The existing system that we have is
failing American families day in and
day out. They are asking for this for a
reason, and we are delivering it. I urge
my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, let me
talk about the underlying bill here.
I was on the Ways and Means Com-
mittee when we worked with President
Bush to create the first affordable drug
plan for seniors. Then-leader PELOSI
and Democrats tried their best to kill
it. They all voted against it.
The gentlewoman famously predicted
that creating the part D drug program
for our seniors would end ‘‘Medicare as
we know it.’’ Can you imagine how
many seniors’ lives would have been
lost if Democrats had succeeded in
stopping the affordable Medicare drug
program that 43 million seniors have
come to depend upon?
NANCY PELOSI and Democrats were
dangerously wrong then. Can Ameri-
cans afford the pain and lost lives of
our loved ones when they are dan-
gerously wrong again?
We oppose this amendment, and we
oppose the underlying bill. I yield back
the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts (Mr. KEN-
NEDY).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. O’HALLERAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 5 printed in
part B of House Report 116–334.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. I have an amend-
ment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.035 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10207
December 12, 2019
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add at the end of title VIII the following
new section (and conform the table of con-
tents accordingly):
SEC. 812. GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION IM-
PROVEMENTS IN RURAL AND UN-
DERSERVED COMMUNITIES.
Part P of title III of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280g et seq.) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following new
section:
‘‘SEC. 399V–7. GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION
IMPROVEMENTS IN RURAL AND UN-
DERSERVED COMMUNITIES.
‘‘(a) RURAL AND UNDERSERVED COMMUNITY
GME GRANT PROGRAM.—Not later than 1
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services (in this section referred to as the
‘Secretary’), acting through the Adminis-
trator of the Health Resources and Services
Administration, shall establish a rural and
underserved community graduate medical
education grant program under which the
Secretary shall award grants to specified
hospitals (as defined in subsection (b)) that
have not established an approved medical
residency training program (as defined for
purposes of section 1886(h) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(h))) in order to
encourage such hospitals to establish such a
program, or to establish an affiliation with a
hospital that has established such a program
in order to host residents under such pro-
gram.
‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—Grants awarded under
subsection (a) may be used by a specified
hospital for any initial costs associated with
establishing such a program or such an affili-
ation, including costs associated with fac-
ulty development, administration, infra-
structure, supplies, and legal and consultant
services.
‘‘(c) SPECIFIED HOSPITAL DEFINED.—For
purposes of subsection (a), the term ‘speci-
fied hospital’ means a hospital or critical ac-
cess hospital (as such terms are defined in
section 1861 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395x)) that—
‘‘(1) is—
‘‘(A) located in a rural area (as defined in
section 1886(d)(2)(D) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1395ww(d)(2)(D))); or
‘‘(B) treated as being located in a rural
area pursuant to section 1886(d)(8)(E) of such
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(d)(8)(E)); and
‘‘(2) is located in a medically underserved
area (as defined in section 330I(a) of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c–14(a))).
‘‘(d) CRITICAL ACCESS HOSPITAL GRANT PRO-
GRAM.—Not later than 1 year after the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary,
acting through the Administrator of the
Health Resources and Services Administra-
tion, shall establish a grant program under
which the Secretary awards grants to crit-
ical access hospitals (as defined in section
1861 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1395x)) that do not have in effect an affili-
ation with a hospital with an approved med-
ical residency training program to host resi-
dents of such program in order to assist such
critical access hospitals in setting up such
affiliations in order to host such residents.
‘‘(e) LIMITATION ON GRANT AMOUNTS.—No
hospital may receive an aggregate amount of
grants under this section in excess of
$250,000.
‘‘(f) REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) HHS.—Not later than 5 years after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services shall
submit to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report
on graduate medical residency training pro-
grams of hospitals that received a grant
under subsection (a) or (d). Such report shall
include the following:
‘‘(A) The number of hospitals that applied
for a grant under this section.
‘‘(B) The number of hospitals that were
awarded such a grant.
‘‘(C) The number of residency positions
created by hospitals receiving such a grant.
‘‘(D) An estimate of the number of such po-
sitions such hospitals will create after the
date of the submission of such report.
‘‘(E) A description of any challenges faced
by hospitals in applying for such a grant or
using funds awarded under such a grant.
‘‘(2) GAO.—Not later than 10 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to Congress a report containing
an analysis of—
‘‘(A) the number of residents who trained
at a hospital or critical access hospital that
received a grant under subsection (a) or (d);
and
‘‘(B) whether such residents continued to
practice medicine in a rural area (as defined
in section 1886(d)(2)(D) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(d)(2)(D))) or in a medi-
cally underserved area (as defined in section
330I(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 254c–14(a))) after completing such
training.
‘‘(g) FUNDING.—There are authorized to be
appropriated such sums as are necessary for
purposes of making grants under this section
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentleman
from Arizona (O’HALLERAN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Chairman,
today, I rise in support of my amend-
ment to H.R. 3, the Elijah E. Cum-
mings Lower Drug Costs Now Act.
I would first like to thank Chairman
PALLONE and Chairman NEAL for com-
mitting to work with me on this
amendment and the committee staff
for their efforts as well.
I am proud to represent Arizona’s
First Congressional District. Our dis-
trict is larger than the State of Illinois
and is one of the most rural in the
country.
This year, I have held 26 townhalls
across the vast district. At each and
every one, I heard from rural residents
struggling to access quality healthcare
close to home. That is why I intro-
duced my amendment.
My amendment would reward grants
to hospitals in rural and medically un-
derserved areas so these hospitals are
able to establish a graduate medical
education program or partner with an
approved hospital to host residents.
According to the Congressional Re-
search Service, more than half of fam-
ily medicine physicians reside within
100 miles of where they trained as resi-
dents. My amendment will incentivize
doctors to stay in practice in our rural
communities by providing opportuni-
ties to bring medical students to rural
areas for residency training. Hospitals
are not reimbursed for hosting grad-
uate medical education programs until
they are fully established.
The grants awarded under my amend-
ment would cover associated startup
costs for hospitals, including necessary
infrastructure, equipment, and fees.
My amendment also requires the
nonpartisan Government Account-
ability Office to issue a report on the
success of the changes that this edu-
cation will implement, including anal-
ysis of whether residents stayed in the
rural communities where they trained.
According to the Association of
American Medical Colleges, our coun-
try will suffer a shortage of over 120,000
physicians by the year 2032. We are al-
ready losing physicians across rural
America, and rural areas will be hit es-
pecially hard.
I am offering my amendment today
to mitigate the effects that those seek-
ing care in rural areas will experience.
As we move forward with H.R. 3, we
must not leave our rural communities
on the back burner. Our rural commu-
nities will not be able to access their
medications in the first place if they
cannot access providers.
My amendment takes an all-of-the-
above approach to improving rural
healthcare by expanding access and re-
vamping the ways we recruit qualified
medical professionals in the area where
we need them most. I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment.
The Acting Chair. The gentleman
from Arizona is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chair, this amend-
ment requires the Secretary of Health
and Human Services to award grants to
hospitals, including critical access hos-
pitals, located in rural or medically
underserved areas to establish and im-
prove medical residency training pro-
grams. The goals in this amendment
are laudable.
But like so much around here, bipar-
tisan work in this area has been
stopped because of impeachment. The
rush to impeachment has created a
toxic atmosphere and prevented parties
from working on the people’s business,
creating a constitutional crisis for
purely political reasons.
It is a nice change to hear this dis-
cussion because earlier this year, we
offered in the Ways and Means Com-
mittee an amendment to reallocate
these GME slots exactly to these rural
and medically underserved areas. Un-
fortunately, those amendments were
rejected on a largely partisan basis. I
wish the gentleman from Arizona
would have been with us that day be-
cause almost all Democrats voted no.
That said, I do have real concerns.
This amendment provides more Medi-
care-funded payments to hospitals for
these GME slots but without making
any immediate reforms that everyone
knows need to happen. An Institute of
Medicine report called for innovative
approaches to finance these slots in
order to improve the match between
the physician workforce that we need
and national healthcare needs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.037 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10208 December 12, 2019
Just last week, the Journal of Amer-
ican Medical Association Internal Med-
icine published a study and found Medi-
care is overpaying for GME and that
this wasted money could actually be
used to address the physician shortages
in underserved areas.
According to the study’s lead author,
Medicare GME may be overpaying
some hospitals up to $1.28 billion annu-
ally. So instead of creating another
grant program on a bill that is deader
than a doornail, let’s make a serious
attempt at GME reform.
After impeachment is over, if it
wastes all of next year as well as this,
maybe we can build upon MedPAC rec-
ommendations, establish a permanent
performance-based incentive program
that actually reaches what I think we
as Democrats and Republicans want
and create the standards needed for
these rural underserved areas.
These overpayments identified in the
report could actually go toward ex-
panding the teaching health center
program, which would be terrific be-
cause that focuses on training in com-
munity-based primary care settings.
That is where healthcare providers are
needed the most. That is where they
tend to stay to serve the community.
That is a win-win for everyone.
While I look forward to working with
the gentleman from Arizona on ways to
reform graduate medical education, I
urge my colleagues to oppose the
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Chairman, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from New Mexico (Ms. TORRES SMALL),
my colleague.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman from
Arizona for yielding and for his tireless
work fighting for improved healthcare
in rural communities.
Congressman O’HALLERAN’s amend-
ment, which I am proud to cosponsor,
is vital in rural areas like those in New
Mexico’s Second Congressional Dis-
trict. Hospitals often run on small
margins and do not have the necessary
resources to establish new residency
training programs.
This is especially problematic given
the shortage of up to more than 100,000
physicians by 2030 in the United States.
Rural communities, in particular, al-
ready struggle to attract and keep
medical professionals. Therefore, it is
only fitting that the Federal Govern-
ment invests a portion of the savings
earned by H.R. 3 into rural areas to im-
prove healthcare accessibility, and this
amendment would do just that.
As we continue debating healthcare
legislation, I urge my colleagues to
support initiatives that provide rural
residents greater access to basic
healthcare. I ask my colleagues to join
me in support of this amendment and
the underlying bill.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, I am pre-
pared to close after the gentleman
from Arizona finishes his remarks. I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Chairman,
how much time do I have remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Arizona has 1 minute remaining.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Chair, I
thank Representative TORRES SMALL,
and I thank all of my colleagues for
standing with me today in support of
this important amendment that has re-
ceived an endorsement from the Na-
tional Association of Rural Health
Clinics. I look forward to joining my
colleagues to vote for the Elijah E.
Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Act
later today.
This sweeping legislation will lower
high-cost prescription drugs, enable
Medicare to negotiate prices, and save
real dollars that can be reinvested for
drug research and development. This
bill has the potential to better the
lives of countless American seniors,
veterans, and families. No family
should have to choose between the
medication they need and putting food
on the table.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to vote in support of my
amendment and H.R. 3 later today, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, impeach-
ment has really ruined most of these
bipartisan efforts in healthcare, includ-
ing the underlying bill. Democrats and
Republicans were working well to-
gether. Speaker PELOSI shut it all down
for this partisan, secretly written bill.
Impeachment has stopped most of this.
When and if impeachment is ever
done, finished—and I know that Con-
gressman GREEN, my colleague, has
said that they can impeach again mul-
tiple times—when all of that foolish
wasted time finishes, maybe we can
work together. I think it would be tre-
mendous.
I have rural areas, underserved areas.
They need these GME slots, and the
whole thing needs to be reformed in a
positive way.
Mr. Chair, I oppose the amendment
and the underlying bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr.
O’HALLERAN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Arizona will be
postponed.
b 1145
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. KENNEDY
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 6 printed in
part B of House Report 116–334.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Chairman, as the
designee of Ms. JACKSON LEE, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of title VIII, add the following
new section (and update the table of sections
accordingly):
SEC. lll. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING
THE IMPACT OF THE HIGH COST OF
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS ON COMMU-
NITIES OF COLOR AND PERSONS
LIVING IN RURAL OR SPARSELY
POPULATED AREAS OF THE UNITED
STATES.
It is the sense of the Congress that—
(1) the United States has the highest drug
prices in the world and for millions of Ameri-
cans the cost of prescription drugs is increas-
ing as a barrier to proper disease treatment,
especially for communities of color and for
persons living in rural or sparsely populated
areas of the nation;
(2) the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act (Public Law 111–148) substantially
reduced the number of uninsured Americans,
but over 28 million Americans remain with-
out insurance and approximately 55 percent
of uninsured Americans under the age of 65
are persons of color;
(3) without health insurance, paying retail
prices for medications is invariably burden-
some or financially impossible;
(4) the median net worth of Caucasian
households in 2016 was 9.7 times higher than
African-American households and 8.3 times
higher than Hispanic households, which con-
tributes to disparities in negative health
consequences, including for example the
underuse of insulin among insured adults
with diabetes; and
(5) due to the high cost of prescription
drugs to communities of color and for per-
sons living in rural or sparsely populated
areas of the nation, this Act should posi-
tively impact such communities and persons
(and the Secretaries of Health and Human
Services, Labor, and Treasury should mon-
itor such impact).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentleman
from Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Massachusetts.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today as the
designee of my esteemed colleague
SHEILA JACKSON LEE from Houston to
offer this amendment. She was un-
avoidably detained at the Judiciary
Committee to consider Articles of Im-
peachment against our President.
Mr. Chairman, I am grateful for this
opportunity to discuss the Jackson Lee
amendment to the Elijah E. Cummings
Lower Drug Prices Now Act.
Let me also express my gratitude to
the chairmen of the committees of ju-
risdiction for their hard work in
crafting this important legislation:
Chairman PALLONE of Energy and Com-
merce, Chairman NEAL of Ways and
Means, and Chairman SCOTT of Edu-
cation and Labor.
The Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug
Prices Now Act levels the playing field
for American patients and taxpayers
by:
One, giving Medicare the power to
negotiate directly with the drug com-
panies and creating powerful new tools
to force drug companies to the table to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.038 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10209
December 12, 2019
agree to real price reductions, while
ensuring seniors never lose access to
the prescriptions they need;
Two, making the lower drug prices
negotiated by Medicare available to
Americans with private insurance, not
just Medicare beneficiaries;
Three, stopping drug companies from
ripping off Americans while charging
other countries less for the same drugs
and limiting the maximum price for
any negotiated drug to be in line with
the average price in countries like
ours;
Four, creating a new, $2,000 out-of-
pocket limit on prescription drug costs
for Medicare beneficiaries;
Five, reinvesting in the most trans-
formational improvement to Medicare
since its creation—delivering vision,
dental, and hearing benefits—and
turbocharging the search for new
cures.
High drug prices are harmful. Med-
ical costs and out-of-pocket expenses
result in high rates of bankruptcies,
and 10 to 25 percent of patients either
delay, abandon, or compromise treat-
ments because of financial constraints.
Survival is also compromised. For
example, in chronic myeloid leukemia,
the 8- to 10-year survival rate is 80 per-
cent in Europe where treatment is uni-
versally affordable, but the 5-year sur-
vival rate is only 60 percent in the
United States.
The high out-of-pocket expenses dis-
courages patients from seeking care or
purchasing drugs. In a recent survey,
one-third of insured persons in Ms.
JACKSON LEE’s home State of Texas de-
layed or did not pursue care because of
high out-of-pocket expenses.
The Jackson Lee amendment is sim-
ple and straightforward. The Jackson
Lee amendment improves the bill by
expressing the sense of Congress re-
garding the harmful impact of the high
cost of prescription drugs on commu-
nities of color and persons living in
rural or sparsely populated areas of the
United States.
According to the Center for Amer-
ican Progress, the negotiation author-
ity provided in H.R. 3 could save some
diabetics more than $700 on an annual
supply of certain types of insulin.
Moreover, negotiations could bring
down the net price for other types of
drugs that are particularly needed in
minority and poor communities—in-
cluding expensive treatments for can-
cer and multiple sclerosis—by thou-
sands every month.
Reform is desperately needed, and
nearly one in four Americans currently
taking prescription drugs find them
difficult to afford. Some people strug-
gling to afford medication for chronic
illnesses even turn to drug rationing in
desperation, which can be lethal. In
fact, a recent study found that one in
four patients with diabetes rations
their insulin in response to rising
prices.
The American public overwhelmingly
agrees that it is time to allow the gov-
ernment to negotiate with pharma-
ceutical companies: 85 percent of
Americans support this tactic to re-
duce prices for Medicare and private
insurance.
Mr. Chairman, I am grateful for the
opportunity to explain the Jackson Lee
amendment. I urge our colleagues to
agree to the amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I claim
the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Oregon is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I recog-
nize the serious impact prescription
drug prices have on all Americans. We
all have constituents facing the same
problem: drug prices are too high. We
all want to come together to find a way
to lower drug prices.
Where we separate is our proposal
would lower drug prices, put a cap on
what seniors pay, and, for the first
time, in Medicare part D, reduce their
insulin costs but not end the kind of
incredible innovation in America we
see today. It would not cost 88,000
American innovators their jobs, and it
would not reduce this innovation that
is producing two-thirds of the world’s
cures.
Unfortunately, H.R. 3 would do that.
H.R. 3—the underlying bill that is a
very disappointingly partisan bill—
would cost patients cures to their dis-
eases. We know that.
It is not my conclusion. These are
the people who innovate in this space.
These are Congressional Budget Office
analysts and the Council of Economic
Advisers. There has not been a single
piece of evidence presented on this
floor that says that H.R. 3 will do any-
thing but reduce investment and out-
come of overall new cures.
In fact, a colleague of mine and I
were talking during the last amend-
ment debate. In effect, we are trading
$1 trillion in private-sector investment
in new innovation in America for med-
ical cures for $100 million—in this case,
the Peters amendment—in taxpayer
money.
So you are trading $100 million for $1
trillion, and $1 trillion is private-sector
investment coming in, because we
know a lot of these new paths that our
innovators pick to go down to find a
cure just simply end up being a dry
hole and all that money is lost. So it
takes a lot to find a cure, but we stand
on the cusp of something big and bold,
and that is cures for diseases where
there is none today. We do have a prob-
lem in America trying to figure out
how to pay for that.
I am going to be retiring at the end
of this Congress, and I know my col-
league is going off to the Senate at the
end of this Congress if voters in Massa-
chusetts have their way, but together,
we still, as a country, have to come to-
gether and figure out with precision
medicine that may produce a cure for
you and you only: How are we going to
pay for that?
We don’t have a lot of answers. I
don’t think giving the government the
biggest club in history to take 95 per-
cent of revenues if you don’t agree with
what the government wants to pay for
something is the right approach. That
is what H.R. 3 does. We know it takes
$1 trillion out of the pipeline of invest-
ment in innovation in America and
costs 80-some thousand jobs in innova-
tion.
But in terms of the Jackson Lee
amendment which was so ably brought
and described by Mr. KENNEDY, I share
the concern about what the costs of
medicines are putting as a burden on
people, especially in rural areas. My
district would stretch from the Atlan-
tic to Ohio—we could put a lot of Mas-
sachusetts in my district—and our peo-
ple are suffering.
So I look forward to a day when,
after our substitute becomes law, we
can continue to work together on these
other issues.
I hope my friend will support our
substitute because I think it is all bi-
partisan; 138 Democrats have supported
provisions in our substitute amend-
ment. There isn’t a single partisan poi-
son pill in our substitute amendment. I
think that is why it is attracting sup-
port on both sides of the aisle.
Mr. Chairman, I know we have a lot
of business to do. I appreciate Mr. KEN-
NEDY bringing this to the floor on be-
half of Ms. JACKSON LEE, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Chairman, I urge
our colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on the
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, thank you
for this opportunity to discuss the Jackson Lee
Amendment to the Elijah E. Cummings Lower
Drug Prices Now Act.
Let me also express my thanks to the chair-
men of the committees of jurisdiction for their
hard work in crafting this critically important
legislation: Chairman PALLONE of Energy and
Commerce; Chairman NEAL of Ways and
Means; and Chairman SCOTT of Education
and Labor.
The Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Prices
Now Act levels the playing field for American
patients and taxpayers by:
1. Giving Medicare the power to negotiate
directly with the drug companies and creating
powerful new tools to force drug companies to
the table to agree to real price reductions,
while ensuring seniors never lose access to
the prescriptions they need.
2. Making the lower drug prices negotiated
by Medicare available to Americans with pri-
vate insurance, not just Medicare bene-
ficiaries.
3. Stopping drug companies from ripping off
Americans while charging other countries less
for the same drugs and limiting the maximum
price for any negotiated drug to be in line with
the average price in countries like ours;
4. Creating a new, $2,000 out-of-pocket limit
on prescription drug costs for Medicare bene-
ficiaries; and
5. Reinvesting in most transformational im-
provement to Medicare since its creation—de-
livering vision, dental and hearing benefits—
and turbocharging the search for new cures.
High drug prices are harmful. Medical costs
and out-of-pocket expenses result in high
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.042 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10210 December 12, 2019
rates of bankruptcies, and 10 to 25 percent of
patients either delay, abandon or compromise
treatments because of financial constraints.
Survival is also compromised.
For example, in chronic myeloid leukemia,
the 8 to 10 year survival rate is 80 percent in
Europe (where treatment is universally afford-
able), but the 5-year survival rate is only 60
percent in the United States.
The high out-of-pocket expenses discour-
ages patients from seeking care or purchasing
drugs.
And in a recent survey, one-third of insured
persons in my home state of Texas delayed or
did not pursue care because of high out-of-
pocket expenses.
The Jackson Lee Amendment is simple and
straightforward.
The Jackson Lee Amendment improves the
bill by expressing the Sense of Congress re-
garding the harmful impact of the high cost of
prescription drugs on communities of color
and persons living in rural or sparsely popu-
lated areas of the United States.
According to the Center for American
Progress, the negotiation authority provided in
H.R. 3 could save some diabetics more than
$700 on an annual supply of certain types of
insulin.
Moreover, negotiation could bring down the
net price for other types of drugs that are par-
ticularly needed in minority and poor commu-
nities—including expensive treatments for can-
cer and multiple sclerosis—by thousands per
month.
Reform is desperately needed and nearly 1
in 4 Americans currently taking prescription
drugs find them difficult to afford.
Some people struggling to afford medication
for chronic illnesses even turn to drug ration-
ing in desperation, which can be lethal.
In fact, a recent study found that 1 in 4 pa-
tients with diabetes ration their insulin in re-
sponse to rising prices.
The American public overwhelmingly agrees
that it is time to allow the government to nego-
tiate with pharmaceutical companies: 85 per-
cent of Americans support this tactic to reduce
prices for Medicare and private insurance.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts (Mr. KEN-
NEDY).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. GOTTHEIMER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 7 printed in
part B of House Report 116–334.
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of subtitle B of title VII, insert
the following:
SEC. 712. STUDY ON HIGH-RISK, HIGH-REWARD
DRUGS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall conduct a study to identify—
(1) diseases or conditions that lack a treat-
ment approved by the Food and Drug Admin-
istration and instances in which develop-
ment of a treatment for such diseases or con-
ditions could fill an unmet medical need for
the treatment of a serious or life-threatening
disease or condition or a rare disease or con-
dition; and
(2) appropriate incentives that would lead
to the development, approval, and marketing
of such treatments.
(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS; RECOMMENDA-
TIONS.—Not later than one year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall submit to the Congress a report that
includes—
(1) findings from the study under sub-
section (a); and
(2) recommendations regarding legislation
necessary to create appropriate incentives
identified pursuant to subsection (a)(2).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. GOTTHEIMER) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support
of my amendment to H.R. 3, the Elijah
E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now
Act of 2019.
My amendment will ensure continued
innovation and research to further the
development of lifesaving medicines for
rare diseases, including cancer, Alz-
heimer’s, ALS, and rare disorders.
The challenge now is that, at best,
only 1 out of every 20 clinical trials re-
sult in a cure. This, of course, means
that manufacturers invest billions be-
fore they can find a medicine that can
go to market to help save lives. They
don’t just bet on the winners; they
have to also bet and take a lot of risks
that don’t turn out to succeed and get
to market.
America has the best medical
innovators in the world. When our
health is on the line, we can’t stop tak-
ing those risks to make sure that we
find those cures. We can’t risk falling
behind.
My amendment provides investment
in qualified clinical testing for drug ap-
plications that address unmet medical
needs to treat rare and life-threatening
diseases, diseases that may go
unaddressed without extra incentives.
My amendment requires HHS to con-
duct a study to identify diseases with-
out an FDA-approved treatment and
where the development of a treatment
would fill an unmet medical need for
these rare diseases.
My amendment also requires HHS to
identify appropriate incentives that
would ensure the continued investment
in the development of these treat-
ments, treatments that will save lives
of the children, adults, and seniors of
our families.
The Congressional Budget Office and
other studies have shown potential re-
ductions in the number of drug approv-
als each year as a potential risk of H.R.
3. This amendment helps address that
concern.
Targeted therapies and medicines
serving smaller populations stand to
lose the most from this blow to R&D.
These are areas where the science is
the most difficult but also the most
important, such as cancers and other
rare diseases. Cures for these horrific
diseases could always be just around
the corner, but not if we are forced to
abandon what might be the next cure.
While I appreciate the intention of
H.R. 3 to reinvest savings in medical
research, including at NIH and FDA,
without this amendment, there would
still be no clear answer to explain what
might happen to the incredible re-
search and development work that oc-
curs every day in the private sector.
This amendment addresses that.
I know how critical NIH funding is
and have consistently advocated for in-
creasing the investment in research
there. However, NIH does not manufac-
ture medication, and neither does the
FDA. The private sector, including all
the research being done every day in
my home State of New Jersey, manu-
factures the lifesaving medications
that Americans rely on every single
day.
It is also why my Republican col-
league from Michigan, FRED UPTON,
and I introduced bipartisan legislation
this week, the Protecting America’s
Life Saving Medicines Act, to ensure
that life sciences companies continue
to invest in these innovative drugs
with a tax credit for qualified clinical
research, again, to ensure that this re-
search keeps getting done and that
they keep making the bets on moon-
shot drugs that, without those invest-
ments, might not save lives like they
do today, again, in the greatest coun-
try in the world where we innovate like
no one else.
It is critical that we never give up
hope that the next cure is within our
reach. My amendment today will help
us to reach the goal of curing our most
life-threatening diseases.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I claim
the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Oregon is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the gentleman for offering his amend-
ment today, and I really do. We work a
lot of with Mr. GOTTHEIMER on a num-
ber of issues before the Congress, and I
appreciate his commitment to this
cause.
Republicans fully support the goal of
the amendment: to identify those dis-
eases and conditions in which there is
an unmet medical need and exploring
ways to further incentivize getting
treatments to market.
In fact, a study in unmet medical
needs is especially timely with the con-
sideration of this underlying bill, H.R.
3, because we believe it will crush de-
velopment and hope for new treat-
ments.
We are not alone. We have come to
this conclusion based on others’ factual
evaluation of the bill. There is no
shortage of sources warning us that
H.R. 3 will lead to fewer cures. In fact,
independently, the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers estimates as many as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.010 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10211
December 12, 2019
100 new treatments will be lost over
the next decade under the partisan
H.R. 3.
I think the most disturbing, Mr.
Chairman, is that the California Life
Sciences Association, the great
innovators in America who come up
with these new cures that we all are
counting on, predicts an 88 percent re-
duction in the number of drugs brought
to market by small and emerging com-
panies. And that is only in California,
apparently.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budg-
et Office, another source here, our
third independent source, estimates
that, under H.R. 3, we will have nearly
40 fewer drugs over, roughly, the next
two decades; and then, after that, you
would see an annual—every year—re-
duction of 10 percent in the number of
drugs entering the market in the later
years.
b 1200
That is what has led so many of us
Republicans to oppose H.R. 3. We sup-
port the goal of getting drug prices
down. We think there are other ways to
do that, and we are open to working on
those issues.
No President has ever leaned further
forward on this matter and taken the
pharma companies’ CEOs head on than
President Trump. But even he, after
reading through the bill, said it goes
too far. And you can’t sacrifice innova-
tion and lifesaving cures for what else
is in the bill.
H.R. 3 will undoubtedly lead to an in-
crease in patients with unmet medical
needs, fewer drugs. Republicans believe
the value of fostering innovation is es-
sential, that is why we led on 21st Cen-
tury Cures, and passed it into law, led
by my friend from Michigan, Mr.
UPTON, and my friend from Colorado,
DIANA DEGETTE, a bipartisan effort.
But we know there are diseases out
there that still long for a cure. This is
why our bipartisan solution to lower
drug prices, the substitute amendment,
H.R. 19, will lower costs, but also pro-
mote innovation, and promote it from
the private sector side. We want that
private venture capital money to con-
tinue to flow into this pipeline.
H.R. 3, we are told, the independent
analysis tells us, a trillion dollars in
private sector money will leave this
sector because the punishment is so
harsh.
Can you imagine, you are working
your whole life, you have gone to col-
lege, you have got this great degree,
this big brain, you are coming up with
a solution to ALS or something, you fi-
nally get it done. It goes through all
the trials. It is perfected. It works. You
get a patent.
And then the government says, We
are going to set the price, and if you
don’t agree to that price, we are going
to take 95 percent of the revenues for
wherever else you sell this.
By the way, Congressional Research
Services warned Congress, and we have
had other constitutional experts tell us
for sure, H.R. 3 is so punitive and so
unfair, it would violate the Fifth
Amendment of the Constitution and
the Eighth Amendment of the Con-
stitution.
So the underlying bill, as we have
been told, is unconstitutional. We all
stand down here and take an oath of of-
fice to uphold the Constitution. We are
being told by our own Congressional
Research Service it likely upends, is in
violation of, the Constitution. We have
other experts say for sure it is.
I appreciate the gentleman’s amend-
ment. I do. We know there are unmet
needs that need to be dealt with. I
think it makes a lot of sense.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Chair, I
thank the ranking member for his
thoughtful comments and his thoughts
about what I think is clearly an unmet
need and one we need to continue to in-
vest in, so I thank him for his leader-
ship, too, sir.
Before I finish, let me just say that I
urge all my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on
this amendment, because we need to
keep making those investments to
keep our leadership as a country when
it comes to R&D innovation. It is one
of the reasons why our country is so
great and why so many lives have been
saved and so many families and chil-
dren helped.
We need to make sure that we get
drug prices down overall, which is why
this legislation is so important, to
make sure we have competition, more
development of generics in the market-
place and, of course, overall the best
quality healthcare in the world. It is
critical for our country.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, may I
inquire how much time I have remain-
ing?
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. CART-
WRIGHT). The gentleman from Oregon
has 30 seconds remaining.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Again, I appreciate the gentleman’s
hard work on this issue. I know we
share a common goal of getting drug
prices down and meeting unmet needs
of cures. But, tragically, the Democrat
bill, H.R. 3, is a very partisan bill.
We are told by the California Life
Sciences Association that, if enacted,
you could see an 88 percent reduction
in the number of drugs brought to mar-
ket by small and emerging companies
in California alone. That is their esti-
mate. These are the people who do this
work. They also estimate we would
lose 80,000—that is a lot—80,000 biotech
R&D jobs nationwide. That is what
H.R. 3 does.
So, if you are for cutting jobs in
America in biotechnical research, and
if you are for 88 percent fewer drugs
coming to market from small and
emerging innovators in California,
then I guess you are going to vote for
H.R. 3. I am not going to. I think we
can do better.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr.
GOTTHEIMER).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MRS. AXNE
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 8 printed in
part B of House Report 116–334.
Mrs. AXNE. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of title VII, add the following:
Subtitle D—Reducing Administrative Costs
and Burdens in Health Care
SEC. 731. REDUCING ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
AND BURDENS IN HEALTH CARE.
Title II of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 202 et seq.) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘PART E—REDUCING ADMINISTRATIVE
COSTS AND BURDENS IN HEALTH CARE
‘‘SEC. 281. ELIMINATING UNNECESSARY ADMINIS-
TRATIVE BURDENS AND COSTS.
‘‘(a) REDUCING ADMINISTRATIVE BURDENS
AND COSTS.—The Secretary, in consultation
with providers of health services, health care
suppliers of services, health care payers,
health professional societies, health vendors
and developers, health care standard devel-
opment organizations and operating rule en-
tities, health care quality organizations,
health care accreditation organizations, pub-
lic health entities, States, patients, and
other appropriate entities, shall, in accord-
ance with subsection (b)—
‘‘(1) establish a goal of reducing unneces-
sary costs and administrative burdens across
the health care system, including the Medi-
care program under title XVIII of the Social
Security Act, the Medicaid program under
title XIX of such Act, and the private health
insurance market, by at least half over a pe-
riod of 10 years from the date of enactment
of this section;
‘‘(2) develop strategies and benchmarks for
meeting the goal established under para-
graph (1);
‘‘(3) develop recommendations for meeting
the goal established under paragraph (1); and
‘‘(4) take action to reduce unnecessary
costs and administrative burdens based on
recommendations identified in this sub-
section.
‘‘(b) STRATEGIES, RECOMMENDATIONS, AND
ACTIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To achieve the goal es-
tablished under subsection (a)(1), the Sec-
retary, in consultation with the entities de-
scribed in such subsection, shall not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this section, develop strategies and rec-
ommendations and take actions to meet
such goal in accordance with this subsection.
No strategies, recommendation, or action
shall undermine the quality of patient care
or patient health outcomes.
‘‘(2) STRATEGIES.—The strategies developed
under paragraph (1) shall address unneces-
sary costs and administrative burdens. Such
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.045 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10212 December 12, 2019
strategies shall include broad public com-
ment and shall prioritize—
‘‘(A) recommendations identified as a re-
sult of efforts undertaken to implement sec-
tion 3001;
‘‘(B) recommendations and best practices
identified as a result of efforts undertaken
under this part;
‘‘(C) a review of regulations, rules, and re-
quirements of the Department of Health and
Human Services that could be modified or
eliminated to reduce unnecessary costs and
administrative burden imposed on patients,
providers, payers, and other stakeholders
across the health care system; and
‘‘(D) feedback from stakeholders in rural
or frontier areas on how to reduce unneces-
sary costs and administrative burdens on the
health care system in those areas.
‘‘(3) RECOMMENDATIONS.—The recommenda-
tions developed under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude—
‘‘(A) actions that improve the standardiza-
tion and automation of administrative trans-
actions;
‘‘(B) actions that integrate clinical and ad-
ministrative functions;
‘‘(C) actions that improve patient care and
reduce unnecessary costs and administrative
burdens borne by patients, their families,
and other caretakers;
‘‘(D) actions that advance the development
and adoption of open application program-
ming interfaces and other emerging tech-
nologies to increase transparency and inter-
operability, empower patients, and facilitate
better integration of clinical and adminis-
trative functions;
‘‘(E) actions to be taken by the Secretary
and actions that need to be taken by other
entities; and
‘‘(F) other areas, as the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate, to reduce unnecessary
costs and administrative burdens required of
health care providers.
‘‘(4) CONSISTENCY.—Any improvements in
electronic processes proposed by the Sec-
retary under this section should leverage ex-
isting information technology definitions
under Federal Law. Specifically, any elec-
tronic processes should not be construed to
include a facsimile, a proprietary payer por-
tal that does not meet standards specified by
the Secretary, or an electronic form image.
‘‘(5) ACTIONS.—The Secretary shall take ac-
tion to achieve the goal established under
subsection (a)(1), and, not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this section,
and biennially thereafter, submit to Con-
gress and make publically available, a report
describing the actions taken by the Sec-
retary pursuant to goals, strategies, and rec-
ommendations described in this subsection.
‘‘(6) FACA.—The Federal Advisory Com-
mittee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to
the development of the goal, strategies, rec-
ommendations, or actions described in this
section.
‘‘(7) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to author-
ize, or be used by, the Federal Government
to inhibit or otherwise restrain efforts made
to reduce waste, fraud, and abuse across the
health care system.
‘‘SEC. 282. GRANTS TO STATES TO DEVELOP AND
IMPLEMENT RECOMMENDATIONS
TO ACCELERATE STATE INNOVA-
TION TO REDUCE HEALTH CARE AD-
MINISTRATIVE COSTS.
‘‘(a) GRANTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 6 months
after the date of enactment of this section,
the Secretary shall award grants to at least
15 States, and one coordinating entity des-
ignated as provided for under subsection (e),
to enable such States to establish and ad-
minister private-public multi-stakeholder
commissions for the purpose of reducing
health care administrative costs and burden
within and across States. Not less than 3 of
such grants shall be awarded to States that
are primarily rural, frontier, or a combina-
tion thereof, in nature.
‘‘(2) ENTITIES.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, the term ‘State’ means a State, a State
designated entity, or a multi-State collabo-
rative (as defined by the Secretary).
‘‘(3) PRIORITY.—In awarding grants under
this section, the Secretary shall give pri-
ority to applications submitted by States
that propose to carry out a pilot program or
support the adoption of electronic health
care transactions and operating rules.
‘‘(b) APPLICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible to receive
a grant under subsection (a) a State shall
submit to the Secretary an application in
such a manner and containing such informa-
tion as the Secretary may reasonably re-
quire, including the information described in
paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) REQUIRED INFORMATION.—In addition to
any additional information required by the
Secretary under this subsection, an applica-
tion shall include a description of—
‘‘(A) the size and composition of the com-
mission to be established under the grant,
including the stakeholders represented and
the degree to which the commission reflects
important geographic and population char-
acteristics of the State;
‘‘(B) the relationship of the commission to
the State official responsible for coordi-
nating and implementing the recommenda-
tions resulting from the commission, and the
role and responsibilities of the State with re-
spect to the commission, including any par-
ticipation, review, oversight, implementa-
tion or other related functions;
‘‘(C) the history and experience of the
State in addressing health care administra-
tive costs, and any experience similar to the
purpose of the commission to improve health
care administrative processes and the ex-
change of health care administrative data;
‘‘(D) the resources and expertise that will
be made available to the commission by
commission members or other possible
sources, and how Federal funds will be used
to leverage and complement these resources;
‘‘(E) the governance structure and proce-
dures that the commission will follow to
make, implement, and pilot recommenda-
tions;
‘‘(F) the proposed objectives relating to the
simplification of administrative transactions
and operating rules, increased standardiza-
tion, and the efficiency and effectiveness of
the transmission of health information;
‘‘(G) potential cost savings and other im-
provements in meeting the objectives de-
scribed in subparagraph (F); and
‘‘(H) the method or methods by which the
recommendations described in subsection (c)
will be reviewed, tested, adopted, imple-
mented, and updated as needed.
‘‘(c) MULTI-STAKEHOLDER COMMISSION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date on which a grant is awarded to
a State under this section, the State official
described in subsection (b)(2)(B), the State
insurance commissioner, or other appro-
priate State official shall convene a multi-
stakeholder commission, in accordance with
this subsection.
‘‘(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The commission con-
vened under paragraph (1) shall include rep-
resentatives from health plans, health care
providers, health vendors, relevant State
agencies, health care standard development
organizations, and operating rule entities,
relevant professional and trade associations,
patients, and other entities determined ap-
propriate by the State.
‘‘(3) RECOMMENDATIONS.—Not later than
one year after the date on which a grant is
awarded to a State under this section, the
commission shall make recommendations
and plans, consistent with the application
submitted by the State under subsection (b),
and intended to meet the objectives defined
in the application. Such recommendations
shall comply with, and build upon, all rel-
evant Federal requirements and regulations,
and may include—
‘‘(A) common, uniform specifications, best
practices, and conventions, for the efficient,
effective exchange of administrative trans-
actions adopted pursuant to the Health In-
surance Portability and Accountability Act
of 1996 (Public Law 104–191);
‘‘(B) the development of streamlined busi-
ness processes for the exchange and use of
health care administrative data; and
‘‘(C) specifications, incentives, require-
ments, tools, mechanisms, and resources to
improve—
‘‘(i) the access, exchange, and use of health
care administrative information through
electronic means;
‘‘(ii) the implementation of utilization
management protocols; and
‘‘(iii) compliance with Federal and State
laws.
‘‘(d) USE OF FUNDS FOR IMPLEMENTATION.—
A State may use amounts received under a
grant under this section for one or more of
the following:
‘‘(1) The development, implementation,
and best use of shared data infrastructure
that supports the electronic transmission of
administrative data.
‘‘(2) The development and provision of
training and educational materials, forums,
and activities as well as technical assistance
to effectively implement, use, and benefit
from electronic health care transactions and
operating rules.
‘‘(3) To accelerate the early adoption and
implementation of administrative trans-
actions and operating rules designated by
the Secretary and that have been adopted
pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law
104–191), including transactions and oper-
ating rules described in section 1173(a)(2) of
the Social Security Act.
‘‘(4) To accelerate the early adoption and
implementation of additional or updated ad-
ministrative transactions, operating rules,
and related data exchange standards that are
being considered for adoption under the
Health Insurance Portability and Account-
ability Act of 1996 or are adopted pursuant to
such Act, or as designated by the Secretary,
including the electronic claim attachment.
‘‘(5) To conduct pilot projects to test ap-
proaches to implement and use the elec-
tronic health care transactions and oper-
ating rules in practice under a variety of dif-
ferent settings. With respect to the elec-
tronic attachment transaction, priority shall
be given to pilot projects that test and
evaluate methods and mechanisms to most
effectively incorporate patient health data
from electronic health records and other
electronic sources with the electronic at-
tachment transaction.
‘‘(6) To assess barriers to the adoption, im-
plementation, and effective use of electronic
health care transactions and operating rules,
as well as to explore, identify, and plan op-
tions, approaches, and resources to address
barriers and make improvements.
‘‘(7) The facilitation of public and private
initiatives to reduce administrative costs
and accelerate the adoption, implementa-
tion, and effective use of electronic health
care transactions and operating rules for
State programs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.019 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10213
December 12, 2019
‘‘(8) Developing, testing, implementing,
and assessing additional data exchange spec-
ifications, operating rules, incentives, re-
quirements, tools, mechanisms, and re-
sources to accelerate the adoption and effec-
tive use of the transactions and operating
rules.
‘‘(9) Ongoing needs assessments and plan-
ning related to the development and imple-
mentation of administrative simplification
initiatives.
‘‘(e) COORDINATING ENTITY.—
‘‘(1) FUNCTIONS.—Not later than 6 months
after the date of enactment of this section,
the Secretary shall designate a coordinating
entity under this subsection for the purpose
of—
‘‘(A) providing technical assistance to
States relating to the simplification of ad-
ministrative transactions and operating
rules, increased standardization, and the effi-
ciency and effectiveness of the transmission
of health care information;
‘‘(B) evaluating pilot projects and other ef-
forts conducted under this section for impact
and best practices to inform broader na-
tional use;
‘‘(C) using consistent evaluation meth-
odologies to compare return on investment
across efforts conducted under this section;
‘‘(D) compiling, synthesizing, dissemi-
nating, and adopting lessons learned to pro-
mote the adoption of electronic health care
transactions and operating rules across the
health care system; and
‘‘(E) making recommendations to the Sec-
retary and the National Committee on Vital
and Health Statistics regarding the national
adoption of efforts conducted under this sec-
tion.
‘‘(2) ELIGIBILITY.—The entity designated
under paragraph (1) shall be a qualified non-
profit entity that—
‘‘(A) focuses its mission on administrative
simplification;
‘‘(B) has demonstrated experience using a
multi-stakeholder and consensus-based proc-
ess for the development of common, uniform
specifications, operating rules, best prac-
tices, and conventions, for the efficient, ef-
fective exchange of administrative trans-
actions that includes representation by or
participation from health plans, health care
providers, vendors, States, relevant Federal
agencies, and other health care standard de-
velopment organizations;
‘‘(C) has demonstrated experience pro-
viding technical assistance to health plans,
health care providers, vendors, and States
relating to the simplification of administra-
tive transactions and operating rules, in-
creased standardization, and the efficiency
and effectiveness of the transmission of
health care information;
‘‘(D) has demonstrated experience evalu-
ating and measuring the adoption and return
on investment of administrative trans-
actions and operating rules;
‘‘(E) has demonstrated experience gath-
ering, synthesizing, and adopting common,
uniform specifications, operating rules, best
practices, and conventions for national use
based on lessons learned to promote the
adoption of electronic health care trans-
actions and operating rules across the health
care system;
‘‘(F) has a public set of guiding principles
that ensure processes are open and trans-
parent, and supports nondiscrimination and
conflict of interest policies that demonstrate
a commitment to open, fair, and nondiscrim-
inatory practices;
‘‘(G) builds on the transaction standards
issued under Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act of 1996; and
‘‘(H) allows for public review and updates
of common, uniform specifications, oper-
ating rules, best practices, and conventions
to support administrative simplification.
‘‘(f) PERIOD AND AMOUNT.—A grant awarded
to a State under this section shall be for a
period of 5 years and shall not exceed
$50,000,000 for such 5-year period. A grant
awarded to the coordinating entity des-
ignated by the Secretary under subsection
(e) shall be for a period of 5 years and shall
not exceed $15,000,000 for such 5-year period.
‘‘(g) REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) STATES.—Not later than 1 year after
receiving a grant under this section, and bi-
ennially thereafter, a State shall submit to
the Secretary a report on the outcomes expe-
rienced by the State under the grant.
‘‘(2) COORDINATING ENTITY.—Not later than
1 year after receiving a grant under this sec-
tion, and at least biennially thereafter, the
coordinating entity shall submit to the Sec-
retary and the National Committee on Vital
and Health Statistics a report of evaluations
conducted under the grant under this section
and recommendations regarding the national
adoption of efforts conducted under this sec-
tion.
‘‘(3) SECRETARY.—Not later than 6 months
after the date on which the States and co-
ordinating entity submit the report required
under paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary,
in consultation with National Committee on
Vital and Health Statistics, shall submit to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives, a report on the
outcomes achieved under the grants under
this section.
‘‘(4) GAO.—Not later than 6 months after
the date on which the Secretary submits the
final report under paragraph (3), the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
conduct a study, and submit to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions of the Senate and the Committee
on Energy and Commerce of the House of
Representatives, a report on the outcomes of
the activities carried out under this section
which shall contain a list of best practices
and recommendations to States concerning
administrative simplification.
‘‘(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section, $250,000,000 for the 5-
fiscal-year period beginning with fiscal year
2020.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentlewoman
from Iowa (Mrs. AXNE) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Iowa.
Mrs. AXNE. Mr. Chair, I yield myself
such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, as a mom, I have spent
hours in doctors’ offices with sick kids.
Nothing is more frustrating than when
a doctor has to spend more time look-
ing at their computer screen than help-
ing our children.
I have taken time off work only to
end up sitting in waiting rooms be-
cause a doctor is running behind, all
because of a mountain of paperwork
that they must do for every single per-
son that they see. And I have seen doc-
tors who are frustrated at their com-
puters trying to find the information
they need.
I have also heard from my constitu-
ents in Iowa that when they go to the
doctor’s office, they don’t want to feel
like it is an oil change, a quick ‘‘check
under the hood’’ and then a mountain
of forms. And it is not the doctor’s
fault. They have to comply with all of
these administrative rules and codes.
Parents like myself, those doctors,
and everyone in the healthcare indus-
try, know that something has to
change. And that is why I am offering
my amendment today.
My goal is to create a grants pro-
gram to help reduce all this excessive
and unnecessary paperwork on doctors
and healthcare workers. It will help
doctors spend more time with their pa-
tients, including children like mine
and those across Iowa. It will save
money, because it makes required med-
ical administration more efficient. My
amendment will reduce the time crying
kids have to wait for their parents to
fill out that paperwork before they go
into the doctor’s office. And my
amendment will cut red tape and Fed-
eral spending.
This amendment cuts Federal
healthcare administrative work by 50
percent in 10 years. I spent 10 years
working for the State of Iowa, and I fo-
cused on making government more ef-
ficient, so I absolutely know how to
find government waste and how to cut
it, and I think it is important that we
look at that.
As an efficiency expert and a mom of
two boys, I am proud to introduce this
amendment today. Health administra-
tion costs are out of control. We spend
$500 billion on all types of duplicate ad-
ministration every year. My amend-
ment creates $250 million in grants for
States each year, because when excess
administrative work costs nearly $250
billion per year, that is 1,000 times
more. In other words, if we reduce ad-
ministrative waste by more than 0.1
percent, these grants would already
pay for themselves. And this amend-
ment is going to cut away way more
waste than 0.1 percent.
I have the opportunity to travel all
16 counties in my district every month,
and I have met with doctors, nurses,
and physician assistants, they have all
told me how exhausting and unneces-
sary all that extra work is.
In 2016 doctors said they are spending
almost twice as much time on adminis-
trative work than they are with their
patients. That is just wrong. And that
same study also found that when a doc-
tor is in the exam room, more than
one-third of that time is spent on desk
work.
Our rural and small communities are
struggling to hire enough doctors, and
I am already working on attracting
doctors to our State, but we also need
to protect and keep the doctors that we
have, and doctors want to help pa-
tients, not do paperwork.
Last month, the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services released new
guidance to help reduce documentation
burdens and ensure doctors have more
time with their patients. That was the
first time in 25 years we have updated
these regulations with the specific pur-
pose of reducing paperwork. My amend-
ment creates grant programs to get
that done.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.019 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10214 December 12, 2019
Look, I get it, Mr. Chair, if you are
filling out 30 pages of paperwork, you
probably won’t like this amendment if
you like doing that. If your favorite
place is a doctor’s waiting room and
you want to spend more time there, I
will understand you not wanting to
support my amendment. Or if you al-
ways dreamed of being treated like you
are a computer code and not a patient,
then you can vote ‘‘no’’ on this amend-
ment.
But I am pretty confident you are
like me and you hate those things. So
vote ‘‘yes’’ if you want doctors to focus
on your kids. Vote ‘‘yes’’ if you want
shorter wait times and more time with
your doctor. Vote ‘‘yes’’ for all that,
while you are also saving Federal Gov-
ernment money. And by the way, if you
are going to miss the waiting room, I
would be happy to sign you up for a
‘‘Highlights’’ magazine subscription to
come to your home.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chairman, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, even though I am not opposed to
it.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Texas is rec-
ognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chair, though I op-
pose the dangerous fewer cures act by
Speaker PELOSI because it was written
in secret, it is partisan and it will
delay or kill the cures that our pa-
tients are hoping and praying for with
Alzheimer’s, ALS, Parkinson’s, and so
many cancers.
This amendment reduces unnecessary
costs, administrative burdens across
the healthcare system. I share this
goal with my colleague from Iowa. This
amendment includes a lot of just smart
ways to achieve this goal, including
identifying best practices, reviewing
existing regulations to see if they are
adding unnecessary burdens, and
studying how we might be able to
standardize and just automate certain
of these administrative actions.
All of this is pretty good common
sense. This amendment would help the
public and, I think, the private sectors
and the Federal Government and
States work better together. I hope
Mrs. AXNE offers this amendment again
on another legislation, maybe one that
will become law, because, obviously,
H.R. 3 will not.
And, of course, impeachment has
poisoned the water and delayed so
many bipartisan things that are impor-
tant to the American people. I hope she
continues to offer it. I imagine that
that ‘‘Highlights’’ magazine on the
doctor’s table will be all about im-
peachment. We want to make it all
about healthcare.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support the amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time. Let’s
vote.
Mrs. AXNE. Mr. Chairman, I thank
Representative BRADY for his support
for this amendment.
I appreciate anybody who also wants
to look at efficiencies within govern-
ment. It is something that we need to
spend more time on, so I am grateful
for your support and I look forward to
working with you and moving this
agenda forward.
Mr. Chair, I would still continue to
urge all of my colleagues to vote for
H.R. 3, so that we can make this a re-
ality, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Iowa (Mrs. AXNE).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MS. FINKENAUER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 9 printed in
part B of House Report 116–334.
Ms. FINKENAUER. Mr. Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add at the end of the bill the following new
section (and conform the table of contents
accordingly):
SEC. 812. REGULATIONS REQUIRING DIRECT-TO-
CONSUMER ADVERTISEMENTS FOR
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS AND BIO-
LOGICAL PRODUCTS TO INCLUDE
TRUTHFUL AND NOT MISLEADING
PRICING INFORMATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than the date
that is one year after the date of the enact-
ment of the Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug
Costs Now Act, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, acting through the Admin-
istrator of the Centers for Medicare & Med-
icaid Services (referred to in this section as
the ‘‘Administrator’’), shall promulgate final
regulations requiring each direct-to-con-
sumer advertisement on television (includ-
ing broadcast, cable, streaming, and satellite
television) for a prescription drug or biologi-
cal product for which payment is available
under title XVIII or XIX of the Social Secu-
rity Act to include a textual statement,
which shall be truthful and not misleading,
indicating the list price, as determined on
the first day of the quarter during which the
advertisement is being aired or otherwise
broadcast, for a typical 30-day regimen or
typical course of treatment (whichever is
most appropriate).
(b) DETERMINATIONS.—In promulgating
final regulations under subsection (a), the
Administrator shall determine—
(1) whether such regulations should apply
with respect to additional forms of adver-
tising;
(2) the manner and format of textual state-
ments described in such subsection;
(3) appropriate enforcement mechanisms;
and
(4) whether such textual statements should
include any other price information, as ap-
propriate.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentlewoman
from Iowa (Ms. FINKENAUER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Iowa.
Ms. FINKENAUER. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I wanted to start, before I
get to the amendment, to actually talk
about why all of this is so important
here today.
You see, I hold prescription drug
roundtables all across the district, and
there is a recent one that comes to
mind and a story that I want this body
to hear.
We were doing a roundtable in Du-
buque, where we invited folks to come
and talk about their issues with drug
prices and how that is impacting their
lives personally. And there was a fam-
ily that came, a young woman who was
in her teens, with her mom and her
dad. You see, she has diabetes, and
they struggle every month to try to
figure out how they are going to keep
affording insulin and her meters, and
different meters with different insur-
ances happen almost every single year.
And they are telling me these stories,
and in the middle of the roundtable,
the young woman and her mother had
to leave to go to a doctor’s appoint-
ment, and it was her dad that stayed
for the rest of it. And as I am going
around saying ‘‘thank you for coming
and sharing your story today,’’ I shook
the dad’s hand, and he looked at me
and he said, ‘‘Please do everything you
can to fight for my daughter and fight
to make sure that she is going to be
able to afford the care that she needs.’’
He told me he is very worried about
when she turns 26, and if she is not on
their insurance what does that look
like. Is she going to be able to keep af-
fording it? And he told me that he
wanted to be able to walk his daughter
down the aisle one day at her wedding,
not her funeral.
b 1215
I will never forget that conversation,
and I will never stop fighting to make
sure that we lower the costs of these
lifesaving medications that so many
folks across our country and in my dis-
trict need and rely on.
It is why I am so proud to support
the Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug
Costs Now Act of 2019, which puts
measures in place to make sure that
drug companies aren’t charging us dou-
ble, triple, or quadruple what countries
like Canada and Australia currently
pay.
However, H.R. 3 is currently missing
a bipartisan drug pricing reform that
has been supported by Senator GRASS-
LEY, by President Trump, and Members
of both parties alike. It is requiring
drug companies to disclose pricing in-
formation on prescription drugs when
they advertise directly to consumers
like us and folks in my district.
We have all seen the TV commercials
that promote prescription drugs. What
we may not realize is that pharma-
ceutical companies spend billions on
this advertising. Last year, they spent
over $6 billion, and a lot of that was ac-
tually to encourage people to get ex-
pensive, brand-name drugs.
My amendment would require TV ad-
vertisements for prescription drugs to
include the list price for a 30-day regi-
men or a typical course of treatment.
With this transparency, we can all be
empowered to make informed choices
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.048 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10215
December 12, 2019
and bring down costs to our healthcare
system.
When drug companies use advertising
to boost demand for drugs whose prices
just keep going up, the American peo-
ple deserve to know what these drugs
cost. My amendment will ensure that
we get a complete picture of the pre-
scription drug options we see on TV.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues
today to support this amendment, sup-
port this bill, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chair, I would like
to claim the time in opposition, even
though I support the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Texas is rec-
ognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Chair, this is a good
amendment. It would require H.R. 3 in-
clude a provision requiring each drug
ad on TV to include the list price of the
drug.
I support this policy; Republicans do,
as well. It is just a simple way to in-
crease openness in healthcare, trans-
parency that patients are, I think,
searching for.
In fact, this bipartisan approach is
already in the Republican bill in front
of us today, H.R. 19. I don’t know why
it was rejected in the initial Demo-
crats’ bill. I think perhaps it was writ-
ten in secret. It was all partisan meas-
ures.
We know, at the end of the day, it is
deader than a doornail. But I think,
after that is done, after impeachment—
I don’t know how many years that
thing goes on and wastes our lives. But
after all that foolishness is done, I hope
our Democrat friends will come back to
the negotiating table so we can work
on more commonsense, bipartisan ideas
like this one.
Despite my strong opposition to H.R.
3—it is such a cruel and false choice to
force people to choose between lower
drugs and lifesaving cures for Alz-
heimer’s, ALS, Parkinson’s, and so
many cancers; that is just wrong—I do
support this amendment. I urge my
colleagues to support it, too.
And I hope the gentlewoman from
Iowa will continue to demonstrate her
support for more openness by also sup-
porting the bipartisan H.R. 19 when it
comes to a vote later today.
Let’s vote.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. FINKENAUER. Mr. Chair, may I
check the balance of my time?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Iowa has 11⁄2 minutes remaining.
Ms. FINKENAUER. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
I am happy to hear that my col-
leagues across the aisle will be sup-
porting this important amendment,
and I would like to end with another
story that I heard at another round-
table, one from one of our farmers in
our district who came to our Waterloo
roundtable and came with his wife,
Heidi, who is battling MS, and was so
concerned about how he was going to
continue to make it with the ongoing
trade war with China that has been
taking his soybean markets, and the
attacks on renewable fuels that have
been hurting him every single day as a
corn grower as well, and the $80,000
every 6 months that they were going to
have to pay for the MS medication that
he went to his lawyer and asked his
lawyer how is he going to keep the
farm and make sure his wife gets what
she needs. His lawyer looked at him
and said: If you want to keep your
farm, you should consider divorcing
your wife.
That is another story that I will
never forget. These are the reasons we
are here today, that we fight for legis-
lation like this, that we get these
things done, and that we put our con-
stituents and people over the politics
that we continue to see here from folks
who like to divide us instead of unite
us.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Iowa (Ms. FINKENAUER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MRS. LURIA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 10 printed
in part B of House Report 116–334.
Ms. LURIA. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of section 101(b), add the fol-
lowing:
(3) FEHBP.—Section 8902 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(p) A contract may not be made or a plan
approved under this chapter with any carrier
that has affirmatively elected, pursuant to
section 1197 of the Social Security Act, not
to participate in the Fair Price Negotiation
Program established under section 1191 of
such Act for any selected drug (as that term
is defined in section 1192(c) of such Act).’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentlewoman
from Virginia (Mrs. LURIA) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Virginia.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I rise in support of my
amendment to H.R. 3, the Elijah E.
Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Act
of 2019. My amendment would ensure
that Federal employees benefit from
the same contracting practices as stat-
ed in the fair price negotiation pro-
gram established by the underlying
bill.
Close to 30,000 of our constituents in
Virginia’s Second Congressional Dis-
trict are Federal employees, and they
should all be able to benefit from this
monumental legislation to lower pre-
scription drug costs.
Making healthcare more affordable is
among my top priorities in Congress.
As the costs of prescription drugs seem
to skyrocket, I know I must do every-
thing I can to ease that burden on
coastal Virginians. Nobody should need
to choose between lifesaving medica-
tions or bankruptcy.
A vote in favor of this amendment is
one to support broader access to afford-
able prescription drugs. I urge all of
my colleagues to support my amend-
ment and the underlying bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Chair, I seek time in
opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Michigan is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Chair, I do rise in
opposition to the amendment. I would
like to make a couple of points.
According to the Office of Personnel
Management, OPM, the FEHB pro-
gram, the Federal Employee Health
Benefits program, is, in fact, the larg-
est employer-sponsored group health
insurance program in the world. It cov-
ers nearly 9 million—9 million—Fed-
eral employees and their families.
This amendment says that any pri-
vate health plan that chooses to offer
coverage in the FEHB program must
accept the government price controls
for prescription drugs established
under this bill, H.R. 3.
So, clearly, we are not satisfied in
this amendment with only setting
prices for Medicare and private busi-
nesses. It also creates another harmful
mandate and expands the already-rad-
ical scope of H.R. 3 to other programs
as well.
As my colleagues have noted again
and again today and yesterday, govern-
ments don’t negotiate; they dictate.
Taxing up to 95 percent of a drug man-
ufacturer’s revenue if it refuses to
agree with a government-mandated
price is not free market negotiation.
And, as we have heard from both the
CBO—nonpartisan body, Congressional
Budget Office—and the CEA, they tell
us that we are going to lose drugs that
will solve cures, as they just won’t hap-
pen with this bill.
Government price controls lead to
lower and fewer cures; and, as the CEA
said, nearly 100 cures for rare and dif-
ficult diseases likes Alzheimer’s, ALS,
and cancer just aren’t going to happen,
or they are going to be much delayed
under H.R. 3.
So I would ask my colleagues to vote
‘‘no’’ on this amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I stand here today in strong support
of H.R. 3, in opposition to my col-
league.
If, in fact, we are going to offer lower
prescription drug costs to those cov-
ered by Medicare and private insur-
ance, it is the least that we can do to
include our Federal employees in these
cost-saving benefits.
Federal employees live in nearly
every district in this country, and we
must ensure that they, too, can benefit
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.052 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10216 December 12, 2019
from lower drug prices secured by this
landmark legislation.
I urge my colleagues to support my
amendment, as well as the underlying
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Chair, I yield myself
the balance of my time.
I would also just like to say that the
CRS, Congressional Research Service,
has found that price controls in this
bill, H.R. 3, the underlying bill, may be
unconstitutional under the Fifth
Amendment’s Takings Clause and the
Eighth Amendment Excessive Fines
Clause.
So, instead of considering yet an-
other amendment which expands rad-
ical government-mandated price con-
trols at the expense of developing life-
saving cures, our time would be better
spent considering bipartisan policies
such as what is in the substitute, H.R.
19.
So I would encourage my colleagues
to, instead, vote for the amendment on
H.R. 19 and vote against H.R. 3.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Virginia (Mrs. LURIA).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from Virginia will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MR.
CUNNINGHAM
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 11 printed
in part B of House Report 116–334.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 62, after line 2, insert the following:
(4) OPTION OF SECRETARY OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS TO PURCHASE COVERED DRUGS AT MAX-
IMUM FAIR PRICES.—Section 8126 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(2), by inserting ‘‘, sub-
ject to subsection (j),’’ after ‘‘may not ex-
ceed’’;
(B) in subsection (d), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘, subject
to subsection (j)’’ after ‘‘for the procurement
of the drug’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(j)(1) In the case of a covered drug that is
a selected drug, for any year during the price
applicability period for such drug, if the Sec-
retary determines that the maximum fair
price of such drug for such year is less than
the price for such drug otherwise in effect
pursuant to this section (including after ap-
plication of any reduction under subsection
(a)(2) and any discount under subsection (c)),
at the option of the Secretary, in lieu of the
maximum price (determined after applica-
tion of the reduction under subsection (a)(2)
and any discount under subsection (c), as ap-
plicable) that would be permitted to be
charged during such year for such drug pur-
suant to this section without application of
this subsection, the maximum price per-
mitted to be charged during such year for
such drug pursuant to this section shall be
such maximum fair price for such drug and
year.
‘‘(2) For purposes of this subsection:
‘‘(A) The term ‘maximum fair price’
means, with respect to a selected drug and
year during the price applicability period for
such drug, the maximum fair price (as de-
fined in section 1191(c)(2) of the Social Secu-
rity Act) for such drug and year.
‘‘(B) The term ‘negotiation eligible drug’
has the meaning given such term in section
1192(d)(1) of the Social Security Act.
‘‘(C) The term ‘price applicability period’
has, with respect to a selected drug, the
meaning given such term in section 1191(b)(2)
of such Act
‘‘(D) The term ‘selected drug’ means, with
respect to a year, a drug that is a selected
drug under section 1192(c) of such Act for
such year.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr. CUNNINGHAM)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from South Carolina.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Chair, I rise
today in support of my amendment to
ensure that the VA and the veterans
that it serves are able to take advan-
tage of lower drug prices made possible
by H.R. 3.
I am proud to support the underlying
bill, which will result in lower drug
prices for millions of Americans, but
we cannot forget those who have sac-
rificed so much for our country. Vet-
erans have earned our support, and
they should never have to compromise
on healthcare.
H.R. 3 will establish a fair price nego-
tiation program which will enable the
Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices to negotiate with drug companies
and obtain a fair price for Medicare re-
cipients as well as the privately in-
sured. My amendment would simply
allow the VA to purchase drugs at the
same price if it is lower than what they
would otherwise pay on their own.
b 1230
Put simply, everyone deserves to pay
a fair price for their lifesaving medica-
tion.
This is not just about fiscal responsi-
bility. It is about moral responsibility.
The hard-earned tax dollars Americans
are willing to put toward caring for
their veterans should be spent on vet-
erans, not on lining the pockets of drug
companies.
The Lowcountry is home to over
80,000 veterans, and I want them to
know that when they seek VA care,
they are receiving the best care at the
best price. I, for one, refuse to allow
Big Pharma to profit off our veterans.
I ask my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to join me in ensuring our
veterans have access to the lowest pos-
sible drug prices.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chairman, I rise in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chairman, there is no question that
prescription drug prices in this country
are too high and that too many Ameri-
cans cannot afford the lifesaving medi-
cations that they need, and I wish the
bill we were debating today would
solve that problem. Sadly, it does not.
The premise of this amendment is
that the VA should be able to lower
drug costs if the savings predicted ma-
terialize. But make no mistake about
it, a bill that stops cures from coming
to market and discourages innovation
is bad for veterans and bad for Amer-
ica, regardless of the effects of this
amendment.
Further, with this amendment, we
would be putting the brave men and
women who have served our Armed
Forces and are seeking care from the
Department of VA at risk. Congress-
man CUNNINGHAM’s amendment would
expand the scope of this bill to include
the prescription drugs provided by VA.
As well intentioned as Congressman
CUNNINGHAM’s amendment might be,
this is the wrong thing for veterans.
Mr. Chairman, let me reminisce a lit-
tle bit. When I graduated from medical
school, there was a disease out there
we did not know the name of. We didn’t
even know the name of it. We later dis-
covered it was hepatitis C. We have
gone from not even knowing the name
of this disease to being able to cure it
in 8 to 12 weeks.
Let me tell you what this incredible
innovation has done for our Nation’s
veterans. The VA has cured more than
100,000 veterans of hepatitis C since
2014, remarkable, cutting the death
rate by 50 percent.
That is innovation that has done
that. Because of this treatment, vet-
erans cured are estimated to have a 72
percent less likely chance of devel-
oping cancer of the liver. Fewer than
25,000 veterans out there are now un-
tested that are at risk, and the VA is
to be applauded for this.
Let me digress to my first pediatric
rotation in medical school in Memphis
many years ago. My first inpatient ro-
tation was St. Jude Children’s Hos-
pital. At that time when I saw those
children, 80 percent of them, Mr. Chair-
man, died of their disease. Because of
innovation and research, and doctors
and nurses and others who went in
every day and saw these children die,
today, 80 percent of those children live.
If we don’t stifle innovation, my prayer
is that 100 percent of these children
live.
My concern with this bill, H.R. 3, is
not what it will do. It is what will be
left undone when we don’t have these
cures. I know that is not the intent of
my friend. We serve on the committee
together, and I know that is not his in-
tent. My concern is that is exactly
what will happen.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.054 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10217
December 12, 2019
I submit for the RECORD this list of
drugs right now that the VA does not
have on its formulary because it is
closed.
TOP MEDICARE PART B DRUGS NOT COVERED
BY THE VA (EXCLUDING VACCINES)
BRAND NAME/GENERIC NAME
Remodulin/Treprostinil Sodium
Provenge/Sipuleucel-T/Lactated Ringers
Soliris/Eculizumab
Synvisc/Hylan G-F 20
Tyvaso/Treprostinil
Abraxane/Paclitaxel Protein-Bound
Actemra/Tocilizumab
Advate/Antihemophil.FVIII, full Length
Aloxi/Palonosetron HCL
Brovana/Arformoterol Tartrate
Budesonide/Budesonide
Entyvio/Vedolizumab
Erbitux/Cetuximab
Faslodex/Fulvestrant
Injectafer/Ferric Carboxymaltose
Kadcyla/Ado-Trastuzumab Emtansine
Neulasta/Pegfilgrastim
NPlate/Romiplostim
Orencia/Abatacept
Prolia/Denosumab
Remicade/Infliximab
Simponi Aria/Golimumab
Xolair/Omalizumab
Yervoy/Ipilimumab
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chairman, further with this amend-
ment, we have a system now that
works, and I would encourage my col-
leagues to not support this amend-
ment.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Chairman, I
thank my colleagues on the Commit-
tees on Energy and Commerce, Ways
and Means, and Education and Labor
for their work on this historic piece of
legislation, which will save lives. I also
thank Chairman MCGOVERN and my
colleagues on the Rules Committee for
ruling my amendment in order.
I urge all of my colleagues to vote to
lower the exorbitant cost of prescrip-
tion drugs for every single American.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chairman, I agree with my colleagues
that we should do everything possible
to lower prescription drug costs, but I
can tell you that H.R. 3 will not do it.
One of the problems I have with this
bill is to stifle the incredible innova-
tion that I have seen in my career.
Let me give another example before I
close, Mr. Chairman. I had a professor
in medical school, Dr. Lemuel Diggs,
my hematology professor. He spent his
entire career trying to cure sickle-cell
anemia. I have sat by the bedside of
pregnant women and done exchange
transfusions on women nearing term
who have sickle-cell disease so they
can deliver a baby that is well and the
mother would be healthy. I have done
that.
Dr. Diggs passed before we found out
incredible research that has been done,
that we can do alterations of the HIV
virus, an attenuated virus it is called,
and place the right code in the genetic
code and potentially cure sickle-cell
disease for African Americans. We do
not want to stifle this innovation.
Mr. Chairman, I oppose this amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr.
CUNNINGHAM).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chairman, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from South Carolina
will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 12 OFFERED BY MS. HOULAHAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 12 printed
in part B of House Report 116–334.
Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Chairman, as
the designee of Ms. SCANLON, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add at the end of title VIII the following
new section (and conform the table of con-
tents accordingly):
SEC. 812. IMPROVING TRANSPARENCY AND PRE-
VENTING THE USE OF ABUSIVE
SPREAD PRICING AND RELATED
PRACTICES IN MEDICAID.
(a) PASS-THROUGH PRICING REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1927(e) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(e)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) PASS-THROUGH PRICING REQUIRED.—A
contract between the State and a pharmacy
benefit manager (referred to in this para-
graph as a ‘PBM’), or a contract between the
State and a managed care entity or other
specified entity (as such terms are defined in
section 1903(m)(9)(D)) that includes provi-
sions making the entity responsible for cov-
erage of covered outpatient drugs dispensed
to individuals enrolled with the entity, shall
require that payment for such drugs and re-
lated administrative services (as applicable),
including payments made by a PBM on be-
half of the State or entity, is based on a
pass-through pricing model under which—
‘‘(A) any payment made by the entity or
the PBM (as applicable) for such a drug—
‘‘(i) is limited to—
‘‘(I) ingredient cost; and
‘‘(II) a professional dispensing fee that is
not less than the professional dispensing fee
that the State plan or waiver would pay if
the plan or waiver was making the payment
directly;
‘‘(ii) is passed through in its entirety by
the entity or PBM to the pharmacy that dis-
penses the drug; and
‘‘(iii) is made in a manner that is con-
sistent with section 1902(a)(30)(A) and sec-
tions 447.512, 447.514, and 447.518 of title 42,
Code of Federal Regulations (or any suc-
cessor regulation) as if such requirements
applied directly to the entity or the PBM;
‘‘(B) payment to the entity or the PBM (as
applicable) for administrative services per-
formed by the entity or PBM is limited to a
reasonable administrative fee that covers
the reasonable cost of providing such serv-
ices;
‘‘(C) the entity or the PBM (as applicable)
shall make available to the State, and the
Secretary upon request, all costs and pay-
ments related to covered outpatient drugs
and accompanying administrative services
incurred, received, or made by the entity or
the PBM, including ingredient costs, profes-
sional dispensing fees, administrative fees,
post-sale and post-in-voice fees. Discounts,
or related adjustments such as direct and in-
direct remuneration fees, and any and all re-
muneration; and
‘‘(D) any form of spread pricing whereby
any amount charged or claimed by the enti-
ty or the PBM (as applicable) that is in ex-
cess of the amount paid to the pharmacies on
behalf of the entity, including any post-sale
or post-invoice fees, discounts, or related ad-
justments such as direct and indirect remu-
neration fees or assessments (after allowing
for a reasonable administrative fee as de-
scribed in subparagraph (B)), is not allowable
for purposes of claiming Federal matching
payments under this title.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Clause (xiii)
of section 1903(m)(2)(A) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1396b(m)(2)(A)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘and (III)’’ and inserting
‘‘(III)’’; and
(B) by inserting before the period at the
end the following: ‘‘, and (IV) pharmacy ben-
efit management services provided by the
entity, or provided by a pharmacy benefit
manager on behalf of the entity under a con-
tract or other arrangement between the enti-
ty and the pharmacy benefit manager, shall
comply with the requirements of section
1927(e)(6)’’.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection apply to contracts
between States and managed care entities,
other specified entities, or pharmacy bene-
fits managers that are entered into or re-
newed on or after the date that is 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act.
(b) SURVEY OF RETAIL PRICES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1927(f) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(f)) is
amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ after the semicolon
at the end of paragraph (1)(A)(i) and all that
precedes it through ‘‘(1)’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(1) SURVEY OF RETAIL PRICES.—The Sec-
retary shall conduct a survey of retail com-
munity drug prices, to include at least the
national average drug acquisition cost, as
follows:
‘‘(A) USE OF VENDOR.—The Secretary may
contract services for—
‘‘(i) with respect to retail community phar-
macies, the determination on a monthly
basis of retail survey prices of the national
average drug acquisition cost for covered
outpatient drugs for such pharmacies, net of
all discounts and rebates (to the extent any
information with respect to such discounts
and rebates is available), the average reim-
bursement received for such drugs by such
pharmacies from all sources of payment, in-
cluding third parties, and, to the extent
available, the usual and customary charges
to consumers for such drugs; and’’;
(B) by adding at the end of paragraph (1)
the following:
‘‘(F) SURVEY REPORTING.—In order to meet
the requirement of section 1902(a)(54), a
State shall require that any retail commu-
nity pharmacy in the State that receives any
payment, administrative fee, discount, or re-
bate related to the dispensing of covered out-
patient drugs to individuals receiving bene-
fits under this title, regardless of whether
such payment, fee, discount, or rebate is re-
ceived from the State or a managed care en-
tity directly or from a pharmacy benefit
manager or another entity that has a con-
tract with the State or a managed care enti-
ty, shall respond to surveys of retail prices
conducted under this subsection.
‘‘(G) SURVEY INFORMATION.—Information
on retail community prices obtained under
this paragraph shall be made publicly avail-
able and shall include at least the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.057 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10218 December 12, 2019
‘‘(i) The monthly response rate of the sur-
vey including a list of pharmacies not in
compliance with subparagraph (F).
‘‘(ii) The sampling frame and number of
pharmacies sampled monthly.
‘‘(iii) Characteristics of reporting phar-
macies, including type (such as independent
or chain), geographic or regional location,
and dispensing volume.
‘‘(iv) Reporting of a separate national aver-
age drug acquisition cost for each drug for
independent retail pharmacies and chain op-
erated pharmacies.
‘‘(v) Information on price concessions in-
cluding on and off invoice discounts, rebates,
and other price concessions.
‘‘(vi) Information on average professional
dispensing fees paid.
‘‘(H) PENALTIES.—
‘‘(i) FAILURE TO PROVIDE TIMELY INFORMA-
TION.—A retail community pharmacy that
fails to respond to a survey conducted under
this subsection on a timely basis may be sub-
ject to a civil monetary penalty in the
amount of $10,000 for each day in which such
information has not been provided.
‘‘(ii) FALSE INFORMATION.—A retail commu-
nity pharmacy that knowingly provides false
information in response to a survey con-
ducted under this subsection may be subject
to a civil money penalty in an amount not to
exceed $100,000 for each item of false infor-
mation.
‘‘(iii) OTHER PENALTIES.—Any civil money
penalties imposed under this subparagraph
shall be in addition to other penalties as
may be prescribed by law. The provisions of
section 1128A (other than subsections (a) and
(b)) shall apply to a civil money penalty
under this subparagraph in the same manner
as such provisions apply to a penalty or pro-
ceedings under section 1128A(a).
‘‘(I) REPORT ON SPECIALTY PHARMACIES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the effective date of this subparagraph,
the Secretary shall submit a report to Con-
gress examining specialty drug coverage and
reimbursement under this title.
‘‘(ii) CONTENT OF REPORT.—Such report
shall include a description of how State Med-
icaid programs define specialty drugs, how
much State Medicaid programs pay for spe-
cialty drugs, how States and managed care
plans determine payment for specialty drugs,
the settings in which specialty drugs are dis-
pensed (such as retail community phar-
macies or specialty pharmacies), whether ac-
quisition costs for specialty drugs are cap-
tured in the national average drug acquisi-
tion cost survey, and recommendations as to
whether specialty pharmacies should be in-
cluded in the survey of retail prices to en-
sure national average drug acquisition costs
capture drugs sold at specialty pharmacies
and how such specialty pharmacies should be
defined.’’;
(C) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘, in-
cluding payments rates under Medicaid man-
aged care plans,’’ after ‘‘under this title’’;
and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘and
the basis for such dispensing fees’’ before the
semicolon; and
(D) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘, and
$5,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal
year thereafter,’’ after ‘‘2010’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection take effect on the
1st day of the 1st quarter that begins on or
after the date that is 18 months after the
date of enactment of this Act.
(c) MANUFACTURER REPORTING OF WHOLE-
SALE ACQUISITION COST.—Section 1927(b)(3) of
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)(3)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subparagraph (A)(i)—
(A) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(B) in subclause (II), by adding ‘‘and’’ after
the semicolon;
(C) by moving the left margins of subclause
(I) and (II) 2 ems to the right; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(III) in the case of rebate periods that
begin on or after the date of enactment of
this subclause, on the wholesale acquisition
cost (as defined in section 1847A(c)(6)(B)) for
covered outpatient drugs for the rebate pe-
riod under the agreement (including for all
such drugs that are sold under a new drug
application approved under section 505(c) of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act);’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (D)—
(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
inserting ‘‘and clause (vii) of this subpara-
graph’’ after ‘‘1847A’’;
(B) in clause (v), by striking ‘‘and’’ after
the comma;
(C) in clause (vi), by striking the period
and inserting ‘‘, and’’; and
(D) by inserting after clause (vi) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(vii) to the Secretary to disclose (through
a website accessible to the public) the most
recently reported wholesale acquisition cost
(as defined in section 1847A(c)(6)(B)) for each
covered outpatient drug (including for all
such drugs that are sold under a new drug
application approved under section 505(c) of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act),
as reported under subparagraph (A)(i)(III).’’.
Page 195, line 9, strike ‘‘$500,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$680,000,000’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 758, the gentlewoman
from Pennsylvania (Ms. HOULAHAN) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania.
Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer this
amendment sponsored today by my
friend and neighbor, Ms. SCANLON from
Pennsylvania. This commonsense
amendment has two parts.
First, it would require pharmacy ben-
efit managers, or PBMs, to pass dis-
counts on drugs through to State Med-
icaid programs. PBMs are an important
part of our drug pricing system, but
Republicans and Democrats alike agree
on the need for PBM reform. This pro-
vision is a feature of the Senate’s bi-
partisan drug pricing bill.
According to the Pennsylvania De-
partment of Human Services, Pennsyl-
vania taxpayers paid $2.86 billion to
PBMs for Medicaid enrollees in 2017.
That is a 100 percent increase over 4
years. Under current law, PBMs can
bill Medicaid one price for a drug, re-
imburse the pharmacy at a lower price,
and profit, as a result, millions from
the difference.
This amendment would stop that
practice from Medicaid plans and sim-
ply require PBMs to pass along any dis-
counts they get from pharmaceutical
companies to the State’s Medicaid pro-
gram.
The amendment also requires phar-
macies to participate in the CMS sur-
vey of acquisition costs for drugs so
that States, consumers, and lawmakers
alike all can have greater transparency
into what these prescription drugs
should cost.
Again, this is a feature of the Repub-
lican drug pricing proposals included in
Mr. WALDEN’s proposal, and it is all
about increasing transparency into
costs, especially PBM pricing.
Lastly, this amendment invests in
NIH research for new cures and treat-
ments, especially for high-need condi-
tions.
I am a proud cosponsor of my friend
Ms. SHERRILL’s Biomedical Innovation
Expansion Act, which would invest $10
billion over 10 years in the NIH. As an
engineer and former chemistry teacher,
I know how important both basic and
applied research is to advancing
science and medicine. I am very
pleased that this bill builds off Ms.
SHERRILL’s legislation and establishes
a pilot program at NIH that provides
additional funding for clinical trials.
This stage of development is often
costly and complicated, and this
amendment would provide $900 million
to this important program. With this
investment, we are boosting support
for an initiative that will assist the de-
velopment of new cures and treat-
ments.
Mr. Chairman, for our Medicaid bene-
ficiaries, for the patient out there right
now with a condition that has no cure,
I ask that my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle support this amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I rise
in opposition to this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chairman, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Chairman, I
stand here in strong support of Ms.
SCANLON’s amendment to H.R. 3 and in
strong support of H.R. 3, as well.
I can say, as a freshman Member of
this delegation and this Congress, the
number one thing that all of our con-
stituents ask of us each and every day
is to address this issue of prescription
drug pricing and transparency into
that process.
This bill and the underlying amend-
ment therein support and affirm both
those things. I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to support this
bill and its underlying amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Chair, we cer-
tainly support clinical trials at the Na-
tional Institutes of Health. In fact, the
Republicans have led on this issue. In
fact, Republicans have led for decades
in increasing the funding for NIH,
going clear back to about 1995 when
then-Speaker Gingrich led an effort to
double the funding for the NIH.
Our colleague Mr. UPTON from Michi-
gan led the effort to dramatically in-
crease the funding for NIH. We know
that is extraordinarily important to
do.
Of course, while that is important, it
is kind of the basic science. The real
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.023 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10219
December 12, 2019
work that gets done takes that and
then turns it into drugs eventually
through a whole clinical trial process
with lots more innovation and invest-
ment.
Tragically, H.R. 3 rips $1 trillion out
of that innovation funding cycle. That
is why, for the life of me, I can’t under-
stand why my friends are voting for
that knowing that, and how they can
vote for H.R. 3 knowing that upward of
100 or more cures, lifesaving drugs,
medicines never will be developed.
Those aren’t my numbers. Those are
the numbers of the Council of Eco-
nomic Advisers. Those are the numbers
from CBO. They tell us in literally the
next 20 years, 38 new drugs will never
be developed, at a minimum, upward of
38. It could be more. I suppose it could
be less. After that, it is 10 percent
every year that don’t get developed. We
think it is actually higher than that,
but those are the facts. Those are facts.
I want to emphasize that the ban on
spread pricing in Medicaid offered here
as a Democratic amendment is actu-
ally, as my friend recognizes, in H.R.
19. We agree. There are 138 Democrats
who have sponsored different provi-
sions that are bipartisan in the sub-
stitute amendment, and it should do no
damage.
Why would you vote against your
own stuff? I mean, it is in here. It is
good policy. It is bipartisan. I hope
that some will have the opportunity to
be strong and vote for really good bi-
partisan legislation. I would argue that
H.R. 19, the substitute, is the most bi-
partisan bill on the floor today, the
only bipartisan bill on the floor today.
This comprehensive collection of bi-
partisan policies from both the House
and the Senate are contained in the
substitute, H.R. 19. We looked a lot at
the work that Senator GRASSLEY and
my own State Senator RON WYDEN put
together in their legislation. We prob-
ably got 90 percent of that one way or
the other incorporated in here.
I have learned over the years, from
the time I got here as a freshman until
now, you don’t get everything. Some-
times, you can make more progress by
getting together and getting what you
can agree on done and then continuing
to work on the issues where you don’t
agree, and I would say that is an issue
that we face right now.
We have before us a substitute that
could become law, and the President
basically indicated he would sign it. He
clearly has indicated he will veto H.R.
3. We have had word out of the Senate
that they have no plans to take up H.R.
3. To me, it makes it a nonstarter.
I also believe it is dangerous to inno-
vation. It will cost 88,000 jobs U.S.-
wide, and 80-something percent of new
drugs coming out of California won’t be
developed. That is according to the
people who do this work, California
Life Sciences.
b 1245
I don’t think you have to trade that
reduction in innovation and new cures
for lower prices. I think you can actu-
ally have both.
We have a common commitment here
to lower drug prices. We have a com-
mon commitment here to increase in-
vestment in NIH and to stop the bad
behaviors by the pharmaceutical com-
panies, to stop them from withholding
samples so that generics don’t get to
market or actually paying all generic
brands not to come to market.
I wrote the legislation last Congress
that modernized the FDA’s approval
process for medical devices, generic de-
vices, so we couldn’t get stuck—that is
a bit of a pun—by another EpiPen
issue. Because there was no compet-
itor, they raised the price the way they
wanted to, and they stuck it to people
like my wife, who used to use an
EpiPen, and many other consumers.
We now have competition in that
space, and the FDA has approved more
generic drugs as a result of our unani-
mous work on the FDA reform. More
generic drugs in the last year than at
any time in the history of the FDA
were approved, over 1,100 new generic
drugs, because, I think, when you get
more competition in the market, con-
sumers benefit with more choice and
lower price.
Now, there is still some gaming that
goes on, and we agree on that, and we
are putting a stop to that wherever we
can find it. But I don’t want to vote for
H.R. 3 as an unconstitutional measure,
as we have been warned by our own
Congressional Research Service law-
yers who looked at it. They said it
likely violates two provisions of the
Constitution because it is so punitive
and damaging.
We had the outside science people
look at it and say it is going to cost
cures.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
HOULAHAN).
The amendment was agreed to.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part B of House Report 116–
334 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 1 by Mr. WALDEN of
Oregon.
Amendment No. 5 by Mr. O’HALLERAN
of Arizona.
Amendment No. 7 by Mr. GOTTHEIMER
of New Jersey.
Amendment No. 10 by Ms. LURIA of
Virginia.
Amendment No. 11 by Mr.
CUNNINGHAM of South Carolina.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote after the first vote in this series.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. WALDEN
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Oregon (Mr. WALDEN)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 201, noes 223,
not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 676]
AYES—201
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peters
Posey
Radewagen
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schrader
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
NOES—223
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.060 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10220 December 12, 2019
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—12
Burchett
Gabbard
Gosar
Hunter
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
McNerney
Rooney (FL)
Sablan
San Nicolas
Serrano
Zeldin
b 1318
Mses. SLOTKIN, PLASKETT, Messrs.
GALLEGO, CASTRO of Texas,
CLEAVER, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. DOG-
GETT, Mses. BONAMICI, DELAURO,
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico, and Mrs. MURPHY of Florida
changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Messrs. BROOKS of Alabama,
SCHWEIKERT, PETERS, and SUOZZI
changed their vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. MCNERNEY. Mr. Chair, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 676.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. O’HALLERAN
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. CART-
WRIGHT). The unfinished business is the
demand for a recorded vote on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. O’HALLERAN) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the ayes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 351, noes 73,
not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 677]
AYES—351
Adams
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Radewagen
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Zeldin
NOES—73
Abraham
Aderholt
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Byrne
Carter (TX)
Cloud
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
Estes
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Granger
Graves (GA)
Grothman
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Johnson (LA)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (PA)
LaHood
Lamborn
Marchant
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
Meadows
Miller
Mitchell
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palmer
Perry
Ratcliffe
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Steube
Taylor
Timmons
Walker
Weber (TX)
Westerman
Williams
Womack
Wright
Young
NOT VOTING—12
Burchett
DeSaulnier
Gabbard
Gosar
Hunter
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Rooney (FL)
Sablan
San Nicolas
Serrano
Speier
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. MCGOVERN)
(during the vote). There is 1 minute re-
maining.
b 1324
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania changed
his vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Mr. WALBERG changed his vote
from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.025 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10221
December 12, 2019
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. GOTTHEIMER
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
GOTTHEIMER) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 380, noes 45,
not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 678]
AYES—380
Abraham
Adams
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Radewagen
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—45
Aderholt
Amash
Armstrong
Babin
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Byrne
Carter (TX)
Cloud
Conaway
Crawford
Doggett
Ferguson
Flores
Garcı́a (IL)
Gohmert
Granger
Green (TN)
Harris
Hice (GA)
Holding
Jayapal
Jordan
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Marchant
Massie
McClintock
Murphy (NC)
Olson
Pence
Perry
Pocan
Ratcliffe
Roy
Rutherford
Schakowsky
Shimkus
Smith (NE)
Steube
Walker
Weber (TX)
NOT VOTING—11
Burchett
Cárdenas
Gabbard
Gosar
Hunter
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Rooney (FL)
Sablan
San Nicolas
Serrano
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1328
Mr. WALBERG changed his vote
from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MRS. LURIA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Virginia (Mrs.
LURIA) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 231, noes 192,
not voting 13, as follows:
[Roll No. 679]
AYES—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.066 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10222 December 12, 2019
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—192
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Posey
Radewagen
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—13
Burchett
Gabbard
Gosar
Hunter
King (NY)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Malinowski
Meeks
Rooney (FL)
Sablan
San Nicolas
Serrano
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1332
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MR.
CUNNINGHAM
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr.
CUNNINGHAM) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 234, noes 192,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 680]
AYES—234
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—192
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Radewagen
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—10
Burchett
Gabbard
Gosar
Hunter
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Rooney (FL)
Sablan
San Nicolas
Serrano
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1339
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. PAYNE).
There being no further amendments,
under the rule, the committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
MCGOVERN) having assumed the chair,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.029 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10223
December 12, 2019
Mr. PAYNE, Acting Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that that Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the bill (H.R. 3) to establish a fair price
negotiation program, protect the Medi-
care program from excessive price in-
creases, and establish an out-of-pocket
maximum for Medicare part D enroll-
ees, and for other purposes, and, pursu-
ant to House Resolution 758, he re-
ported the bill, as amended by that res-
olution, back to the House with sundry
further amendments adopted in the
Committee of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
amendment reported from the Com-
mittee of the Whole? If not, the Chair
will put them en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I have a
motion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. UPTON. I am in its current form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Upton moves to recommit the bill H.R.
3 to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce with instructions to report the same
back to the House forthwith with the fol-
lowing amendment:
At the end of title VIII, insert the fol-
lowing new section (and update the table of
sections accordingly):
SEC. lll. EFFECTIVE DATE CONDITIONED ON
CERTIFICATION.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, none of the provisions of this Act
shall go into effect unless the Secretary of
Health and Human Services certifies that
the implementation of such provisions are
not projected to result in fewer new drug ap-
plications with respect to unmet medical
needs and life saving cures.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Michigan is recognized for 5 minutes in
support of his motion.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, here is the
beef: Tomorrow marks the third anni-
versary of the enactment of 21st Cen-
tury Cures, a bill that passed this
House at 392–26. In looking back at that
legislation now, 3 years later, we have
made wonderful strides in finding the
cures for the diseases that have im-
pacted every family, be it cystic fibro-
sis, Alzheimer’s and pancreatic cancer,
just to name a few.
And just last week, a number of us
met with a young girl who had been in
a trial for SMA. That is often a fatal
disease known as spinal muscular atro-
phy. She was in a wheelchair, barely
able to talk. But after 15 days on this
trial, she could actually move her head
and her neck for the first time in more
than a decade, all really because of
what we did on 21st Century Cures.
The CBO/CEA and Scott Gottlieb, in
today’s ‘‘Wall Street Journal’’ writes
that H.R. 3, the underlying bill: ‘‘The
price-control approach would increase
uncertainty and reduce returns from
biotech investment, raising the cost of
capital for these invaluable endeav-
ors.’’
You know, we are on the cusp of gene
therapy for deadly inherited diseases
like MS, literally, finding cures to
solve blindness. But let’s not stop.
Let’s build on what we did.
The language in this motion to re-
commit assures that cures will not be
slowed down, because we have the re-
quirement that unless the Secretary of
HHS certifies the implementation of
such provisions are not projected to re-
sult in fewer new drug applications.
That is what this amendment is about.
We want to make sure that we have
the resources to develop the cures that
all of us want for the thousands of dis-
eases where we don’t have a cure.
Mr. Speaker, I would yield to the
gentleman from Texas to talk about
his personal story, that many of us did
not know until this bill came up in the
last couple of days.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. WRIGHT).
Mr. WRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in staunch opposition to H.R. 3.
I can add to what my colleagues have
said with statistics and legalese, but I
would rather offer you my personal ex-
perience.
I was diagnosed with Stage 4 lung
cancer. I was told that the average life
expectancy was 16 months. That was 16
months ago. By the grace of Almighty
God and American biotech ingenuity, I
am still here, and I will get to spend
another Christmas with my family.
I was prescribed a rigorous regimen
of chemotherapy and an
immunotherapy wonder-drug called
Keytruda, which had only just been ap-
proved for my regimen in May of 2017.
Keytruda’s discovery is as a result of
significant financial investment by the
private sector, not the government.
Today, I feel great. My last CAT scan
showed nothing in my liver and lymph
nodes, and the primary tumor had
shrunk to about the size of a raisin.
Now, 5 years ago, my diagnosis would
have been a death sentence. Today, I
am beating it. Millions of Americans
are diagnosed with life-threatening ill-
nesses every year. And thanks to med-
ical innovation in the United States,
miraculous outcomes like mine are not
uncommon either.
If H.R. 3 becomes law, stories like
mine would be rare. If these socialist
policies had been implemented earlier,
I probably would not be here. For too
many in this Chamber, this has become
part of their political agenda, but for
me and millions of Americans, this is a
matter of life or death.
H.R. 3 will not save American lives.
It will end them. I urge my colleagues
to think of their loved ones who will
face deadly diseases in the future.
Many cures are on the horizon. We can-
not stop. We cannot slow down. We
cannot stifle research and development
of new cures by onerous government
control. Too many lives hang in the
balance.
Mr. Speaker, I beg my colleagues to
support this motion to recommit, and
let’s take action that will actually
save lives.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
opposition to the motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Washington is recog-
nized for 5 minutes
Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Speaker, I am so
glad that my colleague from Texas, Mr.
WRIGHT, is well and I am so glad that
he could afford the treatment that he
needed.
But we have people suffering from
the cost of prescription drugs now, and
intentionally holding up this bill hurts
them. We absolutely must remain the
leader in the world in innovation, but
the thing is, we can reduce drug prices
and still have money for research.
The money U.S.-based drug compa-
nies made in 2015 by charging Ameri-
cans high prices was nearly double
what was needed to fund their global
R&D. An H.R. 3 uses the savings to re-
invest billions in the research and clin-
ical trials needed to get cures faster.
I am so excited about H.R. 3, the Eli-
jah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs
Now Act. I am the first pediatrician
ever elected to Congress, and currently
the only female doctor here. I am also
a patient with type 1 diabetes. My life
depends on insulin, so the high cost of
prescription drugs affects me and peo-
ple like me every day.
I have driven over 7,000 miles this
year traversing my district talking to
people about what matters to them.
And you know what the biggest thing
is? The cost of prescription drugs. Be-
cause it doesn’t matter if you are a
Democrat or Republican if you cannot
afford your medication.
I understand this issue both as a doc-
tor and a patient, because it is not the-
oretical for me or for my patients.
When we talk about the cost of insulin,
I have felt that personally. I have seen
the price of my insulin go from $40 a
bottle to $300. That is the price for a
bottle that holds 10 milliliters, 2
teaspoons.
Before being elected to Congress, I
worked for nearly 20 years as a pedia-
trician in the suburbs of Seattle, just 3
hours from the Canadian border. Most-
ly, I sent electronic prescriptions, but
when patients asked for paper ones, I
knew it was because they were going to
Canada to fill it. EpiPens are $600 here;
$50 there. In Canada, insulin costs $50.
Right now, we pay three to four
times what our colleagues overseas
pay, and that is why we must use the
negotiating power of Medicare to bring
prices down. Our districts are alike.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.073 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10224 December 12, 2019
And we need to take on this out-of-con-
trol pricing. The people who sent us
here asked us to do it. Let’s deliver
today. I encourage my colleagues to
vote ‘‘no’’ on this MTR and ‘‘yes’’ on
H.R. 3.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Delaware (Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER), my colleague, a champion
of this bill.
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding.
I respect my Committee on Energy
and Commerce colleagues, but I cannot
support this motion to recommit. What
we have today is an opportunity to live
up to our promise.
Democrats promised.
Republicans promised.
Even the President promised to lower
prescription drug costs.
Let’s not get this confused or mixed
up. Colleagues, I want to just make it
plain: The Elijah E. Cummings Lower
Drug Costs Now Act, H.R. 3, is about
three things: Fairness, hope, and leg-
acy.
Fairness: Is it fair that the United
States pays 2, 3, or 60 times more for
the same drug as other countries?
Is it fair that in a capitalist country
our government can’t negotiate? We
can negotiate for planes, but we can’t
negotiate for insulin?
The Congressional Budget Office says
that H.R. 3 will lower out-of-pocket
costs and premiums for those on Medi-
care and it will reduce premiums for
180 million Americans who have pri-
vate insurance. American households
will save $120 billion over 10 years.
Let me put it another way: These
same Americans will see their cash
wages increase by $116 billion. It is
about fairness. H.R. 3 is about hope.
As AARP has shared, it gives seniors
hope that with savings from this bill,
we will modernize and expand Medicare
and cap part D out-of-pocket costs. The
$2,000 cap could be the difference be-
tween a lifesaving pill and somebody’s
rent.
Hope: With the savings generated
from this bill, we can expand Medicare
coverage to include hearing, vision,
and dental.
Hope: We can accelerate the great
American tradition of innovative re-
search for scientific breakthroughs and
cures for the National Institutes of
Health.
And with H.R. 3, we will provide pa-
tients like David Mitchell, who testi-
fied before our committee about his
personal experience with cancer. And
what he said is that it taught him
something: Drugs don’t work if people
can’t afford them. In other words, if
you can’t afford it, you don’t have it.
So, lastly, this will provide us a leg-
acy.
Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of passage.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 196, nays
226, not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 681]
YEAS—196
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—226
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—8
Burchett
Gabbard
Gosar
Hunter
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Rooney (FL)
Serrano
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1401
Mrs. DEMINGS changed her vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.076 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10225
December 12, 2019
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
CRAIG). This will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 230, nays
192, not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 682]
YEAS—230
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—192
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—8
Burchett
Gabbard
Gosar
Hunter
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Rooney (FL)
Serrano
b 1408
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MOMENT OF SILENCE MOURNING
THOSE KILLED IN TERRORIST
ATTACK AT NAVAL AIR STATION
PENSACOLA ON DECEMBER 6,
2019
(Mr. GAETZ asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. GAETZ. Mr. Speaker, I am joined
here with members of the Florida,
Georgia, and Alabama delegations be-
cause on December 6, in the early
hours of the day, our Nation learned of
a terrorist attack unfolding at Naval
Air Station Pensacola. The attack
took the lives of Ensign Joshua Kaleb
Watson of Coffee County, Alabama;
Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham of
St. Petersburg, Florida; and Airman
Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters of
Richmond Hill, Georgia.
We congregate here today to honor
the memory of those who lost their
lives and those who were wounded dur-
ing the course of this egregious attack.
Those who wear the uniform inspire
the best within us because they are
truly the best among us. They are our
sons and daughters, our fathers and
mothers. Last Friday, three of them
were taken from us, and we shall not
forget their names, or those who have
been impacted by that terrible attack.
I request all present, both on the
floor and in the gallery, to rise for a
moment of silence; and I am proud and
honored to be joined by my colleagues.
f
b 1415
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I rise for
the purpose of inquiring of the major-
ity leader the schedule for next week. I
yield to the gentleman from Maryland
(Mr. HOYER), my friend.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, on Monday, the House
will meet at noon for morning-hour de-
bate and 2 p.m. for legislative business.
Members are advised that no votes are
expected in the House on Monday.
Again, no votes on Monday, but we will
do legislative business. We will be de-
bating suspension bills, and the votes
will be rolled until the following day.
On Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
and Friday, the House will meet at 9
a.m. for legislative business. Let me
stress that so that every Member un-
derstands. We normally go in at noon
for a schedule like this on Tuesday,
Wednesday, and Thursday, but we will
be going in at 9 a.m. on those days, as
well as Friday.
Members are advised that the first
votes of the week on Tuesday are ex-
pected between 9 and 10. Again, I want
to emphasize that, although we do not
have any votes on Monday night, we
expect Tuesday to be a full workday, so
Members really ought to come into
town on Monday.
We will consider several bills, Mr.
Speaker, under suspension of the rules.
The complete list of suspensions will
be announced by the close of business
tomorrow.
As Members know, the current con-
tinuing resolution expires on December
20. The House will consider some appro-
priation measures. Hopefully, and my
expectation is, they are making
progress in the Appropriations Com-
mittee on coming to a resolution on
the 12 appropriation bills.
It is my hope that we will consider
those appropriation bills on the floor
on Tuesday, perhaps a series of minibus
packages to fund all of government for
the remainder of the fiscal year.
I would urge all of my colleagues on
the Appropriations Committee to do
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.079 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10226 December 12, 2019
everything they can in the next 24
hours, frankly, to bring this matter to
a close and agreement so that the staff
will have an opportunity to put the
bills together for consideration next
week.
This week, negotiators were able to
reach an agreement on a new trade
agreement. The Republican whip has
been asking me about that agreement.
I have assured him we wanted to get to
yes, and we have gotten to yes. We are
pleased at that, this trade agreement
with Canada and Mexico.
It is possible that the USMCA trade
agreement could be brought to the
floor next week. The only reason it is
possible and not assured is the admin-
istration is working on submitting im-
plementing legislation to the Congress.
My presumption is they will have that
legislation to us in the relatively near
term. It will be, therefore, available for
consideration next week.
This week, the House Judiciary Com-
mittee began markup, as the House
knows and the country knows, of two
Articles of Impeachment. Following
committee action on these articles, the
Judiciary Committee will make a rec-
ommendation to the full House of Rep-
resentatives. We will determine a path
forward on the floor following that rec-
ommendation.
Lastly, Mr. Speaker, as is always the
case in the last week, at least the last
scheduled week of a session, there may
well be other pieces of legislation that
will ripen for consideration and that
may well be considered next week. We
will announce those as soon as we
know which, if any, bills qualify for
that treatment.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, we are
encouraged by the progress that we are
seeing and involved in on the appro-
priations bills to properly fund the gov-
ernment.
As we have both discussed for some
time now, the important job of Con-
gress exercising its power of the purse
is critical. The willingness for all sides
to work together—House, Senate, Re-
publican, Democrat, along with the
White House—to get to a place where
we can reach an agreement on how to
properly fund our troops not for a
month or two at a time but for the en-
tire year, the value that it gives those
men and women in uniform, the ability
for our generals to acquire the tools
that are necessary so that they can
train safely and defend our country ef-
fectively, it is well served when we
reach this agreement.
I am encouraged by the progress the
gentleman reflected. Hopefully, we can
get to that point where, early next
week, those bills are agreed upon, fi-
nalized, passed with large bipartisan
majorities, which I have no doubt we
will produce, and then get those signed
by the President and move to USMCA,
as the gentleman talked about. Mr.
Speaker, I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. I appreciate the gen-
tleman making the comment with re-
spect to the Defense Department and
the importance of funding them, and I
agree with that.
I want to point out that the same
challenge applies to all the other agen-
cies of government. The more quickly
they can be funded, the more they
know what their funding is for the next
9 months—that is, between December
20 and September 30—and the more
able they are to plan and rationally
run their agencies. So I appreciate his
observation about the Defense Depart-
ment. It applies to all of government.
We are hopeful that we can fund, and
our intention is to fund, all of govern-
ment with full-year or at least the bal-
ance of the year appropriation bills.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I share
full agreement with what the gen-
tleman talked about in regard to all
the agencies as we have had these ne-
gotiations and look forward to seeing
them come to fruition early next week,
to get that approved then.
Of course, the United States-Mexico-
Canada trade agreement is a critical
step to show the world that we can
come together, build better trade rela-
tionships with our neighbors, create
over 160,000 new jobs for hardworking
families, get our economy moving even
stronger, allow us to sell products into
countries like Canada and Mexico that
we can’t sell today, and also send a
message to our friends around the
world like Japan, Great Britain, and so
many others that want to get better
trade deals with us as well. It tells
them that we are fully able to not only
negotiate those better deals but pass
those deals through Congress.
Then, as we all know and all agree, I
would imagine, we focus our efforts on
China to get China to play by the rules
that everybody else has, with a strong-
er agreement that allows our country
to be even more secure and our econ-
omy to thrive even more.
All of that is critical to get addi-
tional economic growth.
I would ask, does the gentleman
know the timeframe? We are, as you
mentioned, trying to get the final de-
tails worked out with the administra-
tion. Hopefully, those final pieces get
put in place today or tomorrow so that
it can get sent down to Congress. If
that does happen, is there a timeframe,
as you look at the calendar for Wednes-
day, Thursday, or Friday? Is there a
place where the majority is looking at
putting it on the calendar more than
other places so we can prepare as we
look to whip that bill and produce, ob-
viously, the votes to pass it?
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his question. We
don’t have a specific day, but I will tell
him that it is our intention, assuming
that the administration gets the ena-
bling legislation to us in a timely fash-
ion, which is my expectation they will
do, to consider that next week. Now,
which day next week has not been de-
cided, but we do intend to consider it
next week. We want to pass it before
we leave here.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate that. We stand ready to continue
this work in good faith, which it has
been from the beginning.
Obviously, President Trump nego-
tiated this deal, but his trade rep-
resentative, Ambassador Lighthizer,
has done yeoman’s work, working tire-
lessly with all of us in Congress—Re-
publican, Democrat, House, Senate—to
work through the final details that we
all had.
A trade deal is always complicated.
It always has pieces that some like
more than others. Ultimately, when it
is better for the country than the cur-
rent deal we are in with NAFTA, I
think there is broad agreement that we
finally got there, so hopefully we can
get that completed next week and then
start yielding the economic benefits.
If the gentleman had something else,
I will yield.
Mr. HOYER. Ambassador Lighthizer,
as I have said all along, we have per-
ceived as an honest broker. I think he
has dealt with us fairly and openly.
Very frankly, we believe that the
agreement that has now been finalized
is substantially stronger and better
than it was when it was first given to
us for consideration. I say that in the
sense that we took the position, and I
have taken this position on the floor,
the gentleman knows, that enforce-
ment was critical.
The Chamber of Commerce has said,
if you have a trade agreement without
effective enforcement, you don’t have a
real agreement. What we were able to
achieve was, we think, real enforce-
ment, which protects workers, which
protects the environment, which pro-
tects other aspects of the agreement.
We also are pleased that some of the
things that were in the bill that we
thought were harmful to consumers, in
particular, were dropped.
But it was an honest negotiation, as
the whip has pointed out. It was a hard
negotiation, not so much between Mr.
Lighthizer and ourselves, but between
Mr. Lighthizer and some of the other
interest groups, including our friends
in Mexico.
We have now reached that agree-
ment. Hopefully, we can pass this next
week. Our friends in labor have en-
dorsed this agreement. The Maryland/
D.C. AFL–CIO has endorsed this agree-
ment because they have the confidence
that, unlike NAFTA—for which I
voted, Mr. Speaker—in which there was
no successful enforcement action over
the last two decades, this will have the
opportunity for successful enforcement
for economic reasons and for other rea-
sons. And I hope that this will move
forward.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, anytime
we can make an agreement better for
the hardworking families of this coun-
try, it will be a Christmas gift well re-
ceived by families all across the Na-
tion. I look forward to getting this
done and then hopefully, like I said,
getting others done with other coun-
tries. We definitely have that oppor-
tunity and will seek it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.082 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10227
December 12, 2019
I want to shift gears and talk about
impeachment and where we are, where
the committee is right now. There are
a number of items that I wanted to dis-
cuss, but one that has been an issue
raised in the Judiciary Committee last
night and today that continues to be a
concern is that, under the rules, the
minority was promised an actual day
of hearings, and that has yet to hap-
pen. Multiple requests have been made,
letters sent to the chairman. For what-
ever reason, the chairman has rejected
and, in appearance, violated the rules
by not allowing what has historically
been granted as a minority day of hear-
ing.
I would like to ask the gentleman if
he was aware of this. It has been raised
in the committee multiple times, why
not only that tradition but why that
rule is not being followed, and I would
yield.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, let me tell
the gentleman very candidly, I have
not discussed with Mr. NADLER or oth-
ers on the Judiciary Committee that
issue. So I really can’t give you the ra-
tionale that was articulated by the
chair or by others.
I will say, however, that the Presi-
dent has indicated he wants to move
with dispatch on this issue. We are
doing that, and we have little time left.
Very frankly, there were other wit-
nesses to come forward, and very
frankly, there were a lot of witnesses
who were precluded from coming for-
ward that we thought would amplify,
frankly, people who work for and with
the President who may have had infor-
mation to give. But I can’t specifically
articulate the rationale, but we can get
that for you.
Mr. SCALISE. I appreciate that. It
just seems an odd break from the rule
that is designed to ensure that both
sides are heard, and that is why there
is an opportunity for a minority day of
hearing.
The opportunity was requested, and
the opportunity was denied, and then
the committee today is going to be vot-
ing. The committee is acting as a jury
to remove a President of the United
States. Clearly, there were witnesses
that we sought to bring forward that
we were not allowed to bring forward,
breaking from the custom and tradi-
tion of all the other impeachments
that we have had. Clearly, the Nixon
rules were repeated with Clinton so
that both sides were treated fairly.
For whatever reason, this majority
chose not to follow that custom and
tradition, so the minority was not al-
lowed to bring all the witnesses that
we requested, and so the minority day
of hearing was the only opportunity to
present additional evidence that was
sought.
b 1430
And so if the jury, in essence, today
is going to give a verdict, which they
are, I would expect that the committee
is going to pass the Articles of Im-
peachment.
You had over 70 percent of this com-
mittee, the Judiciary Committee, over
70 percent of the members of this jury
already voted to impeach the President
on various votes that have been taken
on this House floor. So if the jury
doesn’t want to hear the other side’s
argument, it begs the question: Was
the jury rigged?
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentleman.
Because, out of fairness, but also out
of the actual rules of the House, that
opportunity is in the rules for the mi-
nority to have a day of hearings, and it
was denied. That means that the evi-
dence that was going to be submitted
to the jury who is voting to remove a
President was also denied.
And why both sides weren’t able to be
heard, why the chairman did not want
both sides to be heard, I think begs a
lot of questions.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
on this.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
First of all, of course, this is not the
jury in the sense of a petit jury that is
going to decide guilt and innocence. It
is, from a lawyer’s standpoint, more
analogous to a grand jury, which sim-
ply decides whether or not there is
probable cause to believe the President
abused his power in the exercise of his
authority and, secondly, in the second
Article, refused to cooperate with the
Congress exercising its constitutional
responsibility of oversight.
Secondly, let me say to the gen-
tleman, as the gentleman knows, the
President was given the opportunity to
appear with counsel and to call such
witnesses as he wanted to call—I be-
lieve that is correct—but to appear and
defend against the allegations that are
incorporated in the Articles of Im-
peachment, and the President chose
not to appear.
The President chose not to have
counsel present. Mr. Cipollone, counsel
to the White House, in fact, responded
to the offer to appear and said: We have
chosen not to do so.
So to say that the respondent in this
case—I won’t call him a defendant. But
the respondent in this case, the Presi-
dent of the United States, chose not to
respond, chose not to appear, chose not
to produce evidence in his defense. One
could conclude that perhaps they de-
cided they didn’t have any, but I won’t
conclude that, but that could be one
conclusion drawn.
But I will tell the gentleman, first of
all, this is not a jury that is deciding
guilt or innocence; it is a jury deciding
probable cause whether or not there is
cause to believe.
And, of course, we had extensive
hearings at which many witnesses tes-
tified, some of whom worked for the
administration, with the administra-
tion, in the White House, who testified
to the facts, which most constitutional
experts believe, if believed, constitute
an abuse of power.
But, again, I will say to the gen-
tleman, the central reality is the Presi-
dent refused to appear.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, the
President, like any other person who is
requested to provide information, did
comply.
When you look at the Articles of Im-
peachment, at the beginning of all of
this, of course, there was the Mueller
investigation for 22 months, which al-
leged many things. And, ultimately,
the results turned out that there were
no crimes committed by the President,
as we had looked into when we were in
the majority and knew that years ago,
but for whatever reason, others wanted
to continue making assertions. Those
assertions turned out to be false.
So, instead of dropping it there, then
you had the whistleblower complaint
and the allegations of all of these
things that happened on a phone call.
The only problem is the President
then released the transcript of the
phone call. And not only did those
things not get reflected in the tran-
script, but the two people who actually
participated, who should be listened to
the most, both said there was nothing
wrong with the call.
President Zelensky was asked was
there any pressure applied. He said no.
He got the money. He got the money,
and he also got the Javelin missiles. He
thanked President Trump on the phone
call for the aid that allowed him to
push back Russia.
As I will point out, President Trump
sold 360 Javelin missiles to Ukraine so
they could defend themselves, pushing
back against Russia. President Obama
and Vice President Joe Biden sold zero
Javelin missiles to Ukraine to help
them push back from Russia.
So all of this assertion of one Presi-
dent not allowing Ukraine to get the
aid they need to stand up to Russia
turned out to be true. President Obama
is the one who didn’t allow Ukraine to
have the tools they need. He sold them
zero.
They asked: Please sell us the Jav-
elin missiles so we can defend ourselves
against Russian aggression. And Presi-
dent Obama and Vice President Biden
said no.
Why? That is a good question, and
maybe somebody needs to open an in-
vestigation into that.
But in the meantime, President
Trump said yes. He actually sold them
360 Javelins. President Zelensky, on
the call, thanked him.
Was there pressure applied? Actually,
there were thanks involved, President
Zelensky thanking President Trump
for allowing him the tools to stand up
to Russia. He said: We may buy more.
But he thanked him for the ones that
he sold.
There was no quid pro quo. There
were no investigations. They asked for
help, and President Trump said: Abso-
lutely. We will help you stand up to
Russia.
And the facts are there.
Then you look at the catchall Arti-
cles of Impeachment. It wasn’t the
bribery and the quid pro quo that were
alleged for months, because there was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.083 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10228 December 12, 2019
none, and so that is not in the Articles
of Impeachment. So you see these
catchall phrases like ‘‘abuse of power,’’
‘‘obstruction of Congress.’’
Then you read what they allege to be
obstruction of Congress: it is the Presi-
dent exercising his rights.
The different Federal agencies that
were asked for information—this is the
obstruction of Congress—these Federal
agencies all responded. They responded
to the committee. They said: Here.
Let’s have a conversation about how to
get you information that you want
without violating the executive privi-
leges that every President has been af-
forded.
These are letters right here: White
House, December 1, 2019; December 6,
2019; October 15, 2019, Office of the
President:
Including invoking privileges that are held
by the President in no way manifests evi-
dence of obstruction; otherwise warrants, of-
fered to negotiate about what information
you want.
Secretary of State, October 1, 2019,
sent a response to the committee.
Department of Energy, October 18,
2019, sent a response to the committee.
Never heard back from the committee,
so clearly the committee must have
been okay with the response.
The Office of the Secretary of De-
fense, the Secretary of Defense on Oc-
tober 15, 2019:
The Department is prepared to engage in
the process consistent with longstanding
practice and provide the responsive informa-
tion should there be resolution of this mat-
ter.
The Secretary of State, Secretary of
Defense said: Here. What do you need?
Let’s talk and work through it.
They didn’t get a response from the
committee. The committee didn’t say:
No. We want more. The committee
didn’t say: We disagree with you—
which means, by the way, there is a
third branch of government. That is,
the judicial branch.
If the two branches disagree, histori-
cally, in all these impeachments—by
the way, you don’t have to wonder
about it. You can go back and look at
history: Nixon, Clinton. Go back to An-
drew Johnson.
The White House and the legislative
branch negotiated what kind of infor-
mation they wanted, and if there was a
disagreement—and sometimes there
is—you go to the courts and you say:
Let’s resolve it.
There were some people who the com-
mittee asked to come and testify be-
fore the committee. They issued sub-
poenas. In some cases, they withdrew
those subpoenas. So that person wasn’t
out of compliance; they weren’t asked
to come. But in some cases, they went
to the courts, and the courts are actu-
ally still working to resolve that dif-
ference. The courts haven’t worked it
out.
That is an obstruction of Congress, to
actually send a response to a question?
The legislative branch asked the ex-
ecutive branch a question. The execu-
tive branch, in letter after letter after
letter, responds. The committee didn’t
then go back and say: No. You didn’t
give me what I wanted.
These were all responses. They might
not have gotten the answer they want-
ed, but they got an answer. And if they
didn’t agree with the answer—the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. HOYER)
knows, historically, how that works—
you ask again.
Maybe you ask for something dif-
ferent. Maybe you narrow it. Maybe
you say: You know what, you have to
give that to me, and if you don’t, I am
going to go to the courts and make it
happen.
They didn’t do any of that. They
didn’t do any of that. They just filed
Articles of Impeachment: Impeach the
President. We don’t like the answer.
They gave us answers, answer after
answer. And instead of saying, ‘‘Well,
we disagree with your answer. This is
what you need to send,’’ they just said,
‘‘Let’s impeach the President,’’ because
that was the objective all along, as we
know, in this whole sham. It has al-
ways been about impeachment, not
about facts.
So when you have a process, if you
don’t want to follow the process, you
don’t want to actually go and try to
get answers to questions, you just want
to end at a conclusion of impeachment,
that is where we are.
And that is why you see these two ar-
ticles that don’t list crimes. All the al-
leged crimes were debunked. They are
not in the Articles of Impeachment.
And so we end up with abuse of power
and obstruction of Congress.
Then you look at the things that are
alleged, and there are actual answers
from the different Federal agencies to
the questions that were asked. The
committee never went back and fol-
lowed up. They just said: We are going
to impeach the President because that
is what we were going to do from the
beginning.
Seventy-one percent of the members
of the committee had already voted to
impeach the President before the call
with President Zelensky.
So why didn’t the majority go
through the normal process? Why
didn’t the majority allow us, the mi-
nority, our own day of hearings to
counter some of these false allega-
tions? I think the American people
have figured it out. Because it was
never about getting to the facts.
If that was the case, they would have
worked with the executive branch to
get those answers to those questions.
They didn’t. They would have worked
with us to allow us to have the minor-
ity day of hearing that the rules of the
House allow us, but they didn’t. And so
this is where we are.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, my friend articulates
many things that have no basis in fact
and believes, in my view, that if he
says it enough times that people will
believe them. To that extent, I think
he mirrors the President of the United
States, who does the same thing.
First of all, the rules have been fol-
lowed. Secondly, the evidence that has
been adduced is overwhelming and has
not been controverted.
John Bolton, when talking about this
deal, which we believe is an abuse of
power, said that this was the equiva-
lent of a drug deal. That is John
Bolton.
My friend has talked for many weeks
about how the Mueller report found
nothing.
First, let me read from the Mueller
report something that was not part of
an article but certainly informs us as
to the intent and the feelings of the
President of the United States.
The Mueller report said this: ‘‘Our in-
vestigation found multiple acts by the
President that were capable of exerting
undue influence over law enforcement
investigations, including Russian in-
terference and obstruction investiga-
tions.
‘‘The incidents were often carried out
through one-on-one meetings in which
the President sought to use his official
power outside of usual channels.
‘‘These actions,’’ the Mueller report
said, ‘‘ranged from their efforts to re-
move the special counsel and to reverse
the effect of the Attorney General’s
recusal, to the attempted use of official
power to limit the scope of the inves-
tigation, to direct and indirect con-
tacts with witnesses and the potential
influence of their testimony.
‘‘The special counsel did not reach
conclusions because’’—and this is crit-
ical, and the whip constantly ignores
this when he says the Mueller report
found nothing.
‘‘The special counsel,’’ it says, ‘‘did
not reach conclusions because Depart-
ment of Justice guidelines prohibit in-
dicting a sitting President. Therefore,
the Mueller report makes clear, how-
ever, that it does not exonerate the
President by saying this. If we had con-
fidence’’—the whip may want to hear
this.
The Mueller report said: ‘‘If we had
confidence after a thorough investiga-
tion of the facts that the President
clearly did not commit obstruction of
justice, we would so state. But, based
upon the facts and the applicable legal
standards, we are unable to reach that
judgment that the President did not, in
fact, participate in obstruction of jus-
tice.’’
b 1445
But because DOJ, for whom the coun-
sel worked—not a special prosecutor,
the special counsel—counsel demurred,
essentially refused to make a judgment
that he thought he was unable to
make. But he made it clear that they
could not find that the President did
not obstruct justice.
Let me say something else. There are
a number of people who thought the
Mueller report and the Mueller inves-
tigation had great effect:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.085 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10229
December 12, 2019
Paul Manafort, pled guilty to lying;
Roger Stone, convicted;
Michael Cohen, the President’s coun-
sel, convicted, in jail;
Michael Flynn, convicted of lying,
the national security adviser appointed
by President Trump, convicted;
Rick Gates, the deputy campaign
manager for President Trump, con-
victed;
George Papadopoulos, who the Presi-
dent claimed was his foreign policy ad-
viser—or one of his foreign policy ad-
visers—convicted, pled guilty, served a
short period of time, and now is a can-
didate for Congress on the Republican
ticket in the State of California.
They all think that the Mueller re-
port had some consequences. That is
the context in which we see this crowd.
No wonder so many of them didn’t
want to testify.
And when Mr. Sondland testified the
first time and then, after that, he saw
some of these convictions, he amended
his testimony.
He came in and said, oh, yes, there
may have been some discussion about a
so-called quid pro quo or a bribery or
extortion. He didn’t say those words.
Those are my words. He talks about ob-
struction of Congress and how there
was no back and forth, and he says,
well, they could have gone to court.
As a matter of fact, we have gone to
court time after time after time. And
guess what, Mr. Speaker, the court has
said that Congress is entitled to that
discovery. Now, they keep appealing it.
Mr. Speaker, that is the President’s
modus operandi, which he has pursued
all of his adult life. When people said
he owed them money; when people said
he didn’t fulfill a contract; when people
said he should do this, that, or the
other, he almost invariably took them
to court and delayed and delayed and
delayed.
There is an editorial in ‘‘USA Today’’
which says this: ‘‘Trump has met the
impeachment investigation with out-
right and unprecedented defiance.’’ We
share that view.
No President in history has refused
to cooperate with the Congress of the
United States in the exercising of its
constitutional responsibility of over-
sight other than this President. Those
are the facts.
This is not ‘‘The Washington Post’’
or ‘‘The New York Times.’’ That edi-
torial went on to say: ‘‘Allowing this
obstruction to stand unchallenged
would put the President above the law
and permanently damage Congress’
ability to investigate misconduct by
Presidents of either party.’’
Now, Mr. Speaker, I would again re-
flect that Articles of Impeachment
under the Constitution of the United
States are what Mr. Mueller said was
the appropriate option if the Congress
believed that this President ought to
be held accountable for abuse of power,
because he said he couldn’t do it be-
cause the Justice Department policy
said he couldn’t do it.
We have had hearings. Those hear-
ings were participated in by the Repub-
lican side of the aisle and the Demo-
cratic side of the aisle. Time was di-
vided equally between the sides for
questioning of witnesses.
The witnesses were an ambassador
hired by Secretary Pompeo, appointed
by the President to represent us; Mr.
Sondland, a close friend of the Presi-
dent’s, apparently, or at least a big
contributor of the President’s, ap-
pointed by the President, who came
back and said no.
Certainly, I believe there was a quid
pro quo that, if you didn’t start an in-
vestigation, if you didn’t announce
that in public, then there wouldn’t be
the $391 million that you needed to de-
fend your country and to defend free-
dom in Ukraine, which this Congress
had, in a bipartisan way, sent to the
President of the United States and that
the Defense Department and others had
certified reforms contemplated by that
legislation had been effected, and they
recommended the payment of that
money.
And in addition, you could not have a
meeting with the White House if this
didn’t happen.
So my friend continues to say no
wrongdoing; nothing; no crimes; no
this, that, and the other. That is not
the case, Mr. Speaker. And no matter
how many times he says it, whether it
is an editorial in ‘‘USA Today’’ or an
editorial in some other paper or arti-
cles in some other paper or—I will tell
my friend—people with whom I talk on
your side of the aisle—I will not name
their names—they, like Zelensky,
would be afraid of retribution, just as
Mr. Sanford found out that disagreeing
would incur the wrath of the President
of the United States and get a re-
sponse, either in a tweet or some other
way.
Mr. Zelensky is in a very difficult po-
sition. The freedom of his country, the
security of his people, he believes, are
contingent upon whether President
Trump will treat him fairly and as con-
sistently as the Congress would want
them treated.
So I say to my friend: We are going
to move ahead. We will all have a
chance to vote on these articles, and
we will have a chance to debate them.
And then the Senate will have a trial,
if, in fact, articles pass this House. And
that trial will be where the President,
presumably, will offer witnesses.
But I find it interesting, Mr. Speak-
er, that Republican Senators are
quoted frequently saying, we ought to
have no witnesses. Republican Sen-
ators are saying, we ought to have no
witnesses. Perhaps they just want to
pass it so quickly. But it is as well, I
think, because they don’t know of any
witnesses who will absolve the Presi-
dent from the actions that have been
testified to without effective opposi-
tion to those premises.
So, Mr. Speaker, we can debate this.
We are going to debate it, I am sure,
next week. It will be debated in the
United States Senate, and we can con-
tinue to debate it here today. But the
evidence, in the perception of many, is
overwhelming and uncontradicted.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, if the
gentleman says the evidence is over-
whelming, the gentleman cites the
Mueller report, the whole investigation
that went on for 22 months with thou-
sands of subpoenas, witnesses, and in-
nuendos. And at the end of the day—
with the full authority, by the way,
Mr. Mueller had to file any criminal
charges, if there were any laws broken
that he saw—not one charge was filed.
What is the most interesting and
maybe the most telling is that, in your
Articles of Impeachment, the eight
pages that you filed, not one time did
you mention the Mueller report, be-
cause there is nothing criminal in the
Mueller report. If there was, you would
have put it in the Articles of Impeach-
ment.
You are trying to remove a President
of the United States from office, and
the Constitution says the standard
should be treason, bribery, or other
high crimes and misdemeanors, which
you would think means you would list
high crimes and misdemeanors—or
treason or bribery. There is not a word
of bribery or high crimes and mis-
demeanors listed in this.
Not one time is the Mueller report
mentioned. So if there is all that rich
data, it would be here, and it is not, be-
cause there wasn’t anything that came
out of the Mueller report.
The gentleman mentions the Depart-
ment of Justice——
Mr. HOYER. Will my friend yield?
Mr. SCALISE. I am going to go
through a few points because the gen-
tleman made a lot of assertions that
are not accurate, and I think it is im-
portant to go through them.
The Department of Justice did not
say that a President can’t be removed.
The Attorney General made that clear,
that the President can be indicted.
But what the Attorney General said
was——
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman tell
me where he did that?
Mr. SCALISE. Through the Depart-
ment of Justice, he said there was no
obstruction. There was no obstruction.
That is what the Department of Jus-
tice said.
Again, if there was, you would have
put those findings from the Mueller re-
port in this document. And there is
nothing in there, no mention of the
Mueller report.
Then the gentleman opened up by
saying the rules have been followed.
The rules have been followed. That is
what the gentleman from Maryland
said. The only problem is, just today,
yet another rule has been broken.
House rules, clause 2(j)(1) of rule 11,
provides that, once the demand is made
for a minority day of hearing, minority
members shall be entitled—‘‘shall’’
means it has to happen—to call wit-
nesses selected by the minority to tes-
tify with respect to the measure or
matter during at least one day of hear-
ing thereon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.088 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10230 December 12, 2019
Well, guess what? That didn’t hap-
pen. We requested it multiple times,
and the rules that the gentleman said
‘‘the rules have been followed’’—the
only problem is the rule has been bro-
ken.
‘‘Shall be entitled to a hearing,’’ and
it has been denied. The chairman de-
nied it again today in committee.
So you can’t say the rules have been
followed when, just today, that very
committee broke the rules of the House
allowing us to have the opportunity to
present the alternative case.
You want to talk about abuse of
power. What is going on in that Judici-
ary Committee right now is an abuse of
power: denying the minority the abil-
ity to even present the other side of an
argument. You have got two sides of
any argument, and maybe you think
you made a strong case if you only
present yours.
You look at what is going on across
the country when only one side has
been presented. The country still
thinks this is a waste of time, not
going after a President because he
broke the law but going after a Presi-
dent because you don’t like him, you
are unhappy that he got elected in 2016,
and you are afraid that he might get
elected again in 2020.
I trust the people of this country to
make that decision again next year,
and they will—not Members of Con-
gress who have expressed that they
wanted him impeached before he took
the oath of office, Members of Congress
on your side who said impeachable of-
fenses aren’t required to impeach a
President.
So, when we talk of abuse of power,
absolutely, that is an abuse of power.
The gentleman expresses concern for
the people of Ukraine, maybe expresses
that the President of Ukraine himself
might be afraid to speak candidly. I
have more confidence in the President
of Ukraine that, if he says something,
I believe it. We have worked with him
on a number of things: cleaning up cor-
ruption. He is actually delivering on
his promise, like this President has
been delivering on his promise.
But let’s talk about all the disdain,
the concern for the people of Ukraine
not having the tools to defend them-
selves. I am curious: Where was that
disdain when President Obama and Joe
Biden were in office and not one single
time did they heed Ukraine’s request
to sell them Javelin missiles? Not one
of them. They didn’t sell one.
And Ukraine asked multiple times:
Please allow us to defend ourselves
against Russia. President Obama and
Vice President Biden said no. I never
heard anybody on that side expressing
concern about the ability of the people
of Ukraine to defend themselves then.
Good thing, when President Trump
was asked that question, he said yes.
No quid pro quo, just yes: Here are 360
Javelin missiles sold, so that they can
push back Russia. And I am glad they
are doing it. I am glad they are able to
defend themselves.
Then you look at something equally
alarming that has come out that de-
serves real attention in this Congress,
and that is the Horowitz report: 17 list-
ed abuses of the FISA process.
The gentleman knows, I supported
the FISA process to allow us to combat
terrorists. It is a controversial pro-
gram, a program that has got a very
narrow scope to allow the United
States to protect our national security,
but it also has a very strict require-
ment from our intelligence agencies.
The FBI and the CIA have the ability
to go unfettered and ask the judge for
the ability to surveil people.
b 1500
The judge trusts that they are giving
him the full information. And we saw
abuses listed in the Horowitz report of
the FISA process. Even more, Mr. Dur-
ham is initiating and conducting his
own criminal investigation.
And what the Attorney General
talked about this week is that they
know that there are people in those in-
telligence agencies who were spying on
the Trump campaign. I mean, imagine
Federal agencies—FBI, CIA—spying on
the campaign of a candidate for Presi-
dent.
Republican or Democrat, we should
equally be alarmed that that happened.
I hope it gets rooted out. I hope who-
ever did that and abused their power
goes to jail. But it happened, and it is
being investigated in a criminal way.
But Horowitz, himself, pointed out
where there were abuses of the FISA
process. And you know what, that is
coming back up to this Congress early
next year for renewal. Parts of that
program are going to come back up
again, important tools to combat ter-
rorism, but tools that now have been
identified to have been abused. We need
to work together to clean that up so
that doesn’t happen again. But that
happened, and it was used against the
Trump campaign.
I haven’t heard the disdain and out-
rage from both sides. I am surely out-
raged. Our side is surely outraged. I
would hope that we are all outraged
that that happened.
But when we talk about those re-
ports, again, if there were all of those
things that the gentleman asserts in
the Mueller investigation and, ulti-
mately, report, I am curious that not
one of those—there is not any mention
of the Mueller report in these Articles
of Impeachment that we will be facing
on the House floor next week.
I yield to the gentleman from Mary-
land.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I think I am speaking English. Let
me repeat. What the Mueller report
said was the Department of Justice
policy was that they could not indict a
sitting President of the United States.
It went on to say, as I quoted, that did
not mean that they could assert that
there was no obstruction of justice.
And if they thought they could assert
that, they would have asserted it.
And Attorney General Barr then
mischaracterized the Mueller report
before it was released to put, in my
opinion, the President’s spin on the
Mueller report, which, very frankly,
the gentleman’s side of the aisle has
continued to spin all the time.
I mentioned the six people who were
convicted of lying to the investigation,
close associates of the President of the
United States, now in jail or waiting to
be sentenced. Mr. Stone falls into that
category.
Mr. BARR said that there was no ob-
struction. He was wrong. He mischar-
acterized, misstated, and misled the
American people. And Mueller said in
his report that was not what he found.
Collusion is not a crime. Conspiracy
is a crime.
But there were, in addition to the six
people I have talked about, 10 Russians
indicted for participating in trying to
undermine the integrity of the elec-
tions in our country on behalf of Mr.
Trump.
Now, the gentleman indicates that
the Mueller report has not been men-
tioned. The Mueller report is not the
gravamen or the central—we lawyers
say ‘‘gravamen’’—but the central tenet
here.
The central tenet is, on July 25 and,
frankly, leading up to that and suc-
ceeding that, the President of the
United States involved himself in a
way to enrich himself in terms of the
election that was coming up, 2020—not
the 2016 election, the 2020 election.
The evidence has not been rebutted
that that was the fact; and, in fact,
people close to the President of the
United States confirmed it.
What the articles say is there was an
abuse of power, which is what almost
every constitutional scholar says was
the central concern of our Founding
Fathers when they included the im-
peachment provision in the Constitu-
tion of the United States: to be a check
on authoritarian power serving its own
interests, not the people’s interest.
That is what the central claim here is.
And with respect to the other Article
of Impeachment, it does not mention
the Mueller report because what it was
focused on—although Mueller focused
on the obstruction of justice evidence,
not the charge, but the evidence.
What we are focusing on is the big-
gest attempt to prohibit the Congress
of the United States and the exercise of
its legitimate constitutional responsi-
bility of oversight from getting infor-
mation, either in testimony or in docu-
ments. And almost every scholar of
past Presidents—including President
Nixon and including President Clinton
and the extraordinary discovery that
was exercised against President Obama
on a regular basis—found that this
President has stonewalled more than
any other President and with less jus-
tification than any other President, be-
cause most Presidents referred to exec-
utive privilege.
This President went much more
broadly than those who dealt with him
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.089 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10231
December 12, 2019
personally, but simply wanted to pre-
clude information from getting to the
Congress so that it could make deci-
sions based upon that evidence.
And, of course, the other suit that we
have is a President who said he was
going to release his tax information to
the American people. He has fought in
every forum to prevent that from hap-
pening, notwithstanding the legisla-
tion, which was not adopted by us—it
is very old legislation—which says the
tax writing committee can get that in-
formation.
And I would suggest the American
people ought to have that information
so they can determine for themselves
whether this President is acting for his
benefit or for their benefit, which is his
constitutional responsibility.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman, but when the gen-
tleman talks about stonewalling, act-
ing as if President Trump is the only
President in history to seek alter-
natives to a question that is asked by
Congress——
Mr. HOYER. I didn’t say that. Don’t
mischaracterize what I said. I did not
say that.
Mr. SCALISE. The gentleman said
that this President has tried to defy
more than any other President. Those
were roughly the words he said.
Mr. HOYER. That is accurate.
Mr. SCALISE. Let’s keep in mind,
President Obama, it took us 6 years to
get to the bottom of the Fast and Furi-
ous scandal, and we still didn’t get all
of the information we wanted. For 6
years, President Obama fought various
ways in the court.
Was that impeachable? Of course, we
didn’t try to impeach the President.
Every President, I am sure, including
George Washington, had differences
with Congress. We have multiple
branches of government.
So the legislative branch has powers.
When we exercise those powers in re-
gard to the executive branch, the exec-
utive branch also has an equal oppor-
tunity to have a discussion, first of all,
to see if we can come to an agreement.
Again, if you go back to the Clinton
impeachment or you go back to the
Nixon impeachment, both sides reached
an agreement. Your majority never
tried to go reach an agreement with
the White House on how to get access
to whatever it is you might have want-
ed to get access to.
What is a fair process?
Allowing the President to have his
legal counsel in the room to ask ques-
tions to witnesses, that was denied.
But that negotiations didn’t happen.
It did happen in Nixon. It did happen
in Clinton. And so you had a fair proc-
ess of back and forth, where, ulti-
mately, they agreed on rules of the
game during an impeachment. It didn’t
happen here.
So when your majority asked,
through various committees, for infor-
mation from the White House, the
White House has the ability to exercise
other rights.
Again, letter after letter. The gen-
tleman used the term ‘‘stonewalling.’’
It is not stonewalling to respond to the
committee and say: Okay, these are
the things that we can get you. Here,
look, DOD, we will work with you.
You never tried to work with DOD,
but they said: Call us.
Didn’t call them. Agency after agen-
cy, the Secretary of State responded.
All of these agencies sent letters in re-
sponse. That is not stonewalling. That
is complying with the law. You might
not have liked the answer.
And, again, if you didn’t like the an-
swer—I think we all know when you
pull out the Constitution, there is not
just two branches of government—you
could have gone to the third branch of
government and said: Courts, make
them comply because they are not.
You didn’t do that. So then you just
rushed to impeach the President be-
cause you didn’t like the answer.
If you go to the Mueller investiga-
tion, the gentleman lists those six peo-
ple who were convicted. Not one of
them had anything to do with accusa-
tions made against the President. In
fact, they are not listed. They are not
listed in the Articles of Impeachment.
The gentleman talked about Russia.
Yes, we know Russia tried to meddle in
our election in 2016. I think people on
the gentleman’s side might think Don-
ald Trump was President back then.
Barack Obama was President. Joe
Biden was Vice President when Russia
did try to interfere with our election.
Why didn’t they do more to stop it?
It is a good question to ask, but go
ask President Obama and Vice Presi-
dent Biden. Don’t go impeaching
Trump because Russia tried to inter-
fere with the 2016 election.
There were, absolutely, things that
were going on in Ukraine that raised
concerns. You had the Ambassador, the
Ukraine Ambassador to the United
States wrote an op-ed against can-
didate Trump. They were trying to
interfere with the election against
Donald Trump when he was a candidate
for President. I didn’t see any attempt
to be concerned about that by the gen-
tleman’s side.
But again, just go impeach Donald
Trump because so many on the gentle-
man’s side didn’t like the fact that he
won in 2016 and are afraid he is going to
win again in 2020.
Again, that is not why you impeach a
President.
So when you talk about these facts,
it is important to point out all of the
other sides.
Sondland, who has been brought up
multiple times, Sondland testified
under oath. He asked the President: Is
there anything you want?
The President responded to him—he
said this under oath. The President
said: ‘‘I want nothing, no quid pro
quo.’’ That was Sondland’s testimony.
So, again, as these people are being
brought up, let’s look at the whole con-
text.
When the rules are being brought up,
I haven’t heard a response from the
gentleman when I read him a House
rule that is, today, being violated.
In committee, they took a vote to
violate House rules. The committee
doesn’t have that power. The House has
that power, and it hasn’t exercised it.
That is still a rule of the House that is
being broken today, not allowing the
minority to have a day of hearing, try-
ing to hide the facts from the Amer-
ican people.
If they were so serious about im-
peaching the President because you
have this overwhelming evidence, then
let both sides present their case. But,
no, that House rule, today, is being vio-
lated. And there are many examples of
that.
I yield to the gentleman from Mary-
land.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
The irony is that the reason we got
cooperation in the Nixon case and in
the Clinton case is because those ad-
ministrations cooperated. This admin-
istration has absolutely not cooper-
ated.
The gentleman has those letters, and
he put them down as if they mean
something. They are further evidence
of delay. The committee requested le-
gitimately.
What the gentleman didn’t say—he
said we ought to go to court. Mr.
Speaker, I wonder if the gentleman
knows what happened when we went to
court, because we have gone to court
five or six times. We haven’t lost a case
yet. We have not lost a case yet where
the court has said that Congress is en-
titled to that information.
So these letters are fine, but they are
delay and dissemble as we throw them
on the table, as if they mean some-
thing.
The gentleman says the Russians
interfered in our election. They did.
The irony is, one of the reasons that
the Obama administration didn’t get
more involved in that is because there
was knowledge by some that they were
interfering on behalf—or suspicion of—
Mr. Trump because of some of the evi-
dence we have heard.
Mr. Stone’s case, Mr. Gates testified
about the knowledge that the Presi-
dent had about WikiLeaks and of the
President’s invitation for WikiLeaks to
release information.
Sondland changed his testimony. We
have gone to court. The administration
has refused to cooperate.
b 1515
The gentleman ignores those facts.
They are facts, and they are facts that
are generally accepted across the land,
even by those who are supporters of the
President.
So we are going to have this discus-
sion. They are going to have this dis-
cussion in the Senate. But the Presi-
dent chose not to come to the House to
defend against the allegations. His
counsel said they weren’t going to par-
ticipate. They had the opportunity;
they did not take it. We will see what
happens from there.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.091 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10232 December 12, 2019
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I would
not discount things like this letter
from the Secretary of Defense, who, on
October 7, 2019, received a subpoena
and on October 15, 2019, responded.
That is not delay, and that is not ob-
fuscation.
A week later, they responded and
said that the Department is prepared
to engage in the process, consistent
with longstanding practice, and pro-
vide the responsive information should
there be a resolution to this matter.
It was a week later. That doesn’t
sound like somebody trying to run
away from a request or a subpoena. A
week later, the majority got a re-
sponse. The gentleman might not have
liked the response, but there was not a
follow-up: We are going to work with
you, Department of Defense.
The Secretary of Defense sent this a
week after the majority’s request, and
the majority is going to impeach a
President because they didn’t like this
answer and say: Oh, he is obstructing.
Again, I go back to Fast and Furious,
one example: President Obama, 6 years
we fought to get the information—6
years. We didn’t try to impeach him for
that. It doesn’t mean he was breaking
the law or committing high crimes and
misdemeanors.
Maybe he delayed a lot longer than
we would have liked. Six years is a lot
longer than it should have taken to get
answers to real questions about people
who died. But for 6 years, we waited
and worked and went and got those an-
swers. That is the legal process.
And maybe we should work together,
if we think that is too long, to try to
speed it up.
But that was 6 years. This was 1 week
after the subpoena the Secretary of De-
fense himself sent the majority this
letter and said: Call us and work with
us to get you this information.
The majority didn’t follow up. They
just said: Nope, we don’t like it. That
is too late. It is delaying.
A week later, the majority got an an-
swer, and they didn’t like the answer,
so the majority said: Let’s impeach the
President of the United States.
There is letter after letter like this
from other agencies—the Department
of Energy. We can go down the list. But
this wasn’t 3 years later the majority
got an answer. Yes, maybe the major-
ity could raise questions then and go to
the courts, but the majority didn’t.
The majority got an answer a week
later. That is delaying to the point
where the majority would impeach a
President of the United States?
And my friend doesn’t think those
conversations happened during Nixon?
My friend doesn’t think those con-
versations with the White House hap-
pened during Clinton, where there were
things that they didn’t feel that they
had to give that were subpoenaed and
they went back and forth, but they
came to an agreement?
Mr. Speaker, it means you have to sit
down and work with people that I
might not like.
It has been clear on the other side
that there are some on the majority
side who hate this President and who
don’t want him to be President. We un-
derstand. We have elections for that.
We had an election in 2016, and he was
duly elected.
Then the majority alleged that he
conspired with Russia, but he didn’t.
Russia tried to interfere on President
Obama’s and Joe Biden’s watch. It was
their watch when it happened. Presi-
dent Trump didn’t have any involve-
ment in that, and the Mueller Report
made that clear.
But then the majority kept going on
making assertion after assertion, just
like in these two Articles of Impeach-
ment, and the majority comes up with
abuse of power.
To quote Professor Turley, one of the
witnesses from last week: The only
abuse of power is by this majority try-
ing to remove a President from office
for exercising his rights under the law.
A week after the majority’s request,
their subpoena, a week after, they got
a letter from the Secretary of Defense
himself, and that is enough to impeach
a President?
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, we could
go, I guess, all day on this. But the fact
is, let me say, with that letter, the
gentleman says 1 week. The fact of the
matter is this President has been
defying Congress for years in terms of
giving it information it constitu-
tionally had the right to have. He has
not responded. In fact, we have gone to
court, and we have won every case. It
is not like the court said: Oh, well,
they have the right to do this; they can
talk back and forth for days, years, and
months.
The court said: No, they are entitled
to that information.
Don’t send me a letter; send me the
information I request.
For my friend to pretend that that
was just 1 week’s delay—it has been
years of delay to responding to infor-
mation requested legitimately by the
Congress of the United States.
After months of going to the court,
the courts have come to a conclusion
over and over and over again that the
Congress is entitled to that informa-
tion.
Two courts have now decided that we
are entitled to his tax information and
to his financial information. We
haven’t gotten it.
Why? Because he appeals again.
Why? Because that is his modus ope-
randi, as I said. He did it in the private
sector, and he is doing it in the public
sector.
What surprises me is that—I am not
wishing it, but my friend may be in
charge someday again, and my friend is
going to be very upset with the prece-
dent that the gentleman is arguing for
at this point in time in terms of not co-
operating with the Congress of the
United States in conducting its con-
stitutional duties.
As I say, we could go on and on on
this. We are going to have additional
hearings. I would repeat again, from a
USA Today editorial: ‘‘Trump has met
the impeachment investigation with
outright and unprecedented defiance,’’
which is one of the reasons I suppose he
didn’t appear and he instructed people
who have information, like John
Bolton, like Secretary Pompeo, and
like so many others: Don’t appear.
Don’t testify. Don’t provide informa-
tion. That is obfuscation and refusal to
cooperate. But we will have an oppor-
tunity to deal with these in the future.
I would hope that, at this point in
time, Mr. Whip, we might cease and de-
sist so our friends could have an oppor-
tunity to say what they want to say.
But I am prepared to proceed if my
friend is so disposed.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I just
hope the gentleman isn’t asserting that
the President of the United States, like
any other American has the right,
shouldn’t have the right to appeal a de-
cision. Ultimately, the courts at some
level will resolve any issue before
them. Courts do that, and that is the
legal right of every American.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Of course he is.
Mr. SCALISE. By the way, if the
President is victorious in the courts,
would the gentleman recognize that he
did lose that case, or would the gen-
tleman say that was obfuscation, fol-
lowing the legal process?
Again, President Obama, for 6 years
on Fast and Furious—just one case, 6
years.
The gentleman hasn’t been in the
majority for a year yet, and somehow
that is so long, a week later response is
so long that the majority should im-
peach a President, when, just on Fast
and Furious, we didn’t get questions we
wanted answered from the White
House, and in some cases it took 6
years. Some of that went through the
courts.
We won some of those cases, by the
way. We didn’t win all of them, but we
surely did win some of those cases.
But when we won a case against the
President, meaning he violated some
component of the law, we didn’t im-
peach him for it, but we got the infor-
mation, eventually. It took a lot longer
than we would have liked.
But the President, just like President
Obama, had the legal right to appeal
decisions that he might not have
agreed with in courts like the Ninth
Circuit, which has one of the highest
overturn rates of any circuit in the
country.
So, if a circuit got it wrong and ulti-
mately somewhere up higher they get
it right, is that somehow something we
should impeach a President of the
United States for because they exer-
cised their Article III powers to go to a
judicial branch to get an answer to a
question?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.094 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10233
December 12, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. This could go on for-
ever.
Of course not. I didn’t make that as-
sertion. Don’t put it in my mouth.
My friend has every right, not only
the President, but every citizen has the
right to repair to the courts of the
United States for redress of their griev-
ances and the pressing of their case, pe-
riod. The President has that right.
I never asserted that the President
ought to be impeached on that basis,
nor do I assert it now, nor do we assert
it in our articles which have yet to be
voted on, so we will see what they do
on that vote.
But let me remind the gentleman and
let me remind Mr. Speaker of the
House, we had a vote in 2017, we had a
vote in 2018, and we had a vote in 2019.
Those votes were on whether or not we
ought to move Articles of Impeach-
ment forward to impeach the President
of the United States. I voted ‘‘no’’ on
each one of those votes. Over 60 percent
of the Democrats voted ‘‘no’’ on each
one, some higher, on each one of those
votes in ’17, ’18, and ’19.
So when you assert, Mr. Speaker,
that somehow the Democrats were just
frothing at the bit to impeach the
President—I don’t want to impeach
this President. I wish this would pass
from us. No one ran for Congress to im-
peach the President of the United
States. But no one ought to shirk their
responsibility.
I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, my be-
lief is that there is not a single Repub-
lican in this House, not one, confronted
with these facts against President
Obama who wouldn’t have voted to im-
peach President Obama—not one of the
minority. I am convinced to my bones,
and I have been here a long time and
served with a lot of people, that not
one of them would have voted against
either one of these articles if President
Obama had done the same fact pattern
with the same evidence. Not one of the
minority would have voted against one
of these articles.
That is my view, Mr. Speaker, but we
will see.
I said this morning, quoting the pa-
pers, that we are not whipping this.
This is not about whipping some par-
tisan vote. This is about each Member
having to decide for themselves, with
their conscience, with their moral val-
ues, and with their oath of office to de-
fend and protect the Constitution of
the United States, whether or not—and
my friend quotes one witness, one con-
stitutional expert. Three constitu-
tional experts said, if you do not move
forward on impeachment, effectively,
the executive power will be unchecked
and you will create a king, not a Presi-
dent.
Three times this Congress said: We
are not going forward. But then, on
July 25, a phone call occurred in which
this President clearly said to an ally to
whom we wanted to give $391 million to
defend himself and his people and his
country, but withheld because: I would
like you to do me a favor.
That favor was not to help America,
and that favor was not to clean up cor-
ruption, because he already had cer-
tified by his departments that they had
met that criteria. It was, as the evi-
dence is almost uncontroverted, to help
him in the coming election and to un-
dermine somebody he perceived to be
one of his, if not the, principal oppo-
nent.
This is a heavy decision this Con-
gress and this House will have to make,
and each one of us will have to make
it. Let us hope that each one of us
makes it honestly and unrelated to pol-
itics or party, but related to patriotism
and oath of office.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, just to
keep the record clear, when the Presi-
dent made that phone call, the oft-
misrepeated quote was this: ‘‘I would
like you to do us a favor though be-
cause our country has been through a
lot and Ukraine knows a lot about it. I
would like you to find out what hap-
pened with this whole situation with
Ukraine, they say Crowdstrike . . . I
guess you have one of your wealthy
people . . . The server, they say
Ukraine has it. There are a lot of
things that went on, the whole situa-
tion. I think you are surrounding your-
self with some of the same people.’’
The President expressed some con-
cern with what happened in 2016 and
concern about what happened to our
country. ‘‘I would like you to do us a
favor,’’ and then he said, ‘‘our coun-
try.’’
There is no mention of Joe Biden in
there, no mention of him. It is about
getting to the bottom of the corruption
that we all know happened. We might
not have all the answers we want. We
sure would like to get those answers,
but it happened. It happened under
Barack Obama and Joe Biden’s watch.
For whatever reason, they didn’t do
enough to stop it.
b 1530
But when the gentleman asked if one
of us would vote against Articles of Im-
peachment if it was President Obama,
not one of us would have because we
would have never brought these Arti-
cles of Impeachment. We didn’t bring
these kinds of Articles of Impeach-
ment.
Again, I just listed one case, 6 years
for Fast and Furious, where people
died; Benghazi where people died,
where we didn’t get the answers we
wanted, where the administration
rebuffed, over and over again. But not
one time did we bring Articles of Im-
peachment, because they were not im-
peachable offenses, just like there are
no impeachable offenses here.
And so, we are proudly whipping
against it because this is not the way
to abuse Congress’ power of impeach-
ment, as one of those witnesses last
week said.
In the call—some of the other wit-
nesses, constitutional scholars, when
one of them tried to make fun of the
son of the President of the United
States, tried to bully and make fun of
his name. Shameless. Shameless. It
happened. To call that person a Presi-
dential scholar or impartial, when
some of those witnesses gave money to
candidates running for President
against President Trump, if that is the
definition of impartial Presidential
scholars, I think we all take their per-
ception of whether or not this Presi-
dent should be removed from office a
little bit differently than somebody
who truly is impartial.
Even Professor Turley, who acknowl-
edged that he didn’t vote for President
Trump, but said it would be abuse of
Congress’ power to move forward with
impeachment because there are no im-
peachable offenses.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER).
Mr. HOYER. The good news is they
didn’t bring impeachment against
President Obama because he did noth-
ing to warrant such an action. How
proud I am of that.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
f
IN HONOR OF KALEB WATSON,
CAMERON WALTERS, MOHAMMED
HAITHAM—VICTIMS OF PENSA-
COLA SHOOTING
(Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to join with a grieving nation to
honor the lives of three Navy sailors
whose lives were tragically cut short in
the heinous act of terrorism at the
Naval Air Station in Pensacola, Flor-
ida.
Kaleb Watson of Coffee County, Ala-
bama, and a recent graduate of the
U.S. Naval Academy was 23 years old,
and an aspiring pilot.
Mohammed Sameh Haitham was an
all-star athlete and always anxious to
help others. His 20th birthday would
have been next week.
Cameron Walters of Richmond Hill,
Georgia, was 21 and hoped to become
an airman. According to Cameron’s fa-
ther, nothing made him prouder than
to be able to wear the uniform of a
United States sailor.
When confronted with the mortal
threat of an active shooter, these sail-
ors charged the gunman, an action that
is credited with saving countless lives.
Mr. Speaker, Naval Station Great
Lakes is in my district. Each year,
more than 40,000 pass through Great
Lakes to become sailors in the United
States Navy. Cameron Walters and Mo
Haitham were two such sailors.
The men and women who hear the
call to duty and volunteer to wear the
cloth of our Nation are role models for
all of us. Let us take this time to rec-
ognize their commitment and let us
commit as a Nation to ensure the he-
roic sacrifices of Kaleb Watson, Cam-
eron Walters, and Mohammed Haitham
will never be forgotten.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.095 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10234 December 12, 2019
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Byrd, one of its clerks, announced that
the Senate has passed without amend-
ment a bill of the House of the fol-
lowing title:
H.R. 2333. An act to direct the Comptroller
General of the United States to conduct an
assessment of the responsibilities, workload,
and vacancy rates of Department of Veterans
Affairs suicide prevention coordinators, and
for other purposes.
The message also announced that
pursuant to Public Law 98–183, as
amended by Public Law 103–419, the
Chair, on behalf of the President pro
tempore and upon the recommendation
of the Majority Leader, appoints the
following individual to the United
States Commission on Civil Rights:
Gail Heriot from California.
f
SCOTTS BLUFF NATIONAL MONU-
MENT—100TH YEAR ANNIVER-
SARY
(Mr. SMITH of Nebraska asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize the 100th
anniversary of the Scotts Bluff Na-
tional Monument’s official designation.
Having grown up in Gering, Ne-
braska, I am proud of the monument
and the uniquely American story of the
role it played in our westward migra-
tion. As one of the highest points in
Nebraska, dominating the landscape, it
stood as an unmistakable part of the
Oregon Trail. When I look at the monu-
ment, I can’t help but think of the
brave pioneers of the Oregon Trail.
Stunning sights and Oregon Trail
landmarks, such as Scotts Bluff Monu-
ment, must have been a source of awe
on the arduous journey west. It had to
have served as motivation to keep
going and a relief to know they were
well on their way.
Scotts Bluff was named for Hiram
Scott, a fur trader who died nearby in
1828. Just as the monument’s name
comes from early economic activity in
our region, the monument is still im-
portant to our regional economy, draw-
ing 150,000 people from across America
and around the world each and every
year.
I thank the great folks who dedicate
their time and hard work to keep the
park in great condition so others may
enjoy it for generations to come. It is
with great pleasure I join with all Ne-
braskans to celebrate the centennial of
this Oregon Trail icon.
f
STARFISH EQUINE RESCUE
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, today,
I want to recognize a nonprofit organi-
zation in my district providing a home
and a future for horses who have expe-
rienced abuse and neglect. Starfish
Equine Rescue works to rehabilitate
and ultimately adopt unwanted,
abused, and neglected horses.
Since 2012, this organization has been
rescuing horses from the most deplor-
able conditions and giving them a sec-
ond chance at life. Starfish Equine Res-
cue works hard to bring these horses
back to health and identify caring and
supportive homes in south Jersey and
in surrounding states.
In addition to rescuing horses from
abuse and neglect, Starfish Equine res-
cues horses that were slated for slaugh-
ter and are saved. And this is a prac-
tice that I have joined with Represent-
ative SCHAKOWSKY and other House col-
leagues in opposing under H.R. 961,
which I hope someday will be the law
of the land.
The volunteers at Starfish and the
adoptive homes of these once vulner-
able horses have provided a great serv-
ice to south Jersey and into the future.
We are proud of them. May God bless
them.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF BO BIGGS OF
LUMBERTON, NORTH CAROLINA
(Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, today, I am proud to recog-
nize my friend, Mr. Bo Biggs of Lum-
berton, North Carolina, on the occasion
of his ascension to the chairmanship of
the Golden LEAF Foundation, and in
doing so, to acknowledge the signifi-
cance to North Carolina of the organi-
zation he now leads.
Bo is an indefatigable servant of his
community and state in business, pro-
fessional, and civic leadership. Bo’s life
of service includes Antioch Baptist
Church of Lumberton, the Lumberton
Rotary Club, of which he is past presi-
dent, the Lumberton Area Chamber of
Commerce, the North Carolina Associa-
tion of Certified Public Accountants,
the FreeEnterprise Foundation, the
Retail Merchants Association, and still
others.
Time and again, Bo has invested him-
self in the State of North Carolina and
its citizens, and that is why I am hon-
ored to recognize his new role with an
organization that is committed to the
same. I have seen firsthand the impact
of Golden LEAF in North Carolina. It
promotes cutting edge agriculture, cre-
ates new jobs, and provides scholar-
ships for future leaders.
The Golden LEAF Foundation has a
20-year history of investing in Caro-
linians with over 60,000 jobs created,
$624 million in new payroll stimulated
in economically distressed areas.
f
IN MEMORY J. DOYLE CORMAN
(Mr. KELLER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. KELLER. Mr. Speaker, on behalf
of the people of Pennsylvania’s 12th
Congressional District, I rise to offer
our condolences on the passing of
former State representative J. Doyle
Corman.
Senator Corman represented the 34th
senatorial district, including areas
within Pennsylvania’s 12th Congres-
sional District from 1977 to 1998. While
in the State Senate, Senator Corman
championed lower taxes, transpor-
tation issues, local government, and re-
forming the State’s welfare system.
More importantly, Senator Corman
was a family man who prided himself
on titles other than ‘‘senator.’’ Titles
like: Public servant, husband, father,
grandfather, great grandfather. These
titles are Senator Corman’s lasting
achievements. Even more so fitting, as
an example for his son, Jake, who ran
for and won his Senate seat following
his father’s retirement and has served
as the Pennsylvania State Senate ma-
jority leader for the last three legisla-
tive sessions.
A family man, community servant,
and friend—that is the legacy of Sen-
ator J. Doyle Corman.
On behalf of the people of Pennsylva-
nia’s 12th Congressional District, I
again send our heartfelt condolences to
the Corman family for the loss of such
a great figure and public servant.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF STATE
SENATOR CORMAN
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the
life and legacy of former Pennsylvania
State Senator J. Doyle Corman, who
passed away peacefully on Sunday, De-
cember 8, at the age of 87. Doyle leaves
behind his wife, Becky, with whom he
raised five children. He was the proud
grandfather of 13 grandchildren and 9
great grandchildren.
A Bellefonte native, Doyle faithfully
served the people of Centre County for
more than 20 years as State Senator,
and 10 years prior to that as county
commissioner. He was a man of prin-
ciple, deeply committed to service and
the betterment of his community. He
left his mark on Harrisburg by cham-
pioning critical transportation legisla-
tion, helping to make Pennsylvania a
safer, more connected Commonwealth.
I can attribute Doyle’s mentorship to
where I am today, as he convinced me,
in 2002, to follow in his footsteps to run
for Centre County Republican Party
chairman. Through the outpouring sup-
port from fellow Pennsylvanians, it is
clear Doyle will be sorely missed but
his legacy not soon forgotten.
I offer my prayers and deepest condo-
lences to Becky and the entire Corman
family.
f
CAROLS BY CANDLELIGHT
(Mr. GUEST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.040 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10235
December 12, 2019
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, on Decem-
ber 13 through December 15, First Bap-
tist Church of Jackson will present
Carols by Candlelight, a much-loved
Christmas music tradition in Mis-
sissippi that shares the good news of
the birth of our Savior, Jesus Christ,
through a magnificent Christmas con-
cert.
This year, Carols by Candlelight cele-
brates its 50th anniversary, with more
than 325 choir members, 60 orchestra
members, and hundreds of volunteers.
They will present five live perform-
ances for more than 16,000 people while
many more will watch online.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate First
Baptist Jackson on achieving this spe-
cial milestone.
May God bless this 50th anniversary
performance of Carols by Candlelight.
‘‘Soli Deo Gloria.’’ To God alone be
the glory.
f
FAIR PRICES, BETTER CURES
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BEYER). Under the Speaker’s an-
nounced policy of January 3, 2019, the
gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. FOR-
TENBERRY) is recognized for 60 minutes
as the designee of the minority leader.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I
went to the doctor recently for a com-
mon ailment, and he prescribed an an-
tibiotic.
I said, Well, Doc, let’s check the price
on that before we go any further. He
said, Oh, don’t worry about it. It is
commonly used throughout the world.
It is about $6.
Well, guess what? It was $6 dollars in
the year 2011; and now the list price is
about $430.
Now, I have insurance provided by
the House of Representatives, which I
am thankful for, but even with that, it
is still close to $200. And then you have
to start searching for a coupon to try
to bring it down a little bit more.
So why does an antibiotic, that just a
few years ago cost $6 now cost over $400
if someone has to pay cash?
Why? Why?
This is one of the premier questions
before this body. And we debated this
today in a prescription drug bill, and it
was a robust debate and a good debate.
And as I said earlier, I commend my
Democrat colleagues for raising the
issue and putting something on the
table.
There were substantive policy dis-
agreements with that bill. There is a
realistic fear that if that bill became
law, which the President said he will
not sign, that we would undermine
America’s leading role in inventing
lifesaving drugs. But there are real
considerations as to how to contain
costs.
b 1545
We should be focused on negotiations
and government programs.
I also commended my Republican
colleagues for having an alternative
answer by coalescing all the bipartisan
solutions that are innovative, that
have come from both sides, and putting
it together in one package that pre-
sented an alternative. But that didn’t
pass, either.
So we are stuck. We are right back to
where we are.
But I only tell my own personal story
not because this is about me. That is a
simple issue, the little problem that I
had. Many other Americans are suf-
fering grievously from this ever-esca-
lating, skyrocketing prescription drug
problem.
Let’s just take, for instance, the case
of insulin. About 30 million Americans
suffer from diabetes and need insulin.
I want to show you something here.
Here is an important chart, Mr. Speak-
er. It starts down here in the year 2011.
Basically, this is a chart that shows
the price of insulin in 2001, about $35,
and here we are today, approaching
$300.
So, what is happening? That is about
a 1,000 percent increase. Is insulin pret-
ty much the same drug? Yes, there
have been some modifications and im-
provements. There have been. Justi-
fying a 1,000 percent increase? No, ab-
solutely not.
What is going on here? The price of
insulin has gone up dramatically, and
there has to be a reason for it. Big
pharmaceutical companies and middle
management, responding to bad gov-
ernment policy, have created a huge
mess in this healthcare space.
Not just this problem with insulin,
but the average annual cost of a brand
name drug has more than tripled in the
past decade. Families with diabetic
children, seniors on Medicare, and oth-
ers face prohibitively high costs for
these lifesaving drugs, and they de-
serve better.
I want to show you something else
right quick, if I could. This is a chart
of the last 5 years. Going back to the
issue of insulin again, 30 million or so
Americans need this drug.
This is a difference between what is
called the average net price and the av-
erage list price. We have about $400
here 5 years ago. Now, we are up to al-
most $600.
But look at this net price. What does
that mean? Well, the net price is the
price, basically, that the manufacturer
is getting. The middle sector here, the
marketing sector here, is getting a
much higher price.
So what is a solution? We didn’t
come up with a good solution today in
debate on the House floor. So what is a
real solution? Well, because we can’t
seem to solve the overall problem with
one large piece of legislation, why
don’t we start with something very
small? But it is not small to people af-
fected by diabetes.
Why don’t we just take this par-
ticular drug and allow the manufac-
turer to sell it directly to the patient?
Again, we have an average price of
about $600 and a net price of $135. That
huge cost savings that could be at-
tained by a person in need by simply
being able to pay this price is what I
am talking about here.
I have dropped a piece of legislation,
and I am really hopeful that it rallies
Republicans and Democrats away from
the big construct that we can’t nec-
essarily agree on, but we should con-
tinue to work toward, which involves
major structural change. Why don’t we
do something that is very, very specific
to one group of Americans that is suf-
fering from exorbitantly high prices?
Basically, now, under this one-line
bill, manufacturers would be allowed to
sell insulin directly to a patient. It is
just one line.
I am from Nebraska. Many people
write to me and ask: Why does legisla-
tion have to be so complicated? Why
don’t you make it a single page? I have
made this a single line, one line.
What we do when we do this is we
begin to cut out these layers upon lay-
ers of management and bureaucracy
that have driven the price upward,
while being fair to the manufacturer
and without undermining America’s
system of innovation that leads the
world in producing lifesaving drugs.
Nonetheless, we have added this
problem, or this middle management,
if you will, to the way in which we dis-
pense drug prices. That is part of the
problem of why they have gone up so
fast, especially around drugs like this.
Again, not necessarily a brand-new for-
mulary. No extraordinary innovation
has happened over the last number of
decades, some changes, some modifica-
tions and improvements, but no way to
justify these price increases.
I think this would be a good idea that
actually could unite us, to get us away
from the large philosophical dif-
ferences when we discuss how we move
forward, ensuring that we both find
fair prices and better cures without un-
dermining the good, innovative, lead-
ing industry in the United States, but
an industry that has a real problem,
that really ought to be rallying around
solutions that I am suggesting here.
That is just one idea, but I am hope-
ful it is a start because this idea actu-
ally pulls a thread. It is specific enough
to affect tens of millions of Americans.
It would be so beneficial to lower costs,
yet without infringing upon the dy-
namics of a good market system that
we have.
I think this is an answer. Perhaps,
this could be a good start.
Besides this one-line solution, Mr.
Speaker, another obvious solution here
should be the acceleration of generic
drugs. Drug companies, however, have
a long history of slow-walking generic
drug approval through legal maneu-
vers, anticompetitive prices, and pat-
ent extensions.
I have been given a unique responsi-
bility in helping to lead the House Ap-
propriations Subcommittee on Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and
Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies, which has oversight responsi-
bility for the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration. Through our focused efforts,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.100 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10236 December 12, 2019
the FDA is reforming the generic ap-
proval process.
Cracking down harder on pharma-
ceutical companies that are exploiting
loopholes to modify patents for not-so-
unique drugs is one way to grow
generics. Currently, even a small modi-
fication in a drug can be enough to get
it approved by the Patent and Trade-
mark Office.
In 2018, an analysis found that patent
protection for 70 percent of the 100
best-selling drugs was extended at least
once. This is a significant cost driver.
According to the FDA, the Food and
Drug Administration, when generic
competition exists, prices are often 80
percent to 85 percent less than brand-
name drugs. With 90 percent of generic
prescriptions available for less than $20
for patients with insurance, that trans-
lates into very real savings for families
across this country.
The Government Accounting Office
says that generics can save the United
States healthcare system—get this—
well over $1 trillion in a 10-year win-
dow.
We could spend another hour speak-
ing about the financial difficulties that
we are having. We have a good, strong,
growing economy. Many people are fi-
nally, thankfully, finding access to
meaningful work, and there is an ap-
propriate upward pressure on wages in
this country.
But what erodes that? The escalating
cost of healthcare. For people who are
in need of lifesaving drugs, this is fun-
damentally unfair.
Again, our efforts at trying to move
generics faster to market, identify
abuse, and stop it can result in savings
like this. This is huge. This is good
public policy, and we are working on it.
Another important piece of legisla-
tion allows the pharmacist to tell a pa-
tient about therapeutically equivalent
but less costly drugs as an alternative
method that is less expensive. For a
small number of lifesaving but rarely
used what we call orphaned drugs, we
also need to prevent single corpora-
tions from exploiting a small market
niche of desperate patients who some-
times find themselves in a life-or-death
struggle.
Further, Mr. Speaker, I would sug-
gest this: Getting at another root cost
driver of prescription drugs, we need to
change how we procure drugs in large
public programs. Our government,
through Medicare, Medicaid,
TRICARE, and other programs, is the
largest purchaser of prescription drugs
in the world. The Department of
Health and Human Services, however,
is prohibited by law from negotiating
with manufacturers what it pays, but
not the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, by the way.
There is broad bipartisan consensus
in Congress, as well as with the White
House, that this policy needs to
change. We should be negotiating. I
should note that was part of the earlier
bill submitted to the floor—again, sub-
stantive policy disagreements that
could potentially undermine America’s
leading role.
But that aspect of this in the Demo-
cratic bill that was submitted is an im-
portant public policy initiative. Again,
I commend my colleagues in that re-
gard.
Mr. Speaker, a prescription drug
should do two simple things. It should
cure disease, but at a fair price. And as
we have seen today, there were two
very large bills debated, but unfortu-
nately, in this political environment,
one is a Democratic bill, and one is a
Republican bill, and no consensus ex-
ists.
But after the smoke clears, I hope
that reasonable people will make way
and will make a pathway for the right
solutions and not political anger.
This system is sick. Our people de-
serve better cures at fairer prices.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
AND STILL I RISE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GREEN) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the majority
leader.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
and still I rise, with love of country at
heart and my mnemonic notes in hand.
I rise today, Mr. Speaker, remem-
bering something from my childhood.
My grandfather was a minister, and he
reminded the grandchildren that there
is no one so blind as he who chooses
not to see. 20/20 vision, but the person
who chooses not to see is the blindest
of all. No one is so blind as those who
choose not to see.
I bring this to the attention of those
who are listening for a specific reason.
I cannot impose understanding. I can-
not cause people to say that they un-
derstand that which they already un-
derstand but choose not to acknowl-
edge.
What I can do is this: I can encourage
us to open our eyes and see what is
happening to our country, the country
that I assume we all love. I encourage
us to see what is happening to public
discourse, to pay attention to things
that are happening in the public arena
that are greatly different than the
things we have been acclimated to.
Mr. Speaker, I don’t believe that we
should have, in our public discourse,
the Chief Executive Officer saying
things that we don’t want our children
to repeat. The Chief Executive Officer
is to be a leader in many ways.
We tell our children: One day you can
grow up and be the Chief Executive Of-
ficer. You can be the head of state. And
we want people to look up to the Chief
Executive Officer, to the head of state.
b 1600
I don’t think most of us would have
our children go to a public rally and
engage in some of the discourse that
we have seen, some of the scatology,
the profanity that seems to become a
part of this discourse and is almost
commonplace now from the Chief Exec-
utive Officer.
My dear friends, there is something
happening to us. While it may not
occur all in 1 day, over a period of
time, it can become commonplace.
Have you not noticed how on the var-
ious talk shows people are using a level
of discourse that we would find unac-
ceptable, that I find unacceptable, that
was not commonplace some years ago,
not so very long ago? I am hearing
more profanity being used.
I am not a perfect servant. I am a
public servant. I am not a perfect per-
son. I don’t claim to be perfect. But I
can say to you that I want to live in a
country where children are proud to
grow up and say they want to be like
that person who happens to be the
Chief Executive Officer.
At some point, something has to say
to us that something is going on here
that is unacceptable. When you
weaponize hate so that you can have an
advantage, there is something wrong.
We ought not weaponize hate and big-
otry to gain an advantage. We ought
not try to, with intentionality, create
ashes on the dreams of others, turn
them into ashes so that we can fulfill
some desire. We ought not, with
intentionality, say things that we
know are not true that can be harmful
to others.
I am not a perfect servant, but I see
something happening to my country,
and I beg that we open our eyes and
look at this for what it is. The level of
hate is increasing. The level of harm
being done to people by others that
they don’t know who will traverse
great distances just to hurt them be-
cause they happen to be of a certain
ancestry, who go into a certain neigh-
borhood to hurt people because they
happen to be of a certain religion, we
are seeing more of this level of hate.
I say to you that we must open our
eyes and see what is happening to our
country. There is a desire to believe
that this is just something that we can
laugh at, that it is just amusing. This
discourse that we see when the Chief
Executive Officer has throngs of people
around him making light of things that
at one time we would not tolerate.
There is something wrong when you
start to tolerate this. Those who tol-
erate hate perpetuate hate. We are
going to be a part of the reason why
this continues to grow, to propagate,
to infect our society.
We can do something about this. We
should not allow this level of discourse
to continue.
By the way, the something that we
can do about it is not allow it to be
something that we accept. We don’t
have to do anything more, for some of
us, than change the channel. Maybe
that will send a message, when they
don’t get good ratings. Or don’t attend
events where these kinds of things are
taking place. We don’t have to make
this something that is acceptable to
any one of us.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.102 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10237
December 12, 2019
I mention all of these things because
I know that this level of ugly discourse
is going to be something that we are
going to have to live with for a lot
longer than we choose, unless we
choose to do something about it.
I ask of you just to pay attention to
what is happening to our society. Pay
attention to the words that are being
said and the way people are being de-
meaned by the Chief Executive Officer,
who sets the standard, who is a stand-
ard-bearer. Pay attention to what is
going on.
I beg that, please, let’s open our eyes
and see how a single person is cor-
rupting the discourse, not only, by the
way, at rallies and among those who
are on talk shows but also here in the
Congress of the United States of Amer-
ica.
I arrived here in 2005. Since then, the
discourse in Congress has changed to
the extent that people are saying
things that I thought we would never
hear in the Congress in terms of sca-
tology, profanity, demeaning com-
mentary.
Now, I am not saying don’t speak
truth. Speak truth. But what I am say-
ing is what we are saying to hurt peo-
ple just to be harmful, to let people
somehow be demeaned just to demean
people, I find that unacceptable.
I just beg that we would not be so
blind as those who choose not to see. I
think that society is not lost over-
night, but the genesis of the loss is dis-
course, public discourse that degen-
erates to the extent that the humanity
of every person is lessened, where peo-
ple at some point conclude: Those peo-
ple, they don’t belong. Those people,
they don’t count.
Every human being means something
and counts. We ought not allow our-
selves to allow things to happen to ba-
bies in cages. We ought not allow our-
selves to conclude that certain reli-
gions are unacceptable. What can hap-
pen to one religion can happen to any
religion. Every child is precious. We
ought to respect the humanity of every
person and accord a certain amount of
decency to all people. I cannot believe
some of the things that we are now tol-
erating.
There was a time in this country
when we would not tolerate having a
person acknowledge that, among rac-
ists and bigots, there were some very
fine people or nice people. There was a
time when we wouldn’t tolerate that,
but we do now. There was a time when
certain tropes that are being used and
propagated, we wouldn’t tolerate it,
but we do now.
My comment to America, to our
country, and to the people who care is,
at some point, this level of hate is
going to become a bigger problem than
we care to deal with, unless we deal
with it now. We should. We should deal
with it. We cannot allow it to become
something that future generations will
have to contend with. It is easy to be-
lieve that this is a temporary condition
until it is no longer a temporary condi-
tion.
‘‘Irreparable harm’’ is a term that we
use in law. At some point, this becomes
irreparable harm. At some point, there
are some people who will suffer to the
extent that they can’t recover.
I know of people in the Latino com-
munity who live with a great degree of
apprehension. People born in this coun-
try, Americans, live with a great de-
gree of apprehension because of what
happened in El Paso.
I know of people who are of a certain
faith, citizens of this country, who live
with apprehension because of what
happened in Charlottesville.
We ought not allow the discourse,
this incitive discourse, to create cir-
cumstances where people are harmed.
We are seeing it happen, but I think
that some of us choose not to see the
harmful impact that it is having on our
society.
My message is very simple today. I
beg, let’s take a look, just open our
eyes and let’s look at what is hap-
pening to our country. If we can do
this, we can change this.
This ought not be the case in the
greatest country in the world. There is
no one so blind as he who chooses not
to see. I hope that understanding will
prevail and that we will decide that we
will not tolerate the level of hateful
discourse that we are suffering and
that many people suffer from because
there are other persons who hurt them
after being exposed to this incitive dis-
course, this incendiary language, this
weaponization of hate. People are hurt-
ing.
I don’t say these things because I
want to make sure I personally am pro-
tected. I come to this podium to bring
these words and this message because I
know of the suffering in various com-
munities.
Those who are suffering from anti-
Semitism, I know about it. Those who
are suffering from racism, I know.
Those who are suffering from the var-
ious insidious forms of hate related to
who you happen to be, I know about it.
The homophobia, the Islamophobia, the
xenophobia, all of the various phobias
that are harmful to people, I know.
I have constituents, and I know that
they expect me to do this. They expect
someone to say that people are quietly
suffering. They expect us to do this.
They send us to Congress to do this. We
ought not tolerate this level of hate be-
cause we perpetuate it, and we ought
to do something about it.
In the beginning was the word. This
is the word. I am talking about it now.
But there is much more that we can do,
and I pray that we will become, each of
us, a committee of one to do something
about the hate that is being per-
petrated among people in this country
that is causing harm to other people in
this country.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
EXPLANATORY MATERIAL STATE-
MENT ON INTELLIGENCE AU-
THORIZATION MEASURES FOR
FISCAL YEARS 2018, 2019, AND
2020, SUBMITTED BY MR. SCHIFF,
CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE PER-
MANENT SELECT COMMITTEE ON
INTELLIGENCE
The following is the explanation of the
Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pol-
lard Intelligence Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Years 2018, 2019, and 2020 (hereinafter,
‘‘the Act’’).
This explanation reflects the result of ne-
gotiations and disposition of issues reached
between the House Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence (HPSCI) and the Sen-
ate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI)
(hereinafter, ‘‘the Agreement’’). The expla-
nation shall have the same effect with re-
spect to the implementation of the Act as if
it were a joint explanatory statement of a
conference committee.
The explanation comprises three parts: an
overview of the application of the annex to
accompany this statement; unclassified con-
gressional direction; and a section-by-sec-
tion analysis of the legislative text.
PART I: APPLICATION OF THE CLASSIFIED
ANNEX
The classified nature of U.S. intelligence
activities prevents the HPSCI and SSCI (col-
lectively, the ‘‘congressional intelligence
committees’’) from publicly disclosing many
details concerning the conclusions and rec-
ommendations of the Agreement. Therefore,
a classified Schedule of Authorizations and a
classified annex have been prepared to de-
scribe in detail the scope and intent of the
congressional intelligence committees’ ac-
tions. The Agreement authorizes the Intel-
ligence Community (IC) to obligate and ex-
pend funds not altered or modified by the
classified Schedule of Authorizations as re-
quested in the President’s budget, subject to
modification under applicable reprogram-
ming procedures.
The classified annex is the result of nego-
tiations between the congressional intel-
ligence committees. They reconcile the dif-
ferences between the congressional intel-
ligence committees’ respective versions of
the bill for the National Intelligence Pro-
gram (NIP) for Fiscal Years 2018, 2019, and
2020. The Agreement also makes rec-
ommendations for the Military Intelligence
Program (MIP) and the Information Systems
Security Program (ISSP), consistent with
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020, and provides certain direc-
tion for these two programs. The Agreement
applies to IC activities for Fiscal Year 2020.
The classified Schedule of Authorizations
is incorporated into the bill pursuant to Sec-
tion 5102 of Subdivision 1. It has the status of
law. The classified annex supplements and
adds detail to clarify the authorization lev-
els found in the bill and the classified Sched-
ule of Authorizations. The congressional in-
telligence committees view direction and
recommendations, whether contained in this
explanation or in the classified annex, as re-
quiring compliance by the Executive Branch.
PART II: SELECT UNCLASSIFIED
CONGRESSIONAL DIRECTION
Unclassified Direction related to Subdivi-
sion 1 of the Act relates to Fiscal Year 2020.
Unclassified Direction related to Subdivision
2 originated in Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019.
The term ‘‘Committees’’ refers to both SSCI
and HPSCI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00111 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE7.103 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10238 December 12, 2019
UNCLASSIFIED DIRECTION RELATED TO
SUBDIVISION 1
Plans for Operations During Government Shut-
downs by All Elements of the Intelligence
Community.
The Committees have an active interest in
the impact of government shutdowns on the
intelligence mission. Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) Circular A–11, Section 124,
outlines how agencies are supposed to plan
for operations during government shut-
downs, and Section 124.2 provides that agen-
cies must share those plans with OMB. Addi-
tionally, Section 323 of the Intelligence Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 requires
the Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence (ODNI), the Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA), and IC elements within the
Department of Defense (DoD) to share those
same plans with specified congressional com-
mittees, including the congressional intel-
ligence committees.
These requirements, however, omit IC ele-
ments that are not separate ‘‘agencies’’ for
the purposes of OMB Circular A–11, Section
124, and are not ODNI, CIA, or elements
within the DoD for the purposes of the IAA
for Fiscal Year 2014. As a result, no such re-
porting requirement currently exists for IC
elements within the Departments of Justice,
Treasury, Energy, State, and Homeland Se-
curity. For that reason, when portions of the
federal government were shut down between
December 2018 and February 2019, the Com-
mittees had little to no insight into the ef-
fects of the shutdown on these and other im-
portant segments of the IC.
Therefore, the Committees direct IC ele-
ments within the Departments of Justice,
Treasury, Energy, State, and Homeland Se-
curity to submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees—on the same day as the
host department’s issuance of any plan for a
government shutdown—the number of per-
sonnel in their respective elements that will
be furloughed.
Program Manager-Information Sharing Envi-
ronment Review.
Section 1016 of the Intelligence Reform and
Terrorism Protection Act of 2004 (IRTPA)
created a Program Manager-Information
Sharing Environment (PM-ISE), adminis-
tered from within the ODNI, to better facili-
tate the interagency sharing of terrorism-re-
lated information. Section 1016 also des-
ignated the PM-ISE as a presidentially-ap-
pointed position. Section 6402 of Subdivision
2 of the Act amends the IRTPA, so that the
PM-ISE is subject to appointment by the Di-
rector of National Intelligence (DNI), not the
President. Since the establishment of the
PM-ISE, the Federal government has created
entities, procedures, and processes to address
directly the mandate for improved terrorism
information sharing. Accordingly, the Com-
mittees find it appropriate to reconsider the
future of the PM-ISE’s mission.
Therefore, the Committees direct the
ODNI, in consultation with appropriate Fed-
eral departments, agencies, and components,
within 180 days of enactment of this Act, to
conduct a review of the PM-ISE’s terrorism
information sharing mission, associated
functions, and organizational role within the
ODNI and provide findings and recommenda-
tions on the future of the PM-ISE to Con-
gress.
Leveraging Academic Institutions in the Intel-
ligence Community.
The Committees encourage the DNI and
the Director of the DIA to ensure that IC ele-
ments continue to forge tighter partnerships
with leading universitiesand their affiliated
research centers in order to enhance mutual
awareness of domestic and international
challenges, leverage subject matter experts
from higher education in a manner that uses
cutting edge technologies and methods, and
bolsters the recruitment of top-notch, di-
verse, and technically proficient talent into
the IC’s workforce.
The Committees further believe that IC-
sponsored academic programs such as the In-
telligence Community Centers for Academic
Excellence (IC-CAE) should work closely
with educational institutions that offer
interdisciplinary courses of study and learn-
ing opportunities in national and inter-
national security; geopolitical affairs, inter-
national relations and national security;
interdisciplinary courses of study in the cul-
ture, history, languages, politics, and reli-
gions of major world regions; foreign lan-
guage instruction; computer and data
science; or cybersecurity.
The DNI shall ensure that such programs
are facilitated via the streamlining of the se-
curity clearance process for graduating stu-
dents from such universities who receive of-
fers of employment from IC elements, pro-
vide for the temporary exchange of faculty
and IC professionals, including as visiting
fellows, and technical training opportunities
for faculty, students, and IC personnel.
Therefore, the Committees direct all IC
agencies to support the IC-CAE effort by
tracking recruits and new hires who have
graduated from IC-CAE-designated institu-
tions, promptly reporting these numbers to
the office in charge of IC-CAE implementa-
tion, and increasing all IC agencies’ efforts
to recruit from such institutions.
Access to Sensitive Compartmented Information
Facilities.
The Committees remain concerned about
impediments for companies with appro-
priately cleared personnel being able to per-
form work for government entities and the
effects of these impediments on IC access to
innovative products and services. For exam-
ple, businesses without access to a Sensitive
Compartmented Information Facility
(SCIF), which includes many small busi-
nesses and non-traditional contractors, find
it difficult to perform classified work for the
IC. Construction and accreditation of SCIF
spaces may be cost-prohibitive for small
business and non-traditional government
contractors.
Additionally, SCIF construction timelines
often exceed the period of performance of a
contract. A modern trend for innovative and
non-traditional government contractors is
the use of co-working space environments.
Additionally, public and private entities are
partnering to create emerging regional inno-
vation hubs to help identify technology solu-
tions and products in the private sector that
can be utilized by the DoD and IC. These in-
novation hubs currently produce an agile,
neutral, but largely unclassified, develop-
ment environment.
Therefore, the Committees direct the ODNI
to submit a report to the congressional intel-
ligence committees on:
1. Processes and procedures necessary to
build, certify, and maintain certifications
for multi-use sensitive compartmented fa-
cilities not tied to a single contract and
where multiple companies can securely work
on multiple projects at different security
levels;
2. Analysis of the advantages and disadvan-
tages of issuing DoD Contract Security Spec-
ification (DD Form 254s) to Facilities’’ as op-
posed to Contracts’’;
3. Options for classified co-use and shared
workspace environments such as innovation,
incubation, catalyst, and accelerator envi-
ronments;
4. Pros and cons for public, private, govern-
ment, or combination owned facilities that
can operate at different classification levels;
and
5. Any other opportunities to support com-
panies with appropriately cleared personnel
but without effective access to a neutral
SCIF.
Inclusion of Security Risks in Program Manage-
ment Plans Required for Acquisition of
Major Systems in the National Intelligence
Program.
Section 5305 of Subdivision 1 of the Act
adds security risk as a factor for the DNI to
include in the annual Program Management
Plans for major system acquisitions sub-
mitted to the congressional intelligence
committees pursuant to Section
102A(q)(1)(A) of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024(q)(1)(A)). The Committees
are increasingly concerned with the security
risks to IC acquisitions. The Joint Explana-
tory Statement accompanying the Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 directed updates to Intelligence Commu-
nity Directive 731, Supply Chain Risk Man-
agement, and Committee leadership has en-
gaged senior industry representatives about
the threats to the national security indus-
trial base posed by adversaries and competi-
tors, including China. Over the past few
years, the Department of Defense has been
elevating security as a ‘‘fourth pillar’’ (to
complement cost, schedule, and perform-
ance) in reviewing defense acquisitions, em-
bodied in the Under Secretary of Defense for
Intelligence’s ‘‘Deliver Uncompromised’’ ini-
tiative.
Section 5305 of the Act extends that focus
to the IC, requiring the annual Program
Management Plans to include security risks
in major system acquisitions, in addition to
cost, schedule, and performance. The Com-
mittees recognize that security can be ap-
plied across a number of areas (facilities,
personnel, information, and supply chain)
and may vary by program, to appropriately
ensure system integrity and mission assur-
ance.
Therefore, for the purposes of imple-
menting section 5305 of the Act, the Commit-
tees direct the Director of National Intel-
ligence, with the Director of the National
Counterintelligence and Security Center, to
develop parameters for including security
risks (and risk management measures) in the
annual Program Management Plans to assist
congressional oversight.
Intelligence Community Public-Private Talent
Exchange.
The Committees fully support section 5306
of Subdivision 1’s implementation in accord-
ance with applicable federal ethics laws, reg-
ulations, and policies.
Expansion of Scope of Protections for Identities
of Covert Agents.
Section 5303 of Subdivision 1 of the Act re-
moves temporal and geographic limitations
on the definition of ‘‘covert agent’’, as that
term was defined by Section 606 of the Intel-
ligence Identities Protection Act of 1982,
P.L. 97–200 (Jun. 23, 1982) (IIPA).
Such limitations originally carved out of
the IIPA unauthorized disclosures of certain
kinds of classified identity information—
those generally involving persons who have
not served or acted abroad in the last five
years—on grounds that such disclosures are
generally less harmful to national security,
and therefore undeserving of IIPA protec-
tions. But experience since then has proven
otherwise. With the benefit of experience,
the Committees have concluded that any dis-
closure of currently classified identity infor-
mation, without regard to the location or
recency of the activities of the person whose
information is disclosed, can risk serious
harm to national security. That being the
case, such disclosures should potentially
present a basis, under appropriate cir-
cumstances, for prosecution under the IIPA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00112 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.041 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10239
December 12, 2019
The Committees wish to stress, however,
that the change does not imply any en-
hanced risk of IIPA liability for journalists.
In the thirty-seven years since enactment,
the statute has never been used to prosecute
members of the media. In fact, prosecutors
have charged violations of the IIPA in only
two cases, both of which involved unauthor-
ized disclosures by former federal govern-
ment employees of classified information ob-
tained during their employment. The Com-
mittees view this spare record, so far as tra-
ditional newsgathering and publication is
concerned, as reflecting the heavy, con-
straining influence of the First Amend-
ment’s Press Clause. Journalists continue to
this day to report aggressively on intel-
ligence matters.
The IIPA’s enforcement history also re-
flects the narrowness of Section 601(c), a pro-
vision which some have interpreted to expose
traditional journalists to the risk of liability
under the statute. But in the Committees’
view, that provision does not cover respon-
sibly investigating and reporting news in the
public interest. There is a high burden for
conviction under Section 601(c). It requires a
prosecutor to prove beyond a reasonable
doubt, among other things, that a defendant
engaged in a ‘‘pattern of activities’’: a series
of acts with the common purpose or objec-
tive of identifying and publicly exposing cov-
ert agents. Such conduct entails ‘‘engag[ing]
in a purposeful enterprise of revealing covert
identities’’ or being in the ‘‘business of nam-
ing names,’’ as the Conference Report to the
IIPA put it in 1982. H.R. Rep. No. 97–580, at 9
(1982).
Traditional news gathering and publica-
tion—including on abuses of power, viola-
tions of law and civil liberties, and other
controversial activity—does not require, or
even typically involve, such conduct. Indeed,
as the Conferees illustrated the point:
The reporters who have investigated the
activities of Wilson and Terpil, former CIA
employees who allegedly supplied explosives
and terrorist training to Libya, would not be
covered even if they revealed the identity of
covert agents if their pattern of activities
was intended to investigate illegal or con-
troversial activities, and not to identify cov-
ert agents. Similarly, David Garrow would
not be within the scope of the statute even
though he purported to give the identity of
covert agents in his book, ‘‘The FBI and
Martin Luther King, Jr.: from ‘Solo’ to Mem-
phis.’’ His intent presumably was to explain
what drove the FBI to wiretap Martin Lu-
ther King and not to identify and expose cov-
ert agents.
H.R. Rep. No. 97–580, at 10. The same holds
true for traditional, responsible journalists
today. Even after amendments made by the
Act, their work does not risk liability under
the revised IIPA.
Furthermore, section 5303 has no effect on
what information may be withheld under the
Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552
(FOIA). Section 5303 expands the universe of
‘‘covert agents’’ whose classified relation-
ship with the United States Government is
protected by the criminal law. All of the peo-
ple protected by the expanded ‘‘covert
agent’’ definition have a relationship with
the United States government that is al-
ready classified. If an individual’s relation-
ship with the government is classified, it
may be withheld under FOIA. Consequently,
even before passage of section 5303, identi-
fying information for all of the individuals
covered by the IIPA expansion could already
have been withheld under FOIA’s (b)(1) ex-
emption for national security information.
In general, when justifying withholding
under FOIA information that tends to iden-
tify covert agents, agencies should use (b)(1)
classification exemptions, not (b)(3) exemp-
tions regarding the IIPA and other statutes.
5 U.S.C. §§ 552(b)(1), (3).
Section 5303 is not intended to—and does
not—affect Congress’ authority to oversee
the IC. Section 5303 is not intended to—and
does not—affect the protections afforded to
whistleblowers to disclose violations of law
and waste, fraud, and abuse to Inspectors
General or to Congress.
Intelligence Community Cooperation with the
Government Accountability Office.
The Committees believe the Government
Accountability Office (GAO) adds significant
value to the Committees’ oversight efforts.
For example, the GAO’s designation in 2018
of the government-wide Personnel Security
Clearance process to its high-risk list of fed-
eral areas needing reform to prevent waste,
fraud, abuse, and mismanagement, was im-
portant to the Committees’ efforts to legis-
late on security clearance reform, including
in this Act. The Committees expect that all
IC elements will fully and promptly comply
with requests from the GAO made to support
studies requested by, or of interest to, the
Committees.
Clarification of Death Benefits for Survivors of
Central Intelligence Agency Personnel.
The Committees concur with the Executive
Branch that section 5341 of Subdivision 1 of
the Act shall apply retroactively from the
date of enactment of this Act.
Intelligence Community Leave Policies.
The Committees find it imperative that
the federal government, to include the IC, re-
cruit, hire, and retain a highly qualified
workforce. That depends in part on offering
federal personnel a competitive benefits
package—including with respect to parental
leave and related benefits. Toward that end,
the Committees strongly believe the federal
government must align such benefits to the
fullest extent possible with those of leading
U.S. private sector companies and other in-
dustrialized countries.
In furtherance of that objective, the Com-
mittees in their respective bills supported a
provision to provide twelve weeks of paid pa-
rental leave to all IC employees. The Com-
mittees further support the succeeding pro-
vision in the National Defense Authorization
Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2020 that pro-
vides government employees, to include
those in the IC, with twelve weeks of paid
administrative leave in the event of birth of
a child, or the placement of a child for pur-
poses of adoptive or foster care. This is con-
sistent with, and supersedes, provisions that
were contained in the House-passed and Sen-
ate-passed Intelligence Authorization Acts
for Fiscal Years 2018, 2019, and 2020. Impor-
tantly, that NDAA provision does not modify
or otherwise affect the eligibility of an IC
employee for benefits relating to leave under
any other provision of law, to include the
provisions of the Family and Medical Leave
Act (FMLA), 29 U.S.C. § 2601, et seq.
Moreover, so far as concerns the provi-
sion’s implementation, the Committees di-
rect the DNI, within 180 days after enact-
ment of this Act, to provide a briefing for
the Committees on how each element of the
IC will implement 5 U.S.C. section 6382(d)(2),
as provided by this Act.
Transfer of National Intelligence University.
The Committees have been closely watch-
ing the evolution of how the IC provides for
advanced intelligence education. The De-
fense Intelligence Agency (DIA) has hosted
an intelligence college since 1962, which has
been academically accredited since 1983.
When the ODNI was created in the Intel-
ligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention
Act of 2004, ODNI created a separate Na-
tional Intelligence University (NIU) under
its auspices as a complement to DIA’s intel-
ligence effort. In response to a report from
the President’s Intelligence Advisory Board
that accused the ODNI of being inadequately
focused, the ODNI in 2011 transferred the NIU
to DIA’s intelligence college and rebranded
the new combined institution as NIU.
Pursuant to the Joint Explanatory State-
ment to the Intelligence Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2017, an independent panel of-
fered alternative governance models to en-
hance NIU, to include a more prominent role
for ODNI. In parallel, analyses of DIA by the
Secretary of Defense and the HPSCI during
the 115th Congress concluded that DIA would
benefit from moving NIU elsewhere in the IC.
The Committees believe transferring NIU
to ODNI is now appropriate if certain condi-
tions, contained in section 5324 of Subdivi-
sion 1 of the Act, are met. The Committees
believe that clear commitment from the DNI
and Principal Deputy DNI is critical to NIU’s
success at ODNI. The Committees look for-
ward to working with ODNI and DoD on the
successful transfer of NIU.
Associate Degree Program Eligibility.
The Committees are concerned that stu-
dents enrolled in, or who have graduated
from, Associate Degree programs have insuf-
ficient opportunities to gain employment in
the IC. Therefore, the Committees direct the
ODNI to submit a report to the congressional
intelligence committees on how to expand
the number of opportunities for students
pursuing or having earned an Associate De-
gree eligible for IC academic programs. The
Committees also direct the ODNI to make
information about these academic programs
publicly available.
Exposing Predatory and Anticompetitive For-
eign Economic Influence.
The Committees are concerned about the
significant threat posed by foreign govern-
ments that engage in predatory and anti-
competitive behaviors aimed to undercut
critical sectors of the United States econ-
omy. Therefore, the Committees direct the
DNI, in consultation with the Assistant Sec-
retary of the Treasury for Intelligence and
Analysis, to submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a report identifying
top countries that pose a substantial threat
to the United States economy regarding
technology transfer issues, predatory invest-
ment practices, economic espionage, and
other anticompetitive behaviors. The report
shall be submitted in unclassified form to
the greatest extent possible, but may include
a classified annex.
Furthermore, the DNI, in consultation
with the Department of the Treasury and
other agencies that the Director deems ap-
propriate,shall submit a report to the con-
gressional intelligence committees assessing
the costs and benefits of requiring a foreign
person or entity that invests in the United
States (and is subject to the jurisdiction of a
country that poses a substantial threat to
the United States economy) to submit an-
nual disclosures to the Federal Government.
Such disclosures would include all invest-
ments that the foreign person or entity made
in the United States during the preceding
year; the ownership structure of the entity;
and any affiliation of the entity with a for-
eign government. The report should detail
how such information could be used by the
IC and other elements of the Federal govern-
ment working to identify and combat foreign
threats to the United States economy, and
the appropriate scope and thresholds for
such disclosures. The report shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form, but may include
a classified annex.
Increasing Data Security.
The Committees are aware the IC faces
challenges while trying to balance mission
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00113 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.042 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10240 December 12, 2019
and enterprise needs with IT modernization,
including the migration of data and applica-
tions to the cloud. With this in mind, the
Committees encourage the IC to identify and
utilize technologies that increase the secu-
rity posture of data and workloads and re-
duce cyber risks.
The Committees further recommend that:
1. IC elements identify, develop, and imple-
ment tools for bi-directional data migration
and division interoperability between data
center and cloud environments;
2. These tools include, but are not limited
to, encryption of data while both at rest and
in motion, and micro-segmentation of net-
works and workloads; and
3. IC elements prioritize shifting resources
towards automation as a way to respond
more quickly to cyber threats.
Anonymous Annual Survey Regarding Work-
place Climate.
IC elements obtain mission-critical infor-
mation from the results of anonymous, an-
nual surveys of their employees, on issues re-
lated to workplace climate and retention. As
necessary as they are to the elements’ own
activities, survey results are also vital to the
Committees’ continuing oversight of ele-
ments’ efforts to address workplace climate
and retention issues, and to propose legisla-
tive and other remedies where appropriate.
The need for reliable information is espe-
cially acute with respect to sexual harass-
ment and discrimination, given that—estab-
lished policy and legal protections notwith-
standing—an employee may fear that di-
rectly raising concerns about such matters
risks exposing the employee to retaliatory
personnel, security clearance, or other ac-
tions. The anonymous survey affords the ele-
ment, and the Committees, a mechanism for
inquiring further about the extent of this
well-documented chilling effect against re-
porting; and about the effectiveness (or not)
of ongoing programs to uncover and root out
sexual harassment, discrimination, and
other illegal and/or inappropriate activities
at the workplace.
Therefore, the Committees direct that no
later than 180 days after enactment of this
Act, the DNI must certify in writing to the
congressional intelligence committees that:
1. At least once a year, each element of the
IC submits a survey to its employees regard-
ing workplace climate and retention mat-
ters, and affords employees completing such
surveys the option to remain anonymous;
2. Such survey includes questions regard-
ing employees’ experiences with sexual as-
sault, discrimination, harassment, including
sexual harassment, and related retaliation,
including, at a minimum, the questions cov-
ering the following topics:
a. Have you witnessed sexual harassment
or sexual assault?
i. Did you report it?
ii. If not, why not?
b. Have you experienced sexual harassment
or sexual assault?
i. Did you report it?
ii. If not, why not?
c. Have you experienced retaliation for re-
porting harassment, discrimination, or sex-
ual assault?
i. Have you faced retribution for taking
leave for family, medical, or other personal
reasons?
ii. Did you fear retribution for taking
leave?
3. Each element includes in its survey
questions regarding the job series, position,
age, gender, race or ethnicity, field, and job
location at the time of the survey’s comple-
tion;
4. Each element tracks employees’ re-
sponses according to job series, position, age,
gender, race or ethnicity, field, and location
at the time of the survey’s completion; and
5. Each element reports the results of its
survey annually to the congressional intel-
ligence committees.
Report to Congress on the Representation of
Women and Minorities in the Workforce.
The Committees continue to strongly sup-
port IC efforts to identify, recruit, and retain
a highly diverse and highly qualified work-
force—including, in particular, its efforts to
increase the representation within elements
of the IC of women and minorities.
This is a data driven exercise. Bolstering
and adjusting IC workforce diversity pro-
grams depends in part on the Committees’
regularly obtaining current, detailed, and re-
liable information, and about specific mat-
ters relevant to the broader subject of work-
force diversity—such as rates and areas of
promotion of women and minority employ-
ees. However, some elements may produce
such information only from time to time;
others may make regular submissions to the
Committees but include only general infor-
mation.
Therefore, the Committees direct that
every six months, the head of each element
of the IC shall submit to the Committees a
written report that shall include, at a min-
imum:
1. The total number of women and minori-
ties hired by that element during the report-
ing period and a calculation of that figure as
a percentage of the agency’s total hiring for
that period;
2. The distribution of women and minori-
ties at that element by grade level and by
job series in the element’s total workforce
during the reporting period, together with
comparisons from the immediately preceding
two years;
3. The number of women and minorities
who applied for promotion at the element
and the final number selected for promotion
during the reporting period;
4. The proportion of the total workforce of
the element occupied by each group or class
protected by law, as of the last day of the re-
porting period;
5. The numbers of minorities and women
serving in positions at the element requiring
advanced, specialized training or certifi-
cation, as well as the proportion of the work-
force those groups occupy; and
6. To the extent that such element deploys
civilian employees to hazardous duty loca-
tions, the number of women and minority
employees who departed government service
subsequent to a deployment undertaken by
an employee in the previous two years.
Report on Geospatial Commercial Activities for
Basic and Applied Research and Develop-
ment.
The Committees direct the Director of the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
(NGA), in coordination with the DNI, the Di-
rector of the Central Intelligence Agency
(CIA), and the Director of the National Re-
connaissance Office (NRO), within 90 days of
enactment of this Act, to submit to the con-
gressional intelligence and defense commit-
tees a report on the feasibility, risks, costs,
and benefits of providing the private sector
and academia, on a need-driven and limited
basis—consistent with the protection of
sources and methods, as well as privacy and
civil liberties—access to data in the posses-
sion of the NGA for the purpose of assisting
the efforts of the private sector and aca-
demia in basic research, applied research,
data transfers, and the development of auto-
mation, artificial intelligence, and associ-
ated algorithms. Such report shall include:
1. Identification of any additional authori-
ties that the Director of NGA would require
to provide the private sector and academia
with access to relevant data on a need-driven
and limited basis, consistent with applicable
laws and procedures relating to the protec-
tion of sources, methods, privacy and civil
liberties; and
2. Market research to assess the commer-
cial and academic interest in such data and
determine likely private-sector entities and
institutions of higher education interested in
public-private partnerships relating to such
data.
NRO Contracting Restrictions.
The Committees continue to be very con-
cerned that NRO imposes unnecessary con-
tractual restrictions that prohibits or dis-
courages a contractor from contacting or
meeting with a congressional intelligence
committee or intelligence committee Mem-
ber offices. Therefore, the Committees direct
NRO to remove all restrictions that impacts
contractors from contacting or meeting with
the congressional intelligence committees or
member offices in all current and future con-
tracts to include pre-coordination with exec-
utive branch agencies.
Enhancing Automation at the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
The Committees strongly support efforts
to leverage commercial advances in automa-
tion of imagery such as electro-optical, in-
frared, Wide Area Motion Imagery (WAMI),
Full Motion Video (FMV), and Synthetic Ap-
erture Radar (SAR) products to reduce man-
ual processing and improve information flow
to users. However, the Committees are con-
cerned that NGA does not dedicate adequate
resources to integrate new automation tech-
niques, which have resulted in years of re-
search into the issue, but limited operation
gains during day-to-day imagery processing.
Therefore, the Committees direct NGA,
within 90 days of enactment of this Act, to
brief the congressional intelligence and de-
fense committees on an updated plan to re-
duce manual processing of imagery such as
electro-optical, infrared, WAMI, FMV, and
SAR to improve information flow to users.
The briefing shall also address:
1. NGA’s strategy to leverage commercial
advances;
2. The various GEOINT automated exploi-
tation development programs across the Na-
tional System for Geospatial-Intelligence,
and the associated funding and specific pur-
pose of said programs;
3. Any similar efforts by government enti-
ties outside the National System for
Geospatial-Intelligence of which NGA is
aware; and
4. Which of these efforts may be duplica-
tive.
Redundant Organic Software Development.
The Committees are concerned that NGA
is developing software solutions that are
otherwise available for purchase on the com-
mercial market. This practice often in-
creases the time it takes to deliver new ca-
pabilities to the warfighter; increases the
overall cost of the solution through expen-
sive operational and maintenance costs; and
undermines the U.S. software industrial
base.
Therefore, the Committees direct NGA,
within 60 days of enactment of this Act, to
brief the Committees, to identify all NGA
developed software programs and explain
why they are being developed organically in-
stead of leveraging commercially available
products.
Critical Skills Recruiting for Automation.
Although cutting edge sensors have pro-
vided the IC and Department of Defense with
exquisite imagery, full motion video (FMV),
and wide area motion imagery (WAMI), in-
telligence analysts are unable to keep pace
with the volume of data being generated.
This demands a transformation in the way
the intelligence enterprise processes, orga-
nizes, and presents data. For that reason, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00114 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.045 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10241
December 12, 2019
Committees fully support the NGA’s efforts
to attract, recruit, and retain a highly com-
petent workforce that can acquire and inte-
grate new data automation tools.
Therefore, the Committees direct NGA,
within 60 days of enactment of this Act, to
brief the congressional intelligence and de-
fense committees on NGA’s efforts to recruit
critical skills such as mathematicians, data
scientists, and software engineers that pos-
sess critical skills needed to support NGA’s
objectives in automation.
Common Sensitive Compartmented Information
Facility.
The Committees have become aware of sev-
eral major impediments to companies per-
forming work for agencies and organizations
like the NRO. For example, businesses with-
out ownership of a SCIF find it very difficult
to perform classified work. Additionally,
these small businesses are challenged with
basic obstacles such as becoming aware of
classified work opportunities because it is
difficult to obtain access to the IC’s and
DoD’s classified marketplaces such as the
Acquisition Resource Center (ARC). Con-
struction and accreditation of SCIF spaces is
cost-prohibitive for small business and non-
traditional government contractors. Addi-
tionally, construction timeline often exceeds
the period of performance of a contract.
A modern trend for innovative and non-
traditional government contractors is the in-
creased use of co-working space environ-
ments. Additionally, public and private enti-
ties are partnering to create emerging re-
gional innovation hubs to help identify tech-
nology solutions and products in the private
sector that can be utilized by the IC and
DoD. These innovation hubs currently
produce an agile, neutral, but largely unclas-
sified development environment.
Therefore, the Committees direct the DNI,
within 90 days of enactment of this Act, to
brief the congressional intelligence commit-
tees on the following:
1. Steps necessary to establish new ‘Com-
mon SCIFs’ in areas of high demand;
2. What approaches allow for SCIF spaces
to be certified and accredited outside of a
traditional contractual arrangement;
3. Analysis of the advantages and disadvan-
tages of issuing Department of Defense Con-
tract Security Specification (DD Form 254s)
to ‘‘Facilities,’’ as opposed to ‘‘Contracts’’;
4. Options for classified co-use and shared
workspace environments such as: innova-
tion, incubation, catalyst, and accelerator
environments;
5. Pros and cons for public, private, govern-
ment, or combination owned classified neu-
tral facilities; and
6. Any other opportunities to support those
without ownership of a SCIF effective access
to a neutral SCIF.
Improving Use of the Unclassified Marketplaces.
Another area where the Committees have
become aware of major impediments for
companies to perform work for agencies and
organizations like the NRO are unclassified
marketplaces such as the Acquisition Re-
source Center (ARC). Instead of posting data
to unclassified marketplaces, unclassified
NRO postings often refer to the classified
side for critical yet unclassified information.
If the NRO is serious about embracing com-
mercial innovation, unclassified market-
place postings should remain on the unclas-
sified side.
Therefore, the Committees direct NRO,
within 90 days of enactment of this Act, to
brief the Committees on options for improv-
ing the unclassified marketplace process.
Satellite Servicing.
No later than one year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the DNI, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Defense, shall
jointly provide the to the congressional in-
telligence and defense committees a briefing
detailing the costs, risks, and operational
benefits of leveraging commercial satellite
servicing capabilities for national security
satellite systems. The briefing shall include
the following:
1. A prioritized list, with a rationale, of
operational and planned assets of the Intel-
ligence Community that could be enhanced
by satellite servicing missions;
2. The costs, risks, and benefits of inte-
grating satellite servicing capabilities as
part of operational resilience; and
3. Potential strategies that could allow fu-
ture national security space systems to le-
verage commercial in-orbit servicing capa-
bilities where appropriate and feasible.
Commercial RF Mapping and SAR.
U.S. commercial companies are now offer-
ing space-based geolocation and geospatial
intelligence (GEOINT) analysis of radio fre-
quency (RF) emitters as well as synthetic
aperture radar (SAR) products. These compa-
nies can identify, locate, and analyze pre-
viously undetected activity, providing new
insights for U.S. national security and de-
fense. The IC currently has contracts that le-
verage commercial electro-optical satellites,
however it does not have a program in place
to take full advantage of these emerging
commercial space-based RF GEOINT and
SAR capabilities.
Therefore, the Committees direct the NRO
and NGA to brief the Committees on how it
will leverage these commercial companies in
Fiscal Year 2020 and beyond, to include fund-
ing for, as well as testing and evaluation ef-
forts.
Commercial Remote Sensing.
The Committees support efforts to estab-
lish a light-touch regulatory structure that
enables the rapidly evolving commercial
space-based imagery, RF sensing, and radar
industry markets to promote U.S. leadership
in these areas. However, the Committees
also support the needs of the U.S. Govern-
ment to protect both IC and DoD personnel
and assets. The Committees believe there
can be a balance that supports both national
security interests and the promotion of U.S.
innovation and leadership.
Therefore, the Committees direct the DNI,
in consultation with the Secretary of De-
fense, to brief the Committees within 60 days
of the date of enactment of the Act, on ef-
forts that help address this balance and
which streamline the IC and DoD involve-
ment in the rapidly evolving U.S. commer-
cial space-based imagery, RF sensing, and
radar industries.
Deception Detection Techniques.
The U.S. Government does not have suffi-
cient security screening capabilities avail-
able to determine deception in individuals
that intend to harm the United States. The
polygraph has been an effective investigative
tool to detect deception, but the cost and
time required to administer a polygraph ex-
amination is a major cause for security
clearance backlogs, and often limits the fre-
quency of periodic examinations to every 5–
7 years. Entities within DoD and the IC in-
cluding DIA, Special Operations Command,
NGA, Defense Counterintelligence and Secu-
rity Agency, U.S. Air Force and others have
expressed a desire to begin piloting new sys-
tems such as ocular deception detection sys-
tems. However, progress is being hindered by
DoD Directive 5210.91 and ODNI Security
Agent Directive 2, which direct some over-
sight of new deception detection tech-
nologies to the DoD National Center of
Credibility Assessment (NCCA), which does
not have sufficient budget or other resources
to expeditiously evaluate non-polygraph
technologies.
Therefore, the Committees direct the DNI
in coordination with the DoD to provide the
congressional intelligence and defense com-
mittees with a briefing on what steps they
are taking to ensure pilot programs are es-
tablished to evaluate these new technologies
to help reduce our backlog, improve effi-
ciency, and reduce overall cost. Pilot pro-
grams shall evaluate current and emerging
technologies to efficiently and rapidly verify
the accuracy and truthfulness of statements
of candidates for employment within the
DoD/IC, including for interim security clear-
ances, for periodic screening of cleared DoD/
IC personnel, to screen foreign national col-
laborators and contractors overseas to pre-
vent ‘‘Green-on-Blue’’ attacks, for immigra-
tion screening and for other purposes.
List of Foreign Entities That Pose a Threat to
Critical Technologies.
The Committees direct the DNI, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Defense, to
identify, compose, and maintain a list of for-
eign entities, including governments, cor-
porations, nonprofit and for-profit organiza-
tions, and any subsidiary or affiliate of such
an entity, that the Director determines pose
a threat of espionage with respect to critical
technologies or research projects, including
research conducted at institutions of higher
education.
Maintenance of this list will be critical to
ensuring the security of the most sensitive
projects relating to U.S. national security,
such as defense and intelligence-related re-
search projects. The initial list shall be
available to the head of each qualified agen-
cy funding applicable projects and will in-
clude the following entities already identi-
fied as threatening: Huawei Technologies
Company, ZTE Corporation, Hytera Commu-
nications Corporation, Hangzhou Hikvision
Digital Technology Company, Dahua Tech-
nology Company, and Kaspersky Lab. The
DNI and the Secretary of Defense, or a dele-
gate from each agency, shall brief the find-
ings to the congressional intelligence and de-
fense committees no later than 180 days after
the enactment of the Act.
Protection of National Security Research.
The Committees believe that institutes of
higher learning, laboratories, and other enti-
ties and organizations play critical roles in
advancing national security within the U.S.
science and technology ecosystem that is
charged with delivering the best capabilities
to the warfighter in the near, mid, and long-
term. The Committees understand that near-
peer competitors such as China and Russia
attempt to exploit and benefit from the open
and collaborative global research environ-
ment created by the Reagan Administra-
tion’s National Security Decision Directive
189 on the National Policy on the transfer of
Scientific, Technical and Engineering Infor-
mation. This directive established that the
products of ‘‘fundamental research’’—defined
as ‘‘basic and applied research in science and
engineering, the results of which ordinarily
are published and shared’’—should remain
unrestricted.
The Committees are also aware that aca-
demia is not always kept apprised by the
interagency of a complete picture of poten-
tial activities and threats in the research
community, such as improper technology
transfer, intellectual property theft, and
cyber-attacks directly attributed to nation-
state governments. Elsewhere in this bill and
report, the Committees include measures to
promote increased information sharing
across the interagency and with academia.
Therefore, the Committees direct the Sec-
retary of Defense to provide the congres-
sional intelligence and defense committees,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00115 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.046 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10242 December 12, 2019
within 90 days of enactment of the Act, a re-
port listing Chinese and Russian academic
institutions that have a history of improper
technology transfer, intellectual property
theft, cyber espionage, or operate under the
direction of their respective armed forces or
intelligence agencies. The report should be
in unclassified form, but may contain a clas-
sified annex.
Investments in Scientific and Technological In-
telligence.
The Committees remain interested in the
continued efforts of the DoD to improve sci-
entific and technological intelligence (S&TI)
capabilities and tradecraft across the De-
fense Intelligence Enterprise (DIE). The
Committees recognize S&TI is critical to
strategic competition with near-peer com-
petitors by ensuring comprehensive under-
standing of adversary capabilities and abil-
ity to inform development of joint force
fifth-generation advanced weapons systems
and other emerging technologies.
Therefore, the Committees direct the
USD(I) in collaboration with the Director of
the DIA, to provide a briefing to the Com-
mittees and the congressional defense com-
mittees within 75 days of enactment of the
Act, on the alignment of current and planned
DIE S&TI investments and activities to DoD
operational and strategic requirements.
The briefing shall also include information
on how the DoD will continue the matura-
tion of S&TI capabilities and tradecraft
across the DIE.
Intelligence Support to Defense Operations in
the Information Environment.
The Committees support DoD efforts to
improve capabilities and tradecraft to oper-
ate in the information environment. The
Committees are concerned about the Defense
Intelligence Enterprise’s (DIE) ability to
provide the information operations commu-
nity with all-source intelligence support,
consistent with the support provided to oper-
ations in other domains.
Therefore, the Committees direct the
USD(I), in coordination with the Joint
Staff’s Director for Intelligence and the DNI,
to provide a briefing to the congressional in-
telligence and defense committees within 30
days of enactment of the Act, on intelligence
support to information operations. The brief-
ing should include standardized defense in-
telligence lexicon for intelligence prepara-
tion of the battlefield for information oper-
ations, efforts to develop a process to ensure
the full scope of emerging defense informa-
tion operations threat requirements are
structured to be addressed through the en-
tirety of DIE capabilities, and how the DIE
perceives the future of defense operations in
the information environment.
The briefing shall also include a descrip-
tion of how the IC, through the National In-
telligence Priorities Framework, will ac-
count for a more dynamic use of defense in-
telligence capabilities to augment and en-
hance support to DoD operations in the in-
formation environment.
ROTC IC Recruitment Trial Program.
The Senior Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps (ROTC) program, with units or affili-
ates at approximately 1,600 U.S. colleges and
universities, is DoD’s largest commissioning
source, providing approximately 6,500 new
active duty officers to the military each
year.
Officer candidates enrolled in ROTC pro-
grams must meet all graduation require-
ments of their academic institutions, enroll
in military, naval, or aerospace education
courses, and attend summer military train-
ing, making them ideal candidates for IC
placement. Currently, ROTC cadets only
have the option to utilize their training by
joining one of the military services. The
Committees believe the government can find
cost savings and provide a wider range of op-
portunities to ROTC recruits by leveraging
the ROTC’s existing training program for the
IC.
Therefore, the Committees direct the
USD(I), in coordination with ODNI, to con-
duct a feasibility study on creating a path-
way for ROTC recruits to find employment
in the IC, on a reimbursable basis. The study
should examine:
1. Pros and cons of instituting an ROTC IC
recruitment pipeline;
2. Approximate reimbursement cost per re-
cruit; and
3. Legislative requirements for program
execution.
The Committees direct that the study re-
sults be submitted via report to the Commit-
tees and the congressional defense commit-
tees within 90 days of enactment of the Act.
Explosive Ordinance Disposal Intelligence.
The Committees are concerned that the ex-
pertise of Explosive Ordinance Disposal
(EOD) personnel is not adequately accessible
and therefore, not sufficiently utilized by the
Defense Intelligence Enterprise and IC to
provide the combatant commands with the
required intelligence to identify, combat,
and deter violent extremism and other asym-
metric threats.
Explosive ordnance includes all munitions,
improvised explosive devices, devices con-
taining explosives, propellants, nuclear fis-
sion or fusion materials, biological, and
chemical agents. The primary consumer of
this information are military tactical explo-
sive ordnance disposal units that employ the
data for threat identification and neutraliza-
tion. However, the required analysis to de-
termine appropriate render-safe capabilities
requires operational and strategic intel-
ligence to process and analyze the data, and
data management processes to promulgate
the resulting information. The Committees
believe DoD should modernize the processes
and procedures to more comprehensively
track, manage, and coordinate the capability
and capacity of EOD intelligence within the
IC and the DIE to support all levels of
render-safe capabilities.
Therefore, the Committees direct the
USD(I), in coordination with the ODNI, to
provide a briefing to the congressional intel-
ligence and defense committees within 120
days of enactment of the Act on the capa-
bility and capacity of EOD intelligence ex-
pertise across the DIE and IC. The briefing
shall include:
1. An assessment of the coordination and
integration of defense and national intel-
ligence capabilities against EOD intelligence
requirements, to include a mitigation strat-
egy to address any identified gaps or defi-
ciencies, information-sharing challenges, or
any other impediments to integration of
EOD expertise across the defense and intel-
ligence communities; and
2. An assessment of the technical skills
needed to address EOD intelligence require-
ments, while identifying any gaps or defi-
ciencies in current personnel hiring and
training structures, and a long-term plan to
develop proficiency of EOD intelligence ex-
pertise in the defense and intelligence com-
munities.
Information-Sharing Arrangements with India,
Japan, and the Republic of Korea.
International alliances and partnerships
are critical to the pursuit and sustainment
of the United States national security objec-
tives, built upon foundations of shared val-
ues and intent. The Committees recognize
the importance of the DoD sharing informa-
tion with international allies and partners in
support of the planning and execution of the
National Defense Strategy, as allies and
third-party international partners enhance
strategic stability across the Department’s
purview while increasing effectiveness of op-
erations. The Committees believe the mecha-
nisms to share information across the ‘‘Five
Eyes’’ alliance continue to mature through
established exercises, exchange of personnel,
and virtual data sharing, while that coopera-
tion is potentially less robust with third-
party partners.
The Committees support the roles and con-
tributions of third-party partners such as
India, Japan, and the Republic of Korea, and
recognizes their ongoing contribution toward
maintaining peace and stability in the Indo-
Pacific region. The Committees are inter-
ested in understanding the policies and pro-
cedures governing the collaboration and in-
formation sharing with India, Japan, the Re-
public of Korea, and the ‘‘Five Eyes’’ allies,
and whether opportunities exist to strength-
en those arrangements.
Therefore, the Committees direct the
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence
(USD(I)), in coordination with the ODNI, to
provide a briefing to the congressional intel-
ligence and defense committees within 60
days of enactment of the Act, on the bene-
fits, challenges, and risks of broadening the
information-sharing mechanisms between
India, Japan, the Republic of Korea, and the
‘‘Five Eyes’’ allies.
Transitioning the Function of Background In-
vestigations to the Department of Defense.
Executive Order 13869 transitions the back-
ground investigation functions of the Fed-
eral Government from the Office of Per-
sonnel Management (OPM), National Back-
ground Investigations Bureau, to the DoD,
Defense Counterintelligence and Security
Agency. The Committees recognize the im-
portance of ensuring timely and efficient
background investigations to overcome
workforce staffing challenges of cleared indi-
viduals across the whole of government and
private sector, and to vet personnel who
come into contact with the Department’s
personnel, installations, and technology. The
Committees are aware of the temporary es-
tablishment of the Personnel Vetting Trans-
formation Office in the OUSD(I) to manage
the transition of this activity from OPM to
the Department and improve the processes
and procedures related to vetting personnel
for clearances across the whole of govern-
ment and private sector.
However, the Committees are concerned
about the potential risks to personnel man-
agement and mission such a transfer may
present, and believes that appropriate pro-
tections of civil liberties and privacy must
be prioritized throughout the transition,
through the implementation of modern and
efficient vetting measures. The Committees
recognize the Department’s leadership,
through sharing best practices with ODNI, in
reforming the vetting process using modern
techniques such as continuous evaluation,
and expects regular updates on the Depart-
ment’s progress in addressing the current
background investigations backlog.
Therefore, the Committees direct the
USD(I), in coordination with the Director of
the Defense Counterintelligence and Secu-
rity Agency, to provide a briefing to the con-
gressional intelligence and defense commit-
tees within 90 days of enactment of the Act,
on how the DoD will transfer the background
investigation mission and establish an effec-
tive personnel vetting capability to provide
for the security of the Department, while
maintaining the civil liberties and privacy
protections of personnel under consideration
to receive a clearance.
Joint Intelligence Operations Center Staffing.
The Committees recognize the evolving
operational and strategic priorities of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00116 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.047 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10243
December 12, 2019
DoD will impact Defense Intelligence Enter-
prise capabilities and resources. The Com-
mittees recognize the ongoing efforts by the
USD(I) to comply with direction specified by
the John. S. McCain National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public
Law 115–232) to reduce and prevent imbal-
ances in priorities and mitigate against in-
sufficient or misaligned resources within the
Defense Intelligence Enterprise.
While the Committees support the efforts
by the USD(I) to create efficiencies across
the Defense Intelligence Enterprise organiza-
tions, to include the Service Intelligence
Centers and combatant command Joint Op-
erations Intelligence Centers, and enable
those elements to plan and posture staffing
requirements accordingly, the Committees
are concerned that the shifts in current and
future resourcing lack coherence to support
the global mandate of the Department.
Therefore, the Committees direct the
USD(I), in coordination with DIA, to provide
a briefing to the congressional intelligence
and defense committees within 90 days of en-
actment of the Act on how the OUSD(I) and
DIA are managing resourcing requirements
to the combatant command Joint Intel-
ligence Operations Centers to meet current
and future needs of the combatant com-
manders and DoD.
China’s Biological Weapons Program.
The Committees remain interested in en-
suring the Defense Intelligence Enterprise is
providing timely, accurate, and effective in-
telligence to support information needs of
the DoD, and are aware of a recent GAO re-
port on long-range emerging threats facing
the United States that highlighted potential
pursuit by near-peer competitors of biologi-
cal weapons using genetic engineering and
synthetic biology.
Therefore, the Committees direct the
USD(I), in coordination with the Director of
the DIA, to provide a briefing to the congres-
sional intelligence and defense committees
within 30 days of enactment of the Act with
an assessment of China’s current and pro-
jected biological weapons program, the risks
presented to the joint force, and the mitiga-
tion strategies to protect U.S. military
forces against said threats.
Machine-assisted Analytic Rapid Repository
System Government Accountability Office
Review.
The re-emergence of great power competi-
tion will stress DIA’s ability to provide
foundational military intelligence for the IC
and warfighters. As such, the Committees
are supportive of DIA’s intent to replace the
Modernized Integrated Database (MIDB)
with the Machine-assisted Analytic Rapid
Repository System (MARS).
However, the Committees are concerned
that MARS’s development and procurement
will entail a complex and extensive trans-
formation that will impact the DIA’s deliv-
ery of foundational military intelligence.
Therefore, the Committees direct the GAO
to provide a report to the congressional in-
telligence and defense committees within
one year of enactment of the Act that de-
scribes:
1. The envisioned users and customer base
and how they will use MARS;
2. An assessment of the transition plan
from MIDB to MARS with input from cur-
rent and historic MIDB users, as well as cus-
tomers;
3. An assessment of the resources nec-
essary to fully implement MARS, to include
funding and personnel implications;
4. An assessment of DIA’s acquisition
strategy for MARS to include the use of any
rapid acquisition or prototyping authorities;
and
5. The challenges DIA has identified that it
will face in transitioning from MIDB to
MARS and whether its migration plans are
sufficient for addressing these challenges.
The Committees expect DIA’s full coopera-
tion with the GAO study.
Update on the DIA Strategic Approach.
In September 2018, the Defense Intelligence
Agency (DIA) adopted a Strategic Approach
to enhance workforce development, improve
foundational military intelligence data man-
agement, address perennial intelligence
issues and realign roles and missions. Im-
provements in these issue areas will enhance
the Agency’s ability to support both the Na-
tional Security Strategy and National De-
fense Strategy.
The Committees support the DIA’s initia-
tive to improve those structures it assesses
are critical to providing warfighters the in-
formation needed to prevent and, if nec-
essary, decisively win wars, such as intel-
ligence on foreign militaries’ capabilities.
Therefore, the Committees direct DIA to
provide quarterly briefings, beginning 45
days after enactment of the Act, to the con-
gressional intelligence and defense commit-
tees on its efforts to enhance workforce de-
velopment, improve foundational military
intelligence data management, address pe-
rennial intelligence issues, and realign roles
and missions.
Report on Chinese Efforts Targeting Democratic
Elections and U.S. Alliances and Partner-
ships and Strategy to Counter Chinese Elec-
tion Interference.
The Committees direct the DNI, in coordi-
nation with the Secretary of Defense, the
Secretary of State, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security, to provide a report to
the Committees, the congressional defense
committees, the House Committee on For-
eign Affairs, the Senate Committee on For-
eign Relations, the House Committee on
Homeland Security, and the Senate Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs on the Chinese government’s
influence operations and campaigns tar-
geting democratic elections.
The report shall be divided into two sec-
tions, which respectively address influence
operations and campaigns targeting: (1) re-
cent and upcoming elections in the United
States (dating back to January 1, 2017), and
(2) military alliances and partnerships of
which the United States is a member. The
report should also include a strategy to
counter these activities. The Committees
further direct the Secretary of Defense to
provide an interim report within 30 days of
enactment of the Act, and a final report
within a year of enactment of the Act.
The report shall be unclassified and appro-
priate for release to the public but may in-
clude a classified annex. At a minimum, the
report should include:
1. An assessment of China’s objectives in
influence operations and campaigns tar-
geting democratic elections and military al-
liances and partnerships of which the United
States is a member, and how such objectives
relate to the China’s broader strategic aims;
2. The United States’ strategy and capa-
bilities for detecting, deterring, countering,
and disrupting such Chinese influence oper-
ations (including recommended authorities
and activities) and campaigns and a discus-
sion of the DoD’s and the IC’s respective
roles in the strategy;
3. A comprehensive list of specific Chinese
state and non-state entities involved in sup-
porting such Chinese influence operations
and campaigns and the role of each entity in
supporting them;
4. An identification of the tactics, tech-
niques, and procedures used in previous Chi-
nese influence operations and campaigns;
5. A comprehensive identification of coun-
tries with democratic election systems that
have been targeted by Chinese influence op-
erations and campaigns since January 1,
2017;
6. An assessment of the impact of previous
Chinese influence operations and campaigns
targeting democratic elections and military
alliances and partnerships of which the
United States is a member, including the
views of senior Chinese officials about their
effectiveness in achieving Chinese objectives;
7. An identification of countries with
democratic elections systems that may be
targeted in future Chinese influence oper-
ations and campaigns and an assessment of
the likelihood that each such country will be
targeted;
8. An identification of all U.S. military al-
liances and partnerships that have been tar-
geted by Chinese influence operations and
campaigns since January 1, 2017;
9. An identification of all U.S. military al-
liances and partnerships that may be tar-
geted in future Chinese influence operations
and campaigns and an assessment of the
likelihood that each such country will be
targeted; and
10. An identification of tactics, techniques,
and procedures likely to be used in future
Chinese influence operations and campaigns
targeting democratic elections and military
alliances and partnerships of which the
United States is a member.
Report on Russian Efforts Targeting Democratic
Elections and U.S. Alliances and Partner-
ships and Strategy to Counter Russian Elec-
tion Interference.
The Committees direct the DNI, in coordi-
nation with the Secretary of Defense, the
Secretary of State, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security, to provide a report to
the Committees, the congressional defense
committees, the House Committee on For-
eign Affairs, the Senate Committee on For-
eign Relations, the House Committee on
Homeland Security, and the Senate Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs on Russia’s influence oper-
ations and campaigns targeting democratic
elections.
The report shall be divided into two sec-
tions, which respectively address influence
operations and campaigns targeting: (1) re-
cent and upcoming elections in the United
States (dating back to January 1, 2017) and
(2) military alliances and partnerships of
which the United States is a member. The
report should also include a strategy to
counter these activities. The Committees
further direct the Secretary of Defense to
provide an interim report within 30 days of
enactment of the Act, and a final report
within a year of enactment of the Act.
The report shall be unclassified and appro-
priate for release to the public but may in-
clude a classified annex. At a minimum, the
report should include:
1. An assessment of Russia’s objectives in
influence operations and campaigns tar-
geting democratic elections and military al-
liances and partnerships of which the United
States is a member, and how such objectives
relate to Russia’s broader strategic aims;
2. The United States strategy and capabili-
ties for detecting, deterring, countering, and
disrupting such Russian influence operations
(including recommended authorities and ac-
tivities) and campaigns and a discussion of
the DoD’s and IC’s respective roles in the
strategy;
3. A comprehensive list of specific Russian
state and non-state entities involved in sup-
porting such Russian influence operations
and campaigns and the role of each entity in
supporting them;
4. An identification of the tactics, tech-
niques, and procedures used in previous Rus-
sian influence operations and campaigns;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00117 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.048 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10244 December 12, 2019
5. A comprehensive identification of coun-
tries with democratic election systems that
have been targeted by Russian influence op-
erations and campaigns since January 1,
2017;
6. An assessment of the impact of previous
Russian influence operations and campaigns
targeting democratic elections and military
alliances and partnerships of which the
United States is a member, including the
views of senior Russian officials about their
effectiveness in achieving Russian objec-
tives;
7. An identification of countries with
democratic elections systems that may be
targeted in future Russian influence oper-
ations and campaigns and an assessment of
the likelihood that each such country will be
targeted;
8. An identification of all U.S. military al-
liances and partnerships that have been tar-
geted by Russian influence operations and
campaigns since January 1, 2017;
9. An identification of all U.S. military al-
liances and partnerships that may be tar-
geted in future Russian influence operations
and campaigns and an assessment of the
likelihood that each such country will be
targeted; and
10. An identification of tactics, techniques,
and procedures likely to be used in future
Russian influence operations and campaigns
targeting democratic elections and military
alliances and partnerships of which the
United States is a member.
UNCLASSIFIED DIRECTION RELATED TO
SUBDIVISION 2
Management of Intelligence Community Work-
force.
The Committees repeat direction from the
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2017 that IC elements should build, de-
velop, and maintain a workforce appro-
priately balanced among its civilian, mili-
tary, and contractor workforce sectors to
meet the missions assigned to it in law and
by the president. Starting in Fiscal Year
2019, the Committees no longer authorize po-
sition ceiling levels in the annual Schedule
of Authorizations.
The Committees look forward to working
with the ODNI as it develops an implementa-
tion strategy and sets standards for work-
force cost analysis tools.
Countering Russian Propaganda.
The Committees support the IC’s role in
countering Russian propaganda and other ac-
tive measures. The Committees are com-
mitted to providing the appropriate legal au-
thorities, financial resources, and personnel
necessary to address these hostile acts. The
Committees specifically find that language
capabilities are important to the IC’s efforts
in countering Russia’s hostile acts. The
Committees encourage the IC to commit
considerable resources in the future to bol-
stering officers’ existing Russian language
skills, recruiting Russian language speakers,
and training officers in Russian, in par-
ticular key technical language skills. This
effort will require strategic planning both in
recruiting and rotating officers through lan-
guage training. The Committees expect to
see these priorities reflected in future IC
budget requests.
Protection of the Supply Chain in Intelligence
Community Acquisition Decisions.
The Committees continue to have signifi-
cant concerns about risks to the supply
chain in IC acquisitions. The Committees en-
courage the Supply Chain and Counterintel-
ligence Risk Management Task Force rec-
ommendations to support continued efforts
to develop an open, interoperable informa-
tion security-sharing platform to enable
real-time cross-domain sharing for the IC to
effectively share and analyze information on
supply chain, cybersecurity vulnerabilities,
and counterintelligence risks.
The report to accompany the Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 di-
rected the DNI to review and consider
changes to Intelligence Community Direc-
tive (ICD) 801 (‘‘Acquisition’’) to reflect the
issuance of ICD 731 (‘‘Supply Chain Risk
Management’’) in 2013 and the issues associ-
ated with cybersecurity. It specifically rec-
ommended the review examine whether to:
expand risk management criteria in the ac-
quisition process to include cyber and supply
chain threats; require counterintelligence
and security assessments as part of the ac-
quisition and procurement process; propose
and adopt new education requirements for
acquisition professionals on cyber and supply
chain threats; and factor in the cost of cyber
and supply chain security. This review was
due in November 2017, with a report on the
process for updating ICD 801 in December
2017. The report was completed on June 18,
2018.
As a follow-on to this review, the Commit-
tees direct DNI to address three other con-
siderations: changes in the Federal Acquisi-
tion Regulation that may be necessary; how
changes should apply to all acquisition pro-
grams; and how security risks must be ad-
dressed across development, procurement,
and operational phases of acquisition. The
Committees further direct the DNI to submit
a plan to implement necessary changes with-
in 60 days of completion of this review.
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency use of
VERA and VSIP Authorities.
The Committees encourage the use by the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
(NGA) of Voluntary Early Retirement Au-
thority (VERA) and Voluntary Separation
Incentive Program (VSIP) offers to meet fu-
ture goals of building a workforce more at-
tuned to automation of data production, au-
tomation of analytic processes, and estab-
lishment of development and operations
(DevOps) software development processes.
Therefore, the Committees direct the NGA
to report to the Committees, within 120 days
of enactment of the Act, on its use to date of
VERA and VSIP incentives, to include how
they have been used to develop an acquisi-
tion cadre skilled in ‘‘DevOps’’ software de-
velopment processes, as well as a plan for
further use of these incentives. The report
should specify metrics for retooling its
workforce, including how it measures data
literacy and computational skills in poten-
tial hires, and an accounting of the numbers
of new hires who have met these higher
standards.
Report on Engagement of National Reconnais-
sance Office with University Community.
The Committees recognize that the surviv-
ability and resiliency of United States sat-
ellites is critically important to the United
States intelligence and defense communities.
While the NRO engages with the university
community in support of basic research and
developing an education workforce pipeline
to help advance new technologies and
produce skilled professionals, it can do more
in this regard to focus on space surviv-
ability.
Therefore, the Committees direct the NRO
to report, within 120 days of enactment of
the Act, on NRO’s current efforts and future
strategies to engage with university partners
that are strategically located, host secure
information facilities, and offer a strong en-
gineering curriculum, with a particular focus
on space survivability and resiliency. This
report should provide a summary of NRO’s
current and planned university engagement
programs, levels of funding, and program re-
search and workforce objectives and metrics.
The report should also include an assessment
of the strategic utility of chartering a Uni-
versity Affiliated Research Center in this do-
main.
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Facili-
ties.
Consistent with section 2401 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019, the Committees authorize the
President’s request for $447.8 million in Fis-
cal Year 2019 for phase two construction ac-
tivities of the Next National Geospatial-In-
telligence Agency West (N2W) facility in St.
Louis, Missouri. The Committees are pleased
that the second phase of this $837.2 million
project was included in the Fiscal Year 2019
President’s budget.
Clarification of Oversight Responsibilities.
The Committees reinforce the requirement
for all IC agencies funded by the NIP to re-
spond in a full, complete, and timely manner
to any request for information made by a
member of the congressional intelligence
committees. In addition, the Committees di-
rect the DNI to issue guidelines, within 90
days of enactment of the Act, to ensure that
the intent of section 501 of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091) is carried
out.
Clarification on Cooperation with Investigation
on Russian Influence in the 2016 Election.
The Committees continue to reinforce the
obligation for all IC agencies to cooperate in
a full, complete, and timely manner with the
Committees’ ongoing investigations into
Russian meddling in the 2016 Presidential
election and cooperation with the declas-
sification process.
Supervisory Feedback as Part of Continuous
Vetting Program.
The Committees direct the DNI to review
the results of ongoing pilot programs regard-
ing the use of supervisory feedback as part of
the periodic reinvestigation and continuous
vetting process and report, within 180 days of
enactment of the Act, on the establishment
of a policy for its use across the IC.
National Security Threats to Critical Infrastruc-
ture.
The Committees are aware of significant
threats to our critical infrastructure and in-
dustrial control systems posed by foreign ad-
versaries. The sensitive nature of the infor-
mation related to these threats make the
role of the IC of vital importance to United
States defensive efforts. The Committees
have grave concerns that current IC re-
sources dedicated to analyzing and coun-
tering these threats are neither sufficient
nor closely coordinated. The Committees in-
clude provisions within this legislation to
address these concerns.
Framework for Cybersecurity and Intelligence
Collection Doctrine.
The Committees direct the ODNI, in co-
ordination with appropriate IC elements, to
develop an analytic framework that could
support the eventual creation and execution
of a Government-wide cybersecurity and in-
telligence collection doctrine. The ODNI
shall provide this framework, which may
contain a classified annex, to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, within 180
days of enactment of the Act.
This framework shall include:
1. An assessment of the current and me-
dium-term cyber threats to the protection of
the United States’ national security systems
and critical infrastructure;
2. IC definitions of key cybersecurity con-
cepts, to include cyberespionage, cyber theft,
cyber acts of aggression, and cyber deter-
rence;
3. Intelligence collection requirements to
ensure identification of cyber actors tar-
geting U.S. national security interests, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00118 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.049 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10245
December 12, 2019
to inform policy responses to cyber-attacks
and computer network operations directed
against the United States;
4. The IC’s methodology for assessing the
impacts of cyber-attacks and computer net-
work operations incidents directed against
the United States, taking into account dif-
fering levels of severity of incidents;
5. Capabilities that the IC could employ in
response to cyber-attacks and computer net-
work operations incidents, taking into ac-
count differing levels of severity of inci-
dents;
6. A policy and architecture for sharing cy-
bersecurity-related intelligence with govern-
ment, private sector, and international part-
ners, including existing statutory and other
authorities which may be exercised in pur-
suit of that goal; and
7. Any necessary changes in IC authorities,
governance, technology, resources, and pol-
icy to provide more capable and agile cyber-
security.
Inspector General of the Intelligence Community
Role and Responsibilities.
The position of the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community (IC IG) was
codified by the Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2010. Among other
things, the IC IG’s statutory purposes in-
clude ‘‘conduct[ing] independent reviews in-
vestigations, inspections, audits, and reviews
on programs and activities within the re-
sponsibility and authority of the Director of
National Intelligence;’’ keeping the Commit-
tees fully and currently informed of signifi-
cant problems and deficiencies; and leading
efforts of inspectors general within the IC.
The Committees have included provisions
intended to strengthen the IC IG’s role. The
Committees will insist on full cooperation
from the Director, ODNI offices, as well as
those of inspectors general across the IC, in
ensuring that the IC IG’s prescribed func-
tions are carried out to the fullest extent
possible. The Committees further reiterate
Congress’s intent that the IC IG is obligated
to identify and inform the Committees of
significant problems and deficiencies ‘‘relat-
ing to’’ all intelligence programs and activi-
ties.
The Committees also remain seriously con-
cerned about the undermining of protections
and rights afforded to whistleblowers within
the IC and the level of insight congressional
committees have into the handling of lawful
disclosures. Without exception, the Commit-
tees must be made aware of lawful disclo-
sures made to any inspector general within
the IC, consistent with provisions added to
Title 50 by sections 5331–5335 of Subdivision 1
of the Act; and of all lawful disclosures made
pursuant to ICWPA and Title 50 procedures,
which Intelligence Community personnel in-
tend to be submitted to the Committees. The
Committees underscore in the strongest
terms that all elements of the IC are obli-
gated, as a categorical matter, to comply
with both existing law as well as direction
provided elsewhere in the Act and this Ex-
planation, with respect to inspector general
and whistleblower matters.
Space Launch Facilities.
The Committees continue to believe it is
critical to preserve a variety of launch range
capabilities to support national security
space missions, and encourage planned
launches such as the U.S. Air Force Orbital/
Sub-Orbital Program (OSP)–3 NRO–111 mis-
sion, to be launched in 2019 on a Minotaur 1
from the Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport at
Wallops Flight Facility. In the Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, the
Committees directed a brief from the ODNI,
in consultation with the DoD and the U.S.
Air Force, on their plans to utilize state-
owned and operated spaceports, which lever-
age non-federal public and private invest-
ments to bolster United States launch capa-
bilities and provide access to mid-to-low or
polar-to-high inclination orbits for national
security missions.
The Committees direct that the ODNI sup-
plement this brief with how state invest-
ments in these spaceports may support infra-
structure improvements, such as payload in-
tegration and launch capabilities, for na-
tional security launches.
Acquisition Research Center Postings.
The Committees support a flexible NRO ac-
quisition process that allows the NRO to
choose the most appropriate contracting
mechanism, whether for small research and
development efforts or large acquisitions.
The NRO’s Acquisition Research Center
(ARC), a classified contracting and solicita-
tion marketplace that NRO and other agen-
cies use, enables this flexible acquisition
process for classified efforts.
The Committees direct the NRO, within 60
days of enactment of the Act, to brief the
congressional intelligence and defense com-
mittees on options for modifying ARC post-
ing procedures to ensure fair and open com-
petition. Those options should include ensur-
ing that unclassified NRO solicitations are
posted on the unclassified FEDBIZOPS
website, and identifying ways to better uti-
lize the ARC to encourage contract opportu-
nities for a more diverse industrial base that
includes smaller and non-traditional compa-
nies.
Ensuring Strong Strategic Analytical
Tradecraft.
The Department of Homeland Security’s
(DHS’s) Office of Intelligence and Analysis
(I&A) has taken steps to improve the quality
of its analysis, to identify its core cus-
tomers, and to tailor its production to meet
customer needs. The Committees concur
with I&A’s implementation of analytic
standards and review mechanisms that have
improved the tradecraft behind I&A prod-
ucts. The bedrock of these efforts has been
the development of a yearly program of anal-
ysis (POA) and key intelligence questions,
which are essential tools for providing a
roadmap and boundaries for the office’s pro-
duction efforts.
Therefore, the Committees direct the Of-
fice of I&A to continue to prioritize, develop
and hone its strategic intelligence capabili-
ties and production, including the annual de-
velopment of a POA. Within 90 days of enact-
ment of the Act, and on an annual basis
thereafter for two years, I&A shall brief the
congressional intelligence committees on
the development and execution of its POA.
These briefings should provide an overview
of the POA, how customer needs have been
incorporated into the POA, and an update on
execution against the POA.
Cyber/Counterintelligence Analysis.
DHS’s Office of I&A’s Counterintelligence
Mission Center analysis focuses on counter-
intelligence threats posed by foreign tech-
nology companies and fills a gap in IC intel-
ligence production. Advanced technologies
are increasingly ubiquitous and necessary to
the function of modern society. Con-
sequently, the scope of the threats from
countries intent on using these technologies
as a vector for collecting intelligence from
within the United States will continue to ex-
pand. The Office of I&A is positioned to con-
duct a niche analysis critical to national se-
curity that combines foreign intelligence
with domestic threat information.
The Committees strongly support I&A’s
Counterintelligence Mission Center’s contin-
ued focus on these topics and the increased
resources dedicated to this analysis in Fiscal
Year 2019. Therefore, the Committees direct
the I&A, in coordination with ODNI, to pro-
vide an update within 90 days of enactment
of the Act on its recent analytic production
related to counterintelligence threats posed
by foreign technology companies, including
a review of the countries and companies that
present the greatest risks in this regard.
Intelligence Support to the Export Control Proc-
ess.
The Committees have significant concerns
that China poses a growing threat to United
States national security, due in part to its
relentless efforts to acquire United States
technology. China purposely blurs the dis-
tinction between its military and civilian ac-
tivities through its policy of ‘‘military-civil-
ian fusion,’’ which compounds the risks of di-
version of United States technology to the
Chinese military.
The Committees conclude that the United
States Government currently lacks a com-
prehensive policy and the tools needed to ad-
dress this problem. China exploits weak-
nesses in existing U.S. mechanisms aimed at
preventing dangerous technology transfers,
including the U.S. export control system,
which is run by the U.S. Department of Com-
merce’s Bureau of Industry and Security
(BIS). The Committees have specific con-
cerns about the lack of adequate and effec-
tive IC support to BIS’s export license appli-
cation review process and believe more ro-
bust IC support could have prevented many
of the ill-advised technology transfers that
have occurred in recent years.
Therefore, the Committees directs the DNI
to submit a plan, within 120 days of enact-
ment of the Act, to describe how the IC will
provide BIS with, at a minimum, basic but
timely analysis of any threat to U.S. na-
tional security posed by any proposed ex-
port, re-export, or transfer of export-con-
trolled technology. The plan shall include
detailed information on the appropriate or-
ganizational structure, including how many
IC personnel would be required, where they
would be located (including whether they
would be embedded at BIS to coordinate IC
support), and the amounts of necessary fund-
ing. In formulating the plan, the DNI should
study the ‘‘National Security Threat Assess-
ment’’ process that the National Intelligence
Council uses to inform the actions of the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the
United States. The DNI shall submit the
plan to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees in classified form.
Social Media.
The Committees encourage the IC, notably
the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), to
both continue and enhance its efforts to as-
sist in detecting, understanding, and warn-
ing about foreign influence operations using
social media tools to target the United
States. Additionally, within the scope of the
IC’s authorities, and with all necessary pro-
tections for U.S. person information, the
Committees encourage the IC to augment
and prioritize these ongoing efforts.
Trade-Based Money Laundering.
Threats to our national security posed by
trade-based money laundering are con-
cerning. Therefore, the Committees direct
the DNI, within 90 days of enactment of the
Act, to submit a report to the congressional
intelligence committees on these threats, in-
cluding an assessment of the severity of the
threats posed to the United States’ national
security by trade-based money laundering
conducted inside and outside the United
States; an assessment of the scope of the fi-
nancial threats to the U.S. economy and fi-
nancial systems posed by trade-based money
laundering; a description of how terrorist fi-
nancing and drug trafficking organizations
are advancing their illicit activities through
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00119 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.050 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10246 December 12, 2019
the use of licit trade channels; an assessment
of the adequacy of the systems and tools
available to the Federal Government for
combating trade-based money laundering;
and a description and assessment of the cur-
rent structure and coordination between
Federal agencies, as well as with foreign gov-
ernments, to combat trade-based money
laundering. The report shall be submitted in
classified form with an unclassified sum-
mary to be made available to the public.
Expansions of Security Protective Service Juris-
diction of the Central Intelligence Agency.
The Committees direct the CIA, in connec-
tion with the expansion of its security pro-
tective service jurisdiction as set forth in
section 6413 of Subdivision 2 of the Act, to
engage with Virginia state and local law en-
forcement authorities to ensure that a
memorandum of understanding, akin to
those in place at other agencies setting forth
the appropriate allocation of duties and re-
sponsibilities, is in effect.
Unauthorized Disclosures of Classified Informa-
tion.
The Committees are concerned by the re-
cent widespread media reports that purport
to contain unauthorized disclosures of classi-
fied information. Protecting the nation’s se-
crets from unauthorized disclosure is essen-
tial to safeguarding our nation’s intelligence
sources and methods. An unlawful disclosure
of classified information can destroy sen-
sitive collection capabilities and endanger
American lives, including those individuals
who take great personal risks to assist the
United States in collecting vital foreign in-
telligence.
Federal law prohibits the unauthorized dis-
closure of classified information, but en-
forcement is often lacking or inconsistent.
Accordingly, the Committees desire to bet-
ter understand the number of potential un-
authorized disclosures discovered and inves-
tigated on a routine basis. Moreover, the
Committees have little visibility into the
number of investigations initiated by each
IC agency or the number of criminal refer-
rals to the Department of Justice. Accord-
ingly, section 6718 of Subdivision 2 of the Act
requires all IC agencies to provide the con-
gressional intelligence committees with a
semi-annual report of the number of inves-
tigations of unauthorized disclosures to jour-
nalists or media organizations, including
subsequent referrals made to the United
States Attorney General.
Additionally, the Committees wish to bet-
ter understand the role of IGs within ele-
ments of the IC, with respect to unauthor-
ized disclosures of classified information at
those elements.
Therefore, the Committees direct the IC
IG, within 180 days of enactment of the Act,
to provide the congressional intelligence
committees with a report regarding the role
of IGs with respect to investigating unau-
thorized disclosures. The report shall ad-
dress: the roles of IC elements’ security per-
sonnel and law enforcement regarding unau-
thorized disclosures; the current role of IGs
within IC elements regarding such disclo-
sures; what, if any, specific actions could be
taken by such IGs to increase their involve-
ment in the investigation of such matters;
any laws, rules or procedures that currently
prevent IGs from increasing their involve-
ment; and the benefits and drawbacks of in-
creased IG involvement, to include potential
impacts to IG’s roles and missions.
Presidential Policy Guidance.
The Presidential Policy Guidance (PPG)
dated May 22, 2013, and entitled ‘‘Procedures
for Approving Direct Action Against Ter-
rorist Targets Located Outside the United
States and Areas of Active Hostilities’’ pro-
vides for the participation by elements of the
IC in reviews of certain proposed counterter-
rorism operations. The Committees expect
to remain fully and currently informed
about the status of the PPG and its imple-
mentation.
Therefore, the Committees direct ODNI,
within five days of any change to the PPG,
or to any successor policy guidance, to sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a written notification thereof, that
shall include a summary of the change and
the specific legal and policy justifications
for the change.
Centers for Academic Excellence.
The Committees commend the commit-
ment demonstrated by the program man-
agers of the IC’s Centers for Academic Excel-
lence (IC–CAE), IC agencies that sponsored
CAE interns, and all other personnel who
contributed to the inaugural edition of the
CAE Internship Program in summer 2017.
The Committees expect the IC–CAE Pro-
gram to build on this foundation by showing
measurable, swift progress, and ultimately
fulfilling Congress’s intent that the Program
serve as a pipeline of the next generation of
IC professionals.
Therefore, the Committees direct that the
IC take all viable action to expand the IC–
CAE Program by increasing, to the fullest
extent possible:
1. The number and racial and gender diver-
sity of IC–CAE interns;
2. The number of IC-CAE academic institu-
tions and their qualified internship can-
didates participating in the IC–CAE Pro-
gram; and
3. The number of IC elements that sponsor
IC–CAE interns.
Report on Violent Extremist Groups.
Violent extremist groups like ISIS con-
tinue to exploit the Internet for nefarious
purposes: to inspire lone wolves; to spread
propaganda; to recruit foreign fighters; and
to plan and publicize atrocities. As a former
Director of the National Counterterrorism
Center (NCTC) has stated publicly:
[W]e need to counter our adversaries’ suc-
cessful use of social media platforms to ad-
vance their propaganda goals, raise funds, re-
cruit, coordinate travel and attack plans,
and facilitate operations. . . . Our future
work must focus on denying our adversaries
the capability to spread their messages to
at-risk populations that they can reach
through the use of these platforms.
Section 403 of the Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2017 required the
DNI, consistent with the protection of
sources and methods, to assist public and
private sector entities in recognizing online
violent extremist content—specifically, by
making publicly available a list of insignias
and logos associated with foreign extremist
groups designated by the Secretary of State.
The Committees believe the IC can take ad-
ditional steps.
Therefore, the Committees direct the Di-
rector of NCTC, in coordination with other
appropriate officials designated by the DNI,
within 180 days of enactment of the Act, to
brief the congressional intelligence commit-
tees on options for a pilot program to de-
velop and continually update best practices
for private technology companies to quickly
recognize and lawfully take down violent ex-
tremist content online. Such briefing shall
address:
1. The feasibility, risks, costs, and benefits
of such a program;
2. The U.S. Government agencies and pri-
vate sector entities that would participate;
and
3. Any additional authorities that would be
required by the program’s establishment.
South China Sea.
The South China Sea is an area of great
geostrategic importance to the United
States and its allies. However, China’s con-
troversial territorial claims and other ac-
tions stand to undercut international norms
and erode the region’s stability. It is thus
imperative the United States uphold respect
for international law in the South China
Sea. Fulfilling that objective in turn will re-
quire an optimal intelligence collection pos-
ture.
Therefore, the direct the DoD, in coordina-
tion with DNI, within 30 days of enactment
of the Act, to brief the congressional intel-
ligence and defense committees on known in-
telligence collection gaps, if any, with re-
spect to adversary operations and aims in
the South China Sea. The briefing shall iden-
tify the gaps and whether those gaps are
driven by lack of access, lack of necessary
collection capabilities or legal or policy au-
thorities, or by other factors. The briefing
shall also identify IC judgments that assess
which intelligence disciplines would be best-
suited to answer the existing gaps, and cur-
rent plans to address the gaps over the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
Policy on Minimum Insider Threat Standards.
Executive Order 13587 and the National In-
sider Threat Task Force established min-
imum insider threat standards. Such stand-
ards are required for the sharing and safe-
guarding of classified information on com-
puter networks while ensuring consistent,
appropriate protections for privacy and civil
liberties. The Committees understand there
are policies in place to attempt implementa-
tion of such standards; however, the Com-
mittees have found that several elements of
the IC have not fully implemented such
standards. Therefore, given the several high-
profile insider threat issues, the Committees
emphasize the importance of such minimums
by statutorily requiring the DNI to establish
a policy on minimum insider threat stand-
ards, consistent with the National Insider
Threat Policy and Minimum Standards for
Executive Branch Insider Threat Programs,
and IC elements should expeditiously estab-
lish their own policies and implement the
DNI guidance.
Further, referring to the directive lan-
guage found in the committee report accom-
panying H.R. 5515, the Fiscal Year 2019
NDAA reported by the House Armed Services
Committee (HASC), the Committees direct
the Chief Management Officer to provide a
briefing to the congressional intelligence
and defense committees, no later than 90
days after enactment of the Act, on the out-
comes of its cost and technical analyses re-
quired by this report, and the DoD’s efforts
to implement enterprise-wide programs and
policies for insider threat detection, user ac-
tivity monitoring, and cyber-attack detec-
tion and remediation.
Intelligence Community Information Technology
Environment.
The Committees remain supportive of the
goals of Intelligence Community Informa-
tion Technology Environment (IC ITE) and
the importance of the common, secure shar-
ing infrastructure it creates. The Commit-
tees further understand that the path to im-
plement a complex, technical environment
such as IC ITE needs to be sufficiently flexi-
ble and agile. However, the Committees re-
main concerned with the lack of consistency
and substance in previous reports and brief-
ings on IC ITE. Therefore, section 6312 of
Subdivision 2 of the Act requires a long-term
roadmap, business plan, and security plan
that shall be reported to the congressional
intelligence committees at least quarterly
with additional notifications as necessary.
Intelligence Community Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Financial Officers (CFO) Act of
1990 mandated best practices for decision-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00120 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.051 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10247
December 12, 2019
making and accountability, as well as im-
proved decision-makers’ access to reliable
and timely financial and performance infor-
mation. The CFO Act, as amended, requires
that the chief financial officers of 24 depart-
ments and agencies ‘‘report directly to the
head of the agency regarding financial man-
agement matters.’’ Section 6404 of Subdivi-
sion 2 of the Act brings the ODNI in line with
the best practices implemented in the CFO
Act.
Intelligence Community Chief Information Offi-
cer.
As codified in 44 U.S.C. 3506(a)(1)(A), each
federal agency head is responsible for ‘‘car-
rying out the information resources manage-
ment activities to improve agency produc-
tivity, efficiency, and effectiveness.’’ Accord-
ingly, section 6405 of Subdivision 2 of the Act
expresses the Committee’s intent to empha-
size the importance of the IC Chief Informa-
tion Officer (CIO), as defined in 50 U.S.C.
3032(a), in assisting the DNI with informa-
tion resource management by requiring the
IC CIO to report directly to the DNI.
Central Intelligence Agency Subsistence for Per-
sonnel Assigned to Austere Locations.
Section 6411 of Subdivision 2 of the Act
permits the Director of the CIA to allow sub-
sistence for personnel assigned to austere lo-
cations. Although the statute does not define
‘‘austere,’’ the Committees believe that uti-
lization of this authority should be minimal.
Therefore, within 180 days after the enact-
ment of the Act, the CIA shall brief the Com-
mittees on the CIA’s definition of ‘‘austere’’
and the CIA regulations in place governing
this authority.
Collocation of Certain Department of Homeland
Security Personnel at Field Locations.
The Committees support DHS I&A’s intent
to integrate into operations across the
broader DHS enterprise. Accordingly, section
6434 of Subdivision 2 of the Act requires I&A
to identify opportunities for collocation of
I&A field officers and to submit to the Com-
mittees a plan for their deployment.
Limitations on Intelligence Community Ele-
ments’ Communications with Congress.
Effective oversight of the IC requires
unencumbered communications between rep-
resentatives of the agencies, members of
Congress, and congressional staff. The Com-
mittees direct the DNI not to limit any ele-
ment of the IC from having interactions with
the congressional intelligence committees,
including but not limited to, preclearance by
the DNI of remarks, briefings, discussions of
agency resources or authorities require-
ments, or mandatory reports to the DNI on
conversations with the Committees.
Intelligence Community Support to the National
Vetting Center.
On February 6, 2018, the President issued
National Security Policy Memorandum
(NSPM)-9, ’’Presidential Memorandum on
Optimizing the Use of Federal Government
Information in Support of National Vetting
Enterprise.’’ The memorandum directs the
DHS, in coordination with the ODNI and
other agencies, to establish the National
Vetting Center. The memorandum also re-
quires agencies to ‘‘provide the Center access
to relevant biographic, biometric, and re-
lated derogatory information.’’ It further di-
rects DNI, in coordination with the heads of
relevant IC elements, to ‘‘establish a support
element to facilitate, guide, and coordinate
all IC efforts to use classified intelligence
and other relevant information within the IC
holdings in support of the center.’’ The Com-
mittees wish to obtain regular updates and
the most current information about the ac-
tivities of that support element.
Therefore, no later than 180 days after the
enactment of the Act and annually there-
after, the Committees direct the DNI and the
Under Secretary for Intelligence and Anal-
ysis at DHS to brief the Committees on the
status of IC support to the National Vetting
Center, as established by NSPM-9.
Update on Status of Attorney General-Approved
U.S. Person Procedures under Executive
Order 12333.
The Committees acknowledge the difficult,
labor-intensive work undertaken by certain
IC elements, to ensure the current effective-
ness of, and in some cases to substantially
revise, final Attorney General-approved pro-
cedures regarding the collection, dissemina-
tion, and retention of United States persons
information. The Committees wish to better
understand the status of this project,
throughout the IC.
Therefore, the Committees direct that, not
later than 60 days after enactment of the
Act, the DNI and the Attorney General shall
brief the Committees on the issuance of
final, Attorney General-approved procedures
by elements of the IC. Specifically, the brief-
ing shall identify (1) any such elements that
have not yet issued final procedures; and (2)
with respect to such elements, the status of
the procedures’ development, and any in-
terim guidance or procedures on which those
elements currently rely.
Homegrown Violent Extremists Imprisoned in
Department of Defense Facilities.
The Committees are concerned about an
evident gap in information sharing about in-
dividuals imprisoned in DoD facilities who
are categorized by the FBI as homegrown
violent extremists (HVEs). A recent FBI re-
port underscores this gap, highlighting the
case of an individual who has been convicted
and sentenced to death by a U.S. military
court martial and remains incarcerated in a
U.S. military facility. The Committees un-
derstand that, despite his incarceration, this
inmate openly communicates with the out-
side world through written correspondence
and has continued to inspire extremists
throughout the world. The Committees fur-
ther understand that the FBI is unable to de-
termine the full scope of this inmate’s con-
tacts with the outside world because only a
portion of his communications have been
provided by the DoD.
Therefore, no later than 180 days after the
enactment of the Act, the Committees direct
the FBI to work with the DoD to create a
process by which the DoD provides to the
FBI the complete communications of indi-
viduals imprisoned in DoD facilities and who
are categorized by the FBI as HVEs.
Naming of Federal Bureau of Investigation
Headquarters.
According to statute enacted in 1972, the
current FBI headquarters building in Wash-
ington, D.C. must be ‘‘known and des-
ignated’’ as the ‘‘J. Edgar Hoover FBI Build-
ing.’’ That tribute has aged poorly. It should
be reconsidered, in view of Hoover’s record
on civil liberties—including the effort to dis-
parage and undermine Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr. Even today, Hoover’s name evokes
the FBI’s sordid ‘‘COINTELPRO’’ activities.
The Committees believe Congress should
consider repealing the provision requiring
the existing Pennsylvania Avenue building
to be known as the ‘‘J. Edgar Hoover FBI
Building.’’ A new name should be deter-
mined, through a joint dialogue among Bu-
reau leadership, law enforcement personnel,
elected officials, and civil rights leaders.
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math
careers in Defense Intelligence.
Referring to the directive language found
in the committee report accompanying H.R.
5515, the HASC-reported Fiscal Year 2019
NDAA, the Committees direct the Director
of DIA to provide, within 90 days after enact-
ment of the Act, a briefing to the congres-
sional intelligence committees and the con-
gressional defense committees on a plan to
develop a Science, Technology, Engineering,
and Math career program that attracts and
maintains the defense intelligence cadre of
Science and Technical Intelligence analysts
to meet tomorrow’s threats.
Security and Intelligence Role in Export Con-
trol.
Referring to the directive language found
in the committee report accompanying H.R.
5515, the HASC-reported Fiscal Year 2019
NDAA, the Committees direct the Under
Secretary of Defense for Policy, in coordina-
tion with the USD(I), within 60 days of en-
actment of the Act, to brief the congres-
sional intelligence and defense committees,
on security support to export control.
Security Clearance Background Investigation
Reciprocity.
Referring to the directive language found
in the committee report accompanying H.R.
5515, the HASC-reported Fiscal Year 2019
NDAA, the Committees direct the Secretary
of Defense, in coordination with the DNI and
the Director of the Office of Personnel Man-
agement, within 60 days of enactment of the
Act, to brief the Committees and the con-
gressional defense committees on efforts to
ensure seamless transition of investigations
between authorized investigative agencies,
as required by law.
Further, referring to the directive lan-
guage found in the committee report accom-
panying H.R. 5515, the HASC-reported Fiscal
Year 2019 NDAA, the Committees direct the
Secretary of Defense, in coordination with
the DNI and the Director of the Office of Per-
sonnel Management, within 90 days of enact-
ment of the Act, to brief the congressional
intelligence committees on efforts to ensure
reciprocity is a consideration for implemen-
tation of continuous evaluation and contin-
uous vetting across the federal government.
Foreign Influence Task Force.
The IC has warned of active measures
taken by foreign actors to interfere with and
undermine the U.S. democratic process, most
recently and brazenly by the Russian Fed-
eration. The Committees appreciate FBI ef-
forts to confront this challenge in part
through creation of its Foreign Influence
Task Force. The Committees believe that
confronting foreign influence directed at the
United States is of fundamental importance,
and thus desire to engage in a close and reg-
ular dialogue with the FBI about the task
force’s activities.
Therefore, the Committees direct the FBI
to provide detailed, quarterly briefings to
the Committees regarding the task force’s
activities, to include its progress and any
significant challenges.
Enhanced Oversight of IC Contractors.
A topic of sustained congressional intel-
ligence committee interest has been improv-
ing the federal government’s oversight of IC
acquisition and procurement practices, in-
cluding activities by poorly performing IC
contractors.
A framework exists to ensure that IC ele-
ments do not award IC contracts to busi-
nesses that engage in negligence or even
gross negligence, consistently fail to appro-
priately safeguard classified information,
maintain poor financial practices, or other
issues. For example, an IC element may
maintain a list of contractors of concern, in
order to ensure that proposals from such
contractors are rejected or subjected to addi-
tional scrutiny. The Committees wish to
build on these practices and are concerned
about the existing framework’s adequacy.
Therefore, the Committees direct all ele-
ments of the IC, to the fullest extent con-
sistent with applicable law and policy, to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00121 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.052 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10248 December 12, 2019
share with one another information about
contractors with track records of concern—
such as the commission of negligence or
gross negligence in the performance of IC
contracts, or the repeated failure to appro-
priately safeguard classified information in a
fashion that the contractor reasonably could
have been expected to prevent.
Additionally, no later than 30 days after
enactment of the Act, the DNI shall brief the
Committees on the authorities of IC ele-
ments with respect to contractors with track
records of concern—before, during, and after
procurement. An objective of the briefing
will be to discuss information sharing prac-
tices in this regard, and to identify specific
areas where the oversight framework can be
strengthened.
Security Clearance Reporting Requirements.
The Agreement directs the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, in coordination with
members of the Performance Accountability
Council, to report to Congress, within 90
days of enactment of the Act, on rec-
ommendations for harmonizing and stream-
lining reporting requirements related to se-
curity clearances that have been set forth in
legislation.
PART III: SECTION-BY-SECTION ANALYSIS AND
EXPLANATION OF LEGISLATIVE TEXT
SECTION-BY-SECTION ANALYSIS AND
EXPLANATION
The following is a section-by-section anal-
ysis and explanation of the Damon Paul Nel-
son and Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2018, 2019,
and 2020 (the ‘‘Act’’).
SUBDIVISION 1—INTELLIGENCE
AUTHORIZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Section 5100. Table of contents.
TITLE LI—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Section 5101. Authorization of appropriations.
Section 5101 lists the United States Gov-
ernment departments, agencies, and other
elements for which the Act authorizes appro-
priations for intelligence and intelligence-re-
lated activities for Fiscal Year 2020.
Section 5102. Classified schedule of authoriza-
tions.
Section 5102 provides that the details of
the amounts authorized to be appropriated
for intelligence and intelligence-related ac-
tivities for Fiscal Year 2020 are contained in
the classified Schedule of Authorizations and
that the classified Schedule of Authoriza-
tions shall be made available to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the Senate and
House of Representatives and to the Presi-
dent.
Section 5103. Intelligence Community Manage-
ment Account.
Section 5103 authorizes appropriations for
the Intelligence Community Management
Account (ICMA) of the ODNI for Fiscal Year
2020.
TITLE LII—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
Section 5201. Authorization of appropriations.
Section 5201 authorizes appropriations in
the amount of $514,000,000 for the CIA Retire-
ment and Disability Fund for Fiscal Year
2020.
TITLE LIII—INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
MATTERS
Subtitle A—General Intelligence Community
Matters
Section 5301. Restriction on conduct of intel-
ligence activities.
Section 5301 provides that the authoriza-
tion of appropriations by the Act shall not
be deemed to constitute authority for the
conduct of any intelligence activity that is
not otherwise authorized by the Constitution
or laws of the United States.
Section 5302. Increase in employee compensation
and benefits authorized by law.
Section 5302 provides that funds authorized
to be appropriated by the Act for salary, pay,
retirement, and other benefits for federal
employees may be increased by such addi-
tional or supplemental amounts as may be
necessary for increases in compensation or
benefits authorized by law.
Section 5303. Expansion of scope of protections
for identities of covert agents.
Section 5303 amends the definition of ‘‘cov-
ert agent’’ in the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3126(4)) to protect the identi-
ties of all undercover intelligence officers,
and United States citizens whose relation-
ship to the United States is classified, re-
gardless of the location of the individuals’
government service or time since separation
from government service.
Section 5304. Required counterintelligence as-
sessments, briefings, notifications, and re-
ports.
Section 5304 requires the DNI, in consulta-
tion with other appropriate agencies, to con-
duct an assessment following a United
States election of any foreign government
interference. Section 5304 requires the DNI
to post publicly advisory reports on foreign
counterintelligence and cybersecurity
threats to federal election campaigns. It also
requires quarterly briefings to the congres-
sional intelligence committees regarding the
Federal Bureau of Investigation’s counter-
intelligence activities and prompt notifica-
tion of an investigation carried out regard-
ing a counterintelligence risk related to a
federal election or campaign.
Section 5305. Inclusion of security risks in pro-
gram management plans required for acqui-
sition of major systems in National Intel-
ligence Program.
Section 5305 amends the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024(q)(1)(A)) to require
that the annual program management plans
on major system acquisitions that the DNI
submits to Congress address security risks,
in addition to cost, schedule, performance
goals, and program milestone criteria.
Section 5306. Intelligence community public-pri-
vate talent exchange.
Section 5306 requires the DNI to develop
policies, processes, and procedures to facili-
tate IC personnel rotations to the private
sector and vice versa, to bolster skill devel-
opment and collaboration. Section 5306 fur-
ther sets forth requirements with which
agreements governing such rotations must
address, including terms and conditions, in-
cluding termination, duration, employment
status, pay, and benefits.
Section 5307. Assessment of contracting practices
to identify certain security and counter-
intelligence concerns.
Section 5307 requires the DNI to conduct
an assessment of the authorities, policies,
processes, and standards used by the IC to
ensure that the IC is weighing security and
counterintelligence risks in contracting with
companies that contract—or carry out joint
research and development—with the People’s
Republic of China, the Russian Federation,
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea,
or the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Subtitle B—Office of the Director of
National Intelligence
Section 5321. Establishment of Climate Security
Advisory Council.
Section 5321 requires the DNI to establish
an advisory council to assist analytic compo-
nents of the IC with incorporating analysis
of climate security into their work. The
council will also facilitate coordination and
sharing of data between the IC and non-IC
elements related to climate change.
Section 5322. Foreign Malign Influence Re-
sponse Center.
Section 5322 establishes a Foreign Malign
Influence Response Center within the ODNI
to analyze and integrate all U.S. Govern-
ment intelligence pertaining to hostile ef-
forts undertaken by, at the direction of, or
on behalf of or with the substantial support
of, the government of the Russian Federa-
tion, Iran, North Korea, China, or any other
country that the Director of the Center de-
termines appropriate, to influence U.S.-
based policies, activities, or public opinion.
Section 5323. Encouragement of cooperative ac-
tions to detect and counter foreign influence
operations.
Section 5323 provides the DNI, in coordina-
tion with the Secretary of Defense, with the
necessary authorities and ability to use up
to $30 million of NIP funds, to establish an
independent, non-profit Social Media Data
and Threat Analysis Center (‘‘Center’’). Sec-
tion 323 further provides that this Center
shall establish a central portal for social
media data analysis, enabling: (1) social
media companies to voluntarily share data
on foreign influence operations; (2) research-
ers to analyze that data; and (3) information
sharing between and among government and
private companies. Section 5323 also requires
the Director of the Center to produce quar-
terly public reports on trends in foreign in-
fluence and disinformation operations, in-
cluding any threats to campaigns and elec-
tions, as well as an annual report to Con-
gress on the degree of cooperation and com-
mitment from the social media companies.
Section 5324. Transfer of National Intelligence
University to the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence.
Section 5324 requires the Director of the
DIA to transfer to the DNI the National In-
telligence University, upon submission of re-
quired joint certifications to appropriate
congressional committees by the Secretary
of Defense and the DNI.
Subtitle C—Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community
Section 5331. Definitions.
Section 5331 provides definitions for termi-
nology used throughout this Subtitle.
Section 5332. Inspector General external review
panel.
Section 5332 codifies the whistleblower pro-
tections contained in Part C of Presidential
Policy Directive-19 to ensure an effective ap-
peals process through external review panels
and the reporting of waste, fraud, and abuse.
Section 5332 further requires the Inspector
General of the Intelligence Community (IC
IG) to submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a recommendation on
how to ensure that a whistleblower with a
complaint against an Inspector General of an
IC agency has equal access to adjudication,
appellate review, and external review panels.
Section 5333. Harmonization of whistleblower
processes and procedures.
Section 5333 requires the IC IG, in coordi-
nation with the IC Inspectors General
Forum, to develop recommendations applica-
ble to Inspectors Generals for all IC elements
regarding the harmonization, where appro-
priate, of policies and directives related to
whistleblower claims and appeals processes
and procedures. Section 5333 further requires
the IC IG to maximize transparency regard-
ing these processes and procedures.
Section 5334. Oversight by Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community over intelligence
community whistleblower matters.
Section 5334 requires the IC IG, in con-
sultation with the IC Inspectors General
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00122 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.053 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10249
December 12, 2019
Forum, to establish a system whereby the IC
IG is provided in near real time of whistle-
blower complaints relating to the programs
and activities under the DNI’s jurisdiction,
as well as any IG actions relating to such
complaints.
Section 5335. Report on cleared whistleblower
attorneys.
Section 5335 requires the IC IG to submit
to the congressional intelligence committees
a report on access to cleared attorneys by
whistleblowers in the IC, including any rec-
ommended improvements to the limited se-
curity agreement process and such other op-
tions as the IC IG considers appropriate.
Subtitle D—Central Intelligence Agency
Section 5341. Clarification of certain authority
of the Central Intelligence Agency.
Section 5341 clarifies current CIA authori-
ties related to death benefits, requires the
Director of the CIA to submit a report if the
CIA does not modify relevant regulations,
and requires a briefing on certain health care
services for CIA personnel.
TITLE LIV—SECURITY CLEARANCES
Section 5401. Improving visibility into the secu-
rity clearance process.
Section 5401 requires the DNI, acting as
the Security Executive Agent, to issue a pol-
icy requiring the head of each Federal agen-
cy to create an electronic portal whereby the
agency and its workforce applicants can re-
view the status of their security clearance
processing. An enterprise solution that is ac-
cessible to multiple agencies may meet this
objective. Any portal should have appro-
priate security safeguards.
Section 5402. Making certain policies and execu-
tion plans relating to personnel clearances
available to industry partners.
Section 5402 requires each head of a Fed-
eral agency to share security clearance poli-
cies and plans with directly affected industry
partners, consistent with national security
and with National Industrial Security Pro-
gram (NISP) goals. Section 5402 further re-
quires the DNI, acting as the Security Exec-
utive Agent, jointly with the Director of the
NISP, to develop policies and procedures for
sharing this information.
TITLE LV—MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN
COUNTRIES
Subtitle A—Matters Relating to Russia
Section 5501. Annual reports on influence oper-
ations and campaigns in the United States
by the Russian Federation.
Section 5501 requires the Director of the
National Counterintelligence and Security
Center to submit an annual report to the
congressional intelligence committees con-
cerning the influence operations and cam-
paigns in the United States conducted by the
Russian Federation.
Section 5502. Assessment of legitimate and ille-
gitimate financial and other assets of Vladi-
mir Putin.
Section 5502 expresses the sense of Con-
gress that the United States should do more
to expose the corruption of Russian Presi-
dent Vladimir Putin and directs the DNI to
submit to appropriate congressional commit-
tees an assessment on the net worth and fi-
nancial and other assets of President Putin
and his family members.
Section 5503. Assessments of intentions of polit-
ical leadership of the Russian Federation.
Section 5503 directs the IC to submit as-
sessments to certain congressional commit-
tees of the current intentions of the political
leadership of the Russian Federation con-
cerning potential military action against
members of the North Atlantic Treaty Orga-
nization (NATO), responses to an enlarged
United States or NATO military presence in
Eastern Europe, and potential actions taken
for the purpose of exploiting perceived divi-
sions among the governments of Russia’s
Western adversaries.
Subtitle B—Matters Relating to China
Section 5511. Annual reports on influence oper-
ations and campaigns in the United States
by the Communist Party of China.
Section 5511 requires the Director of the
National Counterintelligence and Security
Center to submit an annual report to the
congressional intelligence committees con-
cerning the influence operations and cam-
paigns in the United States conducted by the
Communist Party of China.
Section 5512. Report on repression of ethnic
Muslim minorities in the Xinjiang region of
the People’s Republic of China.
Section 5512 requires the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence to submit a report to the
congressional intelligence committees con-
cerning activity by the People’s Republic of
China to repress ethnic Muslim minorities in
the Xinjiang region of China.
Section 5513. Report on efforts by People’s Re-
public of China to influence election in Tai-
wan.
Section 5513 requires the DNI to submit a
report within 45 days of the 2020 Taiwan
Presidential and Vice Presidential elections
concerning any influence operations by
China to interfere in or undermine the elec-
tion and efforts by the United States to dis-
rupt those operations.
Subtitle C—Matters Relating to Other
Countries
Section 5521. Sense of Congress and report on
Iranian efforts in Syria and Lebanon.
Section 5521 requires the DNI, in coordina-
tion with the Secretary of State and the Sec-
retary of Defense, to submit a report that as-
sesses Iran’s efforts to establish influence in
Syria, Iran’s support of proxy forces, and the
resulting threats to U.S. interests and allies.
Section 5522. Assessments regarding the North-
ern Triangle and Mexico.
Section 5522 requires the DNI, in coordina-
tion with other IC officials, to submit a com-
prehensive assessment of drug trafficking,
human trafficking, and human smuggling ac-
tivities in the Northern Triangle and Mexico.
Section 508 further requires the DNI to pro-
vide a briefing on the IC’s collection prior-
ities and activities in these areas.
TITLE LVI—FEDERAL EFFORTS AGAINST
DOMESTIC TERRORISM
Section 5601. Definitions.
Section 5601 provides definitions for termi-
nology used throughout this Title.
Section 5602. Strategic intelligence assessment of
and reports on domestic terrorism.
Section 5602 requires the Director of the
FBI and the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, in consultation with the DNI, to submit
a report on standardization of terminology
and procedures relating to domestic ter-
rorism, and a report containing strategic in-
telligence assessment and data on domestic
terrorism, together with required documents
and materials, with annual updates for 5
years thereafter.
TITLE LVII—REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS
Subtitle A—Reports and Briefings
Section 5701. Modification of requirements for
submission to Congress of certain reports.
Section 5701 amends or cancels numerous
reporting requirements under current law.
Section 5702. Increased transparency regarding
counterterrorism budget of the United
States.
Section 5702 makes several findings regard-
ing the transparency of the IC’s counterter-
rorism budget and directs a briefing from the
executive branch on the feasibility of releas-
ing additional information to the public con-
cerning the IC’s efforts on counterterrorism.
Section 5703. Study on role of retired and former
personnel of intelligence community with re-
spect to certain foreign intelligence oper-
ations.
Section 5703 requires the DNI to conduct a
study on former IC personnel providing intel-
ligence assistance to foreign governments,
and to provide a report on the findings and a
plan for recommendations.
Section 5704. Collection, analysis, and dissemi-
nation of workforce data.
Section 5704 requires the DNI to provide a
publicly available annual report on diversity
and inclusion efforts of the IC’s workforce.
Section 5705. Plan for strengthening the supply
chain intelligence function.
Section 5705 requires the Director of the
NCSC, in coordination with interagency
partners, to submit a plan for strengthening
supply chain intelligence function.
Section 5706. Comprehensive economic assess-
ment of investment in key United States
technologies by companies or organizations
linked to China.
Section 5706 requires the DNI, in coordina-
tion with other designated agencies, to sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a comprehensive economic assess-
ment of investment in key United States
technologies, by companies or organizations
linked to China, as well as the national secu-
rity implications of Chinese-backed invest-
ments to the United States.
Section 5707. Report by Director of National In-
telligence on fifth-generation wireless net-
work technology.
Section 5707 directs the DNI to submit to
the appropriate committees a report on the
threat to the national security of the United
States posed by adoption of fifth-generation
wireless network built by foreign companies
and possible efforts to mitigate the threat.
Section 5708. Report on use by intelligence com-
munity of facial recognition technology.
Section 5708 requires the DNI to submit a
report on the IC’s use of facial recognition
technology.
Section 5709. Report on deepfake technology,
foreign weaponization of deepfakes, and re-
lated notifications.
Section 5709 requires the DNI to submit a
report on the potential national security im-
pacts of machine-manipulated media and the
use of machine-manipulated media by for-
eign governments to spread disinformation
or engage in other malign activities.
Section 5710. Annual report by Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States on cybersecurity
and surveillance threats to Congress.
Section 5710 requires the Comptroller Gen-
eral, in consultation with the DNI, Secretary
of Homeland Security, and the Sergeant at
Arms, to submit a report to the Committees
on cybersecurity and surveillance threats to
Congress.
Section 5711. Analysis and periodic briefings on
major initiatives of intelligence community
in artificial intelligence and machine learn-
ing.
Section 5711 requires the DNI, in coordina-
tion with other appropriate IC elements, to
provide briefings to the congressional intel-
ligence committees on the IC’s major initia-
tives in artificial intelligence and machine
learning.
Section 5712. Report on best practices to protect
privacy and civil liberties of Chinese Ameri-
cans.
Section 5712 requires the DNI, through the
Office of Civil Liberties, Privacy, and Trans-
parency, and in coordination with other IC
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00123 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.053 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10250 December 12, 2019
civil liberty and privacy officers, to submit a
report on how IC policies targeting China af-
fect the privacy and civil liberties of certain
Americans of Chinese descent, along with
recommendations for necessary protections.
Section 5713. Oversight of foreign influence in
academia.
Section 5713 requires the DNI, in consulta-
tion with other appropriate IC elements, to
submit a report on the risks to sensitive re-
search subjects posed by foreign entities.
Section 5713 further requires the report to
identify specific national security-related
threats to research conducted at institutions
of higher education.
Section 5714. Report on death of Jamal
Khashoggi.
Section 5714 requires the DNI to submit to
Congress an unclassified report on the death
of Jamal Khashoggi, consistent with pro-
tecting sources and methods. The report
shall include identification of those who car-
ried out, participated in, ordered, or were
otherwise complicit in, or responsible for,
Mr. Khashoggi’s death.
Section 5715. Report on terrorist screening data-
base.
Section 5715 requires the DNI and the Sec-
retary of State to jointly submit a report on
the FBI’s terrorist screening database.
Section 5716. Report containing threat assess-
ment of terrorist use of conventional and
advanced conventional weapons.
Section 5716 requires the Under Secretary
of Homeland Security for I&A, in coordina-
tion with the Director of the FBI, to develop
and submit a threat assessment regarding
the availability of certain conventional
weapons in support of terrorism activities.
Section 5717. Assessment of homeland security
vulnerabilities associated with certain re-
tired and former personnel of the intel-
ligence community.
Section 5717 requires the DNI to submit an
assessment of the homeland security
vulnerabilities associated with retired and
former personnel of the IC providing covered
intelligence assistance.
Section 5718. Study on feasibility and advis-
ability of establishing Geospatial-Intel-
ligence Museum and learning center.
Section 5718 requires the Director of the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
(NGA) to complete a study and report the
findings on the feasibility and advisability of
establishing a Geospatial-Intelligence Mu-
seum and learning center.
Subtitle B—Other Matters
Section 5721. Whistleblower disclosures to Con-
gress and committees of Congress.
Section 5721 enables whistleblowers to pro-
vide classified disclosures to appropriate
committees of Congress.
Section 5722. Task force on illicit financing of
espionage and foreign influence operations.
Section 5722 requires the DNI to establish
a task force to study and assess the illicit fi-
nancing of espionage and foreign influence
operations directed at the United States and
requires the task force to issue a report on
this subject to the appropriate congressional
committees.
Section 5723. Establishment of fifth-generation
technology prize competition.
Section 5723 establishes a program to
award prizes to stimulate research and devel-
opment relevant to fifth-generation wireless
technology.
Section 5724. Establishment of deepfakes prize
competition.
Section 5724 establishes a program to
award prizes to stimulate the research, de-
velopment, or commercialization of tech-
nologies to automatically detect machine-
manipulated media.
Section 5725. Identification of and counter-
measures against certain International Mo-
bile Subscriber Identity-Catchers.
Section 5725 requires the DNI and the Di-
rector of the FBI, in collaboration with the
Under Secretary of DHS for I&A, and other
appropriate heads of Federal agencies, to un-
dertake an effort to identify and, when ap-
propriate, develop countermeasures against,
International Mobile Subscriber Identity-
Catchers operated within the United States
by criminals and hostile foreign govern-
ments.
Section 5726. Securing energy infrastructure.
Section 5726 requires the Secretary of En-
ergy, within 180 days of enactment of the
Act, to establish a two-year control systems
implementation pilot program within the
National Laboratories. This pilot program
will partner with covered entities in the en-
ergy sector to identify new security
vulnerabilities, and for purposes of research-
ing, developing, testing, and implementing
technology platforms and standards in part-
nership with such entities. Section 5726 also
requires the Secretary to establish a work-
ing group composed of identified private and
public sector entities to evaluate the tech-
nology platforms and standards for the pilot
program, and develop a national cyber-in-
formed engineering strategy to isolate and
defend covered entities from security
vulnerabilities. Section 5726 requires the
Secretary, within 180 days after the date on
which funds are first disbursed, to submit to
specified committees an interim report that
describes the pilot program’s results, pro-
vides a feasibility analysis, and describes the
working group’s evaluations. Section 5726
further requires the Secretary, within two
years of funding, to submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a progress re-
port on the pilot program and an analysis of
the feasibility of the methods studied, and a
description of the working group’s evalua-
tion results.
SUBDIVISION 2—INTELLIGENCE AUTHOR-
IZATIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018 AND
2019
Section 6100. Table of contents.
TITLE LXI—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Section 6101. Authorization of appropriations.
Section 6101 lists the United States Gov-
ernment departments, agencies, and other
elements for which the Act deems authorized
appropriations for intelligence and intel-
ligence-related activities for Fiscal Years
2018 and 2019.
Section 6102. Intelligence Community Manage-
ment Account.
Section 6102 provides that the amounts
that were appropriated for Fiscal Years 2018
and 2019 are deemed authorized.
TITLE LXII—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
Section 6201. Authorization of appropriations.
Section 6201 deems authorized the appro-
priations for the CIA Retirement and Dis-
ability Fund for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019.
Section 6202. Computation of annuities for em-
ployees of the Central Intelligence Agency.
Section 6202 makes technical changes to
the CIA Retirement Act to conform with
various statutes governing the Civil Service
Retirement System.
TITLE LXIII—GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY MATTERS
Section 6301. Restriction on conduct of intel-
ligence activities.
Section 6301 provides that the authoriza-
tion of appropriations by the Act shall not
be deemed to constitute authority for the
conduct of any intelligence activity that is
not otherwise authorized by the Constitution
or the laws of the United States.
Section 6302. Increase in employee compensation
and benefits authorized by law.
Section 6302 provides that funds authorized
to be appropriated by the Act for salary, pay,
retirement, and other benefits for federal
employees may be increased by such addi-
tional or supplemental amounts as may be
necessary for increases in compensation or
benefits authorized by law.
Section 6303. Modification of special pay au-
thority for science, technology, engineering,
or mathematics positions and addition of
special pay authority for cyber positions.
Section 6303 provides an increased yearly
cap for Science, Technology, Engineering, or
Mathematics (STEM) employee positions in
the IC that support critical cyber missions.
Section 6303 also permits the National Secu-
rity Agency (NSA) to establish a special rate
of pay for positions that perform functions
that execute the agency’s cyber mission.
Section 6304. Modification of appointment of
Chief Information Officer of the Intelligence
Community.
Section 6304 changes the position of IC
Chief Information Officer from being subject
to presidential appointment to being subject
to appointment by the DNI.
Section 6305. Director of National Intelligence
review of placement of positions within the
intelligence community on the Executive
Schedule.
Section 6305 requires the DNI, in coordina-
tion with the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment, to conduct a review of the positions
within the IC that may be appropriate for in-
clusion on the Executive Schedule, and the
appropriate levels for inclusion.
Section 6306. Supply Chain and Counterintel-
ligence Risk Management Task Force.
Section 6306 requires the DNI to establish
a task force to standardize information shar-
ing between the IC and the United States
Government acquisition community with re-
spect to supply chain, cybersecurity, and
counterintelligence risks. Section 6306 fur-
ther provides requirements for membership,
security clearances, and annual reports.
Section 6307. Consideration of adversarial tele-
communications and cybersecurity infra-
structure when sharing intelligence with
foreign governments and entities.
Section 6307 requires the IC, when entering
into foreign intelligence sharing agreements,
to consider the pervasiveness of tele-
communications and cybersecurity infra-
structure, equipment, and services provided
by United States adversaries or entities
thereof.
Section 6308. Cyber protection support for the
personnel of the intelligence community in
positions highly vulnerable to cyber attack.
Section 6308 permits the DNI to provide
cyber protection support for the personal
technology devices and personal accounts of
IC personnel whom the DNI determines to be
highly vulnerable to cyber attacks and hos-
tile information collection activities.
Section 6309. Elimination of sunset authority re-
lating to management of supply-chain risk.
Section 6309 extends certain IC procure-
ment authorities to manage and protect
against supply chain risks.
Section 6310. Limitations on determinations re-
garding certain security classifications.
Section 6310 prohibits an officer of the IC
who is nominated to a Senate-confirmed po-
sition from making certain classification de-
terminations posing potential conflicts of in-
terest regarding that nominee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00124 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.055 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10251
December 12, 2019
Section 6311. Joint Intelligence Community
Council.
Section 6311 amends Section 101A of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3022(d)) as to the Joint Intelligence Commu-
nity Council meetings and to require a re-
port on its activities.
Section 6312. Intelligence community informa-
tion technology environment.
Section 6312 defines the roles and respon-
sibilities for the performance of the Intel-
ligence Community Information Technology
Environment (IC ITE). Section 6312 requires
certain reporting and briefing requirements
to the congressional intelligence committees
regarding the IC’s ongoing implementation
of IC ITE.
Section 6313. Report on development of secure
mobile voice solution for intelligence com-
munity.
Section 6313 requires the DNI, in coordina-
tion with the Directors of the CIA and NSA,
provide the congressional intelligence com-
mittees with a classified report on the feasi-
bility, desirability, cost, and required sched-
ule associated with the implementation of a
secure mobile voice solution for the IC.
Section 6314. Policy on minimum insider threat
standards.
Section 6314 requires the DNI to develop
minimum insider threat standards to be fol-
lowed by each element of the IC, consistent
with the National Insider Threat Policy and
Minimum Standards for Executive Branch
Insider Threat Programs.
Section 6315. Submission of intelligence commu-
nity policies.
Section 6315 requires the DNI to make all
ODNI policies and procedures available to
the congressional intelligence committees.
Section 6315 also requires ODNI to notify the
congressional committees of any new or re-
scinded policies.
Section 6316. Expansion of intelligence commu-
nity recruitment efforts.
Section 6316 requires the DNI, in consulta-
tion with IC elements, to submit a plan to
the congressional intelligence committees as
to each element’s efforts in recruitment
from rural and underrepresented regions.
TITLE LXIV—MATTERS RELATING TO
ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
Subtitle A—Office of the Director of
National Intelligence
Section 6401. Authority for protection of current
and former employees of the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence.
Section 6401 amends Title 50, section 3506,
to provide protection for current and former
ODNI personnel and designated immediate
family members, if there is a national secu-
rity threat that warrants such protection.
Section 6402. Designation of the program man-
ager-information sharing environment.
Section 6402 amends the Intelligence Re-
form and Terrorism Protection Act of 2004 so
that the Program Manager-Information
Sharing Environment (PM–ISE) is subject to
appointment by the DNI, not the President.
Section 6403. Technical modification to the exec-
utive schedule.
Section 6403 amends the Executive Sched-
ule to make the Director of the National
Counterintelligence and Security Center a
Level IV position on the Executive Schedule.
Section 6404. Chief Financial Officer of the In-
telligence Community.
Section 6404 amends the National Security
Act of 1947 by requiring the Chief Financial
Officer of the IC to directly report to the
DNI.
Section 6405. Chief Information Officer of the
Intelligence Community.
Section 6405 amends the National Security
Act of 1947 by requiring the Chief Informa-
tion Officer of the IC to directly report to
the DNI.
Subtitle B—Central Intelligence Agency
Section 6411. Central Intelligence Agency sub-
sistence for personnel assigned to austere lo-
cations.
Section 6411 authorizes the Director of the
CIA to approve, with or without reimburse-
ment, subsistence to personnel assigned to
an austere overseas location.
Section 6412. Special rules for certain monthly
workers’ compensation payments and other
payments for Central Intelligence Agency
personnel.
Section 6412 authorizes the Director of the
CIA to provide enhanced injury benefits to a
covered employee or qualifying dependents
who suffer an injury overseas due to war, in-
surgency, hostile act, or terrorist activities.
Section 6413. Expansion of security protective
service jurisdiction of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency.
Section 6413 expands the security perim-
eter jurisdiction at CIA facilities from 500
feet to 500 yards.
Section 6414. Repeal of foreign language pro-
ficiency requirement for certain senior level
positions in the Central Intelligence Agency.
Section 6414 repeals Title 50, section
3036(g), with conforming amendments to sec-
tion 611 of the Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108–487).
Subtitle C—Office of Intelligence and Coun-
terintelligence of the Department of En-
ergy
Section 6421. Consolidation of Department of
Energy Offices of Intelligence and Counter-
intelligence.
Section 6421 amends the Department of En-
ergy Organization Act to consolidate the of-
fices of intelligence and counterintelligence
into the DOE Office of Intelligence and
Counterintelligence.
Section 6422. Repeal of Department of Energy
Intelligence Executive Committee and budg-
et reporting requirement.
Section 6422 amends the Department of En-
ergy Organization Act by repealing the De-
partment of Energy Intelligence Executive
Committee, as well as certain budgetary re-
porting requirements.
Subtitle D—Other Elements
Section 6431. Plan for designation of counter-
intelligence component of the Defense Secu-
rity Service as an element of intelligence
community.
Section 6431 directs the DNI and the Under
Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, in co-
ordination with the Director of the National
Counterintelligence and Security Center, to
provide the congressional intelligence and
defense committees with an implementation
plan to make the Defense Security Service’s
(DSS’s) Counterintelligence component an
element of the IC as defined in paragraph(4)
of section 3 of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)), by January 1, 2020.
Section 6431 further mandates that the plan
shall not address the DSS’s personnel secu-
rity functions.
Section 6432. Notice not required for private en-
tities.
Section 6432 provides a Rule of Construc-
tion that the Secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security (DHS) is not required to
provide notice to private entities before
issuing directives on agency information se-
curity policies and practices.
Section 6433. Establishment of advisory board
for National Reconnaissance Office.
Section 6433 amends the National Security
Act of 1947 to authorize the Director of the
NRO to establish an advisory board to study
matters related to space, overhead recon-
naissance, acquisition, and other matters.
Section 6433 provides that the board shall
terminate 3 years after the Director declares
the board’s first meeting.
Section 6434. Collocation of certain Department
of Homeland Security personnel at field lo-
cations.
Section 6434 requires the Under Secretary
of Homeland Security for Intelligence &
Analysis (DHS I&A) to identify opportunities
for collocation of I&A field officers and to
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a plan for deployment.
TITLE LXV—ELECTION MATTERS
Section 6501. Report on cyber attacks by foreign
governments against United States election
infrastructure.
Section 6501 directs the DHS Under Sec-
retary for I&A to submit a report on cyber
attacks and attempted cyber attacks by for-
eign governments on United States election
infrastructure, in connection with the 2016
presidential election. Section 6501 further re-
quires this report to include identification of
the States and localities affected and include
efforts to attack voter registration data-
bases, voting machines, voting-related com-
puter networks, and the networks of Secre-
taries of State and other election officials.
Section 6502. Review of intelligence community’s
posture to collect against and analyze Rus-
sian efforts to influence the Presidential
election.
Section 6502 requires the DNI to submit to
the congressional intelligence committees,
within one year of enactment of the Act, a
report on the Director’s review of the IC’s
posture to collect against and analyze Rus-
sian efforts to interfere with the 2016 United
States presidential election. Section 6502 fur-
ther requires the review to include assess-
ments of IC resources, information sharing,
and legal authorities.
Section 6503. Assessment of foreign intelligence
threats to Federal elections.
Section 6503 requires the DNI, in coordina-
tion with the Director of the CIA, Director of
the NSA, Director of the FBI, Secretary of
DHS, and heads of other relevant IC ele-
ments, to commence assessments of security
vulnerabilities of State election systems one
year before regularly scheduled Federal elec-
tions. Section 6503 further requires the DNI
to submit a report on such assessments 180
days before regularly scheduled Federal elec-
tions, and an updated assessment 90 days be-
fore regularly scheduled Federal elections.
Section 6504. Strategy for countering Russian
cyber threats to United States elections.
Section 6504 requires the DNI, in coordina-
tion with the Secretary of DHS, Director of
the FBI, Director of the CIA, Secretary of
State, Secretary of Defense, and Secretary of
the Treasury, to develop a whole-of-govern-
ment strategy for countering Russian cyber
threats against United States electoral sys-
tems and processes. Section 6504 further re-
quires this strategy to include input from so-
licited Secretaries of State and chief elec-
tion officials.
Section 6505. Assessment of significant Russian
influence campaigns directed at foreign
elections and referenda.
Section 6505 requires the DNI to provide a
report assessing past and ongoing Russian
influence campaigns against foreign elec-
tions and referenda, to include a summary of
the means by which such influence cam-
paigns have been or are likely to be con-
ducted, a summary of defenses against or re-
sponses to such Russian influence cam-
paigns, a summary of IC activities to assist
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00125 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.056 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10252 December 12, 2019
foreign governments against such cam-
paigns, and an assessment of the effective-
ness of such foreign defenses and responses.
Section 6506. Information sharing with State
election officials.
Section 6506 requires the DNI, within 30
days of enactment of the Act, to support se-
curity clearances for each eligible chief elec-
tion official of a State, territory, or the Dis-
trict of Columbia (and additional eligible
designees), up to the Top Secret level. Sec-
tion 6506 also requires the DNI to assist with
sharing appropriate classified information
about threats to election systems.
Section 6507. Notification of significant foreign
cyber intrusions and active measure cam-
paigns directed at elections for Federal of-
fices.
Section 6507 requires the Director of the
FBI, and the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity to brief the congressional intelligence
committees, congressional leadership, the
armed services committees, the appropria-
tions committees, and the homeland security
committees (consistent with sources and
methods) not later than 14 days after a de-
termination has been made with moderate or
high confidence that a significant foreign
cyber intrusion or active measures campaign
intended to influence an upcoming election
for any Federal office has taken place by a
foreign state or foreign non-state person,
group, or other entity. The briefing shall
provide a description of the significant for-
eign cyber intrusion or active measures cam-
paign, including an identification of the for-
eign state or foreign non-state person or
group.
Section 6508. Designation of counterintelligence
officer to lead election security matters.
Section 6508 requires the DNI to designate
a national counterintelligence officer within
the National Counterintelligence and Secu-
rity Center to lead, manage, and coordinate
election security-related counterintelligence
matters, including certain risks from foreign
power interference.
TITLE LXVI—SECURITY CLEARANCES
Section 6601. Definitions.
Section 6601 provides definitions for termi-
nology used throughout this Title.
Section 6602. Reports and plans relating to secu-
rity clearances and background investiga-
tions.
Section 6602 requires the interagency Per-
formance Accountability Council (Council)
to provide plans to reduce the background
investigation inventory and best align the
investigation function between DoD and the
National Background Investigation Bureau.
Section 6602 further requires the Council to
report on the future of the clearance process
and requires the DNI to notify the appro-
priate committees of responding to official
requests to change clearance standards, and
the status of those requests’ disposition. As
with other reports in this title, these reports
can be met in a consolidated format and po-
tentially through the regularly scheduled
quarterly Council briefings.
Section 6603. Improving the process for security
clearances.
Section 6603 requires the DNI to review the
Questionnaire for National Security posi-
tions (SF–86 or any current instantiation
thereof) and the Federal Investigative
Standards to determine potential unneces-
sary information required and assess wheth-
er revisions are necessary to account for in-
sider threats. Section 6603 further requires
the DNI, in coordination with the Council, to
establish policies on interim clearances and
consistency between the clearance process
for contract and government personnel.
Section 6604. Goals for promptness of determina-
tions regarding security clearances.
Section 6604 requires the Council to imple-
ment a plan to be able to process 90 percent
of clearance requests at the Secret level in 30
days, and at the Top Secret-level in 90 days.
The provision provides the Council with lati-
tude to issue equivalent metrics that simi-
larly improve the timeliness of the clearance
process. The plan shall also address how to
recognize reciprocity in accepting clearances
among agencies within two weeks, and to re-
quire that ninety percent of clearance hold-
ers not be subject to a time-based periodic
investigation.
Section 6605. Security Executive Agent.
Section 6605 establishes the DNI as the
government’s Security Executive Agent,
consistent with Executive Order 13467, and
sets forth relevant authorities.
Section 6606. Report on unified, simplified, Gov-
ernmentwide standards for positions of trust
and security clearances.
Section 6606 directs the DNI and the Direc-
tor of the Office of Personnel Management to
report on the advisability and implications
of consolidating the tiers for positions of
trust and security clearances from 5 to 3
tiers.
Section 6607. Report on clearance in person con-
cept.
Section 6607 requires the DNI to submit a
report on a concept whereby an individual
can maintain eligibility for access to classi-
fied information for up to 3 years after ac-
cess may lapse.
Section 6608. Reports on reciprocity for security
clearances inside of departments and agen-
cies.
Section 6608 requires each federal agency
to submit a report to the DNI that identifies
the number of clearances that take more
than two weeks to reciprocally recognize and
set forth the reason for any delays. Section
6608 further requires the DNI to submit an
annual report summarizing reciprocity.
Section 6609. Intelligence community reports on
security clearances.
Section 6609 requires the DNI to submit a
report on each IC element’s security clear-
ance metrics, segregated by Federal employ-
ees and contractor employees.
Section 6610. Periodic report on positions in the
intelligence community that can be con-
ducted without access to classified informa-
tion, networks, or facilities.
Section 6610 requires the DNI to submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on positions that can be conducted
without access to classified information,
networks, or facilities, or may require only a
Secret-level clearance.
Section 6611. Information-sharing program for
positions of trust and security clearances.
Section 6611 requires the Security Execu-
tive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agents to establish
a program to share information between and
among government agencies and industry
partners to inform decisions about positions
of trust and security clearances.
Section 6612. Report on protections for confiden-
tiality of whistleblower-related communica-
tions.
Section 6612 requires the Security Execu-
tive Agent, in coordination with the IC IG,
to submit a report detailing the IC’s controls
used to ensure continuous evaluation pro-
grams protect the confidentiality of whistle-
blower-related communications.
Section 6613. Reports on costs of security clear-
ance background investigations.
Section 6613 requires the DNI to provide an
annual report for three years after enact-
ment on the resources expended by each gov-
ernment agency for processing security
clearance background investigations and
continuous evaluation programs,
disaggregated by tier and employment sta-
tus.
TITLE LXVII—REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS
Subtitle A—Matters Relating to Russia and
Other Foreign Powers
Section 6701. Limitation relating to establish-
ment or support of cybersecurity unit with
the Russian Federation.
Section 6701 prohibits the Federal govern-
ment from expending any funds to establish
or support a cybersecurity unit or other
cyber agreement that is jointly established
or otherwise implemented by the United
States Government and the Russian Federa-
tion, unless the DNI submits a report to the
appropriate congressional committees at
least 30 days prior to any such agreement.
The report shall include the agreement’s
purpose, intended shared intelligence, value
to national security, counterintelligence
concerns, and any measures taken to miti-
gate such concerns.
Section 6702. Assessment of threat finance relat-
ing to Russia.
Section 6702 requires the DNI, in coordina-
tion with the Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury for Intelligence and Analysis, to
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees, within 60 days of enactment of
the Act, an assessment of Russian threat fi-
nance, based on all-source intelligence from
both the IC and the Office of Terrorism and
Financial Intelligence of the Treasury De-
partment. Section 6702 further requires the
assessment to include global nodes and entry
points for Russian money laundering; United
States vulnerabilities; connections between
Russian individuals involved in money laun-
dering and the Russian Government; coun-
terintelligence threats to the United States
posed by Russian money laundering and
other forms of threat finance; and challenges
to United States Government efforts to en-
force sanctions and combat organized crime.
Section 6703. Notification of an active measures
campaign.
Section 6703 requires the DNI to notify
congressional leadership, and the Chairman
and Vice Chairman or Ranking Member of
the appropriate congressional committees,
each time the DNI has determined there is
credible information that a foreign power
has attempted, is attempting, or will at-
tempt to employ a covert influence or active
measures campaign with regard to the mod-
ernization, employment, doctrine, or force
posture of the United States’ nuclear deter-
rent or missile defense. Section 6703 further
requires that such notification must include
information on any actions that the United
States has taken to expose or halt such at-
tempts.
Section 6704. Notification of travel by accredited
diplomatic and consular personnel of the
Russian Federation in the United States.
Section 6704 requires the Secretary of
State to ensure that the Russian Federation
provides notification at least two business
days in advance of all travel that is subject
to such requirements by accredited diplo-
matic and consular personnel of the Russian
Federation in the United States, and take
necessary action to secure full compliance
by Russian personnel and address any non-
compliance.
Section 6705. Report and annual briefing on Ira-
nian expenditures supporting foreign mili-
tary and terrorist activities.
Section 6705 requires the DNI to submit a
report to Congress describing Iranian ex-
penditures on military and terrorist activi-
ties outside the country.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00126 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.057 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10253
December 12, 2019
Section 6706. Expansion of scope of committee to
counter active measures.
Section 6706 amends a provision in the In-
telligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 to expand the scope of the interagency
committee to counter active measures by
the Russian Federation to add China, Iran,
North Korea, and other nation states.
Subtitle B—Reports
Section 6711. Technical correction to Inspector
General study.
Section 6711 amends Title 50, section
11001(d), by replacing the IC IG’s ‘‘audit’’ re-
quirement for Inspectors General with em-
ployees having classified material access,
with a ‘‘review’’ requirement.
Section 6712. Reports on authorities of the Chief
Intelligence Officer of the Department of
Homeland Security.
Section 6712 requires the Secretary of DHS,
in consultation with the Under Secretary for
I&A, to submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the adequacy
of the Under Secretary’s authorities required
as the Chief Intelligence Officer to organize
the Homeland Security Intelligence Enter-
prise, and the legal and policy changes nec-
essary to coordinate, organize, and lead DHS
intelligence activities.
Section 6713. Review of intelligence community
whistleblower matters.
Section 6713 directs the IC IG, in consulta-
tions with the IGs of other IC agencies, to
conduct a review of practices and procedures
relating to IC whistleblower matters.
Section 6714. Report on role of Director of Na-
tional Intelligence with respect to certain
foreign investments.
Section 6714 directs the DNI to submit a
report on ODNI’s role in preparing analytic
materials in connection with the United
States Government’s evaluation of national
security risks associated with potential for-
eign investments.
Section 6715. Report on surveillance by foreign
governments against United States tele-
communications networks.
Section 6715 requires the DNI, in coordina-
tion with the Director of the CIA, Director of
the NSA, Director of the FBI, and Secretary
of DHS, to submit to the congressional intel-
ligence, judiciary, and homeland security
committees, within 180 days of enactment of
the Act, a report on known attempts by for-
eign governments to exploit cybersecurity
vulnerabilities in United States tele-
communications networks to surveil United
States persons, and any actions that the IC
has taken to protect United States Govern-
ment agencies and personnel from such sur-
veillance.
Section 6716. Biennial report on foreign invest-
ment risks.
Section 6716 requires the DNI to establish
an IC working group on foreign investment
risks and prepare a biennial report that in-
cludes an identification, analysis, and expla-
nation of national security vulnerabilities,
foreign investment trends, foreign countries’
strategies to exploit vulnerabilities through
the acquisition of either critical tech-
nologies (including components or items es-
sential to national defense), critical mate-
rials (including physical materials essential
to national security), or critical infrastruc-
ture (including physical or virtual systems
and assets whose destruction or incapacity
would have a debilitating impact on national
security), and market distortions caused by
foreign countries. Technologies, materials,
and infrastructure are deemed to be ‘‘crit-
ical’’ under this provision if their exploi-
tation by a foreign government could cause
severe harm to the national security of the
United States.
Section 6717. Modification of certain reporting
requirement on travel of foreign diplomats.
Section 6717 amends a provision in the In-
telligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017, to require reporting of ‘‘a best esti-
mate’’ of known or suspected violations of
certain travel requirements by accredited
diplomatic and consular personnel of the
Russian Federation.
Section 6718. Semiannual reports on investiga-
tions of unauthorized disclosures of classi-
fied information.
Section 6718 requires the Assistant Attor-
ney General for National Security at the De-
partment of Justice, in consultation with
the Director of the FBI, to submit to the
congressional intelligence and judiciary
committees a semiannual report on the sta-
tus of IC referrals to the Department of Jus-
tice regarding unauthorized disclosures of
classified information. Section 6718 also di-
rects IC elements to submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a semiannual
report on the number of investigations
opened and completed by each agency re-
garding an unauthorized public disclosure of
classified information to the media, and the
number of completed investigations referred
to the Attorney General.
Section 6719. Congressional notification of des-
ignation of covered intelligence officer as
persona non grata.
Section 6719 requires, not later than 72
hours after a covered intelligence officer is
designated as persona non grata, that the
DNI, in consultation with the Secretary of
State, submit to the designated committees
a notification of that designation, to include
the basis for the designation and justifica-
tion for the expulsion.
Section 6720. Reports on intelligence community
participation in vulnerabilities equities
process of Federal Government.
Section 6720 requires the DNI to submit,
within 90 days of enactment of the Act, to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report describing the Vulnerabilities Equi-
ties Process (VEP) roles and responsibilities
for each IC element. Section 6720 further re-
quires each IC element to report to the con-
gressional intelligence committees within 30
days of a significant change to that respec-
tive IC element’s VEP process and criteria.
Section 6720 also requires the DNI to submit
an annual report to the congressional intel-
ligence committees with specified informa-
tion on certain VEP metrics.
Section 6721. Inspectors General reports on clas-
sification.
Section 6721 requires each designated IG to
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on the accuracy in the
application of classification and handling
markings on a representative sample of fin-
ished products, to include those with com-
partments. Section 6721 also directs analyses
of compliance with declassification proce-
dures and a review of the effectiveness of
processes for identifying topics of public or
historical importance that merit
prioritization for declassification review.
Section 6722. Reports on global water insecurity
and national security implications and
briefing on emerging infectious disease and
pandemics.
Section 6722 requires the DNI to submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on the implications of global water in-
security on the United States’ national secu-
rity interests. Section 6722 further requires
the DNI to provide a briefing to appropriate
congressional committees on the geo-
political effects of emerging infectious dis-
ease and pandemics, and their implications
on the United States’ national security.
Section 6723. Annual report on memoranda of
understanding between elements of intel-
ligence community and other entities of the
United States Government regarding signifi-
cant operational activities or policy.
Section 6723 amends a provision in the In-
telligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017, instead requiring each IC element to
submit an annual report to the Committees
that lists each significant memorandum of
understanding or other agreement entered
into during the preceding fiscal year. Sec-
tion 6723 further requires each IC element to
provide such documents if an intelligence
committee so requests.
Section 6724. Study on the feasibility of
encrypting unclassified wireline and wire-
less telephone calls.
Section 6724 requires the DNI to complete
a study on the feasibility of encrypting un-
classified wireline and wireless telephone
calls between personnel in the IC.
Section 6725. Reports on intelligence community
loan repayment and related programs.
Section 6725 requires the DNI, in coopera-
tion with the heads of the elements of the IC,
to submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on potentially estab-
lishing an IC-wide program for student loan
repayment and forgiveness.
Section 6726. Repeal of certain reporting re-
quirements.
Section 6726 repeals certain IC reporting
requirements.
Section 6727. Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community report on senior execu-
tives of the Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence.
Section 6727 directs the IC IG to submit a
report to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees regarding senior executive service
staffing at the ODNI.
Section 6728. Briefing on Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation offering permanent residence to
sources and cooperators.
Section 6728 directs the FBI within 30 days
of enactment of this Act to provide a brief-
ing to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees regarding the FBI’s ability to pro-
vide permanent U.S. residence to foreign in-
dividuals who serve as cooperators in na-
tional security-related investigations.
Section 6729. Intelligence assessment of North
Korea revenue sources.
Section 6729 requires the DNI, in coordina-
tion with other relevant IC elements, to
produce to the congressional intelligence
committees an intelligence assessment of
the North Korean regime’s revenue sources.
Section 6730. Report on possible exploitations of
virtual currencies by terrorist actors.
Section 6730 requires the DNI, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of the Treasury, to
submit to Congress a report on the possible
exploitation of virtual currencies by ter-
rorist actors.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
Section 6741. Public Interest Declassification
Board.
Section 6741 permanently reauthorizes the
Public Interest Declassification Board ad-
ministered by the National Archives and
Records Administration.
Section 6742. Technical and clerical amendments
to the National Security Act of 1947.
Section 6742 makes certain edits to the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 as amended for
technical or clerical purposes.
Section 6743. Bug bounty programs.
Section 6743 directs the Secretary of DHS,
in consultation with the Secretary of De-
fense, to submit a strategic plan to imple-
ment bug bounty programs at appropriate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00127 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.058 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10254 December 12, 2019
agencies and departments of the United
States Government. Section 6743 further re-
quires the plan to include an assessment of
the ‘‘Hack the Pentagon’’ pilot program and
subsequent bug bounty programs. Section
6743 also requires the plan to provide rec-
ommendations on the feasibility of initi-
ating bug bounty programs across the United
States Government.
Section 6744. Technical amendments related to
the Department of Energy.
Section 6744 provides technical corrections
to certain provisions regarding the Depart-
ment of Energy’s Office of Intelligence and
Counterintelligence.
Section 6745. Sense of Congress on notification
of certain disclosures of classified informa-
tion.
Section 6745 expresses the sense of Con-
gress that, pursuant to the requirement for
the IC to keep the congressional intelligence
committees ‘‘fully and currently informed’’
in Section 502 of the National Security Act
of 1947, IC agencies must submit prompt
written notification after becoming aware
that an individual in the executive branch
has disclosed certain classified information
outside established intelligence channels to
foreign adversaries—North Korea, Iran,
China, Russia, or Cuba.
Section 6746. Sense of Congress on consideration
of espionage activities when considering
whether or not to provide visas to foreign
individuals to be accredited to a United Na-
tions mission in the United States.
Section 6746 provides a Sense of Congress
that, as to foreign individuals to be accred-
ited to a United Nations mission, the Sec-
retary of State should consider known and
suspected intelligence and espionage activi-
ties, including activities constituting pre-
cursors to espionage, carried out by such in-
dividuals against the United States, or
against foreign allies or partners of the
United States. Section 6746 further provides
that the Secretary of State should consider
an individual’s status as a known or sus-
pected intelligence officer for a foreign ad-
versary.
Section 6747. Sense of Congress on WikiLeaks.
Section 6747 provides a Sense of Congress
that WikiLeaks and its senior leadership re-
semble a non-state hostile intelligence serv-
ice, often abetted by state actors, and should
be treated as such.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 4 o’clock and 12 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Fri-
day, December 13, 2019, at noon.
h
EXPENDITURE REPORTS CONCERNING OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the third and
fourth quarters of 2019, pursuant to Public Law 95–384, are as follows:
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO JAPAN, EXPENDED BETWEEN NOV. 3 AND NOV. 5, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Mark Takano ................................................... 11/3 11/5 Japan .................................................... .................... 922.98 .................... 642.27 .................... 308.16 .................... 1,873.41
Yuri Beckelman ....................................................... 11/3 11/5 Japan .................................................... .................... 922.98 .................... 15,295.72 .................... 308.16 .................... 16,526.86
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 1,845.96 .................... 15,937.99 .................... 616.32 .................... 18,400.27
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. MARK TAKANO, Dec. 5, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Travel to Iceland, Scotland, Norway, Swe-
den, Finland—July 26–August 2, 2019
Hon. Ruben Gallego ...................................... 7/27 7/28 Iceland ......................................... .................... 559.48 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 559.48
7/28 7/29 Scotland ....................................... .................... 234.82 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 234.82
7/29 7/31 Norway ......................................... .................... 569.68 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 569.68
7/31 8/1 Finland ......................................... .................... 355.37 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 355.37
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 9,231.29 .................... .................... .................... 9,231.29
Sapna Sharma .............................................. 7/27 7/28 Iceland ......................................... .................... 559.48 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 559.48
7/28 7/29 Scotland ....................................... .................... 234.82 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 234.82
7/29 7/31 Norway ......................................... .................... 569.68 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 569.68
7/31 8/1 Finland ......................................... .................... 355.37 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 355.37
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 8,431.79 .................... .................... .................... 8,431.79
Travel to France, Italy, Morocco—July 26–
August 5, 2019 with CODEL Pallone
Hon. John Garamendi ................................... 7/27 7/28 France .......................................... .................... 350.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 350.00
7/29 8/2 Italy .............................................. .................... 705.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 705.00
8/3 8/5 Morocco ........................................ .................... 111.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 111.00
Travel to Pakistan, Tajikistan—July 27–Au-
gust 3, 2019
William T. Johnson ....................................... 7/29 7/31 Pakistan ....................................... .................... 350.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 350.00
8/1 8/3 Tajikistan ..................................... .................... 799.14 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 799.14
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 10,324.93 .................... .................... .................... 10,324.93
Mark Morehouse ........................................... 7/29 7/31 Pakistan ....................................... .................... 150.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 150.00
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 8,605.71 .................... .................... .................... 8,605.71
Travel to Australia—August 4–14, 2019
Hon. Joe Courtney ......................................... 8/6 8/14 Australia ...................................... .................... 1,525.30 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,525.30
Hon. Mike Gallagher ..................................... 8/6 8/14 Australia ...................................... .................... 1,525.30 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,525.30
Phil MacNaughton ........................................ 8/6 8/14 Australia ...................................... .................... 1,525.30 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,525.30
David Sienicki ............................................... 8/6 8/14 Australia ...................................... .................... 1,525.30 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,525.30
Halimah Locke .............................................. 8/6 8/14 Australia ...................................... .................... 1,586.65 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,586.65
Travel to Australia, Japan—August 9–16,
2019
Craig Greene ................................................. 8/11 8/13 Australia ...................................... .................... 917.15 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 917.15
8/14 8/16 Japan ........................................... .................... 358.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 358.00
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ .................... .................... 21,114.00 .................... 21,114.00
Dave Giachetti .............................................. 8/11 8/13 Australia ...................................... .................... 917.15 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 917.15
8/14 8/16 Japan ........................................... .................... 358.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 358.00
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 21,114.00 .................... .................... .................... 21,114.00
Brian Garrett ................................................ 8/11 8/13 Australia ...................................... .................... 917.15 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 917.15
8/14 8/16 Japan ........................................... .................... 358.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 358.00
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 21,114.00 .................... .................... .................... 21,114.00
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00128 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.060 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10255
December 12, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2019—
Continued
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Dan Sennott .................................................. 8/11 8/13 Australia ...................................... .................... 917.15 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 917.15
8/14 8/16 Japan ........................................... .................... 358.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 358.00
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 21,114.00 .................... .................... .................... 21,114.00
Laura Rauch ................................................. 8/11 8/13 Australia ...................................... .................... 917.15 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 917.15
8/14 8/16 Japan ........................................... .................... 358.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 358.00
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 19,037.03 .................... .................... .................... 19,037.03
Travel to Thailand, Philippines—August
10–18, 2019
Matt Rhoades ............................................... 8/11 8/13 Philippines ................................... .................... 449.55 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 449.55
8/13 8/16 Thailand ....................................... .................... 507.29 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 507.29
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 21,087.73 .................... .................... .................... 21,087.73
Mark Morehouse ........................................... 8/11 8/13 Philippines ................................... .................... 615.65 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 615.65
8/13 8/16 Thailand ....................................... .................... 628.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 628.00
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 13,856.67 .................... .................... .................... 13,856.67
Michael Hermann ......................................... 8/11 8/13 Philippines ................................... .................... 140.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 140.00
8/13 8/16 Thailand ....................................... .................... 140.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 140.00
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 17,541.73 .................... .................... .................... 17,541.73
Katherine Quinn ............................................ 8/13 8/16 Thailand ....................................... .................... 727.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 727.00
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 14,967.03 .................... .................... .................... 14,967.03
Shannon Green ............................................. 8/11 8/13 Philippines ................................... .................... 620.65 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 620.65
8/13 8/16 Thailand ....................................... .................... 829.18 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 829.18
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 13,766.67 .................... .................... .................... 13,766.67
Travel to Germany, Niger, Nigeria, Mali,
France—August 22–30, 2019 with
CODEL Panetta
Hon. Austin Scott ......................................... 8/23 8/24 Germany ....................................... .................... 510.55 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 510.55
8/24 8/26 Niger ............................................ .................... 539.67 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 539.67
8/26 8/27 Nigeria ......................................... .................... 347.21 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 347.21
8/27 8/28 Mali .............................................. .................... 235.28 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 235.28
8/28 8/29 France .......................................... .................... 1,120.88 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,120.88
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 2,082.13 .................... .................... .................... 2,082.13
Hon. Anthony Brown ..................................... 8/23 8/24 Germany ....................................... .................... 510.55 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 510.55
8/24 8/26 Niger ............................................ .................... 539.67 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 539.67
8/26 8/27 Nigeria ......................................... .................... 347.21 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 347.21
8/27 8/28 Mali .............................................. .................... 235.28 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 235.28
8/28 8/29 France .......................................... .................... 1,120.88 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,120.88
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 1,387.03 .................... .................... .................... 1,387.03
Laura Rauch ................................................. 8/23 8/24 Germany ....................................... .................... 616.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 616.00
8/24 8/26 Niger ............................................ .................... 537.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 537.00
8/26 8/27 Nigeria ......................................... .................... 348.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 348.00
8/27 8/28 Mali .............................................. .................... 243.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 243.00
8/28 8/29 France .......................................... .................... 1,082.00 ........................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,082.00
Commercial airfare .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... .................... ........................................ 2,142.00 .................... .................... .................... 2,142.00
Committee total .............................. ............. ................. ...................................................... .................... 32,957.94 ........................................ 226,917.74 .................... .................... .................... 259,875.68
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. ADAM SMITH, Nov. 1, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. William Timmons IV ........................................ 9/3 9/5 Montenegro ........................................... .................... 643.24 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 643.24
9/5 9/6 Croatia .................................................. .................... 401.46 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 401.46
9/6 9/8 Italy ....................................................... .................... 1,066.14 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,066.14
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 2,110.84 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,110.84
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. JOHN A. YARMUTH, Dec. 5, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMISSION ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Robert B. Aderholt .......................................... 6/28 7/2 United Kingdom .................................... Pound
Sterling
2,390.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,390.00
7/2 7/3 Poland ................................................... Zloty 443.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 443.29
............. ................. Luxembourg .......................................... Euros 2,494.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,494.13
Hon. Richard Hudson .............................................. 6/28 7/2 United Kingdom .................................... Pound
Sterling
2,875.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,875.00
7/3 7/8 Luxembourg .......................................... Euros 2,784.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,784.13
Hon. Steve Cohen .................................................... 6/28 6/30 Denmark ............................................... Kroner 978.76 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 978.76
6/30 7/1 Ukraine ................................................. Hryvnia 239.69 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 239.69
7/1 7/3 Hungary ................................................ Forint 848.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 848.00
7/3 7/5 Luxembourg .......................................... Euros 1,010.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,010.00
Hon. Gwen Moore ..................................................... 6/30 7/3 Hungary ................................................ Forint 463.00 .................... 8,073.20 .................... .................... .................... 8,536.20
6/30 7/1 Luxembourg .......................................... Euros 1,010.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,010.00
Alex T. Johnson ........................................................ 6/27 7/1 Belgium ................................................ Euros 408.00 .................... 3,306.53 .................... .................... .................... 3,714.53
7/1 7/3 Hungary ................................................ Forint 696.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 696.00
7/3 7/9 Luxembourg .......................................... Euros 750.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 750.00
Mischa Thompson .................................................... 6/22 6/29 Belgium ................................................ Euros 1,088.00 .................... 11,498.33 .................... .................... .................... 12,586.33
6/29 7/2 Netherlands .......................................... Euros 426.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 426.00
7/2 7/7 Luxembourg .......................................... Euros 625.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 625.00
Janice Helwig ........................................................... 7/3 7/10 Luxembourg .......................................... Euros .................... .................... 1,026.20 .................... .................... .................... 1,026.20
Francois Hernandez ................................................. 7/3 7/7 Luxembourg .......................................... Euros 2,274.38 .................... 1,924.63 .................... .................... .................... 4,199.01
Erika Schlager ......................................................... 7/1 7/3 Hungary ................................................ Forint 1,392.00 .................... 1,025.33 .................... .................... .................... 2,417.33
Alex Tiersky .............................................................. 7/18 7/23 Ukraine ................................................. Hiryvnia 1,493.34 .................... 10,658.43 .................... .................... .................... 12,151.77
Alex T. Johnson ........................................................ 8/28 8/30 Mongolia ............................................... Tögrög 570.00 .................... 6,440.53 .................... .................... .................... 7,010.53
8/30 9/4 Japan .................................................... Yen 1,907.57 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,907.57
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00129 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.043 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10256 December 12, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMISSION ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2019—
Continued
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Paul Massaro ........................................................... 8/28 8/30 Mongolia ............................................... Tögrög 570.00 .................... 6,450.53 .................... .................... .................... 7,020.53
8/30 9/4 Japan .................................................... Yen 1,907.57 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,907.57
Janice Helwig ........................................................... 8/30 9/4 Japan .................................................... Yen 1,907.57 .................... 5,517.90 .................... .................... .................... 7,425.47
Alex T. Johnson ........................................................ 9/13 9/21 Poland ................................................... Zloty 1,784.25 .................... 2,925.13 .................... .................... .................... 4,709.38
Janice Helwig ........................................................... 9/15 9/27 Poland ................................................... Zloty 2,132.99 .................... 1,249.50 .................... .................... .................... 3,382.49
Shannon Simrell ...................................................... 9/14 9/24 Poland ................................................... Zloty 2,587.49 .................... 3,362.43 .................... .................... .................... 5,949.92
Mark Toner ............................................................... 9/14 9/20 Poland ................................................... Zloty 1,338.75 .................... 3,771.43 .................... .................... .................... 5,110.18
Francois Hernandez ................................................. 9/19 9/25 Poland ................................................... Zloty 1,338.75 .................... 2,090.13 .................... .................... .................... 3,428.88
Mischa Thompson .................................................... 9/17 9/22 France ................................................... Euros 2,797.00 .................... 9,001.83 .................... .................... .................... 11,798.83
9/22 9/24 Belgium ................................................ Euros 513.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 513.00
9/24 9/27 Poland ................................................... Zloty 803.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 803.25
Nathaniel Hurd ........................................................ 9/18 9/25 Poland ................................................... Zloty 1,874.25 .................... 2,682.93 .................... .................... .................... 4,557.18
9/25 9/27 Switzerland ........................................... Swiss Franc 947.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 947.13
Paul Massaro ........................................................... 9/10 9/14 Czechia ................................................. Czech
Koruna
1,653.37 .................... 1,097.93 .................... .................... .................... 2,751.30
Janice Helwig ........................................................... 6/1 8/7 Austria .................................................. Euros 25,039.00 .................... 13,657.33 .................... .................... .................... 38,696.33
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 74,360.66 .................... 95,760.25 .................... .................... .................... 170,120.91
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS, Dec. 9, 2019.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
3279. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Acquisition and Sustainment, Department of
Defense, transmitting the Department’s 1st
quarter FY 2020 Quarterly Briefing on
Progress of the Chemical Demilitarization
Program, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1521(j); Pub-
lic Law 99-145, Sec. 1412 (as amended by Pub-
lic Law 112-239, Sec. 1421(a)); (126 Stat. 204);
to the Committee on Armed Services.
3280. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy,
Department of Energy, transmitting the De-
partment’s Annual Report on Federal Gov-
ernment Energy Management and Conserva-
tion Programs, Fiscal Year 2016; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
3281. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Federal Trade Commission, transmitting the
fifteenth annual Federal Trade Commission
Report on Ethanol Market Concentration,
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(10)(B); July 14,
1955, ch. 360, title II, Sec. 211 (amended by
Public Law 109-58, Sec. 1501(a)(2)); (119 Stat.
1074); to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
3282. A letter from the Assistant Legal Ad-
viser, Office of Treaty Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting a report concerning
international agreements other than treaties
entered into by the United States to be
transmitted to the Congress within the
sixty-day period specified in the Case-Za-
blocki Act, pursuant to 1 U.S.C. 112b(a); Pub-
lic Law 92-403, Sec. 1(a) (as amended by Pub-
lic Law 108-458, Sec. 7121(b)); (118 Stat. 3807);
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
3283. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 01-20,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 62(a) of the Arms Export Control
Act; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
3284. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-175, ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 Budget
Support Clarification Temporary Amend-
ment Act of 2019’’, pursuant to Public Law
93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
3285. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-177, ‘‘Federal Worker Housing
Relief Extension Temporary Act of 2019’’,
pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1);
(87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
3286. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-176, ‘‘Community Harassment
Prevention Second Temporary Amendment
Act of 2019’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
3287. A letter from the Deputy Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s Semiannual Report to the Con-
gress for the reporting period April 1, 2019,
through September 30, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
3288. A letter from the Chairman, Federal
Maritime Commission, transmitting the
Commission’s Semiannual Report to Con-
gress for the period April 1, 2019, through,
September 30, 2019 and the Management Re-
port on Final Actions for the Six-Month Pe-
riod Ending September 30, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
3289. A letter from the Office of Public and
Congressional Affairs, Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service, transmitting the FY
2019 No FEAR Act report, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 2301 note; Public Law 107-174, 203(a)
(as amended by Public Law 109-435, Sec.
604(f)); (120 Stat. 3242); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
3290. A letter from the Treasurer, National
Gallery of Art, transmitting the Gallery’s
Inspector General Act of 1978 report for Fis-
cal Year 2019; to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
3291. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Trawl
Catcher Vessels in the Central Regulatory
Area of the Gulf of Alaska [Docket No.:
180831813-9170-02] (RIN: 0648-XY018) received
December 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
3292. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Caribbean,
Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic; 2019
Commercial Closure for Atlantic Migratory
Group Cobia [Docket No.: 181009921-8999-02]
(RIN: 0648-XS011) received December 9, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
3293. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Sablefish in the Cen-
tral Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alaska
[Docket No.: 180831813-9170-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG996) received December 9, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
3294. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Summer Flounder, Scup, Black Sea
Bass Fisheries; 2018 and Projected 2019 Scup
Specifications and Announcement of Final
2018 Summer Flounder and Black Sea Bass
Specifications; Correction [Docket No.:
170828822-70999-02] (RIN: 0648-XF669) received
December 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
3295. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic
Zone Off Alaska; Authorize Recreational
Quota Entity To Participate in the Halibut
IFQ Program [Docket No.: 161222999-8773-02]
(RIN: 0648-BG57) received December 9, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
3296. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule- Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mex-
ico, and South Atlantic; Reef Fish Fishery of
the Gulf of Mexico; Modifications to Indi-
vidual Fishing Quota Programs [Docket No.:
170413393-8487-02] (RIN: 0648-BG83) received
December 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 1620. A bill to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00130 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.043 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10257
December 12, 2019
amend the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act to reauthorize the Chesapeake Bay Pro-
gram (Rept. 116–338). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 2548. A bill to
modify eligibility requirements for certain
hazard mitigation assistance programs, and
for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–339, Pt. 1). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 4719. A bill to
amend the Federal share of the fishing safety
standards grants; with an amendment (Rept.
116–340). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. THOMPSON (MS): Committee on
Homeland Security. H.R. 3256. A bill to
amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
reauthorize and improve the Chemical Facil-
ity Anti-Terrorism Standards Program, and
for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–341, Pt. 1). Ordered to be printed.
Ms. JOHNSON (TX): Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology. H.R. 4704. A
bill to direct the Director of the National
Science Foundation to support multidisci-
plinary research on the science of suicide,
and to advance the knowledge and under-
standing of issues that may be associated
with several aspects of suicide including in-
trinsic and extrinsic factors related to areas
such as wellbeing, resilience, and vulner-
ability; with an amendment (Rept. 116–342).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ: Committee on Small
Business. H.R. 5065. A bill to amend the
Small Business Act to provide re-entry en-
trepreneurship counseling and training serv-
ices for formerly incarcerated individuals,
and for other purposes (Rept. 116–343). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ: Committee on Small
Business. H.R. 5078. A bill to amend the
Small Business Act to provide re-entry en-
trepreneurship counseling and training serv-
ices for incarcerated individuals, and for
other purposes (Rept. 116–344). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Financial Services dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 2548 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. MCGOVERN (for himself and
Ms. PRESSLEY):
H.R. 5406. A bill to provide grants to own-
ers of grandfamily housing, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Mr. WEBER
of Texas, Mr. CRENSHAW, and Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee):
H.R. 5407. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Defense to transfer certain property of the
Department of Defense to State and Federal
agencies for purposes of disaster-related
emergency preparedness, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. MEADOWS,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. HARRIS, Mr. VEASEY, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. LIPINSKI, and Ms. KAP-
TUR):
H.R. 5408. A bill to oppose violations of re-
ligious freedom in Ukraine by Russia and
armed groups commanded by Russia; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on the Judiciary, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CURTIS:
H.R. 5409. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code to provide tax credits for energy
storage technology, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. MASSIE (for himself, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. BIGGS, Mr. GOSAR, Mr.
SMUCKER, Mr. BUDD, Mr. WEBSTER of
Florida, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. MCCLIN-
TOCK, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. MEADOWS,
Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
AMASH, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr. ROY, and
Mr. GAETZ):
H.R. 5410. A bill to prohibit Federal inter-
ference with the interstate traffic of
unpasteurized milk and milk products that
are packaged for direct human consumption;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 5411. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to establish a
Task Force on Local Mental Health Needs,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. TITUS:
H.R. 5412. A bill to direct the National
Council on Disability to conduct a review of
the implementation of standards under the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 in
the travel, tourism, and hospitality indus-
tries; to the Committee on Education and
Labor, and in addition to the Committees on
Energy and Commerce, the Judiciary, and
Transportation and Infrastructure, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself and
Ms. BROWNLEY of California):
H.R. 5413. A bill to amend title 46, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of the
department in which the Coast Guard is op-
erating to prescribe additional regulations to
secure the safety of individuals and property
on board certain small passenger vessels, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself and
Mr. KHANNA):
H.R. 5414. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to re-
quire local educational agencies to imple-
ment a policy on allergy bullying in schools,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself and Ms.
SPEIER):
H.R. 5415. A bill to provide the Food and
Drug Administration with authority to con-
duct microbial sampling on concentrated
animal feeding operations as necessary to fa-
cilitate a foodborne illness outbreak inves-
tigation, determine the root cause of an out-
break of foodborne illness, or address other
public health needs; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself, Mr.
TONKO, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, and
Mrs. AXNE):
H.R. 5416. A bill to establish a National Cli-
mate Bank; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Financial Services, Ways and Means,
Agriculture, and Transportation and Infra-
structure, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself, Mr.
BYRNE, Mr. WALKER, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mr. GOODEN, Mr. GIBBS,
Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. HILL of Ar-
kansas, Mr. CLOUD, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr.
CRAWFORD, and Mr. BUDD):
H.R. 5417. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to add membership in a
significant transnational criminal organiza-
tion to the list of grounds of inadmissibility
and to prohibit the provision of material
support or resources to such organizations;
to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in
addition to the Committees on Foreign Af-
fairs, Rules, and Financial Services, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico (for herself, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr.
SABLAN, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Ms.
PLASKETT, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, and Mr.
SOTO):
H.R. 5418. A bill to require executive agen-
cies to reduce cost-sharing requirements for
certain grants with certain nonprofit organi-
zations 25 percent, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. HAALAND (for herself, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. LEE
of California, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. TLAIB, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. NADLER, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, and Mr. POCAN):
H.R. 5419. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to require payroll tax with-
holding on independent contractors of cer-
tain large businesses; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself
and Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 5420. A bill to establish the Pullman
National Historical Park in the State of Illi-
nois as a unit of the National Park System,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself,
Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. CLAY, Mr. SMITH of
Missouri, Mr. LONG, Mr. GRAVES of
Missouri, and Mr. CLEAVER):
H.R. 5421. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to list fentanyl-related sub-
stances as schedule I controlled substances;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida (for her-
self and Mr. LAHOOD):
H.R. 5422. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify certain rules ap-
plicable to qualified small issue manufac-
turing bonds, to expand certain exceptions to
the private activity bond rules for first-time
farmers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. NEGUSE (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
LYNCH, and Mr. SHERMAN):
H.R. 5423. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to authorize owners or opera-
tors of general aviation airports to impose
certain restrictions relating to noise, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00131 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.024 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10258 December 12, 2019
By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr. BISHOP
of Georgia, Mr. KHANNA, and Mr.
MCGOVERN):
H.R. 5424. A bill to protect funding for Uni-
versal Service Fund programs, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 5425. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to include court-ordered
receivership in the list of actions resulting
in a change of ownership of institutions of
higher education; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. SIRES:
H.R. 5426. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to conduct a study on the un-
safe use of electric scooters, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mrs.
BUSTOS):
H.R. 5427. A bill to modernize training pro-
grams at aviation maintenance technician
schools, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Mr.
WENSTRUP, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. SMITH
of New Jersey, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mrs.
WAGNER, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. LAHOOD,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. HARRIS, and Mr.
ABRAHAM):
H. Con. Res. 79. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of the Congress that as-
sisted suicide (sometimes referred to using
other terms) puts everyone, including those
most vulnerable, at risk of deadly harm; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. HAYES (for herself, Mrs. LEE
of Nevada, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. HIMES,
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. COURT-
NEY, Mr. PAYNE, and Mr. YOUNG):
H. Con. Res. 80. Concurrent resolution rec-
ognizing the need to improve physical access
to many federally funded facilities for all
people of the United States, particularly
people with disabilities; to the Committee on
Education and Labor, and in addition to the
Committees on the Judiciary, Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, Energy and Com-
merce, and Oversight and Reform, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Mr.
BEYER, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. CARSON
of Indiana, Mr. CASE, Mr. CASTEN of
Illinois, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. CORREA, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
ENGEL, Ms. GABBARD, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. HECK, Mr. HIGGINS
of New York, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. KILMER,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. MENG, Mr. NAD-
LER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. PANETTA,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. ROUDA,
Mr. RUSH, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia,
Ms. SHALALA, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. WELCH,
Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms. WILSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
PHILLIPS, Mr. TONKO, Mr. KEATING,
Mr. SOTO, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mrs. DINGELL, and Mr.
ESPAILLAT):
H. Res. 762. A resolution recognizing the
4th anniversary of the adoption of the inter-
national Paris Agreement on climate
change; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SERRANO (for himself, Mr.
NADLER, Ms. NORTON, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, and Mr. EVANS):
H. Res. 763. A resolution expressing support
for the development of a national strategic
plan to end deep poverty; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
151. The SPEAKER presented a memorial
of the Legislature of the State of New Jer-
sey, relative to Assembly Resolution No. 97,
urging the President and Congress of US to
enact H.R. 500 which prevents IRS from col-
lecting taxes on amount student loan for-
given for deceased veterans; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Ways and Means.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. MCGOVERN:
H.R. 5406.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I Section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. OLSON:
H.R. 5407.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
H.R. 5408.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. CURTIS:
H.R. 5409.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Sections 7 & 8 of Article I of the United
States Constitution and Amendment XVI of
the United States Constitution.
By Mr. MASSIE:
H.R. 5410.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Commerce Clause of the United States
Constitution gives Congress the power to
regulate commerce among the States, and
therefore grants Congress the power to pre-
vent federal agencies from interfering with
citizens’ ability to purchase, sell, or dis-
tribute unpasteurized milk across state
lines.
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 5411.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, sec. 8, cl. 1
By Ms. TITUS:
H.R. 5412.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. CARBAJAL:
H.R. 5413.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 5414.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3: gives Con-
gress the power ‘‘to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes.’’
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 5415.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8; U.S. Constitution
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 5416.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 5417.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 gives Congress the
power to regulate commerce with foreign na-
tions as well as other financial powers which
Congress has used to create the Department
of the Treasury. For immigration and travel
restrictions, Congress has had recognized
plenary power over immigration since the
Supreme Court 1889 Chae Chan Ping v.
United States case.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 5418.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
‘‘All legislative Power herein granted shall
be vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.’’
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S.
Constitution
Congress shall have the power . . . ‘‘To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 5419.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have power to lay and collect taxes, du-
ties, imposts and excises, to pay the debts
and provide for the common defense and gen-
eral welfare of the United States; but all du-
ties, imposts and excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois:
H.R. 5420.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution by
the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers
vested by this Constitution in the Govern-
ment of the United States or in any Depart-
ment or Officer thereof.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 5421.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Constitutional authority on which
this bill rests is the power of Congress to lay
and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and ex-
cises to pay the debts and provide for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00132 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L12DE7.100 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10259
December 12, 2019
common Defense and general welfare of the
United States, as enumerated in Article I,
Section 8, Clause 1. Thus, Congress has the
authority not only to increase taxes, but
also, to reduce taxes to promote the general
welfare of the United States of America and
her citizens. Additionally, Congress has the
Constitutional authority to regulate com-
merce among the States and with Indian
Tribes, as enumerated in Article I, Section 8,
Clause 3.
By Mrs. MURPHY of Florida:
H.R. 5422.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3, ‘‘To regulate
Commerce with foreign Nations, and among
the several States, and with the Indian
Tribes.’’ And Article I, Section 8, Clause 18,
‘‘To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into the Execution
the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers
vested by this Constitution in the Govern-
ment of the United States, or in any Depart-
ment of Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 5423.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. POCAN:
H.R. 5424.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 5425.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. SIRES:
H.R. 5426.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to clause 3(d)(1) of rule XIII of
the Rules of the House of Representatives,
the Committee finds the authority for this
legislation in article I, section 8 of the Con-
stitution.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 5427.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1, 3, and 18.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 218: Mr. HUIZENGA.
H.R. 587: Mr. AMODEI and Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 588: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 779: Mr. WRIGHT, Ms. FOXX of North
Carolina, and Mr. KELLER.
H.R. 921: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 961: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 1042: Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
MEEKS, and Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 1043: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 1049: Mr. VEASEY, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, and
Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 1154: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1173: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas and Mr.
TAYLOR.
H.R. 1223: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1367: Ms. SCHRIER and Mr. CASTEN of
Illinois.
H.R. 1380: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 1450: Ms. JAYAPAL and Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 1550: Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 1652: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 1661: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 1709: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER.
H.R. 1748: Mr. KIM and Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 1754: Mr. RUIZ, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. ROSE of
New York, and Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 1763: Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. DUNN, Mr.
CRAWFORD, Mr. PAPPAS, and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 1766: Mr. ARRINGTON.
H.R. 1973: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 1975: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr.
STAUBER, and Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 1978: Ms. MOORE, Mr. HECK, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr. ROSE of
New York.
H.R. 2013: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2096: Mr. CISNEROS and Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 2117: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 2214: Mrs. TORRES of California.
H.R. 2219: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 2416: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 2478: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 2573: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. WALTZ, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Mr. GUEST, and Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 2599: Mr. YARMUTH and Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 2616: Ms. BARRAGÁN and Ms. CLARKE of
New York.
H.R. 2711: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2748: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2777: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 2825: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2850: Ms. MENG and Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2881: Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
AMODEI, Mr. COSTA, and Mr. HURD of Texas.
H.R. 2986: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 2990: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
CLOUD, and Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana.
H.R. 3040: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 3077: Mr. COURTNEY and Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 3114: Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 3121: Ms. SÁNCHEZ and Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 3157: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3192: Ms. BASS and Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 3212: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 3235: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3266: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 3297: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 3316: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama and Mr.
RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 3373: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 3524: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 3598: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3623: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 3637: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 3689: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 3778: Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 3789: Mr. WOODALL.
H.R. 4046: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 4078: Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
YARMUTH, and Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 4211: Mr. HASTINGS and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 4248: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 4269: Mr. QUIGLEY and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 4307: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 4347: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 4368: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 4426: Mr. BEYER, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Mr. SCHIFF, and Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 4438: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 4448: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 4508: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 4516: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 4540: Mr. KHANNA, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
TRONE, Mrs. DAVIS of California, and Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 4681: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 4766: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana.
H.R. 4832: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4899: Mr. BERGMAN.
H.R. 4926: Ms. WILD and Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 4980: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 4995: Ms. NORTON and Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 5004: Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 5044: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 5053: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 5068: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 5104: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 5116: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH.
H.R. 5127: Ms. BROWNLEY of California and
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 5136: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois and Mr.
PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 5166: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 5170: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
COURTNEY, and Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 5172: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia,
Mr. MOOLENAAR, and Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 5176: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 5216: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 5231: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 5243: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 5267: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 5268: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 5272: Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 5306: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 5338: Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H. Con. Res. 52: Mr. CROW and Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia.
H. Con. Res. 71: Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. SIRES,
Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. TITUS, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. SOTO, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. RUTHER-
FORD, Ms. NORTON, Mr. SERRANO, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. MCNERNEY, and Ms.
MOORE.
H. Res. 672: Mr. BEYER.
H. Res. 727: Mr. TIPTON, Mr. COLE, Mr.
PHILLIPS, Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr. STEUBE, and Mr.
WRIGHT.
H. Res. 729: Mr. STAUBER.
H. Res. 742: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Mr.
HARDER of California.
H. Res. 744: Mr. SCALISE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00133 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE7.032 H12DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6999
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2019 No. 199
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Honorable CINDY
HYDE-SMITH, a Senator from the State
of Mississippi.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
God of grace and glory, on Your peo-
ple, shower Your blessings. Be for us a
shield and sure defense. Lord, as we
live in this tangled world, give us the
wisdom to keep our eyes on You.
Bless our Senators. Crown their de-
liberations with Your wisdom so that
Your purposes will prevail. Lord,
quicken in our lawmakers noble im-
pulses as You sanctify their efforts
with Your mercy and might.
Be merciful to us. Forgive our faults,
and remember that we are but dust,
like a wind that blows by and is gone.
Lord, keep us from stumbling or slip-
ping.
We pray in Your gracious Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the following letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, December 12, 2019.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable CINDY HYDE-SMITH, a
Senator from the State of Mississippi, to per-
form the duties of the Chair.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH thereupon as-
sumed the Chair as Acting President
pro tempore.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Morning business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senate will proceed to executive ses-
sion and resume consideration of the
following nomination, which the clerk
will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Aurelia
Skipwith, of Indiana, to be Director of
the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
SENATE LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I have spoken at length about the seri-
ous impact the Democrats’ impeach-
ment obsession has had on months’
worth of important legislative prior-
ities. For months, the Republicans
have been calling for bipartisan solu-
tions to the NDAA, to the appropria-
tions process, and more, but only in
the last couple of days, here in mid-De-
cember, have our Democratic col-
leagues gotten sufficiently serious
about these must-pass bills.
In the meantime, while we have wait-
ed on the House Democrats to act, the
Senate has made good use of our floor
time to complete the American peo-
ple’s business with respect to nomina-
tions. Last week alone, the Senate con-
firmed two executive branch nomina-
tions and put eight impressive jurists
in seats on Federal district courts.
This week, we have considered yet
another slate of the President’s well-
qualified nominees. The Senate will
consider today John Sullivan, of Mary-
land, to serve as Ambassador to the
Russian Federation, Stephen Hahn, of
Texas, to serve as Commissioner at the
Food and Drug Administration, and
Aurelia Skipwith, of Indiana, to be Di-
rector of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service.
Already this week, we have con-
firmed two more outstanding jurists to
the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Cir-
cuit—Patrick Bumatay, of California,
and Lawrence VanDyke, of Nevada. Mr.
Bumatay is a graduate of Yale and
Harvard Law School. He clerked for the
Eastern District of New York and the
Tenth Circuit, practiced in the private
sector, and served in a variety of roles
with the Department of Justice. Mr.
VanDyke graduated from Montana
State University and Harvard Law
School. His career has included a clerk-
ship with the DC Circuit, time as a
State solicitor general, and service as
Deputy Assistant Attorney General at
the Department of Justice. Both of
these jurists are well qualified, and
both have widespread respect from
legal peers. Now they are the 49th and
50th circuit judges to have been nomi-
nated by President Trump and con-
firmed by the Senate in the last 3
years.
As I have said before, these kinds of
milestones are emphatically not par-
tisan achievements. It is not one party
or the other that benefits when our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.000 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7000 December 12, 2019
Federal courts consist of men and
women who understand that a judge’s
job is to follow the law, not to make
the law. The entire country benefits
from that. Our constitutional system
benefits from that as well. If a judge’s
applying our laws and our Constitution
as they are written strikes anybody as
a threat to one’s particular agenda, it
is the agenda that needs to change, not
the judiciary the Framers intended.
On another matter, as I said, the
Democrats’ fixation with impeachment
has pushed critical governing priorities
right into the eleventh hour. Just yes-
terday, after months of delays and hos-
tage-taking, the House Democrats fi-
nally approved an NDAA conference re-
port. Next week, the Senate will pass it
and send this overdue legislation to
President Trump. Yet, of course, we
need to follow up Defense authoriza-
tion with Defense appropriations so
that we actually supply the funding
our servicemembers need to carry out
their missions and our commanders
need to plan for the future.
It is not just defense funding that has
been hampered by the Democrats’ im-
peachment obsession and reluctance to
do anything bipartisan. All Federal
funding has been jeopardized by the
House’s procrastination. That includes
critical domestic programs with impli-
cations for every one of our colleagues
and all of our constituents. Even
today, at this late date, the Demo-
cratic leadership is continuing to delay
a bipartisan agreement on appropria-
tions. Even now, at the eleventh hour,
the Democratic leadership is still
threatening to potentially tank the
whole process and force another con-
tinuing resolution.
Look, the story is the same as it has
been for months—partisan policy de-
mands, poison pills. It is exactly the
playbook the Speaker of the House and
the Democratic leader had explicitly
promised months ago, in writing, they
would not use in order to sabotage ap-
propriations.
Let me say that again. Last summer,
the Speaker of the House and the Sen-
ate Democratic leader explicitly prom-
ised in writing that they would not use
poison pills or changes to Presidential
transfer authorities to sabotage the ap-
propriations process. Yet, even in mid-
December, they are still using those
tactics to jeopardize all of our
progress.
It doesn’t have to end this way. I
know earnest discussions are still un-
derway as our colleagues in both
Chambers work to fix this. I urge the
Democratic leadership to let the com-
mittees do their work, to let the Con-
gress do its work, and to let us pass
legislation on a bipartisan basis next
week.
On a related matter, while we hold
out hope for a breakthrough in appro-
priations, we also know there has been
one major casualty of Speaker PELOSI’s
impeachment obsession—Congress’s
ability to pass the President’s USMCA
this year.
It was more than a year ago that
President Trump first signed the draft
agreement with the leaders of Canada
and Mexico—more than 12 months ago.
That is how long the House Democrats
have dragged their heels on the
USMCA and have kept 176,000 new
American jobs on ice. Now, at the elev-
enth hour, Speaker PELOSI has finally
realized it would be too cynical and too
nakedly partisan to allow her con-
ference’s impeachment obsession to
kill the USMCA entirely.
So after a year of obstruction, she fi-
nally gave in to Republican pressure
and struck a notional deal with the
White House. But actions have con-
sequences. That entire calendar year
that House Democrats wasted has con-
sequences. The Speaker’s action was so
belated that the administration is
still—still—in the process of writing
the actual bill. We don’t have a bill
yet. Once a bill is produced, the House
has to take it up first, and then, under
trade promotion authority that exists
to protect the deals Presidents nego-
tiate, after House passage, the bill
spends up to 15 session days in the Sen-
ate Finance Committee. After that,
there are up to 15 session days for the
Senate to vote on the floor.
So, unfortunately, the Speaker’s 12
months of delay have made it literally
impossible for the Senate to take up
the agreement this year. And if House
Democrats send us impeachment arti-
cles, those have to come first in Janu-
ary, so the USMCA will get pushed
back yet again.
Like I said, actions have con-
sequences. There is just no way the
Senate can make up for 12 months of
House Democratic delays in just a cou-
ple of days. Governing is a question of
priorities. Speaker PELOSI failed to
make this trade deal a priority for the
entire year, and we are now bound by
the time requirements of TPA to pro-
tect the agreement here in the Senate.
On one final matter, speaking of pri-
orities, listen to what the House Demo-
crats are prioritizing. Listen to what
they are doing today while all of this
crucial legislation goes unfinished:
more Judiciary Committee hearings on
impeaching the President and on the
floor, a vote on yet another far-left
messaging bill with literally no chance
of becoming law.
They are spending floor time on their
socialist scheme to micromanage
Americans’ prescription drugs and put
the Federal Government in charge of
the medicines so many people rely on.
The Speaker wants to take us down the
road of nationalizing an entire indus-
try and imposing Washington’s stifling
influence on the life sciences sector
that produces lifesaving cures—never
mind the fact that this far-left mes-
saging bill has zero chance of passing
the Senate and that President Trump
has already threatened to veto it.
We know by now that political per-
formance art takes precedence over bi-
partisan legislation where this Demo-
cratic House has been concerned. I
hope these stunts—stunts—come to an
end soon. I hope the House finds time
to finish negotiating the things we ac-
tually have to pass—the funding of the
government. I hope we can do that in
good faith. I hope our Democratic col-
leagues join Republicans at the table,
and let’s get the American people’s
business that must be done accom-
plished.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that the
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
CHINA
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Presi-
dent, this past Sunday, hundreds of
thousands of protesters filled the
streets of Hong Kong to remind Beijing
that totalitarianism will no longer go
unchallenged.
I was reading a New York Times arti-
cle about this protest when I came
across a particularly striking quote.
When asked why she had taken to the
streets, a 24-year-old biology re-
searcher named Alice said:
We want Hong Kong to continue being
Hong Kong. We don’t want to become like
China.
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent to have printed in the RECORD
this article on the Hong Kong human
rights protest, that appeared in the De-
cember 9 edition of the New York
Times and that depicts a beautiful pic-
ture of what people will do for the
cause of freedom.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the New York Times, Dec. 7, 2019]
HONG KONG PROTEST, LARGEST IN WEEKS,
STRETCHES SEVERAL MILES
(By Javier C. Hernández and Elaine Yu)
HONG KONG.—Hundreds of thousands of
protesters, basking in a recent election vic-
tory by Hong Kong’s pro-democracy camp,
poured onto the city’s streets on Sunday in
one of the largest marches in weeks to pres-
sure the government to meet demands for
greater civil liberties.
The huge turnout was a reminder to Chi-
na’s leader, Xi Jinping, that the monthslong
campaign against his authoritarian policies
still had broad support in Hong Kong despite
a weakening economy and increasingly vio-
lent clashes between protesters and the po-
lice.
Tensions in Hong Kong, a semiautonomous
territory, had eased somewhat in recent
days, after pro-democracy advocates won a
stunning victory in local elections two
weeks ago, giving new hope to the move-
ment.
On Sunday, demonstrators returned in
force, packing city streets to denounce Mr.
Xi’s government, rail against police bru-
tality and reiterate demands for greater civil
liberties, including universal suffrage. They
beat drums, sang protest anthems and
chanted, ‘‘Fight for freedom.’’ Though the
march was largely peaceful, some dem-
onstrators vandalized shops and restaurants
and lit a fire outside the high court.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.001 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7001
December 12, 2019
‘‘We want Hong Kong to continue being
Hong Kong,’’ said Alice Wong, 24, a biology
researcher who stood among protesters gath-
ered at Victoria Park. ‘‘We don’t want to be-
come like China.’’
As many as 800,000 people attended the
march, according to Civil Human Rights
Front, an advocacy group that organized the
gathering.
The mood at the march was relaxed, with
people taking selfies against a backdrop of
the vast crowds. Children, some dressed in
black, marched with their parents, holding
hands as they shouted, ‘‘Stand with Hong
Kong!’’
A sea of protesters, spread across several
miles, filled major thoroughfares as they
moved between towering skyscrapers. In
some areas, there were so many people that
the crowds moved at a snail’s pace and
spilled into adjacent alleys. Some small
businesses encouraged the turnout by prom-
ising giveaways if more than one million
people joined the march.
The protesters said they intended to re-
main peaceful on Sunday, but some vowed to
use more aggressive tactics if the police
cracked down. In the evening, the police
readied canisters of tear gas as they stood
opposite crowds of protesters who had barri-
caded a street downtown in a briefly tense
moment.
The large turnout could further embolden
the movement’s confrontational front-line
protesters, who said they planned to disrupt
the city’s roads and public transportation
system on Monday. The call for further ac-
tion seemed to resonate among some pro-
testers on Sunday.
‘‘If the government still refuses to ac-
knowledge our demands after today, we
should and will escalate our protests,’’ said
Tamara Wong, 33, an office worker who wore
a black mask as she stood among the crowd
gathered at Victoria Park.
The protesters have demanded amnesty for
activists who were arrested and accused of
rioting, as well as an independent investiga-
tion of police conduct during the demonstra-
tions.
Despite the show of strength on Sunday, it
is unlikely that the protesters will win fur-
ther concessions from Beijing, which has
worked to portray demonstrators as rioters
colluding with foreign governments to topple
the governing Communist Party.
Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a professor of polit-
ical science at Hong Kong Baptist Univer-
sity, said that even though Sunday’s march
showed the protest movement remained
strong and unified, Beijing was unlikely to
listen to its demands.
‘‘Hong Kong is condemned to live in a per-
manent political crisis as long as China is
ruled by the Communist Party,’’ Professor
Cabestan said.
Mr. Xi, who has cultivated an image as a
hard-line leader, has demanded ‘‘unswerving
efforts to stop and punish violent activities’’
in Hong Kong. He has publicly endorsed the
city’s beleaguered leader, Carrie Lam, and
her efforts to bring an end to the unrest.
Chinese officials have suggested that the
United States is responsible for helping fuel
unrest in Hong Kong, pointing to statements
by American officials in support of the pro-
tests. Last month, President Trump signed
tough legislation that authorizes sanctions
on Chinese and Hong Kong officials respon-
sible for rights abuses in Hong Kong. The
move was welcomed by many protesters but
also seen as exacerbating tensions between
the two countries.
In a possible sign of increased scrutiny of
American citizens working in Hong Kong,
two leaders of the American Chamber of
Commerce in Hong Kong said on Saturday
that they had been denied entry to Macau, a
semiautonomous Chinese city. Mr. Xi is ex-
pected to visit Macau this month to mark
the 20th anniversary of the former Por-
tuguese colony’s return to China.
Tara Joseph and Robert Grieves, the presi-
dent and the chairman of the American busi-
ness group, said they had planned to attend
an annual ball put on by the chamber’s
Macau branch.
‘‘We hope that this is just an overreaction
to current events and that international
business can constructively forge ahead,’’
Ms. Joseph said.
The protests, which began in June in oppo-
sition to a bill that would have allowed ex-
traditions to mainland China, have hurt the
tourism and retail sectors, pushing the city’s
economy into recession.
In recent weeks, the violence has esca-
lated, with protesters intensifying their ef-
forts to vandalize businesses they associate
with hostility to the movement. The police
shot an antigovernment protester last
month, inflaming tensions. Then, in some of
the worst violence, universities became bat-
tlefields, with black-clad students hurling
gasoline bombs, throwing bricks and aiming
arrows at the riot police, who shot rubber
bullets and fired tear gas in return.
Many demonstrators acknowledge that a
compromise with the government is un-
likely, despite recent victories. Mrs. Lam,
the city’s leader, who is under pressure from
Beijing to restore order without weakening
the government’s position, has brushed aside
their demands and has warned that the may-
hem could ‘‘take Hong Kong to the road of
ruin.’’
Government officials have cast the dem-
onstrations as primarily centered on eco-
nomic issues, arguing that vast inequality in
Hong Kong has exacerbated anger among the
city’s youth. They rolled out emergency
measures recently to counter the effects of
the turmoil on the economy, including pro-
viding electricity subsidies to businesses and
expanding job training for young people.
The authorities have justified their efforts
to crack down on the movement by saying
that protesters are endangering public safe-
ty. On Sunday, the police said they had
found a 9-millimeter semiautomatic pistol,
five magazines, 105 bullets and two ballistic
vests, as well as fireworks, among other
items, during a series of early morning raids.
Senior Superintendent Steve Li of the
Hong Kong Police said early in the day that
officers had received information that the
firearm and fireworks would have been used
on Sunday to create chaos.
The police have in recent months banned
many protests and rallies in Hong Kong, cit-
ing safety concerns. But the government
granted a rare approval for the march on
Sunday, which was held to mark the United
Nations’ Human Rights Day.
Demonstrators said they believed that the
turnout sent a strong message: The protest
movement would not back down.
‘‘If the government thinks that we will
give up,’’ said Adam Wong, 23, a university
student who was waving a black flag, ‘‘to-
day’s turnout will prove them delusional.’’
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Presi-
dent, Alice’s statement is loaded with
historical context and correctly im-
plies that what we are seeing now is
the culmination of a slow but sure vio-
lation of the laws and norms that once
defined Hong Kong’s semiautonomous
relationship with mainland China.
These protests erupted after what Bei-
jing argued was a simple proposed
change to existing extradition laws,
but the people saw it for what it was—
a thinly veiled threat to Hong Kong’s
relative autonomy. It wasn’t a take-
over. It was just that foot in the door,
and China is nearly unparalleled in its
ability to turn a foot in the door into
a permanent existing condition.
Sometimes their power plays are
very obvious, and sometimes they are
not. On my recent trip to Djibouti, I
saw firsthand the influence of China’s
debt-trap diplomacy.
Here is what debt-trap diplomacy is.
It is a fancy way of saying that China
has increased its influence around the
world by offering to struggling nations
that they are going to hold their debt
in exchange for preferential treatment
on trade or maybe a physical presence
such as a port or other sweetheart
deals.
In Djibouti City, I saw this tactic run
wild. Now China would say that what
they have done is to help the
Djiboutians create a ‘‘smart city’’ in
the Horn of Africa, but in reality they
have negotiated their way into cre-
ating a full-blown surveillance state.
Cameras are everywhere—on every
corner and every street, with 24/7 foot-
age—and guess where that footage
lands. Beijing. They have even tried to
point one of those cameras at our mili-
tary base, right at the entrance to
Camp Lemonnier.
Debt-trap diplomacy is bold. It is ob-
vious. If that is all you see of China, it
is easy to assume that all of their tac-
tics are that bold and obvious. As I
said, they will go after you in obvious
areas and also in areas that are not as
obvious.
Even domestically, China’s surveil-
lance state is notoriously the opposite
of covert. Their domestic ‘‘smart city’’
program has outpaced that of every
other country on the face of the Earth
and the majority of their $70-plus bil-
lion budget for that project has been
spent not on intelligent power grids or
traffic management systems or on
clean air or clean water, but it is being
spent on surveilling their own citizens.
The greatest danger China has cre-
ated by engaging in brash and at times
absurd surveillance and suppression is
that it has created a false sense of se-
curity here in the West when we don’t
see the evidence of what they are
doing. In the United States we are not
particularly vulnerable to their debt
trap, but we are vulnerable to less ob-
vious attempts to get that foot in the
door.
In some form or another, most Amer-
icans have allowed Big Tech to take
hold of a portion of their lives.
Smartphones and cloud storage once
were very novel, but now we assume
that even simple transactions come
predicated by an additional condition.
Everything is free as long as the app or
the service has access to—guess what—
your data. They want to own your vir-
tual you.
Popular apps like TikTok, whose par-
ent company is based in China, have
left me with more questions than an-
swers about the platform’s business
practices, privacy protections, and ide-
ological loyalty to the Communist
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.002 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7002 December 12, 2019
Party. Consider that the U.S. Army has
barred soldiers from using TikTok. Ev-
erybody needs to understand this. The
U.S. Army has said: You cannot use
TikTok. This very body has expressed
our concerns on a bipartisan basis with
the platform’s censorship and data
handling practices.
It is no wonder that TikTok’s chief
executive officer canceled this week’s
scheduled meetings here in DC with
Members of this body. The fact that
millions of Americans, especially our
American children, continue to offer
their personal data to TikTok is be-
yond disturbing, but we will not be
able to roll back the creeping surveil-
lance state without setting our own
standards for what is acceptable from
both foreign and domestic companies.
When I introduced the BROWSER
Act earlier this year, I did so not only
to give Big Tech solid guidelines re-
garding data privacy and content but
to set a new standard for what con-
sumers expect from Big Tech. Our
problem here in this country is pretty
much one of awareness and of under-
standing that the exact same philos-
ophy drives China’s surveillance pro-
grams and their less obvious but much
more personal individual monitoring
schemes—their surveillance state
scheme.
China’s Communist Party is after
more than just ad revenue and more
complete data sets. Their goal, as those
Hong Kong protesters put it, is to trick
other countries in becoming more like
China, which is not tilting toward free-
dom but tilting away from freedom.
My goal with the BROWSER Act and
with my focus on what has become the
surveillance state is to do the exact op-
posite—to enable freedom, to encour-
age freedom, not only here but around
the globe—and to make certain that
consumers here decide how much of
their data they want to be able to
share. We must make certain that we
continue to support the cause of free-
dom wherever human beings show up
to protect the freedoms they have.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF MINORITY LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Democratic leader is recog-
nized.
JERSEY CITY SHOOTING
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
learned yesterday that two of the inno-
cent victims in the shooting in Jersey
City earlier this week are from my
hometown, my home borough, the
great borough of Brooklyn—Moshe
Deutsch and Mindy Ferencz—and that
the kosher deli where they were all
killed in all likelihood was targeted as
part of a hate crime.
This morning, I stand in solidarity
with the Jewish communities of New
Jersey and New York as they confront
the anti-Semitic poison that motivated
that horrible attack, and I stand in
sorrow at the loss of innocent lives
from my community. May their mem-
ory be a blessing.
I also salute the great police officer,
as well, who fell in the line of duty try-
ing to apprehend these brutal thugs.
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, on
impeachment, the House Judiciary
Committee will continue today its
markup of Articles of Impeachment
against Donald Trump.
The articles charge that President
Trump abused the Office of the Presi-
dency by soliciting the interference of
a foreign power in our elections to ben-
efit himself personally. The articles
also charge him with obstruction of
justice in the investigation into those
matters.
Those articles were drafted after a
months-long investigation into the
President’s dealings with Ukraine,
which included scores of fact witnesses
and expert testimony. Throughout that
time, and still today, the White House
refuses to participate in the House
process. It has blocked key witnesses.
It has withheld relevant documents. It
has instructed members of the adminis-
tration to defy congressional sub-
poenas and not to testify. Those that
did testify did so bravely against the
wishes of the White House.
What is the President hiding? What
do these witnesses know? What do
these documents show?
Those are fair questions that every
American could ask and, because nei-
ther the President nor Republican Con-
gress Members have presented any ref-
utation of the facts in the impeach-
ment charges or any exculpatory evi-
dence other than grand conspiracy
theories, the American people have a
right to say the President must be hid-
ing something.
If there are documents or witnesses
the President believes could provide
exculpatory evidence, nothing is stop-
ping the witnesses from testifying and
the documents from being sent over,
except the President of the United
States, who in all likelihood is afraid
of what they show because they con-
firm and corroborate the lengthy fac-
tual basis that the House compiled to
come up with the Articles of Impeach-
ment. The fact that President Trump is
blocking witnesses from testifying and
blocking documents from release
means that, more likely than not,
those witnesses and documents do not
and cannot refute the charges against
the President.
When someone who might be guilty
of a crime says he doesn’t want wit-
nesses of the crime to come forward,
what do you think that means?
Why haven’t the President and his al-
lies presented exculpatory evidence—
evidence that says this is not true?
Why, instead, have they created these
bobbles, these objects far away, saying:
There is a conspiracy here. There is a
conspiracy there.
It is the old lawyer saying: When you
have the facts, argue the facts. When
you have the law, argue the law. When
you have neither, pound the table.
In this case, pounding the table
means coming up with diversionary
conspiratorial theories.
House Republicans, rather than
mount a vigorous defense of the Presi-
dent on the merits, have attacked the
process. If House Republicans could
focus on the merits, could find evi-
dence that said: No, this is not true;
that is not true; he did not try to influ-
ence Ukraine to help his campaign,
they would have presented it.
Why has no evidence been presented
directly refuting the core of the charge
against the President? Because there
probably isn’t any.
In the Senate we have several Mem-
bers who are swimming in the murky
waters of conspiracy to divert atten-
tion from the fact that they don’t have
the facts and the law on their side. The
only way they can defend the Presi-
dent’s comments is to come up with
crazy, out-of-line conspiracy theories
that are not based on any evidence.
Some Senate Republicans find it so
difficult to argue the President’s de-
fense on the facts that they resort to
fiction. For instance, in the past few
weeks, certain Republicans have actu-
ally helped spread disinformation in-
vented by Putin’s intelligence services.
He said that Ukraine, not Russia,
interfered in the election. No one be-
lieves it. There is no factual basis of it.
Of course, Putin would say he wants to
divert attention from Russia, but it is
amazing that Senators would traffic in
those theories, totally made up, not
one bit of fact. It is a low moment for
the Senate when their blind obeisance
to President Trump overshadows any
need to find truth and to defend rule of
law. That is not what a democracy is
about. That is the edges of dictator-
ship.
Chairman GRAHAM conducted an en-
tire hearing yesterday to give public
viewing to the now completely de-
bunked conspiracy theory that the FBI
investigation into the Trump campaign
began with political motives. Inspector
General Horowitz, to his credit, stuck
to the findings in the report. He found
no evidence of bias. So Senator
GRAHAM, as he tends to do these days,
put on a big show, a lot of ranting, a
lot of raving—no refutation of the fact
of what the IG found.
So it is just like Ukraine where cer-
tain Members are so unable to defend
what the President did with Ukraine,
they latch on to Russian propaganda,
or they come up with these histrionics,
again, to try to divert attention, a
shiny object to take the American peo-
ple’s attention away from the wrong-
doing that the House is accusing him
of. In fact, the deputy counsel of the
FBI actually said that the department
‘‘would be derelict in its responsi-
bility’’ if it did not open an investiga-
tion into Trump. She is not a political
person. She is a law enforcement offi-
cer.
If you think President Trump is
above the law, go right ahead, but that
is not what George Washington or Ben-
jamin Franklin or Thompson Jefferson
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.004 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7003
December 12, 2019
or Alexander Hamilton thought this
Nation was about; that is not what
generations of Americans who fought
and died for our country thought it was
about. We have reached a low moment
in American history and a very low
moment for the Republican Party now
that it has been taken over by Donald
Trump. This is not the Republican
Party of the last 150 years.
All of this is a backdrop to the im-
pending trial of President Trump,
where two lines of argument may be
presented in a court of impeachment.
One line of argument—accusations
against the President—has relied on
facts, public record, and the sworn tes-
timony of dozens of officials with
knowledge of the events. The other line
of argument—the defense of the Presi-
dent—has so far relied on conspiracy,
innuendo, hyperventilation about the
process, with no refutation of the spe-
cific facts that the House has found.
The American people will be savvy
enough over the next several months to
tell the difference.
TAX REFORM
Madam President, now, on taxes, this
month marks 2 years since President
Trump and the congressional Repub-
licans passed a trillion-dollar tax cut
for large corporations and the richest
Americans. Republicans make many
promises to sell this legislation as a
boom for jobs and middle class. They
were outlandish at the time, and now,
recent history has proven them even
crazier. Two years later, these phony
promises have not come close to living
up to their billing.
President Trump promised the tax
bill would benefit middle-class Amer-
ica, creating a $4,000 raise for every
American family. No way. Ask the av-
erage American family. The rich Amer-
icans will say yes. The top 1 percent
will say yes, but, of course, they re-
ceived a tax cut 64 times the size of the
one given to the middle class. Presi-
dent Trump and Republicans promised
the bill would prompt businesses to in-
crease investments into their compa-
nies, leading to job growth and higher
wages. This, too, has proved a fantasy.
Less than 5 percent of all workers in
America were ultimately promised pay
increases or bonuses as a result of the
tax cut.
Out of 5.9 million employers, only 413
announced bonuses to workers or wage
hikes. Do you want to know where the
lion’s share of that Republican tax cut
went? Shareholders, not workers. In
the 2 years since the tax bill, the an-
nual total of corporate stock buybacks
have shattered records over $1 trillion
in 2018.
It is impossible to look at the last 2
years with a straight face and say that
the Republican tax cut was designed or
is helping middle-class families. If any-
thing, the Republican tax bill exacer-
bated the already staggering inequal-
ities of work and wealth in our coun-
try. We need to start moving the nee-
dle in a completely opposite direction.
Next year, voters will have a chance to
make that happen by voting for a
change in the Senate leadership.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
NOMINATION OF LAWRENCE VANDYKE
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, the
Republican majority leader was on the
floor a little earlier, and he talked
about the business of the Senate and
how busy we are in the Senate. I would
like to state for the record, so far in
the calendar year 2019, on the floor of
this U.S. Senate, where the greatest
deliberative body meets and considers
the lofty issues of our time, in the year
2019—currently this year—we have con-
sidered 22 amendments in the entire
year—22 amendments.
Madam President, six of them were
offered by the junior Senator from
Kentucky. One Senator had six amend-
ments: Senator RAND PAUL. They were
all defeated. Then some 16 other
amendments were offered.
To put that into perspective, on a
good day in the Senate, when the Sen-
ate was the Senate, there would be 10
amendments; bills would come to the
floor; we would debate; amendments
would be adopted. Some would lose.
People would give speeches. We would
pass legislation, send it over to the
House, go to a conference. We don’t do
that anymore.
Under Senator MCCONNELL, the Re-
publican leader of the Senate, we do
not do that anymore. There were 22
amendments in the course of the entire
year. If we were paid for the actual
piecework that we do, we would not get
a paycheck this year because we
haven’t done anything.
I will take that back. What we have
done is to fill as many Federal court
vacancies as possible with some of the
most unqualified people ever offered by
a President of the United States. This
week, a man named VanDyke is being
named to the court in Nevada. He has
such a limited connection with Nevada
that both Nevada Senators refuse to
approve him for this court appoint-
ment. He has no connection to their
State, but he was chosen by the White
House.
He went through a background check
by the American Bar Association, and
they concluded unanimously that he
was unqualified to be a Federal judge—
unqualified. He is not the first. Under
this President, we have had nine dif-
ferent court nominees found unquali-
fied by the American Bar Association.
You say, Well, that is going to happen,
lawyers disagree.
Do you know how many were found
unqualified under the Obama adminis-
tration in 8 years? None, not one.
There are nine unqualified men and
women now with lifetime appointments
on the Federal bench because, for Sen-
ator MCCONNELL, that is his priority:
Fill the bench with people of his polit-
ical stripe at any cost.
Take up legislation? No. The Demo-
cratically-controlled House of Rep-
resentatives has sent us over 200 dif-
ferent measures to consider on the
floor of the Senate. Senator MCCON-
NELL has refused. He will not take up
any legislation. He is very proud of it.
To his credit, he is not ashamed or em-
barrassed. He says to call himself the
Grim Reaper when it comes to meas-
ures coming over from the House. He is
here to kill them, and he has done a
pretty good job of that, if that is his
goal in what he wants to achieve. When
I hear him come to the floor and say
we are not doing enough in the Sen-
ate—22 amendments in 1 year. I say to
Senator MCCONNELL, you have been in
the Senate for a long time. You know
that that number tells the whole story.
FOR-PROFIT COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
Madam President, it is the holiday
season, and many families are gath-
ering at special meals, giving gifts,
with a lot of fond memories, but in-
stead of celebrating, hundreds of thou-
sands of people across America who
have been defrauded by for-profit col-
leges and universities are just trying to
get by. There will not be many pre-
sents that they will be able to give or
probably receive. They have been wait-
ing day in and day out for one person
to make a decision. Her name is Betsy
DeVos. She is the Secretary of Edu-
cation. She can provide them relief
from their federal student loans that
they desperately need, but she refuses
to do it.
After being lured with false promises,
these people I am talking about ended
up in programs at for-profit colleges
and universities. Who were the for-
profits? See if these names ring a bell:
Corinthian, ITT Tech, Westwood,
DeVry, University of Phoenix, Dream
Center. These are for-profit colleges
and universities, and these student bor-
rowers were left with mountains of
debt, worthless credits, and diplomas
that employers laugh at when it was
all said and done. Now, Secretary
DeVos refuses to provide these stu-
dents with relief from their student
loan debt to which they are entitled
under the borrower defense provision of
the Higher Education Act.
Take Rachel from Missouri who at-
tended Corinthian’s Everest College.
She says, ‘‘I am not able to buy my
children clothes or shoes.’’
Pamela from South Carolina owes
$140,000 after attending the corrupt ITT
Tech for-profit school. Here is what she
says: ‘‘I have an autistic daughter that
depends on me, and I can’t afford to get
a decent place to live or buy the things
she needs.’’ Is that any surprise with
$140,000 in debt from one of these cor-
rupt for-profit colleges?
Jennifer, who attended the Illinois
Institute of Art—not to be mixed up
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.006 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7004 December 12, 2019
with the Illinois Art Institute, a rep-
utable institution—but the Illinois In-
stitute of Art where she attended, she
owes $67,800 in Federal student loans,
and she says, ‘‘The stress and anxiety
of working 3 jobs to make a living to
pay off these loans, feed my kids, and
keep a roof over my head, is exhaust-
ing.’’
For borrowers like Rachel, Pamela,
and Jennifer, Secretary DeVos might
as well be Secretary Scrooge this holi-
day season. She continues to deny
them a fresh start. She continues to
refuse to apply the borrowed defense
provision which would allow the dis-
charge of their federal student debt.
More than 200,000 borrowers find them-
selves in similar positions, while Sec-
retary DeVos lets claims back up at
the Department. She has failed to ap-
prove a single claim in more than a
year, not one for all these hundreds of
thousands of students facing this
fraudulent debt.
Why we should give them a break?
Why should they have any forgiveness
for student debt? Let me tell you why.
It is because it starts with the U.S.
Federal Government Department of
Education recognizing the accredita-
tion of these institutions—these worth-
less institutions. That accreditation
says to students applying there: This is
a real college.
Well, it turns out that they weren’t
real colleges and universities. But they
were real when it came to costs. Some
of the most expensive places to attend
higher education in America are these
for-profit colleges and universities.
What kind of record do they have?
Well, consider this: just nine percent of
all postsecondary students in America
go to these for-profit colleges and uni-
versities—nine percent. This will be on
the final, for the students who are lis-
tening. Nine percent go to for-profit
colleges and universities. Thirty-three
percent of all the federal student loan
defaults are from students at for-profit
colleges and universities. What does
that tell you? Well, if I go to one of
these schools, I am going to rack up a
lot of debt. Maybe I will not be able to
find a job; maybe I will not even be
able to finish school; and then I learn
my credits aren’t even transferable
from a for-profit school to a real col-
lege or university.
It all started with the U.S. Federal
Government recognizing the accredita-
tion of these schools, saying ‘‘These
are real schools,’’ with the students de-
pending on that accreditation. Then
they backed it up, saying: Oh, inciden-
tally, you can borrow money from the
Federal Government to go to these real
schools. Then, when these schools went
bankrupt, when they defrauded every-
one in sight, when they were sued by
the State attorneys general and other
federal agencies, when it turned out
they were big frauds and the students
saw the schools crumble in front of
them, the students ended up with the
debt.
We say, under the law, that the Fed-
eral Government has some responsi-
bility. We should have done a better
job of overseeing these schools.
That isn’t the way Secretary DeVos
sees it. As far as she is concerned,
these kids are on their own. They are
not kids anymore. They have been
hanging on to their student debt for so
long, they don’t know which way to
turn.
Despite Secretary DeVos’s excuses,
the reality is that nothing is legally
preventing her from providing bor-
rower defense discharges to these stu-
dents for the loans they took out at
these for-profit colleges and univer-
sities. She could do it tomorrow. She
could clear the backlog quickly, if she
wanted to.
We know using her legal authority to
provide relief to defrauded borrowers
gives her ‘‘extreme displeasure’’. We
know that because she wrote that in an
order she issued for the Department.
She was extremely displeased to dis-
charge the student loans of these stu-
dents who had been defrauded by for-
profit schools.
Well, I am not surprised. She sur-
rounded herself at the Department of
Education with people from that indus-
try who believe that the industry has
done no wrong. We know better.
We also know from her previous
statements that Secretary DeVos
thinks many borrowers got some value
from their experience, even though
they were defrauded into massive debt.
She thinks these borrowers are just
after ‘‘free money,’’ and they don’t de-
serve a full discharge.
Yesterday, National Public Radio re-
leased a series of internal Department
memos showing that the facts don’t
back up Secretary DeVos’s claims.
Back in 2017, the Department staff
concluded that ‘‘the value of an ITT
[Tech] education—like Corinthian—is
likely either negligible or non-
existent.’’
This was a school whose accredita-
tion was recognized by our Federal
Government, Secretary DeVos, and it
has turned out to be worthless. The
memo went on to conclude, ‘‘Accord-
ingly, it is appropriate, for the Depart-
ment to award eligible borrowers full
relief.’’ I agree. It is reasonable for the
Department of Education to try to
make amends for this miserable failure
of oversight of these schools and to
give these student borrowers a chance.
Nonetheless, this week, Secretary
DeVos announced a new scheme to use
something called gainful employment
earnings data to deny defrauded stu-
dent borrowers full discharges. Remem-
ber, that the gainful employment rule
was meant to ensure that programs
were actually preparing students for
jobs after graduation. But Secretary
DeVos delayed and then eliminated the
rule. Now, instead of using gainful em-
ployment data to hold poor-performing
programs accountable, she wants to
use it to punish defrauded student bor-
rowers. She has already tried it once,
only to be told by a Federal judge that
what she did was illegal.
While it is unclear if this slightly
tweaked version of the scheme will
pass legal muster, the result for the
borrowers would be the same: ultimate
denial in terms of full relief from their
student loans from miserable for-profit
schools.
Not only is Secretary DeVos delaying
and denying relief for previously de-
frauded borrowers, she is rewriting the
rules to make it almost impossible for
future defrauded borrowers to get re-
lief. She continues to recognize the ac-
creditation of these unworthy institu-
tions. She continues to say to the
United States and the world: These are
perfectly good schools. Then, when it
turns out they are perfectly awful, she
wants to accept no responsibility.
She released a new version of the bor-
rower defense rule just a few months
ago that places unreasonable burdens
on borrowers, way beyond their capac-
ity to detect the fraud being per-
petrated at the time. The net result is
this: According to The Institute for
College Access and Success, the new
DeVos rule will cancel just 3 percent of
all loans associated with misconduct.
She is going to cancel 3 percent.
In September, I introduced a resolu-
tion in the Senate to overturn the
DeVos borrower defense rule. Forty-
two of my colleagues have joined me. I
plan to bring it to a vote on the Senate
floor, where it needs a simple majority
to pass.
Just this week, 57 student, veteran,
and consumer organizations released a
letter supporting the resolution. I ask
unanimous consent that it be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DECEMBER 9, 2019.
SENATOR DICK DURBIN,
Washington, DC.
REPRESENTATIVE SUSIE LEE,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR DURBIN AND REPRESENTA-
TIVE LEE: As 57 organizations representing
and advocating for students, families, tax-
payers, veterans and service members, fac-
ulty and staff, civil rights and consumers, we
write in support of your efforts to disapprove
the 2019 Borrower Defense to Repayment rule
pursuant to the Congressional Review Act.
The purpose of the borrower defense rule as
defined by the Higher Education Act is to
protect students and taxpayers from fraud,
deception, and other illegal misconduct by
unscrupulous colleges. A well-designed rule
will both provide relief to students who have
been lied to and cheated, and deter illegal
conduct by colleges.
However, the final rule issued by the De-
partment of Education on September 23, 2019,
would accomplish neither of these goals. An
analysis of the Department’s own calcula-
tions estimates that only 3 percent of the
loans that result from school misconduct
would be cancelled under the new rule.
Schools would be held accountable for reim-
bursing taxpayers for just 1 percent of these
loans.
The DeVos Borrower Defense rule issued in
September imposes unreasonable time limits
on student borrowers who have been deceived
and misled by their schools. It requires ap-
plicants to meet thresholds that make it al-
most impossible for wronged borrowers to
obtain loan cancellation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.007 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7005
December 12, 2019
The rule eliminates the ability of groups of
borrowers to be granted relief, even in cases
where there is substantial compelling evi-
dence of widespread wrongdoing. It prohibits
the filing of claims after three years even
when evidence of wrongdoing emerges at a
later date. It requires borrowers to prove
schools intended to deceive them or acted
recklessly, although students have no ability
to access evidence that might show this in-
tent. And the rule stipulates that student
loans taken by students under false pre-
tenses are insufficient evidence of financial
harm to allow the loans to be cancelled.
Additionally, the 2019 rule eliminates the
promise of automatic loan relief to eligible
students whose school closed before they
could graduate. Instead, the Department
would force each eligible student impacted
by a school closure to individually find out
about their statutory right to relief, apply,
and navigate the government’s bureaucracy
to have their loans cancelled.
Many of us wrote to the Department in Au-
gust 2018 in response to the notice of pro-
posed rulemaking and offered carefully con-
sidered recommendations. However, the De-
partment rejected our recommendations
that would have provided a fair process that
protects students and taxpayer dollars. In-
stead, the new rule would do little to provide
relief to students who have been lied to, and
even less to dissuade colleges from system-
atically engaging in deceptive and illegal re-
cruitment tactics. Moreover, a borrower de-
fense rule that fails to adequately protect
students harms the most vulnerable stu-
dents, including first-generation college stu-
dents, Black and Latino students, and mili-
tary-connected students, who are targeted
by and disproportionately enroll in preda-
tory for-profit colleges.
Meanwhile, the Department refuses to take
action on a massive backlog of over 200,000
pending borrower defense claims, having
failed to approve or deny a single claim in
over a year. We fully support your effort to
repeal the 2019 borrower defense rule, and
look forward to restoration of the 2016 rule,
which took major steps to provide a path to
loan forgiveness for the hundreds of thou-
sands of students who attended schools
where misconduct has already been well doc-
umented.
Signed,
AFL–CIO, AFSCME, Allied Progress,
American Association of University Profes-
sors, American Federation of Teachers,
Americans for Financial Reform, Associa-
tion of Young Americans (AYA), Campaign
for America’s Future, Center for Public In-
terest Law, Center for Responsible Lending,
Children’s Advocacy Institute, CLASP,
Clearinghouse on Women’s Issues, Consumer
Action, Consumer Advocacy and Protection
Society (CAPS) at Berkeley Law.
Consumer Federation of America, Con-
sumer Federation of California, Demos,
Duke Consumer Rights Project, East Bay
Community Law Center, Economic Mobility
Pathways (EMPath), The Education Trust,
Empire Justice Center, Feminist Majority
Foundation, Government Accountability
Project, Higher Education Loan Coalition
(HELC), Hildreth Institute, Housing and Eco-
nomic Rights Advocates, The Institute for
College Access & Success (TICAS), Maryland
Consumer Rights Coalition.
NAACP, National Association for College
Admission Counseling, National Association
of Consumer Advocates, National Associa-
tion of Consumer Bankruptcy Attorneys
(NACBA), National Consumer Law Center
(on behalf of its low-income clients), Na-
tional Education Association, National
Urban League, New America Higher Edu-
cation Program, New Jersey Citizen Action,
One Wisconsin Now, PHENOM (Public Higher
Education Network of Massachusetts),
Project on Predatory Student Lending, Pub-
lic Citizen, Public Counsel, Public Good Law
Center.
Public Law Center, Service Employees
International Union (SEIU), Southeast Asia
Resource Action Center (SEARAC), Student
Debt Crisis, Student Defense, Student Vet-
erans of America, Third Way, U.S. Public In-
terest Research Group (PIRG), UnidosUS,
Veterans Education Success, Veterans for
Common Sense, Young Invincibles.
Mr. DURBIN. Among the organiza-
tions supporting the resolution are the
American Federation of Teachers, the
Center for Responsible Lending, the
Consumer Federation of America, the
Education Trust, the National Associa-
tion of College Admission Counseling,
the NAACP, the National Education
Association, the Student Veterans of
America, and the American Legion on
behalf of American veterans who have
been victims of this fraud as well.
When our resolution comes to the
floor, I hope a handful of my Repub-
lican colleagues will take a look at it
and realize that we have to give these
students a second chance at their lives.
We misled them into attending for-
profit schools that were worthless. The
schools defrauded them. They ended up
with a debt to our government, and
under the provisions of the Higher Edu-
cation Act, that debt can be forgiven.
Let’s give these defrauded student bor-
rowers a second chance. Ultimately,
they deserve an opportunity from our
government to have a better holiday
coming before them and a better life
ahead.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The Senator from
Ohio.
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA TRADE
AGREEMENT
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I have
come to the Senate floor several times
over the past year to talk about the
importance of passing the U.S.-Mexico-
Canada Agreement. This is the suc-
cessor agreement to the 25-year-old
NAFTA accord.
Yes, it has been a year; in fact, it has
been over a year since that agreement
was negotiated between Canada and
Mexico, and then Congress was meant
to take it up. It has been too long.
However, I am happy to report today
that now we are at the end of that long
process. I am told that the legislation
is actually going to be voted on in the
House of Representatives probably next
week and then here in the U.S. Senate
right after the holidays.
We will have a chance, finally, to
pass this agreement that is so good for
the farmers, for the workers, for the
manufacturers, and for the small busi-
nesses that I represent.
I am really pleased that the Presi-
dent of the United States and his chief
trade negotiator, Bob Lighthizer, had
the persistence to get this done. I am
not sure I would have had the same pa-
tience.
I also want to congratulate House
Speaker NANCY PELOSI for making the
decision to move forward with it. This
is one of these situations in which,
under our law, the agreement has to be
voted on first by the House. So the
Speaker of the House had an unusual
role here, where it couldn’t go forward
without her approval. Again, finally,
we are there.
The agreement, which was negotiated
over a year ago and languished—spe-
cific language was sent up here in May
of last year—is pretty much the same.
About 99 percent of it is the same
agreement. It is a good agreement be-
cause it opens up more markets for us.
What has changed is there are new pro-
visions, different provisions, as it re-
lates to enforcing the labor standards
that are already in the agreement.
In the agreement, what Mexico and
Canada were asked to do, in addition to
the United States, in terms of higher
labor standards, was negotiated over a
year ago, but what has happened over,
really, the past several months is now
there is a mechanism to enforce it that
is a little different.
I think it will make it easier to en-
force potential violations of the agree-
ment we have reached, particularly
with regard to Mexico. It doesn’t really
come back against the United States at
all. We can explain this in more detail
as we see the exact language that is
coming up in the next couple of days.
The bottom line is, for a U.S. com-
pany, the labor standards that are es-
tablished are the ones we already have
in our law. For Mexico or Canada to
file an objection to us potentially not
following that agreement is simply
after there has been a U.S. law proc-
essed, which would involve the Na-
tional Labor Relations Board and our
existing law, so it really shouldn’t af-
fect us at all.
By the way, Secretary Scalia, who is
the Secretary of Labor, was very in-
volved in ensuring that it wouldn’t
come back on U.S. companies, on U.S.
workers, and on our economy.
At the end of the day, although it
took way too long to get there, we
have ended up with a very good re-
sult—an agreement that does expand
trade, and that is the whole idea.
We have talked a lot on the floor as
to why this is so important. I will tell
you, in my home State of Ohio, we send
more than half of our exports to two
countries, Canada and Mexico. By far,
the No. 1 trading partner is Mexico,
and No. 2 is Canada.
This is really important because
these jobs are really important. It is
about $28 billion a year. These are jobs
that pay higher wages and better bene-
fits—export jobs. For our farmers, this
is really important. For manufacturers
and workers, it is really important be-
cause this lets them be able to do what
we do best, which is efficiently and pro-
ductively make things and produce
things that could be sold to other mar-
kets.
Remember, in America, we are only
about 5 percent of the global econ-
omy—five percent of the people—so our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.001 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7006 December 12, 2019
population is only about 5 percent, but
we are about 25 percent of the GDP of
the world. We are a relatively small
country by population, but we have
this big economy. To access that 95
percent of consumers outside of Amer-
ica to sell our products is absolutely
essential to our prosperity here, to our
jobs here.
As I mentioned earlier, those export
jobs tend to be better jobs and higher
paying jobs with better benefits.
What does this agreement do? First
of all, it creates a bunch of new jobs.
This chart has 176,000-plus new jobs.
That is because the International
Trade Commission—which is the inde-
pendent body that analyzes these
things—gave us a range. The GDP in-
creased. It increased our economy. The
number of jobs is huge, by the way—
greater than any other trade agree-
ment we have entered into, greater on
the economic growth side than the
Trans-Pacific Partnership that many
of my colleagues on the other side of
the aisle thought was something we
should have entered into and was so
important. This is even bigger.
Obviously, it is so big because Can-
ada and Mexico are such big trading
partners with us. So even relatively
small changes to open up new markets
have a big impact. These are going to
be welcome jobs and, again, higher pay-
ing jobs.
Second, it really helps us with regard
to online sales. One of our advantages
as a country is we do a lot of commerce
over the internet. When the original
NAFTA agreement was written and
was currently enforced—the status
quo—there really were not any signifi-
cant online sales—virtually none. So
there were no provisions in there.
Every modern trade agreement has
provisions for online sales or for sales
over the internet. Now we have them
with regard to Mexico and Canada,
which we would not have had under the
old NAFTA. So that is a big improve-
ment. For Ohio, that is a lot of small
companies because entrepreneurs—
some of these new startups are online
companies—really like these provi-
sions.
By the way, it says a number of
things. It says you can’t require local-
ization of data. In other words, Canada
and Mexico can’t say: Hey, you have to
have your servers in our country if you
are going to do business with us. That
is really important to our American
online industry.
Second, it says that you can’t put
tariffs on data online. Again, it is very
important to establish that, not just
for Canada and Mexico but as a prece-
dent for other trade agreements going
forward.
Third, it actually raises the de mini-
mis level. In other words, to apply cus-
toms duties on stuff going to Canada
and Mexico, they have a very low level.
We have a relatively high level here.
That level has increased for Canada
and Mexico. That is an administrative
burden that is lifted off of a lot of these
small businesses but also a costsaver
because they don’t have to pay cus-
toms duty on a relatively small prod-
uct that goes to another country.
These are all good things for Amer-
ican jobs. Again, we have a compara-
tive advantage here because we do a lot
of online sales.
Third is more U.S.-made steel and
auto parts. This is really important to
Ohio but also to our country. Manufac-
turing is now finally on the upswing.
Manufacturing jobs are actually in-
creasing in this country for the first
time in years, and we are getting back
on our feet in terms of what has always
made America great, which is that we
produce things; we make things. So
this agreement helps.
It says, as an example, that 70 per-
cent of the steel that goes into auto-
mobiles—and the automobile industry
is a big deal for Canada and Mexico and
the United States—has to be from
North America. That helps U.S. steel
mills and steel mills in Ohio, as op-
posed to steel coming in from China,
for example, from Brazil, and from
other countries.
Second, it changes the rules of ori-
gin—how much stuff can go into an
automobile that comes from other
countries. It is 621⁄2 percent now, and it
would take it up to 75 percent in this
agreement. That is the highest level of
any agreement we have with anybody.
Why is that important? Well, think
about it. We have agreed with Canada
and Mexico that we are going to have
this agreement that lowers the tariffs
in all these countries and lowers the
trade barriers generally. In other
words, it gives them an advantage in
our market. We get an advantage in
their market. That is the idea. If you
don’t have a rule of origin where you
say stuff can’t come in from other
countries and take advantage of that,
then you have basically free riders.
As an example, China can send a
bunch of their auto parts to Mexico
and produce a car that is a Mexican car
that therefore gets the benefit of the
NAFTA agreement. China has not
opened its market at all; it has only
provided this product to Mexico. But
then the product gets the advantage of
the lower tariffs and lower trade bar-
riers generally. That is not fair. Rais-
ing it from 621⁄2 percent to 75 percent is
really significant. Again, it is the high-
est number of any trade agreement we
have, and it avoids this problem.
Some of us say: Gee, that sounds pro-
tectionist. I don’t think it is. I think
what it says to China, Japan, Brazil, or
other countries is that if you want to
get the advantage of the U.S. market
that Canada and Mexico are getting
and that we get reciprocally from
them, then enter into a trade agree-
ment with us.
Let’s have more trade agreements.
Let’s lower the barriers for everybody.
That actually will expand trade. But
we ought not to allow them to do it
without that. This is a big deal.
It also is true that in this agreement,
there is something unprecedented with
regard to leveling the playing field. Re-
member, a basic concept of our trade
laws is that you want to have a bal-
anced trade law where you have im-
ports and exports because that makes
sense—keeps consumer prices down and
allows us to have good jobs here—but
you want it to be reciprocal and bal-
anced. You don’t want to have a situa-
tion where a country, because of its
low wage rates and lack of labor stand-
ards or lack of environmental stand-
ards, where it is polluting a lot, can
take advantage by having lower cost
goods coming into America.
In this agreement, we do say that
there is a minimum wage for between
40 and 45 percent of the auto produc-
tion. It is $16 an hour. That will end up
benefiting us because wages are rel-
atively higher in America and Canada
than they are in Mexico. That will be
good for auto jobs here and help to
level the playing field. This is why you
might have seen that some of the labor
unions are supporting this agreement
and some of the U.S. manufacturers are
supporting this agreement. They have
a lot of facilities here in America, and
they like that part of it as well.
There are new markets for farmers. I
mean, this is kind of a no-brainer that
has made it, for me, frustrating over
the last year because we haven’t been
able to move forward on this agree-
ment while farmers have really been
suffering because of a few different
things.
One is weather. We have had some
lousy weather, particularly in my
State and across the Midwest, where it
is too wet to plant and too dry for the
crops to grow properly for a harvest,
and that has hit us hard. We couldn’t
plant in Ohio in a number of cases this
last year because of the weather being
too wet, and so farmers have been hit
by that.
The second is that prices have been
relatively low—not just recently but
really over the last several years for
different commodities such as corn,
soybeans, and wheat. Part of that is be-
cause of the global markets.
Part of it is because of the third
issue, which is China. Because of our
ongoing negotiation with China and
disputes with China over what they are
doing on intellectual property, stealing
our technology, and other issues, they
have bought less of our farm products.
For Ohio, as an example, our No. 1
market overseas for soybeans is China,
and one out of every three acres plant-
ed in Ohio is planted for export. Think
about how that affects your prices if
you lose that big market share and
that big customer.
I am pleased to say that we seem to
be making some progress with China
right now, incidentally, as an aside. It
is great to have this agreement done.
The next agreement I hope we get done
is with China and get them to play by
the rules and open those markets more.
This week, they started to buy more
soybeans, and that is good.
In the meantime, our farmers are
desperate for more markets, and in this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.009 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7007
December 12, 2019
agreement, that is exactly what they
get. So if you are an Ohio farmer—and
we are No. 2 in the country on eggs—
you can now have access to these mar-
kets in Canada and Mexico, on eggs,
that you never had before.
On dairy, Canada in particular has
some very protectionist provisions in
place with regard to dairy products—
think milk and cheese.
If you are an Ohio dairy farmer, you
can sell stuff into Canada you couldn’t
sell before—also pork, beef, wheat, and
other products. This is good for our
farmers. This is why over 1,000 farm
groups around the country have sup-
ported this agreement. I mean, I don’t
know a farm group in Ohio that doesn’t
support it strongly. Again, part of it is
that this is a great agreement for
them, and part of it is that they are
hurting, and this gives them some light
at the end of the tunnel, an oppor-
tunity to see new markets and there-
fore see some prices increase in our ag
community.
This is a good agreement that is good
for jobs, good for small business, as we
talked about, good for farmers, good
for workers, and good for our economy.
It is important that we get it done. I
am glad the House is going to go ahead
and vote on it in the next week. I wish
we could vote here in the Senate right
away, too, but under the process called
trade promotion authority, we do have
some processes we need to go through.
It is probably best to have it happen
after the holidays. Right after the holi-
days, my hope is that here on the floor
of the Senate, Members will look at
this for what it is. This is not a Demo-
cratic or a Republican victory; this is
an American victory.
Again, I appreciate the efforts of
President Donald Trump because he
was persistent and tough on the nego-
tiations, and then he was persistent
and patient in working with the U.S.
Congress. There were a lot of people
saying: Go ahead and send the agree-
ment up and try to jam the Democrats
into doing the right thing. He didn’t do
that. He waited to figure out a way to
come up with an agreement, particu-
larly on the labor enforcement provi-
sions we talked about, and as a result,
we now have the ability on a bipartisan
basis to get this done. I hope the vote
in the House will reflect that; likewise,
here in the Senate.
I know there are some of my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle who
think this agreement is not perfect. No
agreement is perfect; I will just say
that. I am a former U.S. Trade Rep-
resentative. I am a former trade law-
yer. I am a former member of the Ways
and Means Committee, which is the
trade committee over there. I am now
on the trade committee here, the Fi-
nance Committee. No agreement is
ever perfect. It is not the agreement
exactly that you would write or I
would write, but, boy, this is a good
agreement.
To make perfect the enemy of the
good would hurt the farmers and the
workers and the small businesses that
we represent that want this agreement
badly because they know it is going to
help them.
The other thing I would say is that it
also helps our relationships with our
two biggest trading partners in Ohio,
Canada and Mexico, and also our neigh-
bors.
For North America’s future, this is a
good idea—to have the certainty and
predictability that comes with an
agreement we have all been able to
coalesce around and improve the status
quo. NAFTA was negotiated 25 years
ago. A lot has happened in the last 25
years. We talked about how the digital
economy has transformed our econ-
omy, and we have a competitive and
comparative advantage in that. That is
one small example. So many things
have changed.
We have better protections for intel-
lectual property in this agreement, as
an example. We have these new trade-
opening opportunities in agriculture.
We have these opportunities in manu-
facturing to do more here in North
America and specifically in the United
States.
A vote against this new agreement is
a vote for NAFTA, which is this 25-
year-old agreement that has these
flaws because that is the status quo.
My hope is that the next time I come
to this floor to talk about this, it will
be to ask my colleagues in short order
to support a vote, that it will have
come out of the Finance Committee
with a strong bipartisan vote, that it
will have come to the floor with a
strong vote from the House, and that
we can get this done. Then President
Trump can sign it, and the people we
represent will be better off, our com-
munity of nations here in North Amer-
ica will be better off, and the United
States of America will have another
victory.
I yield back.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I
came to the floor this morning to ad-
dress what has been an alarming and
inaccurate information campaign that
is being spread about the international
family planning amendment included
in this year’s State and Foreign Oper-
ations appropriations bill.
I would note that while this amend-
ment is referred to as the ‘‘Shaheen
amendment’’ in alarmist and inac-
curate blog posts, it is actually bipar-
tisan language that was agreed to by
both the subcommittee and full com-
mittee chairs of the Appropriations
Committee and ultimately approved
unanimously by Republicans and
Democrats in the committee. Yet arti-
cles and op-eds online have condemned
the amendment as pro-abortion. I was
surprised to hear this given that, de-
spite my objections, the amendment
does not address the Mexico City pol-
icy—or the global gag rule, as it is
known—abortion services, or informa-
tion. In fact, this is the first time in 18
years—I am going to say that again. It
is the first time in 18 years that mem-
bers of the Appropriations Committee
were prevented from offering a bipar-
tisan amendment that would strip the
bill of the Mexico City provision.
Instead of allowing the established
committee process to amend the
SFOPs bill with this provision, the en-
tire bill was pulled from consideration.
In response to that, in an effort to en-
sure the bill wasn’t endangered, I
worked with my colleagues Senator
COLLINS of Maine and Senator MUR-
KOWSKI of Alaska and with Republican
leadership to limit the scope of the
amendment so we could allow the ap-
propriations bill to go forward.
It is false—absolutely, positively
false—to say this amendment funds
abortions abroad. In fact, it is wrong to
say, and inaccurate to say, that any
U.S. assistance goes to funding abor-
tions at home or abroad. In compliance
with U.S. law, family planning funding
does not and never has gone to abor-
tion services. I hope everyone is clear
about that. Under our law, family plan-
ning funding does not go to support
abortion services.
Now that I have outlined what this
amendment does not do, let me discuss
what it does do. It provides an increase
of $57.5 million for a total of $632.5 mil-
lion for existing international family
planning accounts. This money funds
programs and services that provide
modern contraceptives, which 214 mil-
lion women around the world who want
to avoid pregnancy are not able to ac-
cess.
Again, I don’t know when the debate
around abortion came to include con-
traceptives and family planning. It also
would allow for the healthy timing and
spacing of births, which is very impor-
tant to the health of infants and it is
important to the health of women to be
able to space the births of their chil-
dren to recover between births. It pro-
vides education information and coun-
seling about family planning issues. It
ensures access to antenatal and post-
natal care for a healthy mother and
baby. It provides for HPV vaccination
and prevention, something very impor-
tant to the health of children.
These are a few of the critical serv-
ices the assistance provides. The im-
pact of these services is very real.
According to the Guttmacher Insti-
tute, with each additional $10 million
the U.S. dedicates to family planning
and reproductive health programs,
400,000 more women and couples receive
contraceptives services and supplies.
With the $57.5 million increase pro-
vided for in this amendment, more
than 2.2 million women and couples
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.010 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7008 December 12, 2019
will have that access. That will result
in 654,500 fewer unintended preg-
nancies, 291,500 fewer unplanned births,
280,500 fewer induced abortions. If you
care about abortion and you don’t be-
lieve that is the right alternative, then
you should support family planning be-
cause that gives families and couples
an option to ensure they can have the
children they want, and it would pro-
vide for 1,320 fewer deaths of women.
While these numbers are stark, the
transformative effect of simply having
access to family planning information
and services on the lives of women and
their families should not be underesti-
mated.
The most vulnerable women who are
reached by family planning programs
report that learning about family plan-
ning options, receiving services to pre-
vent unwanted pregnancies, and ensur-
ing that wanted pregnancies are
healthy and happy so the babies they
want to have are healthy and happy
gives them some control over their
lives. Many women are making
healthcare choices for themselves and
their families for the very first time
with help from these programs.
These critical programs change lives,
and our partners who implement these
programs are indispensable. In October,
USAID Administrator Mark Green said
he could not ‘‘imagine an effective de-
velopment Agency that doesn’t partner
with the community of faith.’’ Luckily,
he doesn’t have to. For those people
who were worried that family planning
programs are not going to be imple-
mented by our faith community, that
is just wrong.
The family planning account goes to
a range of program implementers, in-
cluding healthcare providers, inter-
national NGOs, and faith-based organi-
zations alike. All of these organiza-
tions have the goal of saving women’s
lives and saving the lives of their chil-
dren. They need more resources, not
fewer, to do this work.
What else does the international fam-
ily planning amendment do? It includes
an additional $33 million to USAID’s
family planning account for money
that is rerouted away from the U.N.
Population Fund.
Again, unlike what the blogs are mis-
takenly saying, this is not money that
currently goes to UNFPA’s lifesaving
operations. Instead, it will be redi-
rected back into the family planning
account and contribute to the pro-
grams I just outlined.
Third, the amendment requires the
Government Accountability Office to
produce a report that evaluates the ef-
ficacy of family planning programs and
their structure. Again, this was an-
other bipartisan effort with my Repub-
lican colleagues to ensure that our U.S.
dollars are most effective and they
contribute to programs and services
that are most effective. Again, if you
have a concern about how family plan-
ning dollars are being spent, then you
should support this amendment be-
cause it is going to give us data and in-
formation to show what is effective and
what isn’t.
Finally, the amendment includes lan-
guage to reaffirm an existing non-
discrimination policy within USAID.
This is an existing nondiscrimination
policy. This is not a new policy. That
policy within USAID ensures the serv-
ices funded by these accounts reach all
segments of the population.
As I said, this is not a new policy.
The anti-discrimination policy has ex-
isted for several years, and it is not
targeted toward faith-based organiza-
tions, despite what some of the blogs
mistakenly are putting out there. In
fact, the complaints I have heard in my
office about single women being re-
jected for services didn’t touch on work
that faith-based organizations are
doing.
I hope all of our colleagues in the
Senate will not allow misinformation
about the family planning dollars that
are in the State and Foreign Oper-
ations bill to dismantle what has been
a very important bipartisan achieve-
ment. Its impact is too great and its
programs are too important to let
them be killed by a campaign to try
and mislead people about what is in the
amendment.
I yield the floor.
NOMINATION OF AURELIA SKIPWITH
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I want
to share with the Senate my reasons
for opposing the nomination of Aurelia
Skipwith to serve as the Director of
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
Let me begin by saying that I am dis-
appointed to find myself in this posi-
tion. When I had the privilege of serv-
ing as Governor of Delaware, I was able
to assemble my own leadership team,
so I appreciate how important it is
that people in executive positions, in-
cluding Presidents, have that same
ability.
However, in article II of the Con-
stitution, our Founders set up a system
in which the President would nominate
individuals to the top posts in our gov-
ernment and Senators would provide
‘‘advice and consent’’ on those nomi-
nees.
In order for the Senate to fulfill that
constitutional role, those nominated
individuals must cooperate with the
confirmation process. And, unfortu-
nately, Ms. Skipwith has not provided
information requested by the Demo-
crats during the nomination process.
Despite my repeated requests for the
nominee to be more forthcoming—re-
quests made twice in writing and twice
in person. during her nomination proc-
ess—Ms. Skipwith has refused. Instead,
she has given me the impression that
she does not take this confirmation
process seriously.
Her lack of candor has elevated ques-
tions that already existed about her
qualifications, her commitment to en-
vironmental conservation and whether
she can ethically lead the Fish and
Wildlife Service.
Therefore, I cannot support this nom-
ination.
Ms. Skipwith first joined the Trump
administration in April 2017. when she
was appointed as Deputy Assistant
Secretary of Fish and Wildlife and
Parks, a non-Senate-confirmed polit-
ical appointment at the Department of
the Interior.
During her tenure there, the Fish and
Wildlife Service proposed and finalized
controversial regulations that dras-
tically altered implementation of the
Endangered Species Act.
The Service has also issued a legal
opinion that changes the way the De-
partment of the Interior enforces the
Migratory Bird Treaty Act. Former
senior Interior officials from every ad-
ministration since the early 1970s, both
Republican and Democrat, have strong-
ly opposed this Migratory Bird Treaty
Act legal opinion. At her confirmation
hearing, Ms. Skipwith vehemently de-
fended it.
Prior to her controversial tenure at
the Interior Department, Ms. Skipwith
had no previous work experience re-
lated to conservation or wildlife man-
agement—none.
By contrast, the 16 individuals who
previously served as Fish and Wildlife
Service Directors for both Republican
and Democratic Presidents had an esti-
mated average of 12 years of experience
at the Fish and Wildlife Service before
taking on the Director role. They also
have an estimated average of more
than 22 years of professional experience
in fields related to wildlife or fisheries
management.
Ms. Skipwith has also not seemed to
make up for her lack of previous expe-
rience while on the job. At her con-
firmation hearing, when asked to name
the conservation scientist who had
most influenced her career and her ap-
proach to wildlife and fisheries man-
agement, Ms. Skipwith struggled to
name any conservation scientist. Ulti-
mately, she named a former Monsanto
vice president with whom she used to
work, but she misremembered his
name.
This was not an insignificant
misstep. To me, it was revealing. Ms.
Skipwith’s response to my simple ques-
tion represented a clear lack of famili-
arity with the basics of wildlife man-
agement, a troubling quality for a Fish
and Wildlife Director nominee.
By contrast, Ms. Skipwith does have
significant experience in the agri-
business industry. Before joining the
Trump administration, she worked for
Monsanto, one of the world’s largest
agrochemical firms. Monsanto regu-
larly has business interests before the
Interior Department. She also worked
for Alltech, a Kentucky-based agricul-
tural products company.
She also co-founded AVC Global, an
agribusiness-technology start up, and
was employed by Gage International, a
Washington, DC, based lobbying firm
founded by her fiancé.
That is why even before her con-
firmation hearing, I asked Ms.
Skipwith some basic questions about
how these companies operate and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:16 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.012 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7009
December 12, 2019
whether Ms. Skipwith has recused her-
self from working on those issues. Un-
fortunately, Ms. Skipwith has refused
to answer those questions.
She has repeatedly refused to provide
her calendars with the appointments
she has had as a Department of the In-
terior official. This information could
be made available to any member of
the public under the Freedom of Infor-
mation Act, but she has refused to pro-
vide it to me for months within the
confirmation process.
This information is important be-
cause Ms. Skipwith’s former employer,
Gage International, has represented
water utilities that have lobbied Con-
gress to weaken Western water policy
and the Endangered Species Act.
Unanswered questions also remain
about Ms. Skipwith’s role in the devel-
opment of a controversial repeal of an
existing ban on using pesticides that
have been shown to harm birds and
bees in national wildlife refuges. And
one of the largest producers of these
pesticides is Monsanto, another one of
Ms. Skipwith’s former employers.
Yet when Senator GILLIBRAND asked
Ms. Skipwith about her role in the
ban’s repeal, Ms. Skipwith defended the
reversal but denied any role in the de-
cision. This answer does not appear to
be consistent with some of the email
records that have been obtained under
Freedom of Information Act, which
show that she expressed interest in the
matter and received materials on the
issue from career staff.
If Ms. Skipwith was indeed involved
with the decision to reverse the pes-
ticides ban, it would constitute a viola-
tion of the ethics pledge she signed
when she joined the Department. An
examination of Ms. Skipwith’s cal-
endar entries could clear up these out-
standing questions, but her lack of co-
operation makes that impossible.
This lack of being forthcoming is
troubling, not only because it under-
mines the Senate’s advice and consent
role for Presidential nominees, but it
also because it demonstrates the nomi-
nee’s may not be cooperative when it
comes to congressional oversight.
I have found that, when a nominee is
unwilling to provide information as
part of their confirmation process,
they almost always prove to be even
more defiant to congressional over-
sight requests after they are con-
firmed.
I urge my colleagues. especially my
Republican colleagues, to take this
matter seriously. In fact, I would urge
my Republican colleagues to remember
these words spoken by my friend,
former Congressman Trey Gowdy of
South Carolina.
In June 2012, during the House Over-
sight and Government Reform Com-
mittee contempt proceedings against
Attorney General Holder, then Con-
gressman Gowdy said: ‘‘The notion
that you can withhold information and
documents from Congress no matter
whether you are the party in power or
not in power is wrong. Respect for the
rule of law must mean something, irre-
spective of the vicissitudes of political
cycles.’’
Eventually, whether it is in 1 year or
in 4 years or in 8, we will eventually
have another Democratic administra-
tion. And when that time comes, Re-
publicans in Congress will want offi-
cials in that Democratic administra-
tion to answer questions and respond
to congressional oversight requests.
I fear that my Senate colleagues will
find the process completely broken by
then if we continue undermining our
duty as Senators to both provide ad-
vice and consent on Presidential nomi-
nation and to conduct congressional
oversight.
This clear defiance of our sworn con-
stitutional duty and congressional
oversight role diminishes the Senate,
weakens our intricate system of checks
and balances, and undermines the trust
of the American people.
Beyond her lack of qualifications and
her questionable role in some of this
administration’s major conservation
policies, there are too many troubling
concerns and questions about this
nominee that remain unaddressed or
unanswered.
Therefore, I will be opposing this
nomination, and I encourage my col-
leagues to do the same.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the vote that
was going to start at 11:45 a.m. start
now.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Skipwith nomi-
nation?
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR), the
Senator from Kentucky (Mr. PAUL), the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON),
and the Senator from Alabama (Mr.
SHELBY).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 52,
nays 39, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 395 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—39
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—9
Booker
Burr
Duckworth
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Sanders
Shelby
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of John Joseph
Sullivan, of Maryland, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to the Russian Federation.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, all postcloture time
is expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Sullivan nomi-
nation?
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR), the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON),
and the Senator from Kentucky (Mr.
PAUL).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 70,
nays 22, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 396 Ex.]
YEAS—70
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cardin
Carper
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.006 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7010 December 12, 2019
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Wicker
Young
NAYS—22
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Casey
Gillibrand
Harris
Heinrich
Hirono
Markey
Menendez
Murray
Peters
Reed
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Burr
Duckworth
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motions to re-
consider are considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the Hahn nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Stephen Hahn,
of Texas, to be Commissioner of Food
and Drugs, Department of Health and
Human Services.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
f
EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE THAT IT IS THE POLICY
OF THE UNITED STATES TO
COMMEMORATE THE ARMENIAN
GENOCIDE
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President,
as in legislative session, I ask unani-
mous consent the Senate Committee
on Foreign Relations be discharged
from further consideration of S. Res.
150 and the Senate proceed to its imme-
diate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 150) expressing the
sense of the Senate that it is the policy of
the United States to commemorate the Ar-
menian Genocide through official recogni-
tion and remembrance.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I
further ask that the resolution be
agreed to; the preamble be agreed to;
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 150) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of April 9, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President,
we have just passed the Armenian
genocide resolution recognition. It is
fitting and appropriate that the Senate
stands on the right side of history in
doing so. It commemorates the truth of
the Armenian genocide.
On Monday, we commemorated the
International Day of Commemoration
and Dignity of the victims of the crime
of genocide and of the prevention of
this crime. The UN General Assembly
established this day of remembrance to
commemorate and honor the victims of
genocide and highlight efforts to com-
bat and prevent genocide. Passing this
resolution is a fitting tribute to this
day of remembrance.
I have come to the floor on various
occasions to talk about the history of
the Armenian genocide. An Armenian
priest, Krikoris Balakian, recorded
some of the massacres against the Ar-
menians. He said:
In Ankara and its surroundings, only a
couple hundred miles east of Constantinople,
the killing was done with ‘‘axes, cleavers,
shovels, and pitchforks.’’ It was like a
slaughterhouse; Armenians were hacked to
pieces . . . infants were dashed on rocks be-
fore the eyes of their mothers.
It was indescribable horror. Even
when Armenians were supposedly de-
ported, the conditions they were forced
to live in made clear that Turkey’s ul-
timate goal was to eliminate the Arme-
nian people.
A visitor to one Turkish city in Octo-
ber of 1915 wrote: ‘‘The 16,000 deported
Armenians who were living in the tents
have been sent to Konia in cattle
trucks. At night, while thousands of
these unfortunate people, without food
or shelter, shiver with cold, those
brutes who are supposed to be their
guardians attack them with clubs. And
push them towards the station.
Women, children, and old men are
packed together in the trucks. The
men have to climb on to the top of the
trucks, in spite of the dreadful cold.
Their cries are heart-breaking, but all
is in vain. Hunger, cold, and fatigue,
together with the Government’s deeds
of violence, will soon achieve the exter-
mination of the last remnant of the Ar-
menian people.’’
Henry Morgenthau, the U.S. Ambas-
sador for Turkey, from 1913 to 1916, un-
derstood full well what was tran-
spiring. He left his post in early 1916
because, as he later recalled, ‘‘My fail-
ure to stop the destruction of the Ar-
menians had made Turkey for me a
place of horror.’’
American diplomats like Henry Mor-
genthau were on the ground in Turkey,
and they made heroic efforts to help
the Armenian people, but here in Wash-
ington at the time, no one did anything
in the face of this heinous crime.
As former UN Ambassador Samantha
Power wrote in her Pulitzer Prize-win-
ning book, ‘‘A Problem from Hell,’’
‘‘America’s nonresponse to the Turkish
horrors established patterns that
would be repeated.’’
As my colleague from Texas, my co-
sponsor who has been such a stalwart
advocate with me, has very often
noted, this is the first genocide to be
recorded in this century. We know all
too well the horrors in the 20th century
with the Holocaust and other genocides
around the world. So here in the Sen-
ate today, we break those patterns. We
join the House and voted to do so by
passing a resolution affirming the facts
of the genocide, 405 to 11. Today, the
Senate shows the same resolve.
I am deeply grateful to Senator CRUZ
for his stalwart leadership on this issue
and to the 27 other Senators from both
parties who have cosponsored the reso-
lution and demonstrated their commit-
ment to the truth, and the truth fi-
nally will set us free.
I am thankful that this resolution
has passed in a time in which there are
still survivors of the genocide. We will
be able to see that the Senate acknowl-
edges what they left.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CRUZ. Madam President, I thank
my colleague and friend, the Senator
from New Jersey, for his powerful re-
marks, and I rise today and celebrate a
bipartisan achievement—an achieve-
ment of the Senate; an achievement for
truth; an achievement for speaking the
truth to darkness, for speaking the
truth to evil, for speaking the truth to
murder, for speaking the truth to geno-
cide.
This journey has been a long journey.
Senator MENENDEZ has been fighting
this fight a long time. I have been
proud to stand by his side. This is the
third week in a row we have come to
the Senate floor seeking to pass this
resolution. I am grateful that today we
have succeeded.
The Menendez-Cruz resolution af-
firms U.S. recognition of the Armenian
genocide. It has been far too long in
coming. From 1915 to 1923, the Ottoman
Empire carried out a forced deporta-
tion of nearly 2 million Armenians, of
whom 1.5 million were killed. It was an
atrocious genocide. That it happened is
a fact and undeniable reality.
In fact, the very word ‘‘genocide’’ lit-
erally means the killing of an entire
people, and it was coined by Raphael
Lemkin to describe the horrific nature
of the Ottoman Empire’s calculated ex-
termination of the Armenians. It is
why we have the horrid word ‘‘geno-
cide’’ in our English language.
Over 100 years ago, the world re-
mained silent as the Armenian people
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.004 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7011
December 12, 2019
suffered and were murdered. Even
today, many people are unaware of
what happened. But we must never be
silent in response to atrocity. We have
a responsibility to stand up and speak
the truth. With this resolution, the
United States is now saying it is the
policy of the United States of America
to commemorate the Armenian geno-
cide through official recognition and
remembrance.
We have a moral duty to acknowl-
edge what happened to the 1.5 million
innocent souls who were murdered. It
is the right thing to do. I am grateful
that, today, we have seen every Repub-
lican and every Democrat come to-
gether in support of the bipartisan
Menendez-Cruz resolution. This is a
moment of truth that was far too long
coming.
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. CRUZ. Madam President, I rise
today to celebrate yet another major
bipartisan victory that is included as
part of the National Defense Author-
ization Act that the House has passed
and the Senate is preparing to pass.
As it so happens, today is the 1-year
anniversary—1 year to the very day
that the European Parliament voted
overwhelmingly to condemn the con-
struction of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline
between Russia and Germany. By a
vote of 433 to 105, the Members of the
European Parliament called for the
project to be cancelled because ‘‘It is a
political project that poses a threat to
European energy security and the ef-
forts to diversify energy supply.’’
In the coming days, the U.S. Con-
gress will answer the call to stop this
profoundly dangerous project. The
House has acted, and the Senate will
act very soon.
As part of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act, sanctions on the Nord
Stream 2 pipeline are included. The
Cruz-Shaheen legislation—legislation I
introduced, bipartisan legislation—
Senator SHAHEEN and I and the Foreign
Relations Committee brought our leg-
islation to a vote. We won an over-
whelmingly bipartisan vote—a vote of
20 to 2—out of the Foreign Relations
Committee.
In the past weeks and months, there
have been extended negotiations to in-
clude this legislation, these sanctions,
in the National Defense Authorization
Act. We have negotiated with Repub-
licans and Democrats—Republicans
and Democrats on the Senate Armed
Forces, on the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, on the Banking Committee, in
leadership, and also Republicans and
Democrats on the House Armed Serv-
ices Committee, Foreign Relations
Committee, Banking Committee, and
leadership—and we have achieved a re-
markable consensus.
Part of the reason we were able to
achieve this bipartisan victory is that
the sanctions are narrowly targeted,
precisely targeted. The Nord Stream 2
pipeline is a pipeline from Russia to
Germany to carry natural gas that, if
completed, would generate billions of
dollars for Putin and billions of dollars
that would fund Russian military ag-
gression.
Not only that, if completed, this
pipeline would make Europe even more
dependent on Russian energy and even
more vulnerable to Russian blackmail.
Putin has demonstrated that he is
more than willing to cut off the gas in
the dead of winter as economic black-
mail against his neighbors.
This pipeline is being built this very
moment. It is near completion. The
legislation we are passing is designed
to operate like a scalpel, specifically
directed to the ships that lay in the
deep sea pipeline needed to complete
Nord Stream 2.
There are only five companies on the
face of the Earth with the techno-
logical capability to delay the deep sea
pipeline. Russia does not have one of
those companies.
The Russian Government lacks the
expertise to lay this pipeline. As a re-
sult, Russia has contracted with the
Swiss company, Allseas. Right now, as
we speak, Allseas has a ship called the
Pioneering Spirit that is laying this
pipeline.
The legislation that has passed the
House and that is about to pass the
Senate imposes crippling sanctions on
any company laying this pipeline. It is
designed to operate like a scalpel so it
doesn’t impact anyone else, but if this
legislation operates as Congress in-
tends, as both Republicans and Demo-
crats in the Senate and House intend,
then it will halt construction of this
pipeline overnight.
The best estimates we have are that,
if uninterrupted, the Nord Stream 2
pipeline would be completed by the end
of January. That means the window to
stop the pipeline is vanishingly small.
When the Senate passes the National
Defense Authorization Act, which will
be any day now, and the President
signs it, which will be shortly there-
after, two things need to happen imme-
diately.
No. 1, the Treasury Department and
the administration need to imme-
diately begin working on implementing
these sanctions. I am confident the ad-
ministration will follow the directives
of President Trump. He has said that
Nord Stream 2 is harmful to the na-
tional security interests of the United
States of America, and it is harmful to
Europe.
No. 2, there will be a decision made
by the CEO and corporate leadership of
Allseas. The instant this bill is signed
into law—and we are only days away
from that—if Allseas continues with
construction of the Nord Stream 2
pipeline, even for a single day after
this law is signed, then Allseas risks
crippling sanctions that could dev-
astate the company.
The purpose of this legislation is not
to see those sanctions implemented on
Allseas; the purpose of this legislation
is to stop construction. The only re-
sponsible and rational decision for the
corporate leadership of Allseas to
make is to stop construction.
My understanding is their contract
with the Russians has an explicit es-
cape path in case sanctions were
passed. So the day this is signed,
Allseas shareholders are at profound
risk if Allseas corporate leadership
does anything other than cease con-
struction and stop the pipeline.
If and when that happens, that will
be an incredible victory. It will be an
incredible victory for Europe, an in-
credible victory for Ukraine, an incred-
ible victory for energy security, and an
incredible victory for jobs in the
United States of America.
It is far better for Europe to be rely-
ing on energy from the United States
than to be fueling Putin and Russia
and dependent on Russia and subject to
economic blackmail. That is why, as I
noted, the European Parliament voted
by a vote of 433 to 105 to condemn Nord
Stream 2.
Passing these Nord Stream 2 sanc-
tions are an incredible victory for the
United States and national security,
but it is also an incredible loss for
Vladimir Putin and Russia.
I commend my Democratic cosponsor
Senator SHAHEEN. I commend the co-
sponsors that this legislation has had,
both Republicans and Democrats in a
bipartisan way, and I commend the
U.S. Senate and the U.S. House for
coming together. At a time when so
many other issues divide us, we have
united in defense of America, in de-
fense of Europe, and in opposition to
Russia’s military aggression. Passing
Nord Stream 2 sanctions is a big, big
deal, and I commend the U.S. Congress
for acting swiftly in the rapidly closing
window we have to stop this project.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). The Senator from Rhode Is-
land.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
am here to speak about the success of
the Affordable Care Act in Rhode Is-
land. It has been very well managed in
Rhode Island, and it has made a very
big difference in many, many lives.
The marketplace plan that the Af-
fordable Care Act set up in Rhode Is-
land is called Health Source Rhode Is-
land. It has been well run, and it has
been successful. For 2019, it has 34,533
people getting health insurance
through the plan.
We also expanded Medicaid, as the
Affordable Care Act allowed. Under the
Medicaid expansion, 72,000 Rhode Is-
landers got coverage that they didn’t
have before. So if you put those two to-
gether, that is 106,000-plus Rhode Is-
landers who got the benefit, the com-
fort, and the confidence of coverage for
healthcare as a result of this bill. It is
10 percent of our population, and it has
driven our uninsured numbers way,
way down, into low single digits, which
has been a very big win for us.
I will also say that we have taken
very good advantage of the accountable
care organization provisions of the Af-
fordable Care Act, with two of the best
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.016 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7012 December 12, 2019
performing ACOs in the country as two
of our lead primary care provider
groups: Coastal Medical and Primary
Care Partners. They are showing just
terrific results, as they are changing
the way they deliver care. They can do
so because we have changed the way
they can be reimbursed for care.
That Rhode Island snapshot is part of
a larger story of success.
Eleven and a half million Americans
around the country have enrolled in
ACA marketplace insurance in 2019.
There are 11.8 million Medicare bene-
ficiaries who have saved a total of $26.8
billion on prescription drug costs. That
is over $2,200 per senior. That is some-
thing to celebrate. Unfortunately, it is
still at risk in the courts.
President Trump and this Republican
administration are still trying to
knock it down. If they succeed, 133 mil-
lion Americans with preexisting condi-
tions will be at risk of losing
healthcare coverage protections.
One hundred and fifty-six million
Americans with private or employer-
sponsored insurance will lose the con-
sumer protections in the ACA for pre-
ventive care, disallowing lifetime or
annual limits and closing waiting peri-
ods to enroll—things that have really
made a difference in people’s lives.
These are big numbers, and they add
to a tremendous story of success, but
behind the numbers are faces. Every
one of those 34,533 Rhode Islanders who
signed up and got health coverage
through Health Source Rhode Island
has their own story.
Today it is my privilege to come to
the floor of the U.S. Senate to tell the
story of Bridget from Tiverton, RI. I
can’t tell it better than she does, so I
will simply read her story. She says:
For the majority of my life, I have suffered
from chronic pain. Though I am only in my
20’s, I have suffered from acute arthritis in
my left hip due to multiple surgeries to cor-
rect complications from a hip displasia sur-
gery for almost 15+ years. I was told for
years that I was not a candidate for hip re-
placement as I was still growing, so when I
was finally developed enough and found a
surgeon willing to perform the hip replace-
ment surgery, my life felt like it was actu-
ally mine again. Last year, I finally was ap-
proved for a hip replacement. It has been a
year since that day, and I thank God every
day that I was able to receive the help I
need. Without the hip replacement, I would
still be living in bed and confined to a wheel-
chair or crutches.
Without my coverage, the preventive care
that ensured my health would not backpedal
would have been gone. I cannot stress
enough how terrifying the thought of losing
the opportunity of living my life was. I
would not wish this endeavor on anyone, es-
pecially a child without coverage, as I have
been in their situation.
Since my surgery, I have been able to hold
my first full time job, I have been able to
consider going back to college, I have lived
pain free for the first time in practically my
whole life.
No one should have to struggle with chron-
ic issues or be discriminated against because
of pre-existing conditions. Every day I grow
stronger, and my voice, for those who are not
as strong as I am now, grows louder. I will
fight for my right to health care and for oth-
ers who deserve the treatment they need for
the rest of my life.
Bridget, congratulations. Thank you.
God bless you.
Let us make sure we do not let this
administration tear down the millions
of stories like Bridget’s that they seek
to undo with this reckless litigation.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I rise
today to reflect on the accomplish-
ments that Chairman MURKOWSKI, my
colleague and friend on the Energy and
Natural Resources Committee, and I
have been able to make this year.
Today, I will focus on my remarks on
the energy agenda we have put in place
to address climate change, as well as a
path forward for a bipartisan energy
bill.
The year began with my appointment
to ranking member of the committee.
There were some expressions of uncer-
tainty about where Chairman MUR-
KOWSKI and I might lead that com-
mittee, and there was a great deal of
skepticism about my ability and inter-
est in addressing climate change, but I
can assure you it is strong.
On March 5, 2019, we held the first
hearing on climate in the committee in
7 years. Just this morning, we passed
an additional five Energy bills, making
the total count for this year 52 Energy
bills reported out of committee.
We have endlessly examined our Na-
tion’s work on innovation in the en-
ergy and manufacturing sectors, and
we have been reminded that the United
States must lead in this space in order
to ensure we can address climate
change effectively.
As discussions about large climate
bills move forward, it is important that
Congress is doing the work to ensure
we have the technology necessary to
meet the challenge of reducing green-
house gas emissions in a comprehen-
sive and timely way.
In the midst of all the political noise,
our committee has been quietly lead-
ing this effort over the last year. The
strong bipartisan nature of our com-
mittee has enabled us to move dozens
of pieces of legislation that will push
the Department of Energy and the pri-
vate sector into their next phase of re-
search and development as we seek
technological emissions-reducing solu-
tions.
In reflecting on this year’s progress,
I want to highlight that bipartisanship
because I believe it is absolutely the
reason we are delivering solutions wor-
thy of the people of West Virginia,
Alaska, and the entire country. It is
simple—the chairman and I talk to
each other, we talk to one another’s
colleagues on either side of the aisle,
and sometimes we disagree, but we
never disrespectfully disagree because
we are friends.
We must come together in this
Chamber to solve this crisis and also
ensure that no community is left be-
hind.
From even before the founding of our
country, my home State of West Vir-
ginia has poured its natural resources
and its human resources into every one
of our Nation’s ambitions. It is well
known that West Virginia has produced
the coal that has powered our grid and
built our steel skyscrapers for decades.
We have literally done the heavy lift-
ing. What you may not know is that
our salt deposits were used to make
gun powder in the French and Indian
and Revolutionary Wars. Our deeply in-
grained culture of hard work and entre-
preneurship led to James Rumsey’s
steamboat innovation in 1787, just as it
is leading to the National Energy Tech-
nology Laboratory’s inventions today.
West Virginians have applied all of
our resources—coal, hydropower, nat-
ural gas, geothermal, wind, solar, and
human ingenuity—to achieve our com-
mon goals. But these natural and
human resources have been tested sig-
nificantly in the past decade. The de-
cline in coal production and use has
gone beyond rising unemployment to
unravel the tax revenues needed for our
schools and communities. These eco-
nomic and workforce downturns have
occurred alongside the opioid crisis,
the doubling of energy costs in our
State, and historic flooding due to cli-
mate change in West Virginia—flood-
ing that resulted in the tragic death of
23 of our friends, families, and neigh-
bors.
None of these obstacles have or will
get the best of West Virginia. Nothing
ever has. Just as the innovators of my
home State have sought to use all the
resources at their disposal to seize op-
portunities and overcome challenges,
we must reflect that resolve here in the
Halls of Congress.
We cannot turn the American energy
system on its head because the costs
will fall too heavily on people in rural
areas and energy-producing regions
like West Virginia. At the same time,
we cannot disregard what the science
tells us about the reality and severity
of climate change.
Across the country, we can clearly
see that the costs of climate change
are mounting, but we need to refocus
our attention on the incredible oppor-
tunities presented by the solutions to
it. Whether that is the upstart solar
company hiring former coal miners in
Jefferson and Cabell Counties; the col-
laboration between oil, gas, and geo-
thermal on new ways to access hot
rocks in Monongalia County; or the in-
sulation installer who retrofits our
homes, the opportunities and the needs
exist in each and every community,
not just on the coasts.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.018 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7013
December 12, 2019
I have said time and again that the
miners who built our country are the
best workers we can employ to build
our future economy. It is our responsi-
bility as their representatives to in-
clude them and their communities in
the economy of the future by passing
the laws and making the investments
needed to shape that future, creating
those jobs and guiding the private sec-
tor and others toward new, ambitious
climate solutions. That is why I have
pursued bills that will build new en-
ergy and natural resource jobs in rural
communities.
The Advanced Geothermal Innova-
tion Leadership Act would signifi-
cantly invest in new geothermal
projects to unlock new and potentially
vast resources in the Eastern United
States—bringing proven renewable
technologies to fossil fuel-producing
regions.
The Enhancing Fossil Fuel Energy
Carbon Technology Act would make
the first Federal investments in direct
air capture and firm up our commit-
ment to carbon capture, utilization,
and storage—necessary climate solu-
tions and ones that can be built in the
valleys of West Virginia.
The Clean Industrial Technology Act
would incentivize new technologies to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions in in-
dustrial and heavy transport fuel sec-
tors—solutions that reenergize the
manufacturing heartland of the United
States.
These bills and the many others we
have reported out will lay the founda-
tion for meeting our climate goals
while creating the innovation jobs
needed in our rural communities, all
while leading the world.
That brings me back to the bipar-
tisan nature of the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee. The legislation
we have passed in our committee re-
flects the diversity of our Members and
our constituents who have sent us here
on their behalf. These bills invest in
the programs necessary to bring cli-
mate solutions to bear, and they will
create jobs and opportunities.
Our bipartisan work on energy inno-
vation is evidence of the good work
that can be done in Congress and
stands in contrast to the skeptical and
cynical narrative that dominates our
politics today. Our work is far from
done. We will continue to work in a bi-
partisan fashion with our colleagues in
this Chamber and in the House to take
those 52 bills and turn them into an
impactful energy package, one that can
easily and readily move the needle on
reducing emissions and one that can be
signed into law.
I congratulate my dear friend and
colleague Chairman MURKOWSKI and
the members of the committee for
their work, and I look forward to this
Chamber taking up our energy innova-
tion package in the new year.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
thank my colleague, the ranking mem-
ber on the Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee. He is really a
friend on not only energy matters but
on so many of the other initiatives we
have worked on.
As he mentioned, every now and
again, our two States might see things
differently, but we have come to under-
stand where we come from, what we
bring to the table, and figure out how
we can work together collaboratively
and then set that collaborative tone for
the full committee as a whole. I appre-
ciate the opportunity to highlight a
few of the accomplishments we as a
committee have achieved over this
past year.
We had a holiday lunch at the first of
this week with both of our staffs as-
sembled—had some good food—and I
was able to share with all of the staffs
that I felt like we were the committee
that was kind of like ‘‘The Little En-
gine that Could’’—the children’s story-
book wherein the tiny little engine is
kind of plugging along. We are not
typically the headline-grabbing com-
mittee in this Senate, but just like the
little engine, we kind of put our heads
down and get to work, and we achieve
a lot.
In our case, even in a divided time,
we are seeing good, strong bipartisan
legislation that is helping just about
every Member of our Senate in all
areas of the country.
Think about where we started off
this year. You will recall that it was
unfortunately in the midst of a govern-
ment shutdown. But what we were able
to do even at that time was to move
through a significant victory, and that
was the passage of our sweeping lands
package containing more than 120 indi-
vidual measures that reflected the pri-
orities of dozens of Members in the
Senate and the House. We passed that
out of the Senate 92 to 8, the House
passed it out 363 to 62, and the Presi-
dent signed it shortly thereafter. It
was sweeping. We recognized that it
provided for economic development for
so many small communities, protected
treasured landscapes, addressed a range
of sportsmen’s priorities, and perma-
nently reauthorized the Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
It took a long time. There were many
initiatives we had been working
through for a considerable period of
time. But our ability to be able to pass
it shortly after this government shut-
down underscored that even at a time
when we are known for our divisions,
we can still achieve bipartisan success.
The committee really took the mo-
mentum, and we ran with it—as Sen-
ator MANCHIN has pointed out, some 51
bills, 52 bills here. Today, we just
moved 19 bills out of the Energy and
Natural Resources Committee markup.
We have moved out measures that are
focused on energy efficiency, renew-
ables, energy storage, advanced nuclear
energy, carbon capture, utilization,
and storage. We focused on mineral se-
curity, cyber security, and a range of
additional technologies that really
work to ensure that energy becomes
more affordable as it becomes cleaner.
We have been working very hard on
the public lands side of our jurisdiction
as well. One bill you are sure to hear
more about in the first of the year is
the Restore Our Parks Act, which will
address the multibillion-dollar deferred
maintenance backlog at our national
parks—the crown jewels of our Nation.
That bill provides $6.5 billion over the
next 5 years to fix dilapidated trails,
buildings, roads, bridges, monuments,
and historic markers.
Working on the parks and the land
side, we reported 13 nominees for key
leadership positions at the Department
of Energy, Department of the Interior,
and the FERC. Nearly all of them were
confirmed, ensuring the President has
a good team to carry out our Nation’s
energy and resource policies.
We have also held hearings—about
two a week while we have been in ses-
sion—to highlight the opportunities
and the challenges we face within our
jurisdiction. These range from every-
thing from the need for new and inno-
vative technologies—as Senator
MANCHIN pointed out—to the future of
our Strategic Petroleum Reserve. As
he mentioned, we have held hearings—
many hearings now—on climate
change, making that a priority among
priorities.
I think it is fair to say we have been
very productive as a committee. We
know the work isn’t done. It is one
thing to report the measures out of
committee; it is another thing to get
them enacted into law. Our eyes are di-
rected right now on these next steps.
Early next year, we hope to bring
much of the work we have processed
through the committee, bring it to the
Senate floor. We are counting on our
colleagues to join us and to help move
these bills to the House and to the
President for his signature. Whether
you are interested in energy innova-
tion, resource security, or access to
public lands, this work should appeal
to just about every Member and pro-
vide a great opportunity to advance
the security, prosperity, and competi-
tiveness of our Nation.
I want to share the deep appreciation
I have for my ranking member, Sen-
ator MANCHIN, and his partnership. We
have navigated some complicated
stretches, but we have done so by
working together to ensure a good out-
come for the committee, for the Sen-
ate, and for the American people. I
think you have seen some of that.
TRIBUTE TO JOHNNY ISAKSON
Mr. President, we saw some of the
good work reflected of a gentleman we
have lauded on the floor now through-
out this week and will continue to laud
because he is a most laudable and won-
derful human being, and that is our
friend, the Senator from Georgia, Mr.
ISAKSON, who will soon be stepping
down after a very good and honorable
career in the U.S. Senate and before
that.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.019 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7014 December 12, 2019
It was a pleasure to know we were
able to move out of the Energy Com-
mittee this morning. One of the prior-
ities he has been working on is the Pre-
serving America’s Battlefields Act. He
is a great historian and has put a great
deal of himself into advancing that im-
portant legislation.
Another markup I was part of this
morning was in Health, Education,
Labor and Pensions, where we moved
out two significant bills that had JOHN-
NY ISAKSON’s fingerprints all over it.
His care, his compassion for the most
vulnerable children who have been
abused—he has been a leader in the
CAPTA legislation that moved out of
that committee by voice vote this
morning.
He was also instrumental in another
measure that moved through the com-
mittee, the Adoption Opportunities
Act. It gives you a glimpse of the range
and the breadth of this extraordinary
legislator, whether it is his great effort
working for our veterans and his lead-
ership on the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs, his leadership on those matters
that he cares so personally and pas-
sionately about in the HELP Com-
mittee, or what we see in the other
committees as we have seen in Energy
with his focus on America’s history.
JOHNNY ISAKSON is not only a great
legislator, a laudable man, but he is
also a true friend. He is one who has re-
minded us all that relationships mat-
ter; that how we speak to one another
matters; that how we treat one another
as human beings and friends matters.
I know that as we say our goodbyes
to Senator ISAKSON from this Chamber,
we will long remember not only the
contributions he has provided from a
legislative perspective and a policy
perspective but as a person and as a
lovely and decent human being.
With that, I yield floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
Mr. KING. Mr. President, I rise for a
few moments to compliment my col-
league, the chair of the Energy and
Natural Resources committee, along
with her ranking member, JOE
MANCHIN, who spoke a few minutes ago,
the Senator from West Virginia.
I have done a lot of thinking about
leadership. One of the observations I
have made is that the character and
personality and thoughtfulness of the
leader infect the entire organization.
In this case, the chair and the ranking
member of our committee have pro-
duced one of the most remarkable
records of achievement in a committee
that I have seen since I have been here
over the past year. It has been because
of their willingness to listen, their
willingness to work with all of the
members of the committee—and it is
quite a diverse committee in terms of
geography and in terms of ideology and
in terms of representation of various
interests at the table of the important
questions of energy that face us.
This has been an amazingly produc-
tive year. I attribute that to the skill
and leadership and character of Sen-
ator MURKOWSKI of Alaska and of Sen-
ator MANCHIN of West Virginia.
It has been a wonderful experience
for me to see what can be done in this
institution. The next step, of course, is
to get to the floor of the U.S. Senate
and move these bills forward, as I
think they can and should, through the
House of Representatives and to the
President.
Again, I rise not only to congratulate
but also to thank the leadership of this
committee for the great work they
have done this year. I look forward to
even better and greater things in the
years to come.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I am on
the floor briefly today to remind my
colleagues to remind their constituents
that December 15 is the open enroll-
ment deadline for healthcare at
healthcare.gov. This is incredibly im-
portant because if you are uninsured or
you are currently on an Affordable
Care Act plan, if you don’t renew or
sign up by the 15th, you will be frozen
out of the marketplace unless you have
what is called a qualifying event.
As we head back for the weekend, I
want to ensure we do everything we
can to make sure there are aren’t more
people who go into the New Year with-
out insurance than absolutely nec-
essary. This is especially important be-
cause we have seen a big decline in the
number of people who have insurance
in this country since President Trump
took office.
Obviously, we made enormous
progress after the passage of the Af-
fordable Care Act. We were able to get
the percentage of Americans without
insurance down to around 5 percent.
That is really extraordinary. Yet we
have seen that progress reverse. We
have seen more and more people go
without insurance since this adminis-
tration started to wage what is a pret-
ty consistent, remarkable war on the
Affordable Care Act.
As we speak today, the Trump ad-
ministration is in court trying to get
the court system—the Federal court
system—to strike down the entirety of
the Affordable Care Act. If they are
successful in that endeavor, then next
year’s deadline will not matter because
the Affordable Care Act will be gone; 20
million people will lose their health in-
surance; insurers will once again be
able to charge you more because you
have a preexisting condition or your
kid has cancer or you are a woman.
As we fight that court case, we need
to remember that the Affordable Care
Act is still out there and is still very
affordable for millions and millions of
Americans. Seventy percent of enroll-
ees who go on to healthcare.gov find
they qualify for financial help, mean-
ing the sticker price is not actually
what you pay. The tax credits in
ObamaCare will help you get that pre-
mium lower.
In fact, on average, folks are getting
pretty sizable premiums—in the neigh-
borhood of $500. That could make
healthcare incredibly affordable, even
if the sticker price looks out of your
range.
A woman in Hartford, named Debo-
rah, visited a local enrollment fair
after receiving a letter saying her pre-
miums actually might be going up. She
said this:
That scared me a little bit so I wanted to
come in and have someone explain it to me
whether it was going to go up, decrease, you
know, what were my options. What ended up
happening is that actually my premium went
down for the same plan but I also learned
that just because they renew you that I had
the opportunity to go in and say no, I don’t
want that plan, I want to choose this plan. I
am ecstatic with my new plan. . . . I got edu-
cated on the insurance process and I like
that.
You can still get that help. You can
still get somebody on the phone to
walk you through your choices. I really
encourage people to do that by this
Sunday.
For folks who do find an affordable
plan, I hope you will also step up and
try to help us maintain the protections
and the coverages we have. We have
been fighting a battle with the Trump
administration. It doesn’t like the Af-
fordable Care Act simply because the
President’s name is on it, despite the
fact that Americans don’t want the Af-
fordable Care Act repealed. But the ad-
ministration has been doing everything
within its power to try to make it
harder for people to sign up. The ad-
ministration has rolled back the adver-
tising for the Affordable Care Act.
This is what qualifies for advertising
today—charts on the floor of the U.S.
Senate. The administration has rolled
back the money for the navigators—
the people who help you pick which
plan is right for you. The administra-
tion, for a period of time, threatened to
stop paying insurance companies,
which chilled the interest of insurers
to actually offer plans on these ex-
changes. As I mentioned, the adminis-
tration is going to court to try to un-
roll and unwind the entirety of the act
through a court case.
Lastly, though, what you will find, if
you go and enroll in some States, are
plans that look like an Affordable Care
Act plan on these websites but actually
aren’t. They are what we call junk
plans, short-term plans—plans that
don’t really cover anything. They
might not cover maternity care or ad-
diction care or mental health or pre-
scription drugs. Some of these junk
plans don’t cover you if you get admit-
ted into the hospital on a Friday or
Saturday.
Be careful of those plans because the
sticker price is going to look really
low, but that is for a reason. It is be-
cause they don’t cover anything.
The President has allowed for those
junk plans to be shown right next to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:16 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.021 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7015
December 12, 2019
the Affordable Care Act plan. Make
sure you are signing up for a regulated,
Affordable Care Act plan. That is a
plan that is bronze or silver or gold,
not one of these junk short-term plans
that is not going to be right for the
vast majority of Americans.
It is not too late. Sunday is the dead-
line. If you are in Connecticut, make
sure to go to Access Health CT or your
State exchange, if your State runs an
exchange. If not, you can get
healthcare through
www.healthcare.gov.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. I ask unanimous
consent that the order for the quorum
call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the vote
scheduled at 1:45 p.m. begin right now.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON HAHN NOMINATION
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Hahn nomina-
tion?
Mr. LANKFORD. I ask for the yeas
and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR), the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON),
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN),
and the Senator from Kentucky (Mr.
PAUL).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Sen-
ator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms.
WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 72,
nays 18, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 397 Ex.]
YEAS—72
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Murkowski
Murphy
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—18
Blumenthal
Cantwell
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
King
Leahy
Markey
Merkley
Murray
Reed
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Wyden
NOT VOTING—10
Booker
Burr
Duckworth
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Moran
Paul
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The Senator from South Dakota.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
PALLONE-THUNE TRACED ACT
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, every
American has had to deal with annoy-
ing and illegal robocalls. All of us have
been interrupted at one time or an-
other by a robocall’s announcing ‘‘You
have won a prize’’ or claiming to need
important banking information so that
our accounts will not be closed. These
calls are a major nuisance. Of course,
they are not just a nuisance. Too many
Americans fall victim to sophisticated
robocall scammers and have their
money or identities stolen. These indi-
viduals spend months or years strug-
gling to get their lives back after fall-
ing prey to these scammers.
There are currently laws and fines in
place to prevent scam artists from
preying on people through the tele-
phone. Unfortunately, these measures
have not been sufficient. In many
cases, robocall scammers simply build
the current fines into the cost of doing
business, and the Federal Communica-
tions Commission’s enforcement ef-
forts are hampered by a tight time win-
dow for pursuing violators.
I have been working on this issue
since my time as chairman of the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation, and at the end of last
year, I introduced the Telephone
Robocall Abuse Criminal Enforcement
and Deterrence Act, or the TRACED
Act, with my colleague Senator MAR-
KEY.
The Senate passed our bill in May,
and last week our bill was passed by
the House of Representatives. The
TRACED Act provides tools to discour-
age illegal robocalls, protect con-
sumers, crack down on offenders.
Criminal prosecution of illegal
robocallers can be difficult. Scammers
are frequently based abroad and quick-
ly shut down shop before authorities
can get to them, but I believe we need
to make sure there is a credible threat
of criminal prosecution and prison for
those who use robocalls to prey upon
the elderly and other vulnerable Amer-
icans.
The TRACED Act convenes a work-
ing group with representatives from
the Department of Justice, the Federal
Communications Commission, the Fed-
eral Trade Commission, the Depart-
ment of Commerce, the Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection Bureau, State at-
torneys general, and others to identify
ways to criminally prosecute illegal
robocalling.
In the meantime, it expands the win-
dow in which the FCC can pursue
scammers and levy fines from 1 year to
4 years.
The bill also makes it easier for your
cell phone carrier to lawfully block
calls that aren’t properly authenti-
cated, which will ultimately help stop
scammers from getting through to
your phone in the first place.
The TRACED Act also tackles the
issue of spoof calls, where scammers
make the call appear as if it is coming
from some known number.
I remember an article from my home
State a couple of years ago that re-
ported that scammers had successfully
spoofed the number of the Watertown
Police Department. To anyone who re-
ceived a call, it looked as if it really
was the Watertown Police Department
calling.
The TRACED Act also addresses the
issue of so-called one-ring scams,
where international scammers try to
get individuals to return their calls so
they can charge them exorbitant fees,
and it directs the Federal Communica-
tions Commission to convene a work-
ing group to address the problem of il-
legal robocalls being made to hospitals.
There are numerous stories of hos-
pital telephone lines being flooded with
robocalls, disrupting critical lines of
communication, literally, for hours.
This can’t be allowed to go on.
I want to thank Senator MARKEY for
partnering with me on the TRACED
Act, and my House colleagues for ad-
vancing this legislation. I am proud of
the bipartisan support our bill has re-
ceived in both Houses of Congress.
One last step remains before we can
get this bill to the President’s desk,
and that is Senate passage of the final
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.023 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7016 December 12, 2019
bill. I am hoping we can get that done
in the coming days so we can get this
bill to the President before Christmas.
While the TRACED Act may not
eliminate all of the robocalls Ameri-
cans receive, it will go a long way to-
ward making it safe to answer your
phone again.
I look forward to seeing this legisla-
tion signed into law in the very near
future.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
HONORING FIRST LIEUTENANT
MICHAEL CLEARY
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise
today to honor the life of 1LT Michael
Cleary from Dallas, PA. It has been 14
years since his death. Michael is one of
some 288 Pennsylvanians killed in ac-
tion in the wars in Iraq and Afghani-
stan.
First Lieutenant Cleary served as
platoon leader of the Explosive Ord-
nance Disposal Team in E Company,
1st of the 15th Regiment, 3rd Brigade,
3rd Infantry Division of the U.S. Army.
On December 20, 2005, First Lieuten-
ant Cleary was killed in action while
working in a bomb factory near
Samarra, Iraq. His platoon was am-
bushed outside the facility. He was just
24 years old.
Even prior to joining the Army, Mi-
chael Cleary was an active member of
his community. He graduated from
Dallas Senior High School in Dallas,
PA, and was a 4-year varsity athlete in
both soccer and tennis. He was captain
of both teams in his senior year. He re-
ceived the Dr. Pepper Soccer MVP
Scholarship and a history scholarship
at high school graduation and was of-
fered academic scholarships at Ursinus
College, Gettysburg, as well as Dickin-
son and Lafayette—all very strong aca-
demic institutions of higher education
in Pennsylvania.
He followed his father’s footsteps and
chose Hamilton College in New York.
While at Hamilton, First Lieutenant
Cleary participated in varsity soccer
and lettered in varsity tennis. After
the September 11, 2001, attacks on our
Nation, he wanted to enlist in the Spe-
cial Forces but chose to follow the ad-
vice of his mother and stayed in school
until completing his studies.
In May 2003, he graduated from Ham-
ilton with honors. During his senior
year, he applied to and was accepted
into the Marine flight officer program.
He was notified that his class would be
deferred until January. Not wanting to
wait any longer to serve his country,
Michael Cleary decided to enlist in the
U.S. Army. Three weeks after college
graduation, he went to basic training
and earned his airborne wings and sap-
per tab and graduated from the Special
Air Service Antiterrorist Course.
The news of First Lieutenant
Cleary’s death came just before he was
scheduled to return home during the
Christmas season. He was also planning
to get married 2 months after he re-
turned home to his high school sweet-
heart. First Lieutenant Cleary earned
the following awards and decorations:
the Army Achievement Medal, Na-
tional Defense Service Medal, Iraq
Campaign Medal, Global War on Ter-
rorism Service Medal, Army Service
Ribbon, and Overseas Service Ribbon.
His family also received First Lieuten-
ant Cleary’s U.S. Army Bronze Star
and Purple Heart.
Following his death, First Lieuten-
ant Cleary’s father, Jack, described his
last conversation with his son the day
before he died. Jack Cleary is someone
I have gotten to know since his son’s
passing, but here is what Jack said at
that time. I am quoting him directly.
‘‘He’’—meaning Michael—‘‘was very
upset that they were sending home
some of his men without their awards
. . . for things like promotions, and he
was fighting for his men. That is the
kind of officer he was. Michael was a
fine man. He cared about all people,
great and small.’’
Jack Cleary knows of what he speaks
because he, himself, served in Vietnam
and, as I mentioned earlier, was also a
graduate of the same college. 1LT Mi-
chael Cleary’s legacy lives on with his
family. His mother, Marianne, is a
member of Gold Star Mothers where
she works to support veterans, mili-
tary families, and her community
every day.
Jon Bellona, Michael’s college room-
mate, is a director and founder of the
1LT Michael Joseph Cleary: Run for
the Fallen, a run across America to
raise awareness about the lives of those
who fought to activate their memories
and to keep their spirits alive. Run for
the Fallen supports organizations that
help wounded veterans, as well as the
families of those killed, and helps aid
the healing process for those Ameri-
cans whose lives have been affected by
war.
All Americans are grateful for the
friends and family of fallen service-
members who not only continue the
legacy of service to the Nation, but
who take their tragedy and turn it into
a force for good.
1LT Michael Cleary is one of so many
bright, talented, and dedicated young
men and women who have died in serv-
ice to our country. While I speak spe-
cifically of Michael today, his story is
the story of thousands of men and
women across our country, hundreds of
them in Pennsylvania who have given
their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan and
also have given their lives in service of
American values, values like democ-
racy and liberty and rule of law.
As we remember Michael Cleary, we
should also remember the words of
Abraham Lincoln. Abraham Lincoln re-
minded us that people like Michael
Cleary gave, as Lincoln said, ‘‘The last
full measure of devotion to our coun-
try.’’ It is at times like this when we
should remember not only those words,
but also other words from the Gettys-
burg Address, where he said, ‘‘It is us,
the living, rather, to be dedicated here
to the unfinished work which they who
fought here have thus far so nobly ad-
vanced.’’
So that was our charge from Presi-
dent Lincoln all those generations ago.
We must strive every day, whether we
are citizens or public officials, what-
ever our station in life, we must strive
every day to complete that unfinished
work that Lincoln talked about, so
that, as we discuss major security
issues like U.S. withdrawal from Af-
ghanistan or combating the resurgence
of ISIS in the Middle East or exercising
oversight over U.S. military engage-
ments overseas and look increasingly
to try to resolve complicated global
crises, we must not forget that those
who have given the ultimate sacrifice
and service to our country, particu-
larly in the most recent wars, are those
we should remember.
Just consider these numbers of
Americans who have lost their lives in
the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, with
an additional seven killed in African
Command operations since 2001. That
number is 6,989 Americans just in those
conflicts, just in that timeframe. These
6,989 Americans includes some 300 serv-
icemembers from Pennsylvania, the
fifth highest total of any State. No. 2,
over 49,000 in that time period have
been wounded, including more than
roughly 2,000 from Pennsylvania. So
6,989 killed since 2001 nationwide and
over 49,000 wounded in that time pe-
riod.
Third, although the administration
refuses to be transparent in its deploy-
ment tracking, press reports indicate
that approximately 19,000 Americans
are currently serving in Iraq and Af-
ghanistan, with an additional 65,000
serving the Persian Gulf and Saudi
Arabia.
This year, Pennsylvania lost MSG
Benjamin Hines of York County, PA,
assigned to the 25th Marine Regiment,
4th Marine Division, Marine Forces Re-
serve. He was killed by a roadside bomb
on April 8 in Parwan Province, Afghan-
istan, along with two other marines:
SSG Christopher Slutman and SGT
Robert Hendricks. Staff Sergeant
Slutman also had family ties to my
home State of Pennsylvania.
While we are so grateful that Penn-
sylvania did not suffer more losses this
year, any loss of life is not only dev-
astating, but should also cause us to
reconsider the nature of our military
commitments overseas. These fighting
men and women are born into families,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.025 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7017
December 12, 2019
not into divisions and brigades. They
are sons and daughters, husbands and
wives, fathers and mothers. Their love
for their families are matched only by
their devotion to our country, but
many more bear the scars of war.
Some families have a loved one who
served in Iraq or Afghanistan and were
returned home, but who were one of
the more than 49,000 who were wound-
ed. We must not overlook the unusu-
ally high percentage of Iraq and Af-
ghanistan veterans who have died since
returning home, whether from a drug
overdose or suicide or the effects of
combat. Thousands of American fami-
lies continue to pay a terrible price for
the courage and dedication of their
family members who gave life and limb
for this country.
We have much to think about, not
only on this day, but, of course, in this
season—this season of hope, this season
of gratitude, this season of our time to-
gether with our families back home,
but we should especially remember
those families who have loved and lost,
those who have lost someone in com-
bat, those who have lost someone who
served so nobly, served on behalf of the
rest of us.
At this time, Mr. President, I know
you have personal experience with this,
having served yourself, and I know
that you understand this. It is an im-
portant time to remember those who
have given so much for our country,
with the spirit of gratitude for their
service, hope that we don’t have more
losses in the coming year, and with
confidence that they have set a great
example for us.
I yield the floor.
Mr. President, I suggest the absence
of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
RUSSIA INVESTIGATION
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, the
chaos in Washington, DC, precipitated
by impeachment mania or our inability
to get what should be relatively
straightforward work done, like the ap-
propriations process and all the gym-
nastics over the USMCA, the U.S.-Mex-
ico-Canada Trade Agreement—in fact,
we are coming down to a deadline on
Friday, the 20th of December, when the
current continuing resolution runs out.
Because of everything that is going
on, many people may not have been
able to pay that much attention—and I
think attention is deserved—to the tes-
timony of Department of Justice In-
spector General Michael Horowitz, who
testified in front of the Senate Judici-
ary Committee yesterday. I know there
was some news coverage of it, but I
wanted to give some reflections on the
testimony Mr. Horowitz gave.
First of all, the Office of Inspector
General is a very important one. They
are a watchdog to make sure the laws
Congress passes and the rules of the
various agencies—in this case, the De-
partment of Justice—are complied
with. It is really very, very important.
With everything else going on, it is
important to have an impartial inspec-
tor general to conduct that kind of in-
vestigation and to hold people account-
able—something that doesn’t happen
enough here in Washington, DC.
Inspector General Horowitz, along
with his team, was widely praised for
producing an outstanding report this
time on the counterintelligence inves-
tigation of the Trump administration
by the Obama-era Justice Department
and the FBI.
This is a 480-page report. I have a
copy of it right here. It is redacted for
public release. If you look at it on-
line—you can look at it through the
Department of Justice website—you
can see that some of it is redacted or
black marks are drawn through parts
of it to protect certain classified infor-
mation.
But there is more than enough infor-
mation contained in this report to
know that the Crossfire Hurricane in-
vestigation into the Trump administra-
tion by the Obama Justice Depart-
ment, including Comey and the FBI,
was an unmitigated disaster.
Mr. Horowitz highlighted some of the
truly disturbing and alarming facts
about how this Russia investigation
was conducted—how it was initiated
and how it was conducted. There were
mistakes made, including some inten-
tional misconduct, which has now been
referred to the Justice Department for
potential investigation and even charg-
ing and prosecution. This was a trou-
bling report, identifying at least 17 dif-
ferent areas of concern.
The report is full of legal jargon, gov-
ernment acronyms, and a long list of
names most Americans probably don’t
recognize. The bottom line is, beneath
all of this is a pattern of concerning be-
havior that ought to concern everyone
who cares about civil liberties.
At the core of these issues is, under
Director Comey, the FBI’s abuse of the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act,
or FISA. I know people have heard the
reference to FISA, and that is short for
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
In other words, when our intelligence
services, including the FBI, gather in-
formation, they can’t do that on Amer-
ican citizens absent a showing of prob-
able cause in front of a court. That is
a protection of our civil liberties. When
it comes to foreign intelligence, there
is a different court—the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Court—that has to
assess and judge whether they have
met the appropriate legal standards.
The inspector general found that the
Comey FBI failed to file accurate ap-
plications to surveil an American cit-
izen by the name of Carter Page.
There are very exacting require-
ments, very technical but very impor-
tant requirements that the FBI has to
put together, in consultation with the
National Security Division at the De-
partment of Justice, in order to go to
court—the Foreign Intelligence Sur-
veillance Court—and justify issuance of
the authority to gather intelligence on
an individual.
In this case, they claimed that Carter
Page, who was for a time associated
with the Trump campaign—they claim
that they suspected him to be an agent
of a foreign power—in other words,
Russia.
The way these documents were pre-
pared and the way in which this matter
was pursued was hardly a stellar per-
formance by the Comey FBI, and I will
mention that here in a moment. Once
that FISA warrant is issued, as it was
on an American citizen—Carter Page—
that individual’s private communica-
tions then come into the hands of the
FBI as part of their investigation of a
potential agent of a foreign power.
As I said yesterday and reiterated to
Inspector General Horowitz this morn-
ing—or yesterday morning—spying on
an American citizen is not something
to be taken lightly. None of us should
view this as a trivial matter. That is
why there are such strong protections
in place to prevent an abuse of power.
One of those backstops is the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court—a spe-
cialized court appointed by Chief Jus-
tice Roberts, Chief Justice of the Su-
preme Court of the United States, that
sits in rotation for a time to look at
the government’s applications for these
warrants under the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act. You can
imagine that when that court makes
important decisions involving the na-
tional security of the United States or
the civil liberties of an American cit-
izen, they need to have a full picture.
They need to have the utmost candor
exercised by the FBI of all the details
and information surrounding the issue
at hand. Again, this is no trivial mat-
ter. The court is determining whether
the government has a compelling case
to secretly spy on an American’s com-
munications.
Unfortunately, as we heard from Mr.
Horowitz, the FBI, under Director
Comey, fell dramatically short of that
goal. The application for something as
serious as a foreign intelligence sur-
veillance warrant should be free from
error, let alone intentional lies. Unfor-
tunately, Inspector Horowitz found 17
different instances where the FBI
agents involved in securing this FISA
warrant failed that standard.
First of all, the inspector general
identified 7 mistakes in the original
application and an additional 10 in 3 re-
newals, for a total of 4 separate war-
rants under the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act. These applications
weren’t put together and examined by
rank-and-file agents; these errors came
from three handpicked teams that
didn’t raise any red flags for high-level
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.027 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7018 December 12, 2019
senior officials—something that Mr.
Horowitz said made him deeply con-
cerned, which is a feeling I share.
One of the most glaring errors was
the applications’ reliance on a deeply
flawed private intelligence report—op-
position research paid for by the Clin-
ton campaign and the Democratic Na-
tional Committee—on Donald Trump.
This is called the Steele dossier, as
people have heard that reference. Mr.
Steele is a former intelligence officer
who worked for the British Govern-
ment, the British intelligence services,
but he had long since retired from his
government service, and now he was
out for hire to dig up information—in
this case, on a political candidate in
the Presidential election in 2016.
One of the biggest concerns we have
all had since the 2016 election is Rus-
sian interference in our elections.
Sometimes this is called active meas-
ures, where they merely try to sow dis-
cord and dissent by social media use,
by propaganda, and by intelligence
services leaking information.
I asked Attorney General Barr, be-
fore the Judiciary Committee earlier
this year, whether he could state with
confidence that the Steele Dossier,
which we know was paid for by the
Democratic National Committee and
the Clinton administration, was not a
part of this Russian disinformation
campaign, whether he could say it was
not. The Attorney General said no, he
could not.
FBI attorneys assisting in the Cross-
fire Hurricane investigation called it a
‘‘close call’’ on whether they had suffi-
cient justification to ask the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court to
issue a warrant so they could collect
intelligence on an American citizen,
Carter Page. What made that a close
call? What turned a close call into the
granting of that authority? Well, it
was the Steele dossier. It was a hit
piece, really—called that by one of our
intelligence agencies—based on inter-
net rumor, not based on verified infor-
mation. That was used by the Crossfire
Hurricane team to apply to the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court to get
a warrant issued to surveil and spy on
an American citizen.
Although I know that taking a look
at the real source of the Steele dossier
was outside the realm of the inspector
general’s duties, it is worth inves-
tigating because it played a central
and essential role in the FBI’s FISA
applications. That is what Mr. Horo-
witz found.
Mr. Horowitz found on one occasion
serious and intentional misconduct on
the part of an FBI lawyer, and he now
has referred that lawyer for criminal
prosecution. But the explanations they
offered for the other errors were com-
pletely unsatisfactory, and they should
not be overlooked or excused. Attorney
General Barr echoed that in a TV
interview earlier this week. I trust him
and Mr. Durham to get to the bottom
of it. They have more authority than
the inspector general to compel the
production of evidence in testimony—
much like a grand jury, as opposed to
what the inspector general had, which
was basically a voluntary willingness
of witnesses to come forward and to
look at the FBI’s internal files.
To make matters worse, even as new
and exculpatory information—informa-
tion that tended to show innocence—
came to light on Carter Page, this in-
formation was not reflected in what
the FBI filed when they requested a
foreign intelligence surveillance war-
rant from the court.
You have to wonder—if this level of
mishandling is occurring in a high-pro-
file investigation of a Presidential can-
didate, someone who would later be-
come the leader of the free world, what
kind of protections are in place for av-
erage American citizens?
We place an enormous amount of
trust in the U.S. Government to keep
us safe and also to respect and uphold
our constitutional rights. So seeing
these types of errors, intentional and
unintentional, slipping through the
cracks in such a sensitive investigation
doesn’t give me much confidence that
it is not happening in other cases.
Another question I asked the inspec-
tor general was on something called de-
fensive counterintelligence briefings.
This is a little bit arcane, but let me
explain.
There are two different types of in-
vestigations by the FBI. One is of a po-
tential criminal prosecution. We are
all familiar with that. But the second
role that the FBI plays is conducting
counterintelligence investigations—in
other words, protecting the American
people and our national security from
the attempts by foreign actors, malign
foreign actors to gain intelligence on
the U.S. Government and the American
people, to our detriment and to the
detriment of our national security.
One of the things Loretta Lynch, who
was Attorney General under Barack
Obama, said is that in a counterintel-
ligence investigation, defensive brief-
ings are routine. In other words, if the
Presiding Officer were a target of a
Russian intelligence operation—some-
body had bumped into you at the gro-
cery store or shown up at your kid’s
soccer game or perhaps shown up at
your work, and you began to wonder,
who this person and why have they
taken such interest in me?—well, if the
FBI discovers information that indi-
cates this is part of an effort to recruit
an American citizen to become an asset
for the Russian intelligence services,
what the FBI is obligated to do is to
give a defensive briefing where they
might tell the Presiding Officer or me
or anybody else who might be targeted
‘‘This is what is happening to you, so
be on your guard. Don’t think this is
innocent. Protect yourself,’’ and in so
doing, protect the national security of
the United States.
These briefings, we learned from Lo-
retta Lynch, are routine. They are
given routinely to political candidates,
to individuals, and to companies that
hear from the FBI about those poten-
tial threats so they can take steps to
protect themselves.
We know that both Presidential can-
didates of 2016—Donald Trump and Hil-
lary Clinton—received some kind of de-
fensive briefing in August of 2016, but
the so-called defensive briefing for the
Trump campaign was unique in a num-
ber of aspects.
At the time the FBI believed the
Russians were trying to infiltrate the
Trump campaign, you would think that
would have been a prime opportunity
to share that information with Can-
didate Trump and his campaign so he
could tell the people on his campaign:
Be on your guard, and don’t engage in
any unnecessary contact with people
whom you don’t know and who might
have malign motives.
The FBI could have advised the
Trump campaign about these potential
threats and given them their profes-
sional advice on how to mitigate the
concerns, but that didn’t happen in the
case of the Trump campaign. Instead of
warning the Trump campaign about
possible Russian efforts, they actually
inserted—the FBI inserted a case agent
into the briefing and used that as an
opportunity to collect information in
support of their own criminal inves-
tigation of GEN Michael Flynn.
It is not only unfair to insert an FBI
agent into an otherwise benign setting
in order to collect information on an
American citizen in a criminal inves-
tigation, obviously General Flynn did
not know the FBI was trying to do this
under a pretext, so he couldn’t say: I
would like to talk to a lawyer. I would
like to know that what I say can’t be
used against me in a court of law. In
other words, all of the normal protec-
tions under the Bill of Rights that
would be given to somebody under a
criminal investigation were not af-
forded because of this pretextual defen-
sive briefing where the FBI agent
slipped in in order to collect informa-
tion.
Here is the bottom line: This defen-
sive briefing of the Trump campaign
lasted a whopping 13 minutes—hardly
enough time to convey the sort of in-
formation you would want to a polit-
ical campaign. I can tell you that if the
FBI came to me and told me that some
foreign actor was trying to infiltrate
my campaign, I would want to know
about it, and I would want to tell the
people who volunteered in the cam-
paign to knock it off. But President
Trump, when he was a candidate, was
not given that information or the op-
portunity to shut it down, which he
should have been.
Director Wray, to his credit, after
hearing about that, has accepted the
recommendations of the inspector gen-
eral and has moved quickly to try to
rectify some of these practices, and he
has already issued corrective action on
them. This doesn’t negate the fact that
the American people’s trust in their
government to protect them has been
harmed by the Comey FBI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.034 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7019
December 12, 2019
We need the American people’s con-
fidence in the laws the Congress passes,
the constitutional rights they enjoy
under our Constitution, and the over-
sight that Congress performs and that
the FBI and the intelligence commu-
nity are going to be required to play by
the rules of the road and not jeopardize
the civil liberties of any American,
much less a candidate for the U.S.
Presidency. This is something I will
talk about more at another time.
Chairman GRAHAM of the Judiciary
Committee assures me that yesterday’s
very important hearing, at which In-
spector Horowitz testified, will not be
the last hearing on this matter but
merely the first. There is more to
come, as there well should be.
I yield floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR
2020—CONFERENCE REPORT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask that the Chair lay before the Sen-
ate the conference report accom-
panying S. 1790.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair lays before the Senate the con-
ference report, which will be stated by
title.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
The committee of conference on the dis-
agreeing votes of the two Houses on the
amendment of the House to the bill (S. 1790)
to authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the Department
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other
purposes, having met, have agreed that the
Senate recede from its disagreement to the
amendment of the House and agree to the
same with an amendment and the House
agree to the same, signed by a majority of
the conferees on the part of both Houses.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the conference report.
(The conference report is printed in
the House proceedings of the RECORD of
December 9, 2019.)
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the con-
ference report to accompany S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and
for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Kevin
Cramer, John Cornyn, Mike Crapo,
Shelley Moore Capito, Pat Roberts,
John Thune, James Lankford, James
E. Risch, Deb Fischer, Lamar Alex-
ander, Richard Burr, John Barrasso,
James M. Inhofe, Johnny Isakson,
Steve Daines.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
called be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF MILITARY FORCE
AND NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I rise to
discuss Congress’s ongoing failure to
assert our constitutional war powers.
This failure is the root cause of two
pressing concerns that we currently
face: first, the seemingly endless U.S.
involvement in Middle East wars; and,
second, the very real possibility that
the Trump administration will involve
us in more of them.
The Founders were clear in their in-
tent. The Constitution squarely places
the authority to ‘‘declare war’’—that is
the phrase in the Constitution—and
places it clearly with Congress and
Congress alone. The Founders did this
for good reason. For centuries, Euro-
pean monarchs had drained royal cof-
fers, levied heavy taxes, and lost count-
less lives in wars that benefited them-
selves and not the people.
As Elbridge Gerry from Massachu-
setts said during the Constitutional
Convention, after another delegate sug-
gested giving this war power to the
President: ‘‘[I] never expected to hear
in a republic a motion to empower the
Executive alone to declare war.’’
The Founders vested this most con-
sequential power in the legislative
branch so that any decision to go to
war would have broad public support.
Since the Republic’s beginning, there
has been a tension between the Con-
gress and the executive branch regard-
ing the use of this power.
In the modern era, the balance has
been upended. Our ability and willing-
ness to effectively check the Executive
on war powers is dangerously dimin-
ished. Congress has not declared war
for any of our major conflicts since
World War II. But after the bloody,
prolonged, and politically divisive
Vietnam War, Congress passed a War
Powers Resolution of 1973, overriding
the veto of President Nixon. That reso-
lution requires Congress to issue an au-
thorization for use of military force, or
an AUMF.
Immediately after 9/11, a nearly
unanimous Congress—myself in-
cluded—authorized force against the
perpetrators, al-Qaida and those who
harbored them, by which we meant the
Taliban government in Afghanistan.
The 2001 AUMF authorized the United
States’ entering conflict in Afghani-
stan to root out al-Qaida.
The Taliban was then expelled from
power. Al-Qaida in Afghanistan has
been defeated. Osama Bin Laden is
dead. And the now 18-year-old AUMF
has outlived its purpose, as a stunning
Washington Post expose on the Afghan
war has now made clear.
The war in Afghanistan is the longest
in U.S. history, but it no longer has a
clear purpose. The Washington Post
successfully sued for access to pre-
viously undisclosed government docu-
ments, dubbed the ‘‘Afghanistan Pa-
pers.’’ These 2,000 pages of interviews
and memos from senior military, diplo-
matic, and White House officials tell a
shocking and tragic story. Three sepa-
rate administrations have had no well-
formed mission for the war but fought
on anyway and repeatedly misled the
American people.
According to the head of the NATO
command in Afghanistan in 2006,
‘‘there was no coherent long-term
strategy there.’’ The next NATO com-
mander, Army LTG Dan McNeill said:
I tried to get someone to define for me
what winning meant, even before I went
over, and nobody could. Nobody would give
me a good definition of what it meant. . . .
There was no NATO campaign plan—a lot of
verbiage and talk, but no plan.
A senior diplomat under President
Obama said:
If I were to write a book, its [cover] would
be: ‘‘America goes to war without knowing
why it does.’’
Over and over, senior officials de-
scribe the lack of strategic goals. All
the while, the government lied to the
American people, claiming success
when there was none.
This war has cost 157,000 lives, more
than 775,000 American troops have been
deployed, 2,300 American military per-
sonnel have been killed, and more than
20,000 have been wounded. It has cost
the American people over $2 trillion—
$2 trillion. These costs are tragic, inex-
cusable, and it is time for this war to
end.
The executive branch isn’t the only
branch at fault. Congress has sat back
and let the Executives stretch the
AUMF to the point of breaking. We
have ducked the debates. We have
ducked the hard votes. We need to
change that, and we can start with Af-
ghanistan.
In March, Senator PAUL and I intro-
duced the American Forces Going
Home After Noble Service Act. This act
would responsibly pull our troops out
of Afghanistan. The act declares vic-
tory in Afghanistan, acknowledging
that the original objectives have large-
ly been met. It sets guidelines for the
safe and orderly withdrawal of troops,
and it repeals the 2001 AUMF once and
for all. We should have a vote on this.
Afghanistan is just the largest of our
ongoing Middle Eastern wars. The 9/11
AUMF has been used to justify mili-
tary ventures all around the world—41
times to justify military action in 14
countries. I voted for this authoriza-
tion, and I know full well that Con-
gress did not intend that. More unau-
thorized conflicts are looming on the
horizon.
I was encouraged earlier this year
when the House passed—and a majority
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.039 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7020 December 12, 2019
of the Senate supported—my amend-
ment to prohibit war with Iran absent
congressional authorization.
Tensions with Iran have grown since
the President withdrew from the inter-
national agreement preventing Iran
from developing nuclear weapons. It
has been a year and a half since the
President dropped out of the agree-
ment, claiming he could get a ‘‘better
deal’’ and mounting his ‘‘maximum
pressure’’ strategy. Since then, we
haven’t gotten anywhere close to a bet-
ter deal, but we have gotten much clos-
er to war.
This June we were 10 minutes away
from the President’s calling a strike on
Iran, 10 minutes away from military
escalation in the Gulf. While the Presi-
dent’s maximum pressure campaign
has not succeeded in forcing Iran into a
better deal, it has succeeded in pushing
Iran to breach the nuclear agreement,
and it has led to a cycle of violence in
the region and from Iran, attacking
commercial ships in the Gulf of Oman,
moving short-range ballistic missiles
into Iraq, and threatening U.S. troops
in Israel.
Since May, the President has in-
creased troop presence by 14,000 in the
Middle East, and after initially deny-
ing it, the Pentagon is considering
sending an additional 14,000 troops. The
risk of war with Iran is very real,
whether intentionally or by mistake,
miscalculation, or misjudgment. And
the President claims he can go to war
against Iran without congressional ap-
proval.
In September, this body held a his-
toric vote, voting 50 to 40 to include
the Udall-Kaine-Paul amendment to
the National Defense Authorization
Act to prohibit funding for war with
Iran without congressional authoriza-
tion. We took a giant step forward to
assert our constitutional authority.
This amendment was germane and by
rule it should have been included in the
final Senate NDAA, but the majority
leader forced a 60-vote threshold that
should not have been applied. Never-
theless, the House version did include
the prohibition, and with Senate ma-
jority support, it should have been in-
cluded in the conference.
This week, the Senate and the House
conference committee just released
their NDAA conference report. I am
deeply disappointed that they did not
include our amendment. This is a
major missed opportunity to take back
our authority and a missed oppor-
tunity to stop expansion of war and
U.S. interventionism in the Middle
East. Another terribly missed oppor-
tunity is the NDAA’s failure to include
a provision to eliminate U.S. support
for Saudi Arabia’s disastrous war in
Yemen.
Under the authority of the 2001
AUMF, our troops are supporting Saudi
Arabia in its war against the insurgent
Houthi, but the Houthi are also fight-
ing al-Qaida, the actual target of the
AUMF. We are fighting a group fight-
ing against al-Qaida. This is a prime
example of the misuse of this author-
ization.
The human cost is horrific. Since
2015, more than 100,000 people have
been killed in Yemen, including more
than 12,000 Yemeni citizens. More than
20 million Yemenis need humanitarian
aid. There is no compelling U.S. na-
tional security interest in aiding the
Saudis in this war. We should not be
lending support to a war that the inter-
national community recognizes as a
humanitarian disaster.
In April, both Houses voted on a bi-
partisan basis to remove our troops
from this conflict unless Congress au-
thorized force. The President vetoed
that bipartisan bill. The NDAA con-
ference committee missed an oppor-
tunity to step up and direct the Presi-
dent to take us out of the Saudi-Yemen
conflict. Again, Congress is ducking its
duties. For too long, Congress has hid-
den from making the hard decisions,
from taking the tough votes. We have
deferred to the Executive under Repub-
lican and Democratic administrations
alike. The Founders placed this power
in our hands for a good reason. Those
reasons are as sound today as they
were two centuries ago.
This is not a political issue. It is not
a red or blue issue. It is not a Repub-
lican or Democratic issue. It is a con-
stitutional issue. It goes to the core of
our Constitution and our war powers in
the legislative branch in Congress. Ev-
eryone here has sworn to uphold the
Constitution. We can do so by uphold-
ing, not running from, our constitu-
tional responsibilities.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
TRIBUTE TO JOHNNY ISAKSON
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, JOHNNY
ISAKSON will be a legend in the Senate.
His life is marked with such tremen-
dous service. From his time in the
Georgia Air National Guard to his serv-
ice in the Georgia house and senate,
and on to the U.S. House and the Sen-
ate, Johnny has been making his home
State proud every single step of the
way.
As a fellow veteran, I can’t tell you
how much I especially appreciate Sen-
ator ISAKSON’s relentless and dedicated
focus on veterans’ issues. As chairman
of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Com-
mittee, he has worked tirelessly to put
our veterans first.
One of the most important pieces of
legislation we worked on together was
the VA MISSION Act. Veterans in Iowa
and in Georgia are oftentimes living in
rural areas or are simply homebound.
So with the VA MISSION Act, I knew
that Johnny would be a great ally and
partner to make sure that we
prioritized telehealth and ensure that
veterans could receive necessary care
closer to home, and we did just that.
Folks, the MISSION Act is truly
landmark legislation that is making a
difference in the lives of countless vet-
erans across our Nation. It would not
have been possible without the hard
work and the diligent efforts of our col-
league Senator JOHNNY ISAKSON. He un-
derstands the importance of building
relationships and working across the
aisle, putting our veterans ahead of
politics, and getting his job done. His
determination and commitment to vet-
erans is remarkable, and I will forever
be grateful for his leadership in this
particular area.
I have been asked many times what I
am going to miss about JOHNNY
ISAKSON. Well, there is quite a lot that
I will miss about Johnny, but if I had
to narrow it down to just a few things,
I would say, first, his joy. Johnny al-
ways—always—has a smile on his face.
His joy truly is contagious, and it is
genuine. He loves serving the people of
Georgia, and you can’t help but smile
when you see JOHNNY ISAKSON.
Second is his passion. There is abso-
lutely no doubt in anyone’s mind
around here that Senator JOHNNY
ISAKSON loves his country. You can see
it when he speaks on the floor of the
Senate and in the way he works with
colleagues to fulfill his duties as a Sen-
ator. Georgians really should be very
proud of him.
Finally, for me, I would have to say
his encouragement. When I see Johnny
in the halls or in the cloakroom, al-
ways—no matter how quickly I seem to
be walking—he smiles. He will stop me,
and he will always speak an encour-
aging and a very kind word. I know he
does this not just with his Republican
colleagues but also with our Demo-
cratic friends. While you will not see
that on TV or in the headlines, it is
real, and it is JOHNNY ISAKSON.
That leads me to what I will miss
most of all. I will miss Johnny, plain
and simple. He has never taken his eye
off the ball. He has been committed
and he has been focused on serving the
people of his home State that he loves
so dearly. We will miss Johnny. He has
been a tremendous colleague and a
friend to all of us.
Johnny, you will be missed on this
floor and in these halls. From one vet-
eran to another, thank you for all you
have done for our great veterans, not
just in Georgia, not just in Iowa, but
all across our Nation. May God bless
you, JOHNNY ISAKSON, and may God
bless your family. Thank you for your
service.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
HONORING STEPHEN CARR
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, Stephen
Carr has been described by friends as a
‘‘gentle giant’’ and ‘‘all-American
boy.’’ He enjoyed hunting and fishing.
He played on the offensive line at
Southwest Baptist University.
He came from a law enforcement
family. He always knew he wanted to
be a police officer, so it was little sur-
prise when Stephen joined the Fayette-
ville Police Department 21⁄2 years ago.
He served with professionalism and
valor in those 21⁄2 years as a patrol offi-
cer in the Dickson Street entertain-
ment district.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.041 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7021
December 12, 2019
Sadly, Officer Carr was in his patrol
car Saturday night when he was am-
bushed by a gunman looking for an of-
ficer to kill. Carr’s fellow police heard
the gunshots and responded to the
scene within seconds. With little re-
gard for their own safety, they pursued
the gunman down an alley. When con-
fronted, they met force with force and
took him down. The whole incident
took just minutes from start to finish.
Emergency services were on the
scene within an instant, but despite
their best efforts, they couldn’t save
Officer Carr. He succumbed to his
wounds on the scene, as did his killer.
Officer Carr was only 27 years old.
This tragedy reminds us of the ter-
rible risks officers face every day when
they put on the uniform and the badge,
not knowing whether they will be alive
to take it off that night. Already this
year, 118 officers across America have
been killed in the line of duty. Some
were the victims of random tragedies.
Others, like Officer Carr, were targeted
by a criminal class that hates what the
police represent: law and order.
Since Officer Carr’s killing, two more
officers have fallen in the line of duty.
Detective Joseph Seals, a 15-year vet-
eran of the Jersey City Police Depart-
ment, was shot to death while ap-
proaching two suspected killers. Ser-
geant Kaila Sullivan, a 16-year veteran
of the Nassau Bay Police Department,
was struck and killed by a fleeing sus-
pect in a vehicle. All of these fallen of-
ficers will be remembered as heroes.
In Arkansas, especially, we will re-
member Officer Carr, whose watch
ended on December 7, 2019. May he rest
in peace.
HONORING STOREKEEPER 1ST CLASS JOHN
WILLIAM CRAIG
Mr. President, Navy Storekeeper 1st
Class John William Craig of Monroe,
AR, perished aboard the USS Oklahoma
on December 7, 1941, a date which will
live in infamy. On that day, Imperial
Japanese bombers shattered the morn-
ing calm at Pearl Harbor, killing Petty
Officer Craig and more than 2,000 of his
brothers in arms.
Nearly eight decades later, however,
his remains were listed as unknown
and interred at the National Memorial
Cemetery of the Pacific in Honolulu.
He was reported as missing in action,
but Petty Officer Craig is missing no
more. Thanks to the outstanding work
of the Defense POW/MIA Accounting
Agency, his remains were accounted
for in 2017, and just last weekend, on
the 78th anniversary of the attack on
Pearl Harbor, he arrived home in Ar-
kansas to his final resting place.
Petty Officer Craig’s burial is a long-
overdue moment of honor for a brave
sailor. It is also a moment of hope for
our many military families whose
loved ones haven’t yet been found—a
reminder that our Nation will not rest
until every one of our missing heroes is
back in our arms or laid to rest with
honor.
We have now fulfilled this solemn
pledge to Petty Officer Craig. Nearly 80
years after his disappearance, we have
affirmed once again that the United
States leaves no man behind on the
battlefield.
FENTANYL SANCTIONS ACT
Mr. President, synthetic opioids like
fentanyl kill tens of thousands of
Americans each year. They are a ter-
rible accelerant that has fueled the
worst drug crisis in our Nation’s his-
tory, killing more people every year
than died in the entire Vietnam war.
These drugs aren’t made here in the
United States. No, they are flooding
across our borders from overseas, traf-
ficked by cartels, and, even unwit-
tingly, sometimes by the U.S. Postal
Service.
Synthetic opioids are often produced
in superlabs by the drug cartels that
are terrorizing our border commu-
nities. But the ingredients for those
drugs—and sometimes the drugs them-
selves—can be traced back to a dif-
ferent source: China, whose vast phar-
maceutical and chemical industries
frequently have been abused to poison
our fellow citizens.
The Chinese Communist Party has
been waging an opium war in reverse
against the United States for far too
long. As tens of thousands of Ameri-
cans have perished from overdoses, Chi-
nese officials have turned a blind eye
to the drug criminals who have prof-
ited off of our pain. But now, desperate
for a trade deal to save its sputtering
economy, Beijing has finally promised
to crack down on fentanyl and other
synthetic opioids. But we would be
naive to trust any promise from Chi-
nese Communists, especially this one.
It is time that we take matters into
our own hands. That is exactly what we
will do in the 2020 National Defense Au-
thorization Act, which includes my bill
introduced with Senator SCHUMER to
sanction foreign drug dealers in China,
Mexico, and elsewhere. The bill also
urges the President to work with our
allies to impose even tougher multilat-
eral sanctions against foreign drug
dealers. It authorizes new funding for
law enforcement and the intelligence
community for counternarcotics ac-
tivities. It establishes a commission to
find new ways to stop the flow of drugs
from overseas.
This bill will soon be signed by the
President and become law. This is wel-
come news for law enforcement and for
families who are battling the crisis of
opioid addiction, and it is bad news for
the Chinese Communist Party and for-
eign drug dealers around the world who
are responsible for the poisoning of so
many Americans.
PROTECTING EUROPE’S ENERGY SECURITY ACT
OF 2019
Mr. President, 70 years after the cre-
ation of NATO, the biggest external
threats to the alliance are our revi-
sionist adversaries—China and Russia.
Unfortunately, however, the alliance
faces some internal threats, too,
among the allies themselves, who too
often fail to take these adversaries se-
riously. Instead, they strike dangerous
deals with the very powers that threat-
en to destroy all of us.
Consider the Nord Stream 2 pipeline
project between Germany and Russia.
Germany touts the pipeline’s commer-
cial benefits, but Russia sees it dif-
ferently—as a strategic tool to divide
Europe and thus to strengthen its fic-
tional claim to dominion over parts of
Eastern Europe.
The Nord Stream 2 pipeline would ef-
fectively double the amount of natural
gas Russia could export to Europe
along a route that bypasses the alli-
ance’s eastern frontier. This would
deepen the NATO members’ reliance on
Russian gas while it would enhance
Putin’s ability to engage in energy
blackmail, just as he has done in the
past. For example, in 2009, Russia shut
off the flow of natural gas to Europe
during a dispute with Ukraine, causing
energy shortages across the entire con-
tinent in the dead of winter. Putin’s
opportunities for such blackmail will
only increase if Nord Stream 2 is com-
pleted because he will be able to ship
his gas to Western Europe without its
transiting Eastern Europe. Therefore,
he will be able to blackmail Eastern
Europe while the Germans will sit
warm and toasty in their living
rooms—indifferent to the plight of
their NATO allies to the east.
This pipeline is almost complete, so
the timeline for action is short. Thank-
fully, the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act includes our bill to impose
mandatory sanctions on companies
that are constructing, insuring, or fi-
nancing Vladimir Putin’s pipeline to
Europe. These sanctions are a dem-
onstration of our commitment to the
strength and security of the whole
NATO alliance.
I urge the German Government and
all companies involved in this dan-
gerous endeavor to pull back before it
is too late and to consider the serious
consequences that Nord Stream 2 could
have for their security as well as for
the security of the NATO alliance as a
whole.
JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS
HOMESCHOOL
Mr. President, homeschooling par-
ents sacrifice a lot when they make the
legitimate and indeed very admirable
choice to personally educate their chil-
dren. In effect, these parents are mak-
ing the choice to go back to school
themselves so that their kids may re-
ceive well-rounded and faithful edu-
cations.
Their sacrifices pay off in spades.
Homeschooled students consistently
prove to be outstanding citizens be-
cause they are taught the importance
of patriotism, faith, hard work, and
sacrifice—virtues exemplified by their
parents and their teachers.
Homeschooled students, therefore,
ought to be prime candidates for our
Armed Forces for this very reason, but
until now, in some places, it hasn’t
been clear as to whether homeschooled
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:16 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.037 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7022 December 12, 2019
students have been eligible to join
their local Junior Reserve Officers’
Training Corps Programs. Now that is
going to change.
The 2020 National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act includes my bill—also spon-
sored by Senator JONES—which clari-
fies that homeschooled students may
indeed enroll in their local JROTC Pro-
grams. Our bill will ensure that the Na-
tion’s 2.5 million homeschooled stu-
dents will have the opportunity to
sharpen and deploy their skills in serv-
ice of our country. This will move us
closer to being a society that fully ac-
cepts and indeed celebrates
homeschooling families for the noble
paths they have chosen.
PCS ACT
Mr. President, the 2020 National De-
fense Authorization Act includes many
valuable reforms. One such reform is
the PCS Act, which is legislation I in-
troduced with Senator SHAHEEN, that
helps military spouses keep their occu-
pational licenses even when they are
on the move across State lines.
One in three military spouses works
in a field that requires one to have an
occupational license, and too many
spouses are forced to recertify every
time they move between States. That
can be very often. Most military fami-
lies move every 2 to 3 years, and when
each move requires an expensive, time-
consuming recertification process,
many military spouses might as well
kiss their jobs goodbye. These occupa-
tional licenses are a costly burden for
military families, who have already
sacrificed so much for our country.
Our PCS Act will alleviate this bur-
den by empowering the Department of
Defense and the States to negotiate
interstate compacts for occupational
licenses in fields in which military
spouses often work. These compacts,
which are made possible by our bill,
will ensure that military spouses will
be able to pursue their careers uninter-
rupted even while they are moving
their families from State to State and
base to base. Most importantly, the
PCS Act will allow military families to
focus on their mission, which is to pro-
tect and serve our country with honor.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
TRIBUTE TO HUGH ‘‘BUD’’ FATE
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, it is
that time of week in which I get to
come down to the floor of the U.S. Sen-
ate—a great privilege—and talk about
a special person in Alaska, somebody
who helps to make my State the great-
est State in the country, in my opin-
ion. We call this person our Alaskan of
the Week. It is one of the best things I
get to do all week. I know that the
pages really enjoy it as well because
they get to hear about Alaska and all
of the things that are happening.
Before I recognize our special Alas-
kan, let me tell you a little bit about
what is going on in Alaska right now.
We have had some strange weather in
Southcentral Alaska—warm by our
standards—that being wet and windy,
with gusts over 100 miles per hour in
some places. In Fairbanks, which is in
the interior—I was just up there last
week and am going to talk about that,
for it is where our special Alaskan of
the Week is from—it feels a lot more
like winter. It got down to 27 below
zero last week, and now it is in the sin-
gle digits.
When it comes to Alaska’s interior
weather, there is some debate as to
what the lowest recordbreaking tem-
perature was in Fairbanks. Some say it
was 66 below zero in 1934, and others
say it was in the negative 70 and 70-
below-zero territory.
The numbers do matter. Take it from
Dr. Hugh ‘‘Bud’’ Fate, who is our Alas-
kan of the Week—we call him Bud—
who, during the time he was working
construction on the North Slope in the
early 1950s, once had to walk a mile for
shelter after a tractor he was operating
froze up.
‘‘When I got to the station, they told
me the official temperature was 70 de-
grees below zero,’’ he said. ‘‘I was
dressed for it’’—Bud is a tough guy—
‘‘but my fingers and my toes were get-
ting cold. I don’t think I could have
made another mile,’’ Bud said.
Bud, we know you could have. We
know you could have.
That is just one of many stories that
Bud tells about his 70 years of living in
the great State of Alaska.
So let me talk about Bud Fate—a
legend across our State. He just turned
90 years old last week. He has been a
rodeo cowboy, a college football player,
a roughneck, a soldier, a gold miner, a
carpenter, a hunter, a commercial and
subsistence fisherman, a dog musher, a
bush pilot, a dentist, a businessman, a
State representative, an author, an
artist, an all-around rabble-rouser, and
an Alaskan renaissance man through
and through.
But most importantly, he is a dedi-
cated father, grandfather, husband to
his wife, Mary Jane, for 65 years, and a
man who has lived his life in service to
his country, his State, and his commu-
nity—very worthy of being our Alas-
kan of the Week.
So Bud Fate was born on December 4,
1929—90 years ago last week—and
raised in Eastern Oregon—Cowtown, he
called it. He began riding a horse when
he was just 6 years old, eventually
riding on the rodeo circuit, getting
bucked off horses all across the Amer-
ican West.
He went to college at the University
of Washington, where he initially
played football. After he got hurt, he
enrolled in a drama class and had
dreams, when he made his way to Cali-
fornia, to Hollywood, to work as an
actor or as a stuntman in cowboy mov-
ies and films.
As it turned out, it wasn’t California
that called him; it was Alaska that
called him—specifically, a good job in
the far north of Alaska, a place called
Umiat, working on oil rigs not too far
away from what would become the big-
gest oil find ever in North America, the
mammoth field at Prudhoe Bay. Bud
was 20 years old, working 12 hours a
day, 7 days a week. Even though it was
a barren and cold, cold place—this was
in the winter—he fell in love with it.
Alaska grabbed him, as it does to cer-
tain types of adventuresome, intel-
ligent, and fiercely independent indi-
viduals.
It grabbed Bud, and it didn’t let go—
never let go. He was one of the drillers
working on the shift which brought the
first oil to the surface that came out of
this rig in Umiat. Bud likes to describe
it as this almost beautiful orange
color, some of the first oil in Alaska in
the fifties, early fifties—pretty excit-
ing.
He was working on the slope when, in
1950, a radio message came in where
they were working that the United
States was at war in Korea.
Bud said:
I remember thinking it wouldn’t affect me
way up here on the North Slope of Alaska.
Nobody is going to find me, a 20-year-old, but
2 weeks later, I got my first draft notice.
That is what Bud said. I guess it goes
to show you Uncle Sam can find you
anywhere if he wants you.
As a U.S. Army corporal, Bud was at-
tached to the 11th Airborne Division
when he got deployed not to Korea but
actually back to Alaska. He was
charged with riding the lead Jeep to
conduct the combat survey on all the
twists and turns of the newly con-
structed, 1,700-mile-long Alcan High-
way, advising the mission commanders
about the Arctic, cold weather, and
Alaska.
A couple of years later, he was out of
the Army, back in Alaska, and he was
having a drink one night at the famous
Rendezvous Club in Fairbanks, a
tongue-tied veteran, he was, and in
walks a Miss Alaska contestant—or
should I say, from Bud’s perspective, in
walks destiny.
Whom am I talking about? Who was
the destiny?
Well, it is Mary Jane Evans, a young,
smart—according to Bud—‘‘Hollywood
beautiful’’ Athabaskan woman from
the small Yukon River village of Ram-
part. She took his breath away. As a
matter of fact, she took everybody’s
breath away.
Now, Bud, at this event, was wearing
moccasins. Mary Jane was wearing sti-
lettos, and she promptly stepped on his
toes, but it was still love at first sight
for both of them, and according to Bud,
it still is, 65 years later. For 65 years,
they forged a life together, Bud and
Mary Jane, the theme of which cen-
tered around public service.
Always working together, they raised
three beautiful, kind and keenly intel-
ligent daughters—keenly intelligent—
and they worked to fundamentally
change Alaska for the better, both
through institutions and volunteering
at organizations and through indi-
vidual actions that profoundly im-
pacted so many Alaskans over the
years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.042 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7023
December 12, 2019
Eventually Bud, using the GI bill,
went back to college, and then he went
to get his degree in dentistry. He was a
beloved dentist not only in Fairbanks
but all across the region.
Now, he was a bush pilot, and he had
a plane, so he and Mary Jane, who was
a trained dental assistant, traveled all
around the small villages in the inte-
rior.
Trust me, these villages do not and
certainly back then did not have any
dental care, so they provided dental
care throughout the interior to tiny,
little communities for free, for any-
body who needed it.
As their three daughters were grow-
ing up—Janine, Jennifer, and Julie—it
was a big time, a momentous time, in
Alaska.
The Alaska Native Claims Settle-
ment Act was being debated. One of the
biggest land settlements in American
or all history took place right here on
the floor of the U.S. Senate.
Bud and Mary Jane were both highly
involved in this monumentally impor-
tant bill for Alaska and in the over-
arching efforts to attain rights and
lands for the Alaska Native people.
One of Bud’s best friends was Ralph
Perdue, a strong Alaska Native leader,
who, along with Mary Jane and Bud,
founded the Fairbanks Native Associa-
tion. Working together, they focused
heavily on education for Alaska Na-
tives, particularly high school edu-
cation, something most Americans
take for granted. Until 1970, rural Alas-
ka—a huge swath of America—by and
large did not have any high schools.
The small communities, small villages,
did not have any high schools. To get a
high school education, young students
and even children had to leave their
homes and their villages and travel to
boarding schools in very faraway
places in Alaska and in the lower 48.
Now, that was an injustice—one,
among others, that the Fairbanks Na-
tive Association decided to tackle.
They produced studies. They gave lec-
tures. They talked to State officials.
They talked to Federal officials. They
and so many others across the State
helped lay the groundwork for the sem-
inal lawsuit brought by a group of
Alaskans that resulted in a State-
signed consent decree to provide high
schools in communities throughout the
State—communities with at least 15
students—rather than sending their
children all across Alaska, hundreds of
miles away, or to the lower 48, thou-
sands of miles away.
At the time, this education settle-
ment was the largest education settle-
ment in American history, but Bud’s
commitment to education didn’t stop
there—not even close. He was on the
Board of Regents for the University of
Alaska, eventually serving as president
of the university. It should be noted
that later, Mary Jane, his wife, also
served on this very important board.
With a combined 24 years of service
together, Bud and Mary Jane were on
the University of Alaska Board of Re-
gents. Bud helped run the university
when the president abruptly resigned.
He and Mary Jane also opened their
home to villagers all across the State
who came to Fairbanks and just needed
a place to stay. They knew that Bud
and Mary Jane would take them in.
‘‘Our house was always full,’’ their
lovely daughter Julie said.
There were always people living with us
who were empowering themselves through
education. To this day, I still have Alaskans
stop to tell me how they were helped and
given a second chance by my parents.
As Julie also noted, there was always
a huge amount of smoked salmon
strips on the table for all to share—the
best smoked salmon in Alaska, I might
add.
There is so much more to Bud Fate’s
life. For instance, at the young, tender
age of 70, he decided he was going to
run for office. He ran for the State leg-
islature, and he won in a landslide. He
served two terms. He was immediately
elected chairman of the Natural Re-
sources Committee, which is a huge,
important committee in Alaska, and
was highly respected on both sides of
the aisle.
The list of boards and commissions
that he sat on is way too long to go
into here, as is the list of service orga-
nizations he has volunteered for and
led.
He has known Presidents of countries
and dignitaries from all over the globe.
He is as comfortable at his fish camp
on the Yukon River as he is in the
board room.
As I mentioned, he is a rabble rouser
with very strong opinions—I have
heard them for many years, but at
heart all of his opinions are focused on
a commitment to treat everybody with
respect and kindness and provide every
Alaskan—every American—an oppor-
tunity to better themselves.
He is a good man—Bud Fate—one of
the best. The measure of Bud and the
impact of his life is probably best re-
flected in his family and his friends, so
many of whom gathered in Fairbanks
on December 4 for his 90th birthday,
where people from all walks of life all
across the State came together—well
over 100—talked about his generosity,
how it impacted them, how it impacted
families, and how it impacted people
all around him.
People gave speeches about how he
and Mary Jane took in people from all
walks of life—veterans coming back
from Vietnam who needed comfort and
respect, people who needed a helping
hand, food, warmth, just love. He lifted
people up, so did Mary Jane, and they
saved lives.
I was actually one of those people
giving a speech in Fairbanks at Bud’s
90th birthday party, and I talked about
the profound impact Bud has had on
my own life—after all, Bud Fate is my
father-in-law, and I can’t imagine a
better one.
He has taught me so much. Bud and
Mary Jane, along with my own mom
and dad, have provided me a model—
actually, for me and Julie, my wife, of
what a true partnership looks like. He
is a model for how fulfilling a life of
service can be, especially a life in the
great State of Alaska.
As I mentioned, he is not just a
model for me but for the whole State of
a life well lived and a life lived in full.
So, Bud, thanks for all you have done
for Alaska, for America, for Fairbanks,
for our family, for our great State, and
all you continue to do. Thanks for
being a great father-in-law and a
friend, and, Bud, congratulations on
being our Alaskan of the Week.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO KIAH MORRIS
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I re-
cently had the pleasure of meeting
with my friend, former Vermont State
Representative Kiah Morris, who
among many distinctions was only the
second African-American woman ever
elected to the Vermont Legislature.
Kiah’s talents are far-reaching. She has
also been an actress of stage, film, and
television, spoken word performance,
as a singer, dancer, and arts manager.
Whether as a legislator or on a theater
stage, Kiah’s work has focused on am-
plification of the voices of oppressed
people, on human rights, and on social
justice.
It was in keeping that Kiah recently
traveled to El Salvador and Honduras
under the auspices of Oxfam America
to meet with families struggling with
the violence, poverty, lack of oppor-
tunity, injustice, and hopelessness that
is causing thousands of destitute,
frightened people to abandon their
homes to seek refuge elsewhere. In
those countries, Kiah saw where people
had been gunned down, victims of
gangs or corrupt police. She listened to
the stories of threats and extortion, of
kidnappings and deadly attacks, of fear
and desperation. Inspired by the people
she met and outraged by the brutality
they described, she wrote a poem.
I ask unanimous consent that Kiah’s
poem, which captures the essence of
what the debate here over Central
American refugees should be about, be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
I SAW THE PLACES THEY DIED
(By Kiah Morris 2019)
I saw the places they died
I saw the places they died
I saw the blood on the wall as if it were fresh
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.045 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7024 December 12, 2019
I saw the bullet holes pierce their flesh
I saw the places where they died and their
spirits left their bodies onto a heavenly
place
Far from a war-torn country of our design
which orchestrated their demise
On the darkened brick walls splashed with
stucco
Metal bars on windows each home a fortress
from the violence that hovers in wait
across the thresholds
Street vendors who compete for our
Starbucks money to feed their souls
and nourish their dreams
I saw the places they died in the tears behind
the eyes of a priest who saw too much
Mental memorials to the expressions of
horror and sadness on the face of a
mother who died trying to save their
daughter’s life captured in the space
between his eyes and the weight of
their loss
Their state-sanctioned murders designed to
leave no witnesses behind
Ordered bullets to fillet her face to ensure no
viewer could recognize their own moth-
er’s eyes in her frozen gaze
I saw the places where they died, where the
children were not spared
No life too precious to halt corruption and
gang warfare
Daily genocides where there are no sacred
spaces or sanctuaries in which to hide
I saw the places that they died in the cobble-
stone streets
Where people are pawns in a corruptors
endgame
The depth of the violence bears no shame
I saw the places where they died when I
heard the women speak of the terror
that they face every day,
Every week
The normalcy of rape, the dignity decimated,
the beatings meant to break and the
constant earthquakes that shake the
fragile state
I saw the places they died in the hopeful
smiles of the proud feminists who carry
the burdens of their sisters as a shield
To protect the dignity of their humanity
which too often is forced to yield
I saw the places they died, float off into still
air
Laden with promises unfulfilled and hidden
ambitions laid bare
I craft petals with poem to form a bouquet
dropped off in a history of genocide
With the hope the path these roses display
will propagate a garden in honor of the
many places they died.
f
TRIBUTE TO MAJOR BRAD CATON
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I rise to
pay tribute to MAJ Brad Caton for his
exemplary dedication to duty while
serving as a Department of Defense
congressional fellow and a congres-
sional budget liaison for the Assistant
Secretary of the Army, Financial Man-
agement and Comptroller. This month,
he will begin his transition to serve as
a budgetary analyst in the Army’s
Budget Office.
As a native of Libby, MT, Brad was
commissioned as an infantry officer
upon graduation from the University of
Montana, where he earned a bachelor’s
of science degree in business adminis-
tration. A dedicated scholar, Brad went
on to earn his master of business ad-
ministration from the University of
Montana and later a master’s degree in
legislative affairs from the George
Washington University. Brad has been
very successful in his Army career and
has served in a broad range of assign-
ments.
His billets have spanned from serving
as an infantry platoon commander
with the 4th Infantry Division with a
deployment to Iraq to assignments
managing the Army’s financial re-
sources. Brad exemplifies what it
means to be a Montanan with his lead-
ership, perseverance, and versatility.
This was evident during his first as-
signment as a budget analyst for U.S.
Army Central Command and while he
commanded the Pontiac Recruiting
Company in Eastern, MI. Following
command, Brad continued to display
his Montana Resolve as the support op-
erations officer at Camp Carroll, Re-
public of Korea. Additionally, he was
deployed to the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan while serving as the deputy as-
sistant chief of staff, financial manage-
ment for the 1st Armored Division.
In 2017, Brad served as my Depart-
ment of Defense congressional fellow.
For a year, I had the privilege of work-
ing closely with Brad. He was ex-
tremely passionate about serving and
representing Montanans. He consist-
ently went above and beyond his imme-
diate responsibilities to work in areas
outside of the veterans and defense
realm. He used his insight as a Mon-
tanan to provide critical local feedback
on rural Montana priorities, including
Tribal and energy issues. He was al-
ways thinking of Montana while rep-
resenting the Department of Defense in
my office. Following his fellowship,
Brad transitioned to serve as a con-
gressional budget liaison for the U.S.
Army. In this capacity Brad arranged
and escorted me over to visit the Mon-
tana National Guard while they were
deployed to Afghanistan over the holi-
days. He continued to work tirelessly
with all Members of Congress and their
staffs to accurately articulate the
Army’s budget positions to the Appro-
priations Committees. His profes-
sionalism, diligence, and commitment
to the mission are unmatched, and his
work both as a fellow and as a liaison
was outstanding and represented the
Department of Defense and U.S. Army
to the U.S. Congress well.
The foundation of Brad’s military
success is his family and his Montana
roots. In fact, Brad bought a house in
Red Lodge during his fellowship which
he hopes to retire to 1 day. He is a de-
voted husband to his wife, Eryn Beck-
man of Colstrip, MT, and a committed
father to his children, Isabel, Evan,
Pierce, and Audrey. Brad and Eryn’s
attitude of service, sacrifice, and care
for others permeates every organiza-
tion and activity they participate in,
and they are truly examples of servant
leaders in the Army and their commu-
nities.
Throughout his career, Brad has ex-
emplified what it truly means to be a
Montanan as he positively impacted
soldiers, peers, and superiors. Our
country has benefited tremendously
from his extraordinary leadership,
judgment, and passion. I join my col-
leagues today in honoring his dedica-
tion to our Nation and his invaluable
service to the U.S. Congress as an
Army congressional liaison.
It has been a genuine pleasure to
have worked with MAJ Brad Caton
over the past 3 years. On behalf of a
grateful nation, I join my colleagues
today in recognizing and commending
Brad for his service to our country, and
we wish him all the best as he con-
tinues service in the U.S. Army.
f
TRIBUTE TO JEREMY WHEELER
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I rise to
formally express my appreciation to
Mr. Jeremy Wheeler. Jeremy is a con-
gressional relations officer in the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs. However,
over the last year, he served as a fellow
on my national security and veterans
team.
Jeremy has supported my work help-
ing the veterans of Indiana and the Na-
tion using his exceptional knowledge of
the Veterans Affairs system and his ex-
perience working with many of the vet-
erans service organizations. A dedi-
cated public servant, Jeremy has spent
much of the last two decades serving
our Nation. He served in the U.S. Army
for 6 years, including two combat tours
in Iraq in 2003 and 2005. After 5 years
working in Hollywood, he returned to
government service at the Department
of Veterans Affairs and has spent much
of this decade working to improve the
quality and access to care for our Na-
tion’s heroes, establish deeper relation-
ships with veterans service organiza-
tions, and strengthen the VA’s out-
reach and communications capabili-
ties.
In my office this year, he has pro-
vided valuable insight into how the leg-
islation before this Chamber would be
implemented and how it would impact
the VA’s ability to continue serving
our veterans. And perhaps most im-
pressively, I am not sure how many of-
fices on Capitol Hill can boast an
Emmy-winning staff member. This is
just one of the many unique contribu-
tions Jeremy has brought to my office.
In the last year, I have continually
been impressed with Jeremy’s work
ethic, professionalism, candor, and
knowledge.
Next month, Jeremy will be return-
ing to the VA, where I have no doubt
he will continue seeking innovative
ways to caring for veterans. I wish him
the best in all his endeavors, and I look
forward to working with him in the fu-
ture.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
25TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
VETERANS GUEST HOUSE
∑ Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I come forward today to recognize the
25th anniversary of the Veterans Guest
House.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.007 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7025
December 12, 2019
The Veterans Guest House has long
been one of Reno’s best kept secrets.
This ‘‘home away from home’’ is one of
the only facilities of its kind in the
country serving U.S. military veterans
and their families, providing tem-
porary overnight accommodations for
veterans receiving treatment at a med-
ical facility in the Reno-Sparks area.
In the early 1990s, veterans visiting the
Veterans Administration Medical Cen-
ter of the Sierra, VAMC, in Reno no-
ticed that the family members of vet-
erans were sleeping in their cars be-
cause they couldn’t afford lodging
while their loved one was in the hos-
pital. Even some veterans were sleep-
ing in their cars so they could arrive
for appointments and other treat-
ments. It was clear that this was not
acceptable, and so our generous North-
ern Nevada community went to work
to do better for our veterans.
In 1994, Reno’s Spouse House opened
its doors in an old bungalow-style
home right near the VAMC in Reno. It
had a handful of beds, and in those
early years, the House provided lodging
to about 800 guests each year. In the 25
years since that time, the Veterans
Guest House has evolved and expanded
to better meet the needs of our vet-
erans and their families. In 2002, the
nonprofit took the name ‘‘Veterans
Guest House’’ to reflect its broader
mission of assisting both veterans and
their families, and in 2004, a new 12-bed
home was built. By 2012, the nonprofit
had acquired another property and ex-
panded the bed total to 17, allowing
them to provide more than 5,000 guest
nights that year. Recently, construc-
tion concluded on the latest expansion
bringing total capacity to 33 beds.
The Veterans Guest House is key to
connecting our community to our vet-
erans, providing a variety of ways to
show our support for our veterans and
their families and the sacrifices made
by both. Volunteers are welcome at the
Veterans Guest House to help provide
the organization ongoing support doing
everything from cleaning rooms, to as-
sisting in small repairs, to helping with
fundraisers. Community groups, fami-
lies, and businesses also are encouraged
to provide a home-cooked meal for the
guests or help fill the needs of the
agency’s ‘‘Wish List.’’ Most guests re-
side more than 30 miles away from the
hospital, and so having that support for
them and their families is crucial.
Guests are asked to make a donation
to support the work of the House, but
no one is turned away because they
can’t pay. The organization relies com-
pletely on donations and receives no
Federal or State funding.
I am so pleased to recognize the 25th
anniversary of the Veterans Guest
House and the critical services and sup-
port it provides to our veterans and
their families.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ALYSSA LIEDLE-
CAISSEY AND KAI BAUER
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
the first set of graduates from Ana-
conda Junior/Senior High School’s Cop-
per Academy, Alyssa Liedle-Caissey
and Kai Bauer.
The Anaconda Junior/Senior High
School’s Copper Academy allows stu-
dents to learn at a different pace and in
a unique environment which includes
the use of online programs that have
visual demonstrations and expla-
nations for different educational re-
quirements.
Alyssa and Kai both took a chance
participating in this program, and it
paid off. They both graduated 6 months
early. I am very proud of these two
young Montanans for pushing them-
selves and showing the Anaconda com-
munity that this new, individualized
program allows students to thrive.
Congratulations to Alyssa and Kai on
their graduation from the Copper Acad-
emy. I wish them the best of luck as
they transition into the next steps of
their lives.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MELISSA MATTHEWS
AND BELLE RAE ZACHESKY/COPP
∑ Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I am
proud to recognize Melissa Matthews
and Belle Rae Zachesky/Copp of Ray-
mond as December’s Granite Staters of
the Month for seeking to turn their
own grief into positive change and
mental wellness for their community.
In the last few months, both Melissa
and Belle have lost someone dear to
them. Melissa lost her husband,
Graham, to suicide on September 30,
2019; and her niece, 8-year-old Belle,
lost her father, Jesse, to an opioid
overdose the next day, on October 1.
In response to their shared grief and
to distract from their sadness Melissa
and Belle are seeking to raise aware-
ness about the importance of mental
wellness in their community. Belle and
Melissa have started promoting wrist-
bands with the slogan ‘‘Lets change the
‘I’ in mental illness with ‘WE’ for men-
tal wellness,’’ to help spread this im-
portant message to others.
The two have also started a
Facebook page to try to create an on-
line community of support and posi-
tivity. The group’s name, MW War-
riors—MW standing for mental
wellness—was inspired by the song
‘‘Warrior’’ by singer Demi Lovato, who
has struggled with drug addiction and
depression.
Their story is another inspiring ex-
ample of how people across New Hamp-
shire come together during difficult
times to support one another. This is
particularly true as the opioid crisis
continues to ravage our State, and it is
crucial that we continue to be there for
the loved ones of those whom we have
lost.
Melissa and Belle are trying to do the
challenging but important work of pro-
moting positive change, all while bat-
tling their own loss and channeling
their energy to help others.
Thank you, Melissa and Belle, for
your strength and courage.∑
100 SEASONS OF THE NATIONAL
FOOTBALL LEAGUE
∑ Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to recognize the 100th season of
the National Football League.
Ohio has a rich football history. In
1920, 10 teams gathered in Canton, OH,
to form the American Professional
Football Association. Of those original
10 teams, Cleveland, Canton, Akron,
Columbus, and Dayton were all in the
lineup. Further, the Dayton Triangles
hosted the first-ever NFL game in 1921
against the Columbus Panhandles.
Home to the Cleveland Browns and
the Cincinnati Bengals, Ohio has con-
tinued to embrace the legacy and tradi-
tion of America’s game. The birthplace
of the NFL, Canton’s Pro Football Hall
of Fame sees 225,000 visitors annually.
Additionally, Ohio natives Don Shula,
Chuck Noll, Paul Brown, Roger
Staubach, and Cris Carter are among
the 326 players who have been inducted
into the Hall of Fame. Further, Cleve-
land looks forward to hosting the 2021
NFL draft, and I was proud to advocate
for this selection last year.
Since its first season in 1920, the NFL
has grown from humble beginnings to a
national pastime known as America’s
game. Represented in 22 States by 32
teams, the NFL has united commu-
nities across the Nation through live
games and televised events. In fact, the
Super Bowl has become the single
most-watched annual television event
in the United States.
I commend the NFL for their contin-
ued philanthropic and volunteer ef-
forts. Through working to honor vet-
erans, promote cancer awareness, and
encourage healthy lifestyles, the
league has embraced community
through sport. I applaud the commit-
ment of the NFL, its staff, and all who
were involved in reaching this mile-
stone and making the first 100 seasons
of the NFL a success.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO NANCY WHITWORTH
∑ Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. Mr.
President, today I would like to take a
moment to recognize Ms. Nancy Whit-
worth of Greenville, SC, for her over 40
years of service to Greenville County. I
extend my congratulations to her on
her upcoming retirement and wish to
reflect on her successful career.
As the longtime economic developer
and deputy city manager for the city of
Greenville, Nancy was responsible for
commercial and neighborhood revital-
ization, downtown development, busi-
ness recruitment and retention, plan-
ning and zoning, and building codes.
She has also authored articles on
Greenville’s award-winning downtown
and meets frequently with other cities
to share Greenville’s success story.
Last year, she was awarded with the
2018 Local Economic Developer of the
Year award.
Ms. Whitworth is to be commended
for her role in spurring the dramatic
growth and revitalization Greenville
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12DE6.032 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7026 December 12, 2019
has seen in the past decades. Through
her leadership and dedication to her
community, she has been an invaluable
asset to the Upstate of South Carolina.
Ms. Whitworth is a shining example of
a dedicated public servant and should
inspire us all to give our best to our
communities. I would like to person-
ally commend and thank Ms. Whit-
worth for her decades of service that
encouraged Greenville’s economic pros-
perity and success.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:09 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 729. An act to amend the Coastal Zone
Management Act of 1972 to authorize grants
to Indian Tribes to further achievement of
Tribal coastal zone objectives, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 5038. An act to amend the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act to provide for
terms and conditions for nonimmigrant
workers performing agricultural labor or
services, and for other purposes.
The message also announced that the
House agreed to the report of the com-
mittee of conference on the disagreeing
votes of the two Houses on the amend-
ment of the House of Representatives
to the bill (S. 1790) to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 729. An act to amend the Coastal Zone
Management Act of 1972 to authorize grants
to Indian Tribes to further achievement of
Tribal coastal zone objectives, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 5038. An act to amend the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act to provide for
terms and conditions for nonimmigrant
workers performing agricultural labor or
services, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
without amendment:
S. 877. A bill to prohibit the sale of shark
fins, and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–
173).
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute:
S. 1822. A bill to require the Federal Com-
munications Commission to issue rules re-
lating to the collection of data with respect
to the availability of broadband services, and
for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–174).
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, without amendment and
with an amended preamble:
S. Con. Res. 23. A concurrent resolution
honoring the 75th Anniversary of the Battle
of the Bulge fought during World War II, rec-
ognizing the valiant efforts of the Allied
Forces in December 1944, and remembering
those who made the ultimate sacrifice, all of
which contributed to the Allied victory in
the European Theater.
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute:
S. 2641. A bill to promote United States na-
tional security and prevent the resurgence of
ISIS, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORT OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive report of a
nomination was submitted:
By Mr. ALEXANDER for the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
* Crosby Kemper III, of Missouri, to be Di-
rector of the Institute of Museum and Li-
brary Services for a term of four years.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and
Mr. BOOKER):
S. 3029. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to make pre-
mium and cost-sharing subsidies available to
low-income Medicare part D beneficiaries
who reside in Puerto Rico or another terri-
tory of the United States; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 3030. A bill to require the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to establish
a national evictions database, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. CRUZ,
Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr.
PERDUE, Mr. ROMNEY, and Mr.
SASSE):
S. 3031. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to add membership in a
significant transnational criminal organiza-
tion to the list of grounds of inadmissibility
and to prohibit the provision of material
support or resources to such organizations;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BENNET:
S. 3032. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow for transfers of the
renewable electricity production credit, the
energy credit, and the credit for carbon oxide
sequestration; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida):
S. 3033. A bill to establish a K–12 education
cybersecurity initiative, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO):
S. 3034. A bill to make trade adjustment
assistance available to workers whose jobs
are eliminated through automation, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. LEE,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. COONS, Ms. HARRIS,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. HIRONO, and Mr.
LEAHY):
S. 3035. A bill to provide that the amount
of time that an elderly offender must serve
before being eligible for placement in home
detention is to be reduced by the amount of
good time credits earned by the prisoner, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. JONES (for himself, Mr. COT-
TON, and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 3036. A bill to amend the Truth in Lend-
ing Act to prohibit the distribution of any
check or other negotiable instrument as part
of a solicitation by a creditor for an exten-
sion of credit, to limit the liability of con-
sumers in conjunction with such solicita-
tions, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms.
COLLINS, and Mr. ISAKSON):
S. 3037. A bill to prevent international vio-
lence against women, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Ms.
ERNST):
S. 3038. A bill to promote innovative acqui-
sition techniques and procurement strate-
gies, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
ROUNDS):
S. 3039. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to establish a grant pro-
gram to conduct cemetery research and
produce educational materials for the Vet-
erans Legacy Program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Ms. ROSEN (for herself, Mr.
WICKER, Ms. HASSAN, and Mr. ROM-
NEY):
S. 3040. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to include teacher prepara-
tion for computer science in elementary and
secondary education; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself, Ms.
ERNST, and Ms. SINEMA):
S. 3041. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure that medical profes-
sionals employed by the Veterans Health Ad-
ministration are properly credentialed, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 3042. A bill to amend title 46, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of the
department in which the Coast Guard is op-
erating to prescribe additional regulations to
secure the safety of individuals and property
on board certain small passenger vessels, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr.
MORAN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, and Mrs.
CAPITO):
S. 3043. A bill to modernize training pro-
grams at aviation maintenance technician
schools, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:33 Mar 02, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\S12DE9.REC S12DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7027
December 12, 2019
S. 3044. A bill to amend the American’s
Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 to expand
the Indian reservation drinking water pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Indian Affairs.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. 3045. A bill to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to protect United States
critical infrastructure by ensuring that the
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency has the legal tools it needs to notify
private and public sector entities put at risk
by cybersecurity vulnerabilities in the net-
works and systems that control critical as-
sets of the United States; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 3046. A bill to amend the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 to establish a program to provide
grants and loan guarantees to improve the
energy efficiency of publicly owned waste-
water treatment facilities, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mrs.
CAPITO, and Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 3047. A bill to amend the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 to require the Secretary of En-
ergy to establish a carbon technologies pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 3048. A bill to authorize certain aliens
seeking asylum to be employed in the United
States while their applications are being ad-
judicated; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
BURR):
S. 3049. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for certain
amendments relating to reporting require-
ments with respect to clinical diagnostic
laboratory tests, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
THUNE, Mr. BROWN, and Mr. PERDUE):
S. 3050. A bill to amend the Federal Finan-
cial Institutions Examination Council Act of
1978 to provide designees of the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs and the Administrator of
the Rural Housing Service of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture with positions on the
Appraisal Subcommittee of the Federal Fi-
nancial Institutions Examination Council; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself and
Mr. CARPER):
S. 3051. A bill to improve protections for
wildlife, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
By Mr. MORAN:
S.J. Res. 61. A joint resolution approving
the request of the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs for a waiver under section 1703E(f) of
title 38, United States Code; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and
Mr. SCHUMER):
S.J. Res. 62. A joint resolution dis-
approving the recommendation of the Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Aviation Admin-
istration to realign Binghamton, NY (BGM)
TRACON operations and Elmira, NY (ELM)
TRACON operations to Wilkes-Barre/Scran-
ton, PA (AVP) TRACON; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. COONS,
Mr. UDALL, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY, and Mr.
BOOKER):
S. Res. 453. A resolution honoring the Em-
ployees of the Department of State and the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
CARDIN, Ms. COLLINS, and Mr. KAINE):
S. Res. 454. A resolution calling for the im-
mediate release of Cuban democracy activist
Jose Daniel Ferrer and commending the ef-
forts of Jose Daniel Ferrer to promote
human rights and fundamental freedoms in
Cuba; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. MCCONNELL:
S. Res. 455. A resolution to authorize rep-
resentation by the Senate Legal Counsel in
the Case of Richard Arjun Kaul v. Senator
Charles Schumer, et al; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. BROWN, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HASSAN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. MURPHY, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. COONS, Mrs. MURRAY,
and Ms. HIRONO):
S. Con. Res. 30. A concurrent resolution
recognizing the need to improve physical ac-
cess to many federally funded facilities for
all people of the United States, particularly
individuals with disabilities; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW), the Senator from Ten-
nessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN), the Senator
from Arkansas (Mr. COTTON), the Sen-
ator from New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND),
the Senator from Michigan (Mr. PE-
TERS), the Senator from Louisiana (Mr.
KENNEDY) and the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN) were added as cosponsors
of S. 133, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal, collectively, to the
United States merchant mariners of
World War II, in recognition of their
dedicated and vital service during
World War II.
S. 299
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 299, a bill to amend title
VII of the Public Health Service Act to
reauthorize programs that support
interprofessional geriatric education
and training to develop a geriatric-ca-
pable workforce, improving health out-
comes for a growing and diverse aging
American population and their fami-
lies, and for other purposes.
S. 668
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mr. MANCHIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 668, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
waive coinsurance under Medicare for
colorectal cancer screening tests, re-
gardless of whether therapeutic inter-
vention is required during the screen-
ing.
S. 685
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Louisiana (Mr.
KENNEDY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 685, a bill to amend the Inspector
General Act of 1978 relative to the pow-
ers of the Department of Justice In-
spector General.
S. 803
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. GRAHAM) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 803, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to re-
store incentives for investments in
qualified improvement property.
S. 877
At the request of Mr. BENNET, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
877, a bill to prohibit the sale of shark
fins, and for other purposes.
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
877, supra.
S. 903
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
903, a bill to direct the Secretary of En-
ergy to establish advanced nuclear
goals, provide for a versatile, reactor-
based fast neutron source, make avail-
able high-assay, low-enriched uranium
for research, development, and dem-
onstration of advanced nuclear reactor
concepts, and for other purposes.
S. 1032
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
names of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) and the Senator from
Wyoming (Mr. ENZI) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1032, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to mod-
ify the definition of income for pur-
poses of determining the tax-exempt
status of certain corporations.
S. 1151
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of Flor-
ida, the name of the Senator from Ne-
vada (Ms. ROSEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1151, a bill to prohibit
contracting with persons that have
business operations with the Maduro
regime, and for other purposes.
S. 1380
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1380, a bill to amend the Federal Rules
of Criminal Procedure to remind pros-
ecutors of their obligations under Su-
preme Court case law.
S. 1381
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1381, a bill to modify the
presumption of service connection for
veterans who were exposed to herbicide
agents while serving in the Armed
Forces in Thailand during the Vietnam
era, and for other purposes.
S. 1421
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.017 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7028 December 12, 2019
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1421, a bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to the 23d Headquarters
Special Troops and the 3133d Signal
Service Company in recognition of
their unique and distinguished service
as a ‘‘Ghost Army’’ that conducted de-
ception operations in Europe during
World War II.
S. 1583
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1583, a bill to amend the Lead-Based
Paint Poisoning Prevention Act to pro-
vide for additional procedures for fami-
lies with children under the age of 6,
and for other purposes.
S. 1602
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1602, a bill to amend the
United States Energy Storage Com-
petitiveness Act of 2007 to establish a
research, development, and demonstra-
tion program for grid-scale energy
storage systems, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1657
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from Col-
orado (Mr. BENNET) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1657, a bill to provide as-
sistance to combat the escalating bur-
den of Lyme disease and other tick and
vector-borne diseases and disorders.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE) and the Senator from
Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1757, a bill to award
a Congressional Gold Medal, collec-
tively, to the United States Army
Rangers Veterans of World War II in
recognition of their extraordinary serv-
ice during World War II.
S. 1820
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Sen-
ator from Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1820, a
bill to improve the integrity and safety
of horseracing by requiring a uniform
anti-doping and medication control
program to be developed and enforced
by an independent Horseracing Anti-
Doping and Medication Control Au-
thority.
S. 1908
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1908, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to improve the efficiency of summer
meals.
S. 2024
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2024, a bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to improve the
American History for Freedom grant
program.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2085, a bill to authorize
the Secretary of Education to award
grants to eligible entities to carry out
educational programs about the Holo-
caust, and for other purposes.
S. 2160
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) was
added as a cosponsor of S. 2160, a bill to
require carbon monoxide alarms in cer-
tain federally assisted housing, and for
other purposes.
S. 2321
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from Ne-
vada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 2321, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to mint a coin
in commemoration of the 100th anni-
versary of the establishment of Negro
Leagues baseball.
S. 2449
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2449, a bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to require licenses to ac-
quire or receive firearms, and for other
purposes.
S. 2547
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2547, a bill to state the policy of the
United States with respect to the ex-
pansion of cooperation with allies and
partners in the Indo-Pacific region and
Europe regarding the People’s Republic
of China.
S. 2590
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2590, a bill to protect the dignity
of fetal remains, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2615
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2615, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to improve the his-
toric rehabilitation tax credit, and for
other purposes.
S. 2627
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 2627, a bill to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to allow an above-the-line deduc-
tion for attorney fees and costs in con-
nection with civil claim awards.
S. 2661
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2661, a bill to amend the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 to designate 9–8-8
as the universal telephone number for
the purpose of the national suicide pre-
vention and mental health crisis hot-
line system operating through the Na-
tional Suicide Prevention Lifeline and
through the Veterans Crisis Line, and
for other purposes.
S. 2695
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
names of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) and the Senator
from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2695, a bill to au-
thorize the Secretary of Agriculture to
provide for the defense of United States
agriculture and food through the Na-
tional Bio and Agro-Defense Facility,
and for other purposes.
S. 2741
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) and the Senator from
South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2741, a bill to amend
title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to expand access to telehealth services,
and for other purposes.
S. 2754
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
names of the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE) and the Senator from
Alabama (Mr. JONES) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2754, a bill to create jobs
and drive innovation and economic
growth in the United States by sup-
porting and promoting the manufac-
ture of next-generation technologies,
including refrigerants, solvents, fire
suppressants, foam blowing agents,
aerosols, and propellants.
S. 2765
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. RISCH)
was added as a cosponsor of S. 2765, a
bill to improve Federal fiscal controls
and the congressional budget process.
S. 2774
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2774, a bill to direct the
Attorney General to establish and
carry out a Veteran Treatment Court
Program.
S. 2815
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2815, a bill to require the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint
coins in commemoration of the Na-
tional Purple Heart Honor Mission.
S. 2831
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
names of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) and the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2831, a bill to amend
title 51, United States Code, to modify
the national space grant college and
fellowship program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2898
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN), the Senator from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.019 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7029
December 12, 2019
Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY), the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN) and
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
SMITH) were added as cosponsors of S.
2898, a bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to provide for a full annu-
ity supplement for certain air traffic
controllers.
S. 2941
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2941, a bill to require the
Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency to establish a con-
sumer recycling education and out-
reach grant program, and for other
purposes.
S. 2942
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) were added as cosponsors of
S. 2942, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide that
certain contributions by government
entities are treated as contributions to
capital.
S. 2949
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2949, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make
grants to eligible organizations to pro-
vide service dogs to veterans with se-
vere post-traumatic stress disorder,
and for other purposes.
S. 2976
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2976, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide an
election to advance future child tax
credits in the year of birth or adoption.
S. 2989
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2989, a bill to amend title XI of the So-
cial Security Act to clarify the mailing
requirement relating to social security
account statements.
S. 3001
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 3001, a bill to provide for
certain extensions with respect to the
Medicare and Medicaid programs under
titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Se-
curity Act, and for other purposes.
S. 3004
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3004, a bill to protect human
rights and enhance opportunities for
LGBTI people around the world, and
for other purposes.
S. 3016
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 3016, a bill to amend the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to
ensure that consumers can make in-
formed decisions in choosing between
meat products such as beef and imita-
tion meat products, and for other pur-
poses.
S.J. RES. 4
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, his
name and the names of the Senator
from New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN)
and the Senator from Massachusetts
(Mr. MARKEY) were added as cosponsors
of S.J. Res. 4, a joint resolution requir-
ing the advice and consent of the Sen-
ate or an Act of Congress to suspend,
terminate, or withdraw the United
States from the North Atlantic Treaty
and authorizing related litigation, and
for other purposes.
S. RES. 98
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Alaska
(Ms. MURKOWSKI) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 98, a resolution es-
tablishing the Congressional Gold Star
Family Fellowship Program for the
placement in offices of Senators of
children, spouses, and siblings of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces who are hos-
tile casualties or who have died from a
training-related injury.
S. RES. 371
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 371, a resolution reaffirming
the support of the United States for
the people of the Republic of South
Sudan and calling on all parties to up-
hold their commitments to peace and
dialogue as outlined in the 2018 revital-
ized peace agreement.
S. RES. 385
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 385, a resolution cele-
brating the 30th anniversary of the fall
of the Berlin Wall, the reunification of
both Germany and Europe, and the
spread of democracy around the world.
S. RES. 447
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 447, a resolution express-
ing serious concern about widespread
irregularities in Bolivia’s October 20,
2019, general elections and supporting
the convening of new elections in Bo-
livia at the earliest possible date.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
LEE, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
COONS, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Ms. HIRONO, and
Mr. LEAHY):
S. 3035. A bill to provide that the
amount of time that an elderly of-
fender must serve before being eligible
for placement in home detention is to
be reduced by the amount of good time
credits earned by the prisoner , and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 3035
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Elderly
Home Detention Pilot Program Technical
Corrections Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. CREDITS FOR CERTAIN ELDERLY NON-
VIOLENT OFFENDERS.
Section 231(g)(5)(A)(ii) of the Second
Chance Act of 2007 (34 U.S.C.
60541(g)(5)(A)(ii)) is amended by striking ‘‘to
which the offender was sentenced’’ and in-
serting ‘‘reduced by any credit toward the
service of the prisoner’s sentence awarded
under section 3624(b) of title 18, United
States Code’’.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 3042. A bill to amend title 46,
United States Code, to require the Sec-
retary of the department in which the
Coast Guard is operating to prescribe
additional regulations to secure the
safety of individuals and property on
board certain small passenger vessels,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to introduce the ‘‘Small Pas-
senger Vessel Safety Act of 2019’’.
This bill would prevent future trage-
dies like the one that happened on-
board the Conception passenger vessel
off the coast of Santa Cruz Island, Cali-
fornia. This was the worst maritime
disaster in modern California history,
and my thoughts continue to be with
the victims and their loved ones.
On September 2, 2019, thirty-four peo-
ple were tragically killed onboard the
vessel when a fire started while pas-
sengers were sleeping below deck after
a nighttime swim. The victims of the
boat fire—thirty-three passengers and
one crewmember—were athletes, immi-
grants, CEO’s, and students. All were
united by love of the water, marine
life, and their adventurous spirit.
The Conception boat fire was a trag-
edy that must never be allowed to hap-
pen again. Reports indicate the fire
consumed the boat, including the
salon, galley compartment, and the aft
deck, and causes include overloading of
the electric system, possibly from re-
chargeable devices with lithium ion
batteries. The lack of an inter-
connected fire alarm system through-
out the vessel meant passengers and
crew were not made aware of the fire
until key areas of escape were already
engulfed. Critical time—time that
could have saved lives—was lost. This
bill addresses these issues and poten-
tial causes.
While investigations by the National
Transportation Safety Board and the
Coast Guard are still ongoing, it is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.021 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7030 December 12, 2019
clear regulatory changes are needed to
ensure small passenger vessels have the
right safety measures in place to limit
the possibility of fire and help evac-
uate the vessel of passengers in the
event a fire does start.
The Conception is one of about 325
small passenger vessels built before
1996 and exempt from stricter safety
standards imposed on newer vessels.
This bill offers a number of common-
sense provisions that will improve pas-
senger vessel safety. These include: re-
quiring these types of vessels to have
no less than two avenues of escape
from all areas accessible to passengers;
mandating safety standards for the
handling, storage and operation of lith-
ium ion batteries; and, establishing
standards for interconnected fire alarm
systems.
I appreciate the hard work of the Na-
tional Transportation Safety Board
and the U.S. Coast Guard Inspections
and Compliance Directorate. I espe-
cially appreciate the Commandant’s
Marine Safety Information Bulletin
issued on September 10 reminding own-
ers, operators and masters of passenger
vessels to adhere to the regulations re-
lated to firefighting, lifesaving, emer-
gency preparation and means of escape.
And, more specifically, I appreciate the
attention to the issue of unsupervised
charging of lithium-ion batteries and
the extensive use of power strips and
extension cords.
Given the horrific nature of this
tragedy, it is imperative that we estab-
lish stricter safety standards onboard
these boats where so many children
and families have such enjoyment. I be-
lieve this bill is a pragmatic, common-
sense solution to improve safety on
these older vessels, and I urge it to be
included in the Coast Guard Reauthor-
ization Act.
Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the
floor.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Ms. SINEMA):
S. 3048. A bill to authorize certain
aliens seeking asylum to be employed
in the United States while their appli-
cations are being adjudicated; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
today to introduce the Asylum Seeker
Work Authorization Act of 2019, which
is similar to a bill introduced by Rep-
resentative PINGREE in the House. My
bill would allow asylum seekers to
seek employment 30 days after apply-
ing for asylum, provided their applica-
tions are not frivolous, their identities
have been verified, and their names run
through the Federal government’s ter-
rorist watch lists. This change would
allow asylum applicants to work and
contribute to society without being de-
pendent on assistance from local gov-
ernments while their claims are being
adjudicated.
Under current law, asylum seekers
must wait 180 days after filing their ap-
plications before they are allowed to
work. The 180-day requirement was
adopted by the Clinton Administration
in 1994 out of concern that some asy-
lum seekers might apply for asylum
primarily as a means of getting a work
authorization. Clearly, this change has
only transferred the burden of care for
these asylum seekers onto commu-
nities across the Nation.
One such community is Portland,
Maine. Earlier this year, over the span
of several weeks, a surge of asylum
seekers from the Democratic Republic
of the Congo and Angola arrived in
Portland after crossing our southern
border. These asylum seekers could
have given a much-needed boost to
Maine’s very tight labor market—our
unemployment rate is just 2.8 per-
cent—but the lengthy work-authoriza-
tion process prevents these asylum
seekers from getting jobs even to sup-
port themselves.
Thankfully, the Emergency Supple-
mental Appropriations for Humani-
tarian Assistance and Security at the
Southern Border Act of 2019 made
funds available to assist local commu-
nities dealing with a sudden influx of
asylum seekers. The City of Portland
and private organizations in southern
Maine received $892,586 from that Act.
While I am pleased that these funds
have been provided to Portland and
other communities around our coun-
try, it would be a better solution if
those seeking asylum were able to join
the workforce and achieve self-suffi-
ciency as quickly as possible while
awaiting the outcome of their cases.
It is my hope that the change pro-
posed by my bill will lessen the burden
on the budgets of communities hosting
asylum seekers while allowing these
individuals and their families to sup-
port themselves as they want to do,
bringing needed skills to the cities and
towns in which they settle. I encourage
my colleagues to support it.
By Mr. MORAN:
S.J. Res. 61. A joint resolution ap-
proving the request of the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs for a waiver under
section 1703E(f) of title 38, United
States Code; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to submit the fol-
lowing letter from U.S. Secretary of
Veterans Affairs, Robert L. Wilkie, for
the RECORD.
So Ordered.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC 20510.
DEAR SENATOR MCCONNELL: In accordance
with the requirements of section 1703E(f)(2)
of title 38, United States Code, enclosed is
the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) re-
port on a request for a waiver to allow VA to
pilot community partnered collaborations to
expand dental care for Veterans. We request
that copies of this waiver be provided to the
Chair and Ranking Member of applicable
standing committees with jurisdiction to re-
port a bill to amend the provision or provi-
sions of law that would be waived by VA,
consistent with section 1703E(f)(3).
As required by section 1703E(f)(2), the en-
closed report describes in detail the specific
authorities to be waived under the pilot pro-
gram; the standard or standards to be used in
the pilot program in lieu of the waived au-
thorities; the reasons for such waiver or
waivers; a description of the metric or
metrics VA will use to determine the effect
of the waiver or waivers upon the access to
and quality, timeliness, or patient satisfac-
tion of care and services furnished through
the pilot program; the anticipated cost sav-
ings, if any, of the pilot program; the sched-
ule for interim reports on the pilot program
describing the results of the pilot program so
far and the feasibility and advisability of
continuing the pilot program; the schedule
for the termination of the pilot program and
the submission of a final report on the pilot
program describing the result of the pilot
program and the feasibility and advisability
of making the pilot program permanent; and
the estimated budget of the pilot program.
Consistent with section 17.450 of title 38,
Code of Federal Regulations, this report also
includes the geographic locations for each
pilot program, the rationale for those selec-
tions, and how VA believes the selected loca-
tions will address deficits in care for a de-
fined population; any applicable provision of
existing regulations implementing any laws
to be waived; and any more specific defini-
tions of terms included in section 17.450(b),
as necessitated by the specific provisions of
the proposed pilot program.
The Office of Management and Budget ad-
vises that there is no objection to the sub-
mission of this waiver proposal to Congress
and that its enactment would be in accord
with the program of the President.
Thank you for your continuing support of
our mission. A similar letter has been sent
to other leaders of the Congress and the
House and Senate Committees on Veterans’
Affairs.
Sincerely,
ROBERT L. WILKIE.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 453—HON-
ORING THE EMPLOYEES OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND
THE UNITED STATES AGENCY
FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT, AND FOR OTHER PUR-
POSES
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. COONS, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY, and Mr. BOOK-
ER) submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 453
Whereas more than 81,000 people serve as
employees of the Department of State and
the United States Agency for International
Development, including locally employed
staff, protecting and advancing national se-
curity, freedom, democracy, development,
and free markets, for the benefit of the peo-
ple of the United States and the inter-
national community;
Whereas employees of the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development together rep-
resent the United States in maintaining dip-
lomatic relations in over 250 posts in 180
countries around the world, including in
many inhospitable and dangerous regions;
Whereas employees of the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development promote Amer-
ican values and interests at home and abroad
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.028 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7031
December 12, 2019
through their work and actions, promoting
the safety and freedom of all Americans;
Whereas employees of the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development are a central
component of our defense against inter-
national terrorism and the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction;
Whereas employees of the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development work to preserve
peace and freedom and promote economic
prosperity and mutual understanding around
the world;
Whereas employees of the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development daily work to re-
duce poverty, end hunger and malnutrition,
fight disease, combat international crime
and illegal drugs, and address environmental
degradation;
Whereas employees of the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development daily work to
promote economic development, commercial
enterprises, economic prosperity, and United
States job and trade promotion;
Whereas employees of the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development daily work to
promote American ideals and values, human
rights, freedom, gender equality, and democ-
racy;
Whereas employees of the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development daily work to
provide emergency and humanitarian assist-
ance aid to respond to crises around the
globe;
Whereas there are almost 50,000 local em-
ployees at posts that aid and support the
work of the United States and the Depart-
ment of State around the world;
Whereas at least 250 United States citizen
employees, as well as family members, and
many more locally employed staff, of the De-
partment of State and the United States
Agency for International Development have
made the ultimate sacrifice on behalf of
their Nation;
Whereas employees of the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development personify the vir-
tues of patriotism, sacrifice, service, and
duty;
Whereas the families of employees of the
Department of State and the United States
Agency for International Development make
important and significant sacrifices for the
United States;
Whereas multiple career Foreign Service
and civil service employees of the Depart-
ment of State upheld their oaths to defend
the Constitution, uphold the law, and pro-
vide testimony in response to lawful sub-
poenas from congressional oversight hear-
ings, risking their careers and personal safe-
ty for service to their nation;
Whereas these courageous employees of the
Department of State, individuals who have
served the Nation with distinction and rep-
resent our Nation’s finest, include Ambas-
sador Marie Yovanovitch, a distinguished ca-
reer public servant who dedicated 33 years of
her life as a Foreign Service Officer; Ambas-
sador William Taylor, a diplomat who start-
ed his 50-year public service as a West Point
cadet and served in every Administration
since 1985; George Kent a career foreign serv-
ice officer with multiple postings throughout
the Department since 1992; Jennifer Wil-
liams, a 13-year veteran of the Foreign Serv-
ice who has served overseas in Beirut and Ja-
maica, managed the United States Govern-
ment’s humanitarian assistance program for
Syrian refugees from 2011 to 2014, and, most
recently, has served as the Vice President’s
assistant on European and Russian affairs
since April 2019; Ambassador David Hale,
who has served around the world for more
than three decades with the Department, in-
cluding as Ambassador to Pakistan, Lebanon
and Jordan, and in his current role as Under
Secretary of State for Political Affairs;
David Holmes, who joined the foreign service
in 2002 and was awarded the William Rivkin
award for Constructive Dissent in 2014; Peter
Michael McKinley, whose career in the for-
eign service spanned more than 35 years and
included service as ambassador to Peru, Co-
lombia, Afghanistan and Brazil, and Senior
Adviser to Secretary Mike Pompeo; Philip
Reeker, a 27-year veteran of the foreign serv-
ice, including as acting assistant secretary
of the Bureau of European and Eurasian Af-
fairs; Catherine M. Croft, who has served as
a special advisor for Ukraine in the State
Department and on the National Security
Council staff; and Christopher Anderson, a
foreign service officer since 2005, who served
at the United States Embassy in Kyiv from
2014 to 2017 and as the special adviser for
Ukraine negotiations from August 2017 to
July 2019; and
Whereas the Department of State has rep-
resented to Congress that ‘‘no employee has
faced any adverse action by the Department
for testimony before Congress’’ and com-
mitted that ‘‘the Department will not dis-
cipline any Department employee for appear-
ing before Congress in response to a sub-
poena’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) honors the employees of the Depart-
ment of State and the United States Agency
for International Development;
(2) calls on the people of the United States
to reflect on the service and sacrifice of em-
ployees of the Department of State and the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment, wherever they serve, past,
present, and future;
(3) thanks the local employees for their aid
and support in the mission of the Depart-
ment of State and the United States Agency
for International Development;
(4) expresses the deep appreciation of a
grateful Nation to the employees of the De-
partment of State and the United States
Agency for International Development who
each and every day courageously and pub-
licly stand up for their country and defend
the Constitution, including those who have
provided testimony to Congress in response
to lawful subpoenas;
(5) urges the Department to fully and
faithfully implement all its stated commit-
ment to assist employees called to testify
before Congress with the cost of legal fees;
and
(6) calls on the Department to ensure that
no personnel will face any retaliatory action,
adverse personnel action, or other negative
consequence for testifying or providing re-
quested information to Congress, and empha-
sizes that any reprisal for testifying before
Congress would be a violation of law.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 454—CALL-
ING FOR THE IMMEDIATE RE-
LEASE OF CUBAN DEMOCRACY
ACTIVIST JOSE DANIEL FERRER
AND COMMENDING THE EFFORTS
OF JOSE DANIEL FERRER TO
PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS AND
FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS IN
CUBA
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
CARDIN, Ms. COLLINS, and Mr. KAINE)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 454
Whereas José Daniel Ferrer Garcı́a is a
Cuban democracy and human rights activist
who has dedicated his life to promoting
greater political pluralism and respect for
fundamental freedoms in Cuba;
Whereas Mr. Ferrer was born in Cuba on
July 29, 1970, in the province of Santiago de
Cuba;
Whereas, in the late 1990s, Mr. Ferrer
joined the Christian Liberation Movement
(MCL), a peaceful political movement led by
late Cuban activist Oswaldo Paya;
Whereas, through coordination with the
MCL, Mr. Ferrer helped lead the Varela
Project, an initiative to collect the signa-
tures of citizens to petition the Government
of Cuba for democratic reforms and protec-
tions for freedom of speech, freedom of the
press, and freedom of assembly;
Whereas, in March 2003, as part of a series
of sweeping arrests of 75 democracy activ-
ists, Mr. Ferrer was arrested by Cuban au-
thorities for his work on the Varela Project
and sentenced to 25 years in prison;
Whereas, in March 2004, Amnesty Inter-
national declared the group of 75 democracy
activists, including Mr. Ferrer, to be pris-
oners of conscience and called for their im-
mediate and unconditional release;
Whereas, in 2009, Mr. Ferrer was honored
with the Democracy Award given annually
by the National Endowment for Democracy;
Whereas, in March 2011, as part of an
agreement brokered by the Catholic Church,
Mr. Ferrer refused to abandon his homeland
and was released from prison to remain in
Cuba;
Whereas, in August 2011, Mr. Ferrer found-
ed the Patriotic Union of Cuba (UNPACU), a
nonviolent political movement dedicated to
promoting human rights, democratic prin-
ciples, and fundamental freedoms in Cuba;
Whereas, on June 7, 2012, Mr. Ferrer testi-
fied via digital video conference at a hearing
of the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
Whereas, since he was released from jail in
March 2011, Mr. Ferrer has been frequently
harassed, regularly surveilled, and repeat-
edly jailed by Cuban authorities for his role
in UNPACU;
Whereas, on October 1, 2019, Mr. Ferrer was
imprisoned arbitrarily by Cuban authorities
for his leadership of UNPACU and outspoken
advocacy for human rights and democratic
principles in Cuba;
Whereas, on October 1, 2019, Cuban authori-
ties detained 3 other members of UNPACU,
Fernando González Vailant, José Pupo
Chaveco, and Roilan Zarraga Ferrer;
Whereas a letter from Mr. Ferrer was
smuggled out of prison stating that he had
been tortured, mistreated, and denied proper
medical attention, and that his life was put
in danger while in detention;
Whereas the family of Mr. Ferrer has been
permitted to visit him only twice since he
was imprisoned arbitrarily on October 1,
2019, and the wife of Mr. Ferrer reported that
she saw evidence that he had been physically
abused and mistreated; and
Whereas, on November 28, 2019, the Euro-
pean Parliament approved a resolution con-
demning the arbitrary detention of Mr.
Ferrer and calling for his immediate release:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) condemns the arbitrary imprisonment
of leading Cuban democracy and human
rights activist José Daniel Ferrer and calls
for his immediate and unconditional release;
(2) urges Cuban authorities to grant Mr.
Ferrer immediate access to medical care and
independent legal counsel;
(3) calls for the immediate and uncondi-
tional release of all members of the Patriotic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.033 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7032 December 12, 2019
Union of Cuba (UNPACU) that have been ar-
bitrarily imprisoned;
(4) commends Mr. Ferrer for his unwaver-
ing commitment to advance democratic
principles, human rights, and fundamental
freedoms in Cuba; and
(5) recognizes the important contributions
of UNPACU and all of its members for their
efforts to promote greater respect for demo-
cratic principles, human rights, and funda-
mental freedoms in Cuba.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 455—TO AU-
THORIZE REPRESENTATION BY
THE SENATE LEGAL COUNSEL IN
THE CASE OF RICHARD ARJUN
KAUL V. SENATOR CHARLES
SCHUMER, ET AL
Mr. MCCONNELL submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 455
Whereas, Senator Charles Schumer has
been named as a defendant in the case of
Richard Arjun Kaul v. Senator Charles Schu-
mer, et al., Case No. 19–CV–13477–BRM–JAD,
currently pending in the United States Dis-
trict Court for the District of New Jersey;
Whereas, pursuant to sections 703(a) and
704(a)(1) of the Ethics in Government Act of
1978, 2 U.S.C. §§ 288b(a) and 288c(a)(1), the
Senate may direct its counsel to defend
Members of the Senate in civil actions relat-
ing to their official responsibilities: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate Legal Counsel is
authorized to represent Senator Schumer in
the case of Richard Arjun Kaul v. Senator
Charles Schumer, et al.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send to the desk a resolution author-
izing representation by the Senate
Legal Counsel and ask for its imme-
diate consideration.
Mr. President, this resolution con-
cerns a civil action pending in New Jer-
sey Federal court against Senator
Schumer and various private entities.
The plaintiff previously brought a law-
suit arising out of the revocation of his
medical license by the New Jersey
State Board of Medical Examiners, and
that lawsuit was dismissed. In this law-
suit, plaintiff asserts a conspiracy
among Senator Schumer and two large
insurance companies, a bank, a law
firm, and a media company, to obstruct
and undermine plaintiff’s previous law-
suit by having the Senator use his in-
fluence over the presiding judge to dis-
miss the case. Plaintiff’s claims
against Senator Schumer are subject
to dismissal for failure to State a
claim and on jurisdictional grounds.
This resolution would authorize the
Senate Legal Counsel to represent Sen-
ator Schumer in order to seek dis-
missal of the claims against him.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 30—RECOGNIZING THE
NEED TO IMPROVE PHYSICAL
ACCESS TO MANY FEDERALLY
FUNDED FACILITIES FOR ALL
PEOPLE OF THE UNITED
STATES, PARTICULARLY INDI-
VIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. BROWN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. HASSAN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. MURPHY, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
COONS, Mrs. MURRAY, and Ms. HIRONO)
submitted the following concurrent
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions:
S. CON. RES. 30
Whereas the First Amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States—
(1) prevents Congress from making any law
respecting an establishment of religion, pro-
hibiting the free exercise of religion, or
abridging the freedom of speech, the freedom
of the press, the right to peaceably assemble,
or the right to petition for a governmental
redress of grievances; and
(2) was ratified on December 15, 1791, as 1 of
the 10 amendments that constitute the Bill
of Rights;
Whereas the Bill of Rights, specifically the
First Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, calls for the right of all indi-
viduals to peaceably assemble, meaning that
all individuals, regardless of their physical
ability, shall be offered equal opportunity to
access all amenities that are federally fund-
ed, in whole or part, with the exception of
certain sites of historical importance ap-
proved by the Architectural and Transpor-
tation Barriers Compliance Board (referred
to in this preamble as the ‘‘United States
Access Board’’) or a nonpartisan commission
convened by the United States Access Board;
Whereas, in the 29 years since the signing
of the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.), there have been
advances in technologies that benefit indi-
viduals with disabilities, such as automatic
doors;
Whereas, in 2018, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention reported that—
(1) 61,000,000 individuals in the United
States have a disability that impacts major
life activities;
(2) 1 of every 7 adults experience a mobility
impairment, which is the most common form
of disability; and
(3) as people age, disability becomes in-
creasingly common, affecting an estimated 2
of every 5 older adults;
Whereas, as significant advances in med-
ical treatment result in improved health
outcomes, the incidence of disability has in-
creased over time;
Whereas, in 2016, an estimated 25.1 percent
of veterans in the United States, or more
than 2,000,000 individuals, reported having a
service-connected disability;
Whereas the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to in-
sure that certain buildings financed with
Federal funds are so designed and con-
structed as to be accessible to the physically
handicapped’’, approved August 12, 1968 (42
U.S.C. 4151 et seq.) (commonly known as the
‘‘Architectural Barriers Act of 1968’’), was
enacted to ensure that certain federally
funded facilities are designed and con-
structed to be accessible to individuals with
disabilities;
Whereas title V of the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791 et seq.)—
(1) prohibits discrimination against a per-
son with a disability in programs and activi-
ties funded by the Federal Government;
(2) requires the elimination of architec-
tural barriers for Federal employees and ap-
plicants with disabilities; and
(3) established the United States Access
Board;
Whereas the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.)—
(1) prohibits discrimination against a per-
son with a disability by a State or local gov-
ernment, including any department, agency,
special purpose district, or other instrumen-
tality of a State or local government, in pro-
grams and activities, transportation, com-
munications, and the built environment;
(2) prohibits discrimination against a per-
son with a disability in the activities of a
place of public accommodation, which is an
entity that is—
(A) generally open to the public; and
(B) within a category described in that
Act, such as a restaurant, movie theater,
school, day care facility, or doctor’s office;
and
(3) requires a newly constructed or altered
place of public accommodation or commer-
cial facility (such as a factory, warehouse, or
office building) to comply with the Stand-
ards for Accessible Design;
Whereas the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C.
3601 et seq.)—
(1) prohibits discrimination on the basis of
disability in multifamily housing, including
military family housing; and
(2) requires the elimination of architec-
tural barriers in common areas;
Whereas the United States Access Board
has developed new guidelines for public
rights-of-way that address various issues, in-
cluding access for blind pedestrians at street
crossings, wheelchair access to on-street
parking, and various constraints posed by
space limitations, roadway design practices,
slope, and terrain;
Whereas the new guidelines developed by
the United States Access Board cover pedes-
trian access to sidewalks and streets, includ-
ing crosswalks, curb ramps, street fur-
nishings, pedestrian signals, parking, and
other components of public rights-of-way;
Whereas the aim of the United States Ac-
cess Board in developing the new guidelines
includes ensuring that—
(1) access for individuals with disabilities
is provided wherever a pedestrian way is
newly built or altered; and
(2) the same degree of convenience, connec-
tion, and safety afforded the public generally
is available to pedestrians with disabilities;
Whereas, on the date on which the Attor-
ney General adopts the new guidelines, the
guidelines will become enforceable standards
under title II of the Americans with Disabil-
ities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12131 et seq.); and
Whereas the United States was founded on
the principles of equality and freedom, and
such principles require that all individuals,
including individuals with disabilities, are
able to engage as equal members of society:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That Congress—
(1) recognizes the importance of equal op-
portunity for individuals with disabilities in
the United States;
(2) recognizes that too many facilities of
Federal, State, and local governments re-
main inaccessible to individuals with disabil-
ities due to architectural and other barriers;
(3) reaffirms its support of and requires full
compliance with—
(A) the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to insure that
certain buildings financed with Federal
funds are so designed and constructed as to
be accessible to the physically handicapped’’,
approved August 12, 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151 et
seq.) (commonly known as the ‘‘Architec-
tural Barriers Act of 1968’’);
(B) title V of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
(29 U.S.C. 791 et seq.);
(C) the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.); and
(D) the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 et
seq.); and
(4) pledges to make universal and inclusive
design a guiding principle for all infrastruc-
ture bills and projects and will continue
working to identify and remove the barriers
that prevent all people of the United States,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE6.034 S12DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7033
December 12, 2019
including individuals with disabilities, from
having equal access to the services provided
by the Federal Government.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 1256. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
CRAMER) proposed an amendment to the con-
current resolution S. Con. Res. 23, honoring
the 75th Anniversary of the Battle of the
Bulge fought during World War II, recog-
nizing the valiant efforts of the Allied Forces
in December 1944, and remembering those
who made the ultimate sacrifice, all of which
contributed to the Allied victory in the Eu-
ropean Theater.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 1256. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
CRAMER) proposed an amendment to
the concurrent resolution S. Con. Res.
23, honoring the 75th Anniversary of
the Battle of the Bulge fought during
World War II, recognizing the valiant
efforts of the Allied Forces in Decem-
ber 1944, and remembering those who
made the ultimate sacrifice, all of
which contributed to the Allied victory
in the European Theater; as follows:
Between the seventh and eighth whereas
clauses in the preamble, insert the following:
Whereas, the heroic defense of Bastogne by
the 101st Airborne Division became personi-
fied by General Anthony McAuliffe’s reply to
the German request to surrender with one
word: ‘‘Nuts!’’;
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have 5 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, December
12, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a closed
hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, December 12, 2019, at 10.30
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR,
AND PENSIONS
The Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Thursday, December 12, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing nomi-
nation of Crosby Kemper III, of Mis-
souri, to be Director of the Institute of
Museum and Library Services.
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
The Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Thursday,
December 12, 2019, at 10 a.m., to con-
duct a closed hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON SECURITY
The Subcommittee on Security of the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, December 12, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
f
APPOINTMENT
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair, on behalf of the Vice President,
pursuant to 14 U.S.C. 194(a), as amend-
ed by Public Law 101–595, and further
amended by Public Law 113–281, ap-
points the following Senator to the
Board of Visitors of the U.S. Coast
Guard Academy: The Honorable ROGER
WICKER of Mississippi.
f
AUTHORIZING REPRESENTATION
BY THE SENATE LEGAL COUN-
SEL IN THE CASE OF RICHARD
ARJUN KAUL V. SENATOR
CHARLES SCHUMER, ET AL
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 455, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 455) to authorize rep-
resentation by the Senate Legal Counsel in
the case of Richard Arjun Kaul v. Senator
Charles Schumer, et al.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 455) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
HONORING THE 75TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE BATTLE OF THE
BULGE FOUGHT DURING WORLD
WAR II
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar No. 326, S. Con. Res. 23.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 23)
honoring the 75th Anniversary of the Battle
of the Bulge fought during World War II, rec-
ognizing the valiant efforts of the Allied
Forces in December 1944, and remembering
those who made the ultimate sacrifice, all of
which contributed to the Allied victory in
the European Theater.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution, which had been reported
from the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions, without amendment, and with an
amendment to the preamble as follows:
S. CON. RES. 23
Whereas the Battle of the Bulge was the last
major German offensive in Western Europe dur-
ing World War II, designed to split the Allied
Forces, regain the initiative in the West, and
pressure the Allies to seek a negotiated peace;
Whereas, in the Ardennes region of Belgium
and Luxembourg, more than 650,000 troops from
the United States, Great Britain, Belgium, Can-
ada, and other Allied Forces defeated Germany
in the Battle of the Bulge, which began Decem-
ber 16, 1944, and ended January 25, 1945;
Whereas the Battle of the Bulge resulted in
over 89,000 United States casualties, including
19,000 soldiers killed, 47,500 wounded, and more
than 23,000 captured or missing-in-action;
Whereas the Allied Forces overcame formi-
dable obstacles that included being greatly out-
numbered by the German Army, harsh weather
conditions, and the treacherous and unknown
terrain of the Ardennes Forest region of Belgium
and Luxembourg;
Whereas, on December 17, 1944, during one of
the worst atrocities of the war in Europe, the
Malmedy Massacre, 84 unarmed American pris-
oners of war were shot by troops of the 1st SS
Panzer Division;
Whereas 11 African American soldiers of the
333rd Field Artillery Battalion were massacred
by SS troops near Wereth, Belgium, and were
identified as James Stewart of West Virginia,
Due Turner of Arkansas, Curtis Adams of South
Carolina, Mager Bradley of Mississippi, George
Davis, Jr. of Alabama, Thomas Forte of Mis-
sissippi, Robert Green of Georgia, James
Leatherwood of Mississippi, Nathaniel Moss of
Texas, George Moten of Texas, and William
Pritchett of Alabama;
Whereas the impressive leadership of Lieuten-
ant General George S. Patton of the Third Army
accelerated the success of the Allied Forces dur-
ing the Battle of the Bulge;
Whereas, although Belgium lost more than
74,000 civilians during the war, in addition to
many more having suffered through other atroc-
ities that come with war, the people of Belgium
persevered through the difficult period of time
and rebuilt their lives the best they could after
the war ended;
Whereas the success of the Allied Forces in
beating back the German attack in the Battle of
the Bulge made possible the final defeat and
surrender of Nazi Germany in May 1945;
Whereas the citizens of Belgium and Luxem-
bourg have generously hosted thousands of
United States veterans and kept the memory of
the Battle of the Bulge alive through numerous
memorials and museums, including the Henri-
Chapelle American Cemetery and Memorial, the
Ardennes American Cemetery and Memorial, the
Luxembourg American Cemetery, the Battle of
the Ardennes Museum, the Bastogne War Mu-
seum, and the Bastogne December Historic
Walk; and
Whereas, after the Battle of the Bulge ended,
British Prime Minister Winston Churchill said,
‘‘This is undoubtedly the greatest American bat-
tle of the war and will, I believe, be regarded as
an ever-famous American victory.’’: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That the Senate—
(1) commemorates, on December 16, 2019,
the 75th Anniversary of the Battle of the
Bulge in World War II;
(2) recognizes the valiant efforts of the var-
ious Allied Forces; and
(3) remembers the individuals who made
the ultimate sacrifice, which contributed to
the Allied victory in the European Theater.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:09 Dec 18, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\S12DE9.REC S12DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7034 December 12, 2019
to; that the committee-reported
amendment to the preamble be agreed
to; that the Cramer amendment at the
desk to the preamble be agreed to; that
the preamble, as amended, be agreed
to; and that the motions to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (S. Con.
Res. 23) was agreed to.
The committee-reported amendment
to the preamble was agreed to.
The amendment (No. 1256) to the pre-
amble was agreed to as follows:
(Purpose: To add language to the preamble)
Between the seventh and eighth whereas
clauses in the preamble, insert the following:
Whereas, the heroic defense of Bastogne by
the 101st Airborne Division became personi-
fied by General Anthony McAuliffe’s reply to
the German request to surrender with one
word: ‘‘Nuts!’’;
The preamble, as amended, was
agreed to.
The concurrent resolution with its
preamble, as amended, read as follows:
S. CON. RES. 23
Whereas the Battle of the Bulge was the
last major German offensive in Western Eu-
rope during World War II, designed to split
the Allied Forces, regain the initiative in the
West, and pressure the Allies to seek a nego-
tiated peace;
Whereas, in the Ardennes region of Bel-
gium and Luxembourg, more than 650,000
troops from the United States, Great Brit-
ain, Belgium, Canada, and other Allied
Forces defeated Germany in the Battle of the
Bulge, which began December 16, 1944, and
ended January 25, 1945;
Whereas the Battle of the Bulge resulted in
over 89,000 United States casualties, includ-
ing 19,000 soldiers killed, 47,500 wounded, and
more than 23,000 captured or missing-in-ac-
tion;
Whereas the Allied Forces overcame formi-
dable obstacles that included being greatly
outnumbered by the German Army, harsh
weather conditions, and the treacherous and
unknown terrain of the Ardennes Forest re-
gion of Belgium and Luxembourg;
Whereas, on December 17, 1944, during one
of the worst atrocities of the war in Europe,
the Malmedy Massacre, 84 unarmed Amer-
ican prisoners of war were shot by troops of
the 1st SS Panzer Division;
Whereas 11 African American soldiers of
the 333rd Field Artillery Battalion were mas-
sacred by SS troops near Wereth, Belgium,
and were identified as James Stewart of
West Virginia, Due Turner of Arkansas, Cur-
tis Adams of South Carolina, Mager Bradley
of Mississippi, George Davis, Jr. of Alabama,
Thomas Forte of Mississippi, Robert Green
of Georgia, James Leatherwood of Mis-
sissippi, Nathaniel Moss of Texas, George
Moten of Texas, and William Pritchett of
Alabama;
Whereas the impressive leadership of Lieu-
tenant General George S. Patton of the
Third Army accelerated the success of the
Allied Forces during the Battle of the Bulge;
Whereas, the heroic defense of Bastogne by
the 101st Airborne Division became personi-
fied by General Anthony McAuliffe’s reply to
the German request to surrender with one
word: ‘‘Nuts!’’;
Whereas, although Belgium lost more than
74,000 civilians during the war, in addition to
many more having suffered through other
atrocities that come with war, the people of
Belgium persevered through the difficult pe-
riod of time and rebuilt their lives the best
they could after the war ended;
Whereas the success of the Allied Forces in
beating back the German attack in the Bat-
tle of the Bulge made possible the final de-
feat and surrender of Nazi Germany in May
1945;
Whereas the citizens of Belgium and Lux-
embourg have generously hosted thousands
of United States veterans and kept the mem-
ory of the Battle of the Bulge alive through
numerous memorials and museums, includ-
ing the Henri-Chapelle American Cemetery
and Memorial, the Ardennes American Cem-
etery and Memorial, the Luxembourg Amer-
ican Cemetery, the Battle of the Ardennes
Museum, the Bastogne War Museum, and the
Bastogne December Historic Walk; and
Whereas, after the Battle of the Bulge
ended, British Prime Minister Winston
Churchill said, ‘‘This is undoubtedly the
greatest American battle of the war and will,
I believe, be regarded as an ever-famous
American victory.’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That the Senate—
(1) commemorates, on December 16, 2019,
the 75th Anniversary of the Battle of the
Bulge in World War II;
(2) recognizes the valiant efforts of the var-
ious Allied Forces; and
(3) remembers the individuals who made
the ultimate sacrifice, which contributed to
the Allied victory in the European Theater.
ORDERS FOR FRIDAY, DECEMBER
13, 2019, AND MONDAY, DECEM-
BER 16, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn and then convene for a pro
forma session only, with no business
being conducted, on Friday, December
13, at 11:45 a.m. I further ask that when
the Senate adjourns on Friday, Decem-
ber 13, it next convene at 3 p.m., Mon-
day, December 16; that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate resume con-
sideration of the conference report to
accompany S. 1790; finally, that not-
withstanding the provisions of rule
XXII, the cloture motion filed during
today’s session ripen at 5:30 p.m., Mon-
day.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 11:45 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 5 p.m., adjourned until Friday, De-
cember 13, 2019, at 11:45 a.m.
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate December 12, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
AURELIA SKIPWITH, OF INDIANA, TO BE DIRECTOR OF
THE UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JOHN JOSEPH SULLIVAN, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AM-
BASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
STEPHEN HAHN, OF TEXAS, TO BE COMMISSIONER OF
FOOD AND DRUGS, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:54 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\S12DE9.REC S12DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1581
December 12, 2019
IN HONOR OF THE LATE PETE
FRATES
HON. LORI TRAHAN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the life of the late Pete Frates, a
global icon and champion for Amyotrophic Lat-
eral Sclerosis (ALS) research and awareness.
A lifelong resident of Massachusetts and
former Boston College baseball player, Pete
Frates passed away on December 9, 2019
after a hard-fought battle with ALS.
Diagnosed with the disease in 2012, Pete
spent his numbered days raising funds and
awareness for ALS research through his social
media phenomenon, the ‘‘ALS Ice Bucket
Challenge,’’ sparking a global movement that
ignited 17 million people into action in order to
raise $115 million for the cause.
Pete lived his life selflessly, leaving behind
a strong legacy and lessons we can all learn
from—be kind to one another and when faced
with adversity, face it bravely and help others
like you.
Eight years ago, Pete received a terrible di-
agnosis and a hopeless prognosis. Instead of
falling into a cycle of self-pity and remorse,
Pete saw this as an opportunity to help others
suffering with ALS. At the time, Pete looked at
the one life he had and saw its incredible
worth. He then took this one step further,
springing into action to improve the lives of
others.
My heart goes out to Pete’s mother and fa-
ther, wife, child, and friends. I know they will
carry on his legacy and continue his coura-
geous work to bring the world one step closer
to the eradication of ALS.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor a
man whose life is an inspiration to us all. Pete
Frates did not die in vain.
f
HONORING MICHAEL A.
HOULEMARD, JR.
HON. JIMMY PANETTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Michael A. Houlemard, Jr. for
more than twenty years of leadership as the
Fort Ord Reuse Authority (FORA) Executive
Officer and congratulate him on his retirement.
Mr. Houlemard was born in New Orleans,
Louisiana and grew up in Pasadena, Cali-
fornia. He studied at University of California,
Santa Barbara and graduated with a degree in
Political Science before completing a Master
of Arts degree in Urban Studies at Occidental
College. Following his studies, Mr. Houlemard
participated in the prestigious CORO Founda-
tion fellowship program.
Mr. Houlemard’s early career included a gu-
bernatorial appointment as a Deputy in the
California Department of Housing and Com-
munity Development, time as a Project Man-
ager for the Pasadena Redevelopment Agen-
cy, and leadership roles as Executive Director
of the Southern California Urban Coalition,
Deputy Director of the Pasadena Urban Coali-
tion, and Assistant Dean/Director in the Uni-
versity of California at Santa Barbara Office of
Veterans’ Affairs.
As Executive Officer of FORA, Mr.
Houlemard oversees the broadly representa-
tive agency located on the Monterey Bay,
which is responsible for former Fort Ord’s con-
version to civilian reuse program. Mr.
Houlemard also oversees a $100 million muni-
tions and explosives cleanup of 3,400 former
Fort Ord acres. In this role, Mr. Houlemard’s
decisive leadership and expertise resulted in
FORA being designated a military base reuse
national model by the Department of Defense.
Mr. Houlemard’s work has also been lauded
by the Association of Defense Communities,
earning him their Local Reuse Authority Exec-
utive of the Year Award, and the Monterey Pe-
ninsula Chamber of Commerce, earning him
their Ruth Vreeland Public Official of the Year
Award.
Michael A. Houlemard, Jr. has served the
central coast of California with adept leader-
ship and tireless dedication over the past two
decades, making FORA a model agency for
the potential of a civilian reuse program. I
hope that Mr. Houlemard enjoys his well-
earned retirement spending time with his be-
loved wife, Christina Valentino, watching his
favorite pastime, baseball, and visiting his
cherished hometown of New Orleans. Madam
Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me in
recognizing his years of service and encour-
aging him to let the good times roll (laissez les
bon temps rouler).
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE ODESSA
FOOTBALL TEAM
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the Missouri Class 3
State Championship won by the Odessa High
School football team. Such an achievement is
the result of strong leadership and continued
dedication by both players and coaches alike.
It is truly an honor to recognize this exemplary
group of athletes from Missouri’s Fifth Con-
gressional District.
For the first time in a quarter of a century
and only the second time in school history,
Odessa High School earned the state cham-
pionship title in a 49–28 win over Cassville
High School at the University of Missouri’s
Faurot Field on Saturday, December 7, 2019.
This victory was the culmination of their un-
wavering perseverance and excellence on and
off the field.
Building upon their undefeated record and
averaging 55 points per game, the Bulldogs
entered the championship game eager and fo-
cused. The Bulldogs took the lead, 6–0, in the
first twelve seconds after Senior Bryley Ray’s
93-yard kickoff return. Capitalizing on their
early advantage, Odessa covered 80-yards in
six plays on its third drive of the game. Not
giving into Odessa’s pressure, Cassville
brought the score at the end of the first quar-
ter to 14–7. In the second quarter, quarter-
back, Josey Meirerend and Ray led Odessa to
a 21–7 lead before Ethan Uhrlaub’s 1-yard
score made it 28–7. Leaving nothing to
chance, junior Brett Duncan’s 27-yard post
pattern completed a five-play, 52-yard drive,
sending the Bulldogs into halftime with a 35–
14 advantage. But the Bulldogs never became
complacent and continued to push them-
selves.
Going into the second half of the game,
Odessa remained singularly focused on their
goal of becoming state champs. Carter
Westerhold caught an 18-yard pass for a
score to complete their first drive of the half
while Luke Malizzi led the way on the second
to provide the final margin of victory. In a true
display of unity and willpower, the Odessa
Bulldogs defeated the Cassville Wildcats 49–
28.
This momentous accomplishment was
achieved not by individuals, but as a united
group of young men with guidance from a de-
voted group of coaches: Mark Thomas, head
coach; Barry Blank, assistant head coach; Jer-
emy Helton, defensive coordinator; Chuck
Clemens, special teams coordinator; Kiefer
Kratz, JV head coach; and Miles Hoshard, JV
offensive coordinator. The accolades of Odes-
sa’s football team and coaching staff are a
testament to what they have built through their
hard work and collaboration.
It is my honor to congratulate each member
of the team that have helped Odessa High
School to claim this prestigious title. I encour-
age each player to continue challenging them-
selves to always give their best on and off the
field.
Madam Speaker, please join with Missouri’s
Fifth Congressional District in celebrating the
Missouri Class 3 State Championship victory
of the Odessa Bulldogs, and I encourage all of
us to unite together under the same spirit of
perseverance, collaboration, and hard work
that led this remarkable team to their first state
championship win in over twenty-five years.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. CHRIS PAPPAS
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. PAPPAS. Madam Speaker, yesterday I
missed a roll call vote, and I wish to state how
I would have voted had I been present: Roll
Call No. 671—Yes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12DE8.001 E12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1582 December 12, 2019
CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. 1790,
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 11, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, I rise in
support of the fiscal year 2020 National De-
fense Authorization Act (NDAA). I would like to
start by thanking Chairman SMITH, Ranking
Member THORNBERRY, and the House Armed
Services Committee staff who have worked
tirelessly throughout this past year to get us to
this point. It’s a good bill and I encourage my
colleagues to support the conference report.
As the Chairman of the Readiness Sub-
committee, I worked closely with members on
and off the committee to ensure the bill ad-
dressed three priority areas affecting our mili-
tary.
First, the bill includes a number of bipartisan
provisions aimed at addressing problems as-
sociated with the management and oversight
of military family housing. The bill does the fol-
lowing:
Requires the military services to establish a
tenants’ bill of rights for residents of privatized
military family housing;
Requires the Department to establish a
standardized assessment tool to be used in
evaluating military housing for certain risks, in-
cluding lead and mold;
Prohibits the use of non-disclosure agree-
ments as a condition of moving out of military
housing;
Authorizes additional funding to ensure in-
stallation housing offices are properly staffed;
and
Provides for a temporary direct hiring au-
thority for government housing personnel to in-
crease oversight of private contractors.
Second, the bill authorizes additional fund-
ing and includes bipartisan provisions to miti-
gate contaminated drinking water for house-
holds and agriculture resulting from fluorinated
compounds around military installations:
Bans DOD use of fire fighting agents con-
taining PFAS by 2024;
Requires DOD to ensure that when dis-
posing of AFFF and supplies used to reme-
diate PFAS contamination, it does so in a
manner that is safe and does not create fur-
ther pollution;
Bans the use of PFAS chemicals in the
packaging of the meals (MREs) our service
members eat when deployed in combat areas
and for training;
Closes a loophole in the DOD Environ-
mental clean-up accounts that was keeping
the National Guard from being able to access
these funds to address PFOS and PFOA con-
tamination;
Authorizes DOD to provide alternative water
to farmers effected by PFAS contaminated ag-
ricultural water;
Bans the use fire fighting agents containing
PFAS for training;
Bans the uncontrolled release of fire fighting
agents containing PFAS for any purpose other
than putting out fires;
Addresses DOD’s refusal to acknowledge
State-promulgated drinking water standards by
requiring their use when they are more strin-
gent than federal standards; and
Requires the Director of the U.S. Geological
Survey to establish a performance standard
for detecting PFAS and then conduct nation-
wide sampling to determine the extent of
PFAS contamination and then report to Con-
gress the results.
Third, the bill contains a number of provi-
sions to increase military installation resiliency
efforts to ensure better planning to assess
vulnerabilities and facility codes to mitigate the
risk future natural and man-made disasters:
Requires DoD develop installation master
plans that assess current climate
vulnerabilities and plan for mitigating the risks
to installations from extreme weather events,
mean sea level fluctuation, wildfires, flooding,
and other changes in environmental conditions
using projections from recognized govern-
mental and scientific entities.
Limits DoD’s ability to spend planning and
design funds until it initiates the process of
amending the building standards for military
construction (Unified Facility Criteria) to en-
sure that building practices and standards pro-
mote energy, climate, and cyber resilience at
military installations.
Requires all proposals for military construc-
tion projects to consider potential long-term
changes in environmental conditions, and in-
creasingly frequent extreme weather events,
as well as, industry best-practices to withstand
extreme weather events.
Requires DoD to report on the feasibility of
transitioning installation planning from 100-
year floodplain data to a forward-looking pre-
dictive model that takes into account the im-
pacts of sea-level rise.
Establishes a pilot authority for the Depart-
ment of Defense to carry out military construc-
tion projects, with prior congressional notifica-
tion, that enhance military installation resil-
ience, mission assurance, support mission crit-
ical functions, and address known
vulnerabilities.
Authorizes an additional $133 million for
military construction projects under the Depart-
ment’s Energy Resiliency and Conservation
Investment Program.
Directs the Secretary of Defense to conduct
a black start exercise at three major military
installations to ensure installation resiliency in
the case of a total power outage.
I’m proud of the funding authorized by, and
legislative provisions included within the Read-
iness Subcommittee’s jurisdiction. The bill au-
thorizes $261.6 billion in operation & mainte-
nance funding to support training, mainte-
nance, and military operations; $11.8 billion for
MILCON, family housing, and BRAC; and $4.1
billion in emergency authorization for MILCON
for recovery of military installations damaged
by natural disasters. The conference report
also provides twelve weeks of paid parental
leave for all federal employees.
I’m also pleased this NDAA includes a 3.1
percent pay raise for our troops and includes
key provisions of my bill, H.R. 2617, the Occu-
pational and Environmental Transparency
Health Act, which will require DoD to input any
Occupational Environmental Health hazards
exposure into servicemembers’ records while
deployed, so it is tracked throughout their ca-
reer and into veteran status.
Additionally, this year’s NDAA funds impor-
tant priorities at Travis and Beale Air Force
Bases in my district. The military construction
projects authorized in this bill will support the
new KC–46 mission at Travis Air Force Base
and will improve resilience and power supply
at Beale Air Force Base, enabling it to con-
tinue to support intelligence, surveillance, and
reconnaissance (ISR) and multi-domain oper-
ations.
While there are many positive outcomes, I
am disappointed that the prohibition of funding
for the deployment of new, low-yield nuclear
warheads for submarines did not survive the
conference process, and am also disappointed
in the omission of critical provisions that were
in the House-passed bill to reform border de-
ployment and ensure funding for our military is
spent wisely and as Congress intended, and
not on an unnecessary border wall, such as
the following:
Preventing the President from diverting De-
fense funding to pay for an unnecessary bor-
der wall;
Prohibiting funding for the construction of a
wall, barrier, or fence along the southern land
border;
Amending the emergency construction au-
thority (10 USC 2808) to limit the total cost of
military construction projects undertaken dur-
ing a national emergency to $500 million, with
a further limit of $100 million for construction
projects within the United States; and
Prohibiting reprogramming of funds into the
counter drug account, which has been used
by the Administration to do construction along
the southern land border.
Overall, I am proud of the Readiness Sub-
committee’s contribution to this year’s bill and
would like to thank the Readiness staff, Brian
Garrett, Jeanine Womble, Melanie Harris,
Brian Greer, John Muller, Dave Sienicki,
Megan Handle, and Sean Falvey, and my per-
sonal staff, Betsy Thompson and Dan Naske,
for their tireless work. Dan will be departing
the Hill after next week, and I would like to
personally thank him for his hard work and
sharing his expertise with us this past year.
He has been an invaluable member of my
staff and we will miss him dearly.
This bill helps advance our military’s near-
term readiness goals and drives the Depart-
ment to plan for and take action against long-
term threats, and with that, I urge my col-
leagues to support the FY20 NDAA.
f
HONORING MICHAEL DAVID
SPADARO’S 25 YEARS OF SERV-
ICE TO THE NEW YORK STATE
POLICE
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Michael David Spadaro’s
25 years of dedicated service to the New York
State Police.
Michael David Spadaro joined the State Po-
lice in 1994 and since then has served the
State of New York with honor and distinction.
Throughout our community, professionals in
law enforcement, like Trooper Spadaro, dedi-
cate their careers and risk their lives each day
to keep us safe. Whether it be patrolling the
highways connecting our towns, supporting
local law enforcement, preventing terrorism, or
responding to natural disasters, the New York
State Police get it done. That is in no small
part due to the dedication of Troopers like Mi-
chael David Spadaro. On behalf of New York’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12DE8.003 E12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1583
December 12, 2019
21st Congressional District, I would like to
thank him for his dedicated and unwavering
commitment to public service. As Trooper
Spadaro closes this chapter of his life, I have
the utmost confidence that he will continue to
admirably serve the community and I wish him
the very best in all future endeavors.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THOMAS E.
TAYLOR, P.E.
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Thomas E. Taylor as he re-
tires after 30 years as Executive Director for
the Upper Trinity Regional Water District
(UTRWD). Over the course of his career, he
planned, directed, advanced and ultimately de-
livered UTRWD as a critical regional water
supply system for the majority of the UTRWD
member cities and other customers across
Denton County.
Mr. Taylor graduated with honors from the
University of Arkansas with a degree in civil
engineering. After graduation, he joined the
City of Dallas as an entry-level engineer and
rose through the ranks to become the young-
est department head at the city, serving as
head of three different departments. As Direc-
tor of Dallas Water Utilities from 1980 to 1986,
he managed retail services for Dallas, plus
wholesale water and wastewater services for
25 other cities. He was also responsible for
adding two new water supply reservoirs to the
system.
Subsequently, Mr. Taylor helmed the Steer-
ing Committee to create a Master Plan for the
future regional water supply needs of commu-
nities in the Denton County area. The plan in-
cluded securing legislative approval for a new
county-wide wholesale utility special district.
Supported by many entities, the Upper Trinity
Regional Water District was approved by the
Texas Legislature June 16, 1989.
Over the past 30 years as Executive Direc-
tor, Taylor has effectively led the development
and growth of UTRWD in meeting the needs
of more than 25 participating communities. He
recruited and developed a top-notch staff to
accomplish UTRWD’s mission to acquire raw
water supplies, implement strategies for treat-
ment, delivery, reclamation and reuse of water
resources. Under his leadership, the organiza-
tion navigated the necessary permitting chal-
lenges to initiate permitting and construction of
Lake Ralph Hall reservoir that will provide one
of the first new water supply lakes necessary
to continue support for the fast-growing com-
munities composing the North Texas region.
Taylor has been honored as one of the
‘‘Top Ten Public Works Leaders in North
America’’ by the American Works Association.
Also, for his concerted efforts and expertise to
improve the profession of utilities, he was rec-
ognized by the American Water Works Asso-
ciation with the William T. ‘‘Doc’’ Ballard
Award.
Much of the economic growth and quality of
life enjoyed by the communities in Denton
County and North Texas would have been im-
possible without Tom Taylor’s ambition, vision
and work ethic. It is my honor to recognize Mr.
Thomas E. Taylor’s commitment as a public
servant and the legacy he leaves in the form
of UTRWD’s important role in Texas’ incred-
ible economic growth and prosperity.
f
HONORING BARNEGAT VFW POST
10092
HON. ANDY KIM
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the Barnegat, New Jersey Veterans
of Foreign Wars (VFW) Post 10092, which re-
cently received a National Outstanding Com-
munity Service Award for their efforts sup-
porting the veterans’ community in Ocean
County.
Over the last several years, the Barnegat
VFW Post 10092 has dedicated itself to being
an active leader in supporting the veterans,
families and students of Barnegat, and Ocean
County community as a whole. Post 10092 of-
fers two scholarships for Barnegat High
School students, and coordinates two essay
contests, the Patriots Pen and the Voice of
Democracy, directed towards high school stu-
dents from the area. In 2017, the Post began
to offer a police, fire and EMS recognition
awards program for Barnegat, a Junior ROTC
recognition awards program for the local high
school, as well as a Christmas in Camouflage
program with the elementary schools. These
programs have succeeded in honoring those
who serve and have engaged the community
with the important work the VFW does every
day.
Recently, the Barnegat VFW Post found that
their neighbors lacked a VFW chapter and so
could not engage in the same VFW programs
that Barnegat residents had. Just this past
year, Post 10092 expanded their programs to
include Stafford Township schools and South-
ern Regional High School. Through this ex-
pansion, the Barnegat Post has lived up to the
VFW’s legacy of service to communities
across our nation.
I’d like to thank the Barnegat VFW Post
10092 for their years of service to the vet-
erans and their families, and to our schools in
Ocean County. I am proud to fight in Con-
gress for the needs of our veterans and
servicemembers, and am proud to work along-
side distinguished colleagues like the men and
women of the VFW Post in Barnegat.
f
HONORING SPECIAL AGENT TONY
ANGELI ON HIS RETIREMENT
FROM THE DRUG ENFORCEMENT
ADMINISTRATION
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor Special Agent Anthony
‘‘Tony’’ E. Angeli on his retirement from the
Drug Enforcement Administration.
This past year, Tony served on my Judiciary
Committee staff as a detailee from the DEA.
In total, Tony has served as a detailee for nine
years in this body and in the U.S. Senate.
Both my staff and I have found Tony to be
a diligent and knowledgeable asset to the
Committee. In his capacity as a detailee, Tony
has played an integral role in shaping public
policy concerning illegal narcotics. This in-
cludes his important role in combatting the
opioid crisis currently gripping our nation.
A former prosecutor, Tony previously pros-
ecuted child abuse cases and juvenile crimes,
and argued multiple appellate cases. He shift-
ed from his career as a prosecutor by entering
the DEA, eventually serving in multiple capac-
ities in the Miami Field Division and at DEA
Headquarters. In Miami, he investigated com-
plex international drug conspiracy cases and
followed up his experience as a line agent by
entering management as a supervisory special
agent overseeing large-scale drug investiga-
tions. Tony then moved into intelligence work,
where he worked with U.S. and foreign intel-
ligence agencies to further DEA’s mission. He
also became an experienced trainer by teach-
ing law enforcement courses to the U.S. State
Department at the International Law Enforce-
ment Academies.
Tony’s experience on Capitol Hill is some-
thing that sets him apart from nearly all federal
law enforcement agents. He contributed to the
development of our nation’s drug policy by
serving on both the House and Senate Judici-
ary Committees, a rare professional combina-
tion for anyone. His law enforcement expertise
made him a go-to expert for other staff and
members of Congress. The country has been
well-served by having a public servant like
Tony offering his knowledge and skills for an
such extended and valuable time in Congress.
I thank Tony for his service to our country,
and I wish him all the best as he transitions
into a new, well-deserved, and exciting phase
of his life.
f
IN HONOR OF THE CITY OF
DARIEN, ILLINOIS’ 50TH BIRTHDAY
HON. SEAN CASTEN
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to commemorate the 50th birthday
of the city of Darien, Illinois.
On December 13th, 1969 the communities
of Marion Hills, Brookhaven, Farmingdale and
Hinsbrook united to incorporate as the city
Darien. Today, Darien is known as ‘‘A Nice
Place to Live,’’ which perfectly describes this
city.
The area was initially inhabited by the
Potowatami and Ottowa Native Americans
with the surrounding waterways serving as
their trade routes. The farming communities of
Cass and Lace were established along a
stagecoach line in the early 1800s. An inn,
tavern and post office served 15 stagecoaches
that transited the area. Today, Darien con-
tinues to serve as a transportation center with
easy access to the commuter train line, as
well as Interstates 55, 355 and 294.
The six square mile town is home to ap-
proximately 6500 families. Darien is a vibrant,
growing community dedicated to its citizens.
The Indian Prairie Public Library has grown
from a volunteer-operated bookmobile to a
state-of-the-art facility that is a center for
learning and community activities. The Park
District Sportsplex includes three National
Hockey League sized ice rinks as well as an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12DE8.005 E12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1584 December 12, 2019
indoor soccer field, enabling children and
adults from surrounding areas to hone their
athletic skills. Civic pride and a commitment to
others is demonstrated by organizations such
as the Darien Woman’s Club, Rotary Club,
Chamber of Commerce, Good Work Sunny
Patch Project, VFW, and the Darien Lions
Club, which is one of the largest in the state.
These groups serve others through food pan-
tries, holiday giving, clothing drives, art and
writing events, and scholarships.
It is an honor and privilege to congratulate
Darien on its 50 years of growth and accom-
plishments. I congratulate Mayor Joseph Mar-
chese, the City of Darien’s Birthday Com-
mittee, and each of its citizens on this wonder-
ful milestone.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. GWEN MOORE
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, on Decem-
ber 10th, I missed roll call vote 660. Had I
been present, I would have voted AYE.
f
HONORING THE WILLINGBORO
HIGH SCHOOL CHIMERAS FOR
WINNING THE NJSIAA REGIONAL
FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. ANDY KIM
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
congratulate the Willingboro High School Chi-
meras football team, who last week won the
NJSIAA Group 1 South Regional Champion-
ship.
Led by head coach Steve Everette and a
strong roster from starters to reserves, the
Chimeras showed outstanding teamwork and
perseverance all season. From a dominant of-
fensive line to their lockdown defense, the
team’s balance and focus helped them bring
home the Group 1 South Regional title.
In the final, Willingboro’s strong defense,
rushing attack and ability to stretch the field
helped propel them to a 50–14 victory over
Penns Grove. The Chimeras played through
pressure in the final to finish the season on a
12-game winning streak, ending the year 12–
1.
I’m proud to be able to celebrate the suc-
cess of some of the talented student-athletes
from my district in New Jersey. I want to con-
gratulate Coach Everette and the Willingboro
team on their tremendous season, and for
bringing the title back to Burlington County.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JASON CROW
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. CROW. Madam Speaker, on December
11, 2019, I was unable to be present to cast
my vote on the Motion to Table the Motion to
Reconsider H.R. 729, because I was unaware
that an additional vote had been called. Had
I been present for roll call No. 671, I would
have voted ‘‘AYE.’’
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE GUADA-
LUPE CENTERS CHARTER HIGH
SCHOOL BOYS SOCCER TEAM
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the victory of the Gua-
dalupe Centers Charter High School Boys
soccer team. This victory establishes the team
as Missouri’s Class 2 Champions—the first
championship title in school and program his-
tory. The achievement of such a title undoubt-
edly required strong leadership matched with
unparalleled levels of passion and dedication.
I am proud to represent the exemplary work of
athletes like these in Missouri’s Fifth Congres-
sional District.
Not only did they finish this season with a
winning 22–2 record, the team—comprised of
first or second-generation Americans—dem-
onstrates a uniquely American story of hard
work, diversity, sacrifice, and perseverance.
Embracing both their differences and their
similarities, this united identity gave the team
a unique sense of purpose and comradery
that eventually led them down the path to vic-
tory. For many, the struggles along the path to
this achievement were symbolic of the sac-
rifices many of their parents and loved ones
made for them to have this opportunity.
Under the direction of head coach, Ricky
Olivares, the Guadalupe Center Aztecs made
their first tournament appearance in school
history. They eventually reached the state final
by beating Southern Boone High School 2–0
with sophomore Luckyboy Tarley scoring both
goals in the shutout. On November 23, 2019,
Guadalupe Centers High School went head-to-
head with St. Louis Priory School. In a tense
game, senior leader David Portillo scored
three of the four goals, Tarley scoring the
other. With the support of freshman goal-
keeper Henry Godinez and the rest of the
team, the Aztecs pulled off a 4–3 win over the
four-time state champions, Priory.
It is my pleasure to congratulate each of the
vitally important team members that helped
Guadalupe Centers Charter High School claim
this title, and I encourage each player to con-
tinue challenging themselves to pursue all that
they do with the same passion and tenacity
displayed in this historic season.
Madam Speaker, please join with Missouri’s
Fifth Congressional District in celebrating the
victories of the Guadalupe Centers Aztecs,
and I encourage my fellow citizens and con-
stituents to unite together under the same
spirit of perseverance, collaboration, and hard
work that led this remarkable team to their
monumental victory.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RON ESTES
OF KANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I was not
present for Roll Call vote No. 675 on Motion
to table the motion to reconsider H.R. 5038. If
present, I would have voted ‘‘nay.’’
f
MR. HENRY COLE’S 100TH
BIRTHDAY
HON. JOHN LEWIS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. LEWIS. Madam Speaker, on Thursday,
December 19, 2019, Mr. Henry Cole of Wash-
ington, D.C. will celebrate his centennial birth-
day.
Mr. Cole and his nine siblings were born
and raised right here in the nation’s capital,
where he developed a love for his family, his
hometown, and his nation. During World War
II, Mr. Cole honorably served in the United
States Navy and was stationed at Pearl Har-
bor in Honolulu, Hawaii.
After the war, he returned home to Wash-
ington, D.C., where he continued his pursuit of
the American Dream. Mr. Cole worked as a
machinist at the Washington Navy Yard,
opened a family-owned restaurant with his sis-
ter, and eventually retired from the United
States Postal Service in 1980 after a long, dis-
tinguished career in public service.
I believe one of the most moving and inspi-
rational aspects of Mr. Cole’s legacy and life
is the love affair he shared with Gloria, his be-
loved wife of 68 years. Together, they raised
seven children—Theodore, Shelia, Sylvia,
Linda, Rex, Alice and Don. Those seeds plant-
ed with love continue to flourish in their 25
grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and great-
great-grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, there is an African proverb
that says, ‘‘What you help a child to love can
be more important than what you help him to
learn.’’ Mr. Cole adored his family, his country,
and his community; however, he never re-
stricted his devotion and wisdom to his imme-
diate family and maintained an open door and
served as a father figure and role model to
countless others.
As we strive towards realizing the dream of
a nation at peace with itself and her neigh-
bors, Mr. Cole witnessed and was an agent of
change. On the behalf of a grateful nation, I
thank this beloved patriarch for embodying
courage, character, compassion for the last
century.
For these reasons, Madam Speaker, I am
proud to join the family and all who know and
love Mr. Henry Cole in honoring him on the
occasion of his 100th birthday.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12DE8.009 E12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1585
December 12, 2019
RECOGNIZING JAMES W. OXFORD,
NATIONAL COMMANDER OF THE
AMERICAN LEGION, FOR HIS
DECADES OF SERVICE
HON. HARLEY ROUDA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize James W. ‘‘Bill’’ Oxford, the Na-
tional Commander of the American Legion, for
his service to our nation and his dedication to
the American Legion.
Mr. Oxford served in the Marine Corps dur-
ing the Vietnam War, was discharged as a
sergeant in 1970, and later joined the North
Carolina National Guard. He ultimately retired
from the U.S. Army Reserve as a colonel after
more than 34 years of military service.
Mr. Oxford, a Legionnaire since 1986, was
elected National Commander of the American
Legion on August 29, 2019, during the Amer-
ican Legion’s 101st National Convention.
Orange County is thrilled to welcome Mr.
Oxford as he visits our beloved American Le-
gion Post 291, which has been a fixture in the
Newport Beach community for nearly 100
years.
I urge all members to join me in recognizing
Mr. Oxford for his work on behalf of American
veterans and legionnaires across the United
States.
f
HONORING BITTLE PORTERFIELD
III
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I rise in
honor of Bittle Porterfield III, a Roanoke na-
tive, businessman, and champion of the area’s
education and arts, who died on November
29, 2019 at the age of 75. Mr. Porterfield was
incredibly involved in the Roanoke community,
and his goal was to make the Roanoke Valley
and Virginia a better place to live.
Bittle Porterfield III was born on March 9,
1944. He attended Roanoke College for his
undergraduate degree. After graduating, Mr.
Porterfield served in the United States Army
for two years. He then earned a master’s in
business administration at Virginia Tech. Mr.
Porterfield worked in the beverage industry for
most of his career, leading two family-run
businesses.
In addition to business, Mr. Porterfield had
a passion for education. He was the president
of the Western Virginia Foundation for the Arts
and Sciences, where he oversaw maintenance
for three museums, three performing arts cen-
ters, and the region’s arts council. Mr.
Porterfield was also the President of the
Taubman Museum of Art.
Mr. Porterfield took any opportunity he saw
to benefit the Roanoke Valley. This is evident
in his service as Chairman for the Roanoke
Valley Resource Authority, the Foundation for
the Roanoke Valley, and the Roanoke Valley
Business Council. Mr. Porterfield was also the
President of the Roanoke Valley Chamber of
Commerce.
The effort that Mr. Porterfield poured into
education was noticed, and he was appointed
to the State Council of Higher Education for
Virginia. Additionally, he served on the
Radford University Board of Visitors.
Mr. Porterfield also used his passion for
aviation at the Virginia Aviation Board, where
he was a member. He also served as the
Chairman of the Roanoke Regional Airport
Commission.
The Roanoke Valley and the Common-
wealth of Virginia were fortunate to have such
a strong proponent and leader of education
and business in their community.
Mr. Porterfield’s survivors include Charlotte
Kelley Porterfield; his sons Bittle Wilson
Porterfield IV and wife, Holly, and Forrest
Kelley Porterfield and wife, Katie; and grand-
children Bittle Wilson Porterfield V, Jackson
Watkins Porterfield, Forrest Shepperson
Porterfield, and William Hines Porterfield. I
offer my condolences to the Porterfield family
on their loss.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF STEPHEN L.
SANETTI’S DECADES OF SERVICE
HON. ROB BISHOP
OF UTAH
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Stephen L. Sanetti for his
decades of dedicated service upon his retire-
ment as Chief Executive Officer of the Na-
tional Shooting Sports Foundation.
Steve is a fierce defender and ardent sup-
porter of our constitutional right to keep and
bear arms, but is first and foremost an Amer-
ican patriot. A member of Virginia Military In-
stitute’s Class of 1971, Steve graduated with
honors before earning his Juris Doctor at
Washington and Lee University School of Law.
While attending VMI, Steve was a member of
the Executive Committee, Battalion Oper-
ations, president of the Rifle and Pistol Club,
and four-year member of the Rifle Team. I
venture to say that Steve is a pretty great
shot. From 1975 to 1978, Steve proudly wore
the uniform of the United States Army in the
First Cavalry Division Staff Judge Advocate at
Ft. Hood, Texas, attaining the rank of Captain.
Steve continues to live by the Army core val-
ues of Loyalty, Duty, Respect, Selfless Serv-
ice, Honor, Integrity, and Personal Courage to
this day and holds true his oath to support the
Constitution of the United States.
Following a two-year stint as Litigation
Counsel at Marsh, Day & Calhoun in Con-
necticut, Steve was hired by Bill Ruger in
1980 as the first general counsel for one of
the nation’s leading firearm manufacturing
companies. For nearly three decades, Steve
rose through the ranks to President and has
devoted his life to Sturm, Ruger & Company,
Inc. Without question, this prepared him well
for taking over the helm as President and
CEO of the National Shooting Sports Founda-
tion—the trade association for America’s fire-
arms and ammunition industry—and the Sport-
ing Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers’ In-
stitute. In his nearly 12 years at NSSF, Steve
has guided the foundation through times of
both turbulence and growth. Under Steve’s
leadership, NSSF’s firearms safety and edu-
cation program, Project ChildSafe®, has seen
tremendous success and new partnerships
have been established with the American
Foundation for Suicide Prevention and Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to address suicide
and with ATF to prevent firearms from landing
in the wrong hands. Because of Steve’s un-
wavering commitment to both developing gen-
uine solutions that make for safer communities
and respecting the rights of law-abiding citi-
zens, NSSF continues to be a leading voice in
the national conversation to promote firearm
safety and responsibility. Steve can certainly
take pride in his work at NSSF and in helping
to ensure that future generations have oppor-
tunities to enjoy the great pastimes of hunting
and the shooting sports.
I thank Steve for his service and love of
country. As Steve begins the next chapter of
his life, spending more time with family—in
particular his grandchildren—and growing the
next generation of sportsmen, I congratulate
him and wish him, his wife Carole, their chil-
dren and grandchildren all the best.
f
CONGRATULATING MR. AND MRS.
DONALD COLE
HON. ROBERT B. ADERHOLT
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I want to
express my sincere congratulations to Mr. and
Mrs. Donald Cole on the occasion of their 50th
wedding anniversary on December 14, 2019.
Donald Dwight Cole and Edna Earl Mize
married on December 14, 1969 at Millport
Church of Christ. Their story began when they
met in study hall as juniors in high school,
where they were the only students in the
class. Don grew up Millport, AL, while Edna
grew up all over the country as the daughter
of a U.S. Air Force veteran until the military
brought her to Millport in 1965. It is the classic
love story. Don, the football player, and Edna,
soon to become Homecoming Queen, fell in
love as high school sweethearts and soon
found themselves at the University of Ala-
bama.
After college graduation Don was commis-
sioned in the U.S. Air Force and Edna began
teaching English. Over the next few decades
the Air Force would station them in Aurora,
CO; Goldsboro, NC; Washington, DC;
Uijeongbu, South Korea; Colorado Springs,
CO; Nashville, TN; back to Colorado Springs,
CO, and then to their last tour back in Bowie,
MD.
In their retirement years they continue to
serve in their church, Columbus Church of
Christ, run the consignment store Cole’s Col-
lections, serve on the South Lamar Rescue
Squad, Millport Chamber of Commerce and
the C3 Northwest Alabama Economic Alliance.
They learned their strong faith, work and
personal ethics from parents, which they’ve
also taught by example to their two children,
Eric Lee Cole (Kensington, MD) and Emily
Cole Monahan (Columbus, MS). They have al-
ways stayed close to their roots and family in
Lamar County, and remain avid Alabama foot-
ball fans. Celebrated now by their 2 children
(Eric and Emily), 2 grandchildren Thomas
Cole Monahan (Columbus, MS) and Ryan Lee
Cole (Kensington, MD) . . . theirs is truly a
love story of obedience to God, loyalty and
perseverance.
Fifty years later their love story, and the Air
Force, have taken them all over the world and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12DE8.016 E12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1586 December 12, 2019
included countless adventures and friends, but
they will tell you that their faith and their family
has been their greatest blessing. Back on No-
vember 24, 2019, their children hosted a 50th
Wedding Anniversary reception from 2:00 to
4:00 at Columbus Church of Christ in Colum-
bus, Mississippi.
As the Cole’s representative to Congress, I
send them my best wishes and my prayers
that they will have many more happy years to-
gether.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF CATHY
COOMER
HON. MARK MEADOWS
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. MEADOWS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Ms. Cathy Coomer, who will re-
tire on December 31, 2019 after thirty years of
dedicated service with the Buncombe County
Government.
Ms. Coomer’s dedication to serving North
Carolina began on January 12, 1990. As Safe-
ty Officer, Ms. Coomer is responsible for the
safety and well-being of a workforce of 1,500
employees. She has been an integral part of
the Buncombe County Emergency Services
Operation and earned her certificate as a
North Carolina Executive Level Emergency
Manager.
Throughout her career, Ms. Coomer has
held leadership positions on numerous state
and local committees. She served as Presi-
dent for the Western North Carolina Safety
and Health School and the Western North
Carolina Safety Council. She served as Presi-
dent for the North Carolina Association of
Local Government Employee Safety Officials.
She was also on the Conference Program
Committee with the North Carolina Emergency
Management Association.
Ms. Coomer’s leadership and dedication to
the people in North Carolina was on clear dis-
play during her efforts in response to numer-
ous emergency and disaster situations, includ-
ing the Blizzard of 1993, Hurricane Frances,
Hurricane Ivan, Hurricane Irene, and several
other various non-declared events.
It is my great pleasure to celebrate Ms.
Cathy Coomer before the United States House
of Representatives and thank her for diligent
service to her community, the great State of
North Carolina, and this country.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CENTENNIAL
OF THE SEBASTIAN INLET DIS-
TRICT
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, this year
marks the centennial anniversary of the Se-
bastian Inlet District, which not only serves as
a premier recreational destination for families
to enjoy but plays an important role in our
local economy.
Created in May of 1919 by a special act of
the Florida State Legislature, the Sebastian
Inlet District was originally chartered to main-
tain the navigational channel between the At-
lantic Ocean and our Indian River Lagoon. In
the mid 1800’s, the first settlers in the town
which would become Sebastian, saw the op-
portunity to create an opening on the barrier
island.
By 1905 there had been six attempts to
make the official ‘‘cut’’ but it wasn’t until Roy
O. Couch, now a very prominent name in the
district, formed the Sebastian Inlet Association
and persevered to get the necessary permits.
His efforts came to fruition in 1919 when the
official charter was granted and in 1924, when
the Sebastian Inlet was officially opened for
business.
Today, the Sebastian Inlet continues to at-
tract visitors and locals alike, having become
a popular spot for fishing, boating and surfing,
all within the scenic backdrop of Florida’s sce-
nic East Coast. Water sports enthusiasts and
naturalists have enjoyed Sebastian State Inlet
Park, now one of the most visited parks in
Florida, for its wildlife and natural beauty.
Since its establishment, the Sebastian Inlet
has played an important role in promoting eco-
nomic prosperity for the area, having an an-
nual economic impact of 200 million dollars for
the region. The inlet is also responsible for
protecting our natural treasures such as our
Indian River Lagoon, home to some of the
most biodiverse marine life in the country.
Some of the vital work the inlet does in part-
nership with Florida’s Department of Environ-
mental Protection includes bypassing sand to
downdrift beaches, erosion control and ensur-
ing public safety.
In celebration of the inlet’s centennial, the
Sebastian Inlet District has begun to hold a
series of educational lectures by marine biolo-
gists and environmental scientists. This will
give local residents the chance to learn about
what their community is doing to preserve our
waterways, particularly the inlet and the Indian
River Lagoon.
The role that the Sebastian Inlet District em-
ployees and volunteers play in preserving this
park is vital to our community, and I salute
them for their hard work and contributions.
I ask my colleagues to join me in recog-
nizing the centennial of the Sebastian Inlet
District.
f
HONORING THE SHAWNEE HIGH
SCHOOL RENEGADES FOR WIN-
NING THE SOUTH-CENTRAL JER-
SEY GROUP 4 REGIONAL CHAM-
PIONSHIP
HON. ANDY KIM
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
congratulate the Shawnee High School Rene-
gades football team, who last week won the
South-Central Jersey Group 4 Regional
Championship.
Led by head coach Tim Gushue and a
strong roster from starters to reserves, the
Renegades showed outstanding teamwork
and perseverance all season. From a stellar
offensive line to their lockdown defense, the
team’s balance and focus helped them bring
home the South Central Group 4 Regional
title.
In the final, Shawnee’s strong passing game
and dominant defense helped stand up the
opposing rushing attack and propel them to a
shutout 34–0 victory over Hammonton. The
Renegades played through pressure in the
final to finish the season as South Jersey
champs, ending the year at 10–3.
I’m proud to be able to celebrate the suc-
cess of some of the talented student-athletes
from my district in New Jersey. I want to con-
gratulate Coach Gushue and the Shawnee
team on their tremendous season, and for
bringing the title back to Burlington County.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12DE8.019 E12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1365
Thursday, December 12, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6999–S7034
Measures Introduced: Twenty-three bills and six
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
3029–3051, S.J. Res. 61–62, S. Res. 453–455, and
S. Con. Res. 30. Pages S7026–27
Measures Reported:
S. 877, to prohibit the sale of shark fins. (S. Rept.
No. 116–173)
S. 1822, to require the Federal Communications
Commission to issue rules relating to the collection
of data with respect to the availability of broadband
services, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–174)
S. 2641, to promote United States national secu-
rity and prevent the resurgence of ISIS, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute.
S. Con. Res. 23, honoring the 75th Anniversary
of the Battle of the Bulge fought during World War
II, recognizing the valiant efforts of the Allied Forces
in December 1944, and remembering those who
made the ultimate sacrifice, all of which contributed
to the Allied victory in the European Theater, and
with an amended preamble. Page S7026
Measures Passed:
Armenian Genocide: Committee on Foreign Re-
lations was discharged from further consideration of
S. Res. 150, expressing the sense of the Senate that
it is the policy of the United States to commemorate
the Armenian Genocide through official recognition
and remembrance, and the resolution was then
agreed to. Page S7010
Legal Represenation: Senate agreed to S. Res.
455, to authorize representation by the Senate Legal
Counsel in the Case of Richard Arjun Kaul v. Senator
Charles Schumer, et al. Page S7033
Battle of the Bulge: Senate agreed to S. Con. Res.
23, honoring the 75th Anniversary of the Battle of
the Bulge fought during World War II, recognizing
the valiant efforts of the Allied Forces in December
1944, and remembering those who made the ulti-
mate sacrifice, all of which contributed to the Allied
victory in the European Theater, after agreeing to
the following amendment proposed thereto:
Pages S7033–34
McConnell (for Cramer) Amendment No. 1256, to
add language to the preamble. Page S7034
Conference Reports:
National Defense Authorization Act—Cloture:
Senate began consideration of the conference report
to accompany S. 1790, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fis-
cal year. Pages S7019–23
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the conference report to accompany the bill, and, in
accordance with the provisions of Rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, and pursuant to the
unanimous-consent agreement of Thursday, Decem-
ber 12, 2019, a vote on cloture will occur at 5:30
p.m., on Monday, December 16, 2019. Page S7019
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3:00 p.m., on Monday,
December 16, 2019, Senate resume consideration of
the conference report to accompany the bill; and that
notwithstanding the provisions of Rule XXII, the
motion to invoke cloture filed during the session of
Thursday, December 12, 2019, ripen at 5:30 p.m.,
on Monday, December 16, 2019. Page S7034
Appointments:
Board of Visitors of the U.S. Coast Guard Acad-
emy: The Chair, on behalf of the Vice President,
pursuant to 14 U.S.C. 194(a), as amended by Public
Law 101–595, and further amended by Public Law
113–281, appointed the following Senator to the
Board of Visitors of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy:
Senator Wicker. Page S7033
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 52 yeas to 39 nays (Vote No. EX. 395),
Aurelia Skipwith, of Indiana, to be Director of the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
Pages S6999–S7009
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12DE9.REC D12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1366 December 12, 2019
By 70 yeas to 22 nays (Vote No. EX. 396), John
Joseph Sullivan, of Maryland, to be Ambassador to
the Russian Federation. Pages S7009–10
By 72 yeas to 18 nays (Vote No. EX. 397), Ste-
phen Hahn, of Texas, to be Commissioner of Food
and Drugs, Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices. Pages S7010–15
Messages from the House: Page S7026
Measures Referred: Page S7026
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S7026
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S7027–29
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S7029–33
Additional Statements: Pages S7024–26
Amendments Submitted: Page S7033
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S7033
Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today.
(Total—397) Pages S7009–10, S7015
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 5 p.m., until 11:45 a.m. on Friday, De-
cember 13, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S7034.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUES IN THE
MIDDLE EAST
Committee on Armed Services: Committee received a
closed briefing on national security issues in the
Middle East from John C. Rood, Under Secretary for
Policy, Major General Jeffrey B. Taliaferro, USAF,
Vice Director for Operations, Joint Staff, and Chris-
topher J. Almont, Defense Intelligence Officer for
the Middle East, Defense Intelligence Agency, all of
the Department of Defense.
COAST GUARD ARCTIC STRATEGIC
OUTLOOK
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Security concluded a hearing to exam-
ine expanding opportunities, challenges, and threats
in the Arctic, focusing on the Coast Guard Arctic
Strategic Outlook, after receiving testimony from
Admiral Charles W. Ray, Vice Commandant, Coast
Guard, Department of Homeland Security; and
Heather A. Conley, Center for Strategic and Inter-
national Studies, and Sherri Goodman, and Mike
Sfraga, both of the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, all of Washington, D.C.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
ordered favorably reported the following business
items:
S. 225, to provide for partnerships among State
and local governments, regional entities, and the pri-
vate sector to preserve, conserve, and enhance the
visitor experience at nationally significant battlefields
of the American Revolution, War of 1812, and Civil
War, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
S. 258, to prohibit oil and gas leasing on the Na-
tional Forest System land in the Ruby Mountains
Ranger District located in the Humboldt-Toiyabe
National Forest, Elko and White Pine Counties, Ne-
vada, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
S. 298, to establish the Springfield Race Riot Na-
tional Historic Monument in the State of Illinois,
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 327, to amend the Federal Lands Recreation
Enhancement Act to provide for a lifetime National
Recreational Pass for any veteran with a service-con-
nected disability, with an amendment in the nature
of a substitute;
S. 389, to authorize the Society of the First Infan-
try Division to make modifications to the First Divi-
sion Monument located on Federal land in Presi-
dential Park in the District of Columbia, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 430, to extend the Secure Rural Schools and
Community Self-Determination Act of 2000, with
an amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 434, to provide for a report on the maintenance
of Federal land holdings under the jurisdiction of the
Secretary of the Interior, with an amendment in the
nature of a substitute;
S. 490, to designate a mountain ridge in the State
of Montana as ‘‘B–47 Ridge’’, with an amendment
in the nature of a substitute;
S. 526, to withdraw certain Bureau of Land Man-
agement land from mineral development, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 641, to update the map of, and modify the
maximum acreage available for inclusion in, the
Yucca House National Monument, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 774, to adjust the boundary of the Santa
Monica Mountains National Recreation Area to in-
clude the Rim of the Valley Corridor, with an
amendment;
S. 1152, to provide for the transfer of administra-
tive jurisdiction over certain parcels of Federal land
in Arlington, Virginia, with an amendment;
S. 1262, to designate certain land administered by
the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12DE9.REC D12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1367
December 12, 2019
Service in the State of Oregon as wilderness and na-
tional recreation areas, to withdraw certain land lo-
cated in Curry County and Josephine County, Or-
egon, from all forms of entry, appropriation, or dis-
posal under the public land laws, location, entry, and
patent under the mining laws, and operation under
the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing laws,
with an amendment;
S. 1890, to provide for grants for energy efficiency
improvements and renewable energy improvements
at public school facilities;
S. 2108, to amend section 6903 of title 31,
United States Code, to provide for additional popu-
lation tiers;
S. 2393, to promote a 21st century energy work-
force, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
S. 2399, to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005
to improve State loan eligibility for projects for in-
novative technology, with an amendment;
S. 2660, to establish a grant program for wind en-
ergy research, development, and demonstration, with
an amendment; and
H.R. 617, to authorize the Department of Energy
to conduct collaborative research with the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs in order to improve
healthcare services for veterans in the United States.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Committee ordered favorably reported the following
business items:
S. 2971, to amend and reauthorize the Child
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 2997, to revise and extend health workforce
programs under title VII of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
S. 2683, to establish a task force to assist States
in implementing hiring requirements for child care
staff members to improve child safety, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 2927, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to provide that the authority of the Director of the
National Institute on Minority Health and Health
Disparities to make certain research endowments ap-
plies with respect to both current and former centers
of excellence; and
The nomination of Crosby Kemper III, of Mis-
souri, to be Director of the Institute of Museum and
Library Services.
NOMINATION
Committee on Rules and Administration: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the nomination of J.
Brett Blanton, of Virginia, to be Architect of the
Capitol, after the nominee testified and answered
questions in his own behalf.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 22 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 5406–5427; and 4 resolutions, H.
Con. Res. 79–80; and H. Res. 762–763 were intro-
duced. Pages H10257–58
Additional Cosponsors: Page H10259
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 1620, to amend the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act to reauthorize the Chesapeake Bay Pro-
gram (H. Rept. 116–338);
H.R. 2548, to modify eligibility requirements for
certain hazard mitigation assistance programs, and
for other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–339, Part 1);
H.R. 4719, to amend the Federal share of the
fishing safety standards grants, with an amendment
(H. Rept. 116–340);
H.R. 3256, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to reauthorize and improve the Chemical
Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards Program, and for
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–341, Part 1);
H.R. 4704, to direct the Director of the National
Science Foundation to support multidisciplinary re-
search on the science of suicide, and to advance the
knowledge and understanding of issues that may be
associated with several aspects of suicide including
intrinsic and extrinsic factors related to areas such as
wellbeing, resilience, and vulnerability, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–342);
H.R. 5065, to amend the Small Business Act to
provide re-entry entrepreneurship counseling and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12DE9.REC D12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1368 December 12, 2019
training services for formerly incarcerated individ-
uals, and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–343);
and
H.R. 5078, to amend the Small Business Act to
provide re-entry entrepreneurship counseling and
training services for incarcerated individuals, and for
other purposes (H. Rept. 116–344). Pages H10256–57
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 12 noon tomorrow, December 13th. Page H10127
Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Act:
The House passed H.R. 3, to establish a fair price
negotiation program, protect the Medicare program
from excessive price increases, and establish an out-
of-pocket maximum for Medicare part D enrollees,
by a yea-and-nay vote of 230 yeas to 192 nays, Roll
No. 682. Consideration began yesterday, December
11th. Pages H10129–H10225
Rejected the Upton motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce with
instructions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a yea-and-nay vote
of 196 yeas to 226 nays, Roll No. 681.
Pages H10223–24
Agreed to:
Tonko amendment (No. 2 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–334) that requires CMS to create and im-
plement a measure in the Star Ratings program eval-
uating Medicare Advantage and Part D plans on
how well they provide access to biosimilar drugs;
Pages H10202–04
Peters amendment (No. 3 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–334) that amends the Public Health Serv-
ice Act to authorize a pilot program to develop, ex-
pand, and enhance the commercialization of bio-
medical products, and for other purposes;
Pages H10204–05
Kennedy amendment (No. 4 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–334) that requires another Senate con-
firmed officer with HHS to carry out the negotiation
duties should the Secretary of HHS have a conflict
of interest; the General Counsel of HHS would be
responsible for identifying these conflicts;
Pages H10205–06
Kennedy amendment (No. 6 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–334) that expresses the Sense of Con-
gress regarding the impact of the high cost of pre-
scription drugs on communities of color and persons
living in rural or sparsely populated areas of the
United States; Pages H10208–10
Axne amendment (No. 8 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–334) that establishes a grant program for
states to reduce the burdens associated with health
care administrative work and reduces HHS adminis-
trative costs by 50% over 10 years; Pages H10211–14
Finkenauer amendment (No. 9 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–334) that requires drug companies
to disclose truthful and non-misleading pricing in-
formation about prescription drugs and biological
products when they advertise these products directly
to consumers; Pages H10214–15
Houlahan amendment (No. 12 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–334) that increases funding for
clinical trials at NIH and ban the use of spread pric-
ing by PBMs as it relates to Medicaid;
Pages H10217–19
O’Halleran amendment (No. 5 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–334) that creates a grant program
within HHS for hospitals located in rural and medi-
cally underserved areas, including Critical Access
Hospitals, to cover the start-up costs for establishing
a Graduate Medical Education (GME) program or a
partnership with a hospital that has an existing pro-
gram; would include a reporting requirement for
GAO to analyze whether residents continue to prac-
tice in a rural or medically underserved area after
completing their training (by a recorded vote of 351
ayes to 73 noes, Roll No. 677);
Pages H10206–08, H10220
Gottheimer amendment (No. 7 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–334) that requires an HHS study
to identify conditions without an FDA-approved
treatment where the development of a treatment
would fill an unmet medical need for a serious or
life-threatening condition or rare disease; requires
HHS to identify appropriate incentives that would
lead to the development of such treatments (by a re-
corded vote of 380 ayes to 45 noes, Roll No. 678);
Pages H10210–11, H10221
Luria amendment (No. 10 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–334) that makes clear that federal em-
ployee health plans are covered by the price reduc-
tion provisions of the bill (by a recorded vote of 231
ayes to 192 noes, Roll No. 679); and
Pages H10215–16, H10221–22
Cunningham amendment (No. 11 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–334) that allows the Veteran’s
Administration to benefit from Maximum Fair Pric-
ing guidelines (by a recorded vote of 234 ayes to
192 noes, Roll No. 680). Pages H10216–17, H10222
Rejected:
Walden amendment (No. 1 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–334) that sought to include provisions
in the bill related to Medicare Parts B&D, drug
price transparency, Medicare Part D benefit redesign,
MedPAC, Medicaid, FDA, and revenue provisions
(by a recorded vote of 201 ayes to 223 noes, Roll
No. 676). Pages H10167–H10202, H10219–20
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12DE9.REC D12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1369
December 12, 2019
H. Res. 758, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 3) and (H.R. 5038) and the con-
ference report to accompany the bill (S. 1790) was
agreed to yesterday, December 11th.
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
today appears on page H10234.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes and
five recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H10219–20, H10220,
H10221, H10221–22, H10222, H10224, and
H10225. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 4:12 p.m.
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 12 noon.
Committee Meetings
EXAMINING THE EDUCATION
DEPARTMENT’S IMPLEMENTATION OF
BORROWER DEFENSE
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Education
Department’s Implementation of Borrower Defense’’.
Testimony was heard from Betsy DeVos, Secretary,
Department of Education.
MEMBER DAY HEARING
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day Hearing’’. Testimony
was heard from Representatives Case, Garamendi,
Green of Texas, Hill of Arkansas, Meng, Roy, and
Steil.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee continued
a markup on H. Res. 755, the ‘‘Articles of Impeach-
ment Against President Donald J. Trump’’.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
DECEMBER 13, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, continue
markup on H. Res. 755, the ‘‘Articles of Impeachment
Against President Donald J. Trump’’, 10 a.m., 1100
Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12DE9.REC D12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1370 December 12, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
11:45 a.m., Friday, December 13
Senate Chamber
Program for Friday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Friday, December 13
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 12 noon.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Aderholt, Robert B., Ala., E1585
Bishop, Rob, Utah., E1585
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E1583
Casten, Sean, Ill., E1583
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E1581, E1584
Collins, Doug, Ga., E1583
Crow, Jason, Col., E1584
Estes, Ron, Kans., E1584
Garamendi, John, Calif., E1582
Griffith, H. Morgan, Va., E1585
Kim, Andy, N.J., E1583, E1584, E1586
Lewis, John, Ga., E1584
Meadows, Mark, N.C., E1586
Moore, Gwen, Wisc., E1584
Panetta, Jimmy, Calif., E1581
Pappas, Chris, N.H., E1581
Posey, Bill, Fla., E1586
Rouda, Harley, Calif. E1585
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E1582
Trahan, Lori, Mass., E1581
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Dec 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D12DE9.REC D12DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
