Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1997
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2019 No. 29
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. PETERS).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
February 14, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable SCOTT H.
PETERS to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
HUMANITARIAN STANDARDS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. RUIZ) for 5 minutes.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, two names
have been lost in months of govern-
ment shutdowns and threats of na-
tional emergencies: Jakelin Caal
Maquin and Felipe Gomez Alonzo.
Those were the children who died in
December while in the custody of our
Federal Government.
Let me tell you a bit about Jakelin’s
story and how, in the next 48 hours, we
will take a historic first step to forever
change how our Nation treats children
fleeing violence.
Jakelin Caal Maquin was 7 years old.
She joined her father in fleeing the ex-
treme danger and poverty of her vil-
lage, San Antonio Secortez in Guate-
mala. Together, they dreamed of new
opportunities, of new safety, of a home
free from violence and discrimination
where they could build a life and sup-
port their loved ones at home.
Jakelin and her father chose the
same destination that asylum seekers,
immigrants, and refugees have sought
for centuries: the United States of
America.
But the conditions I saw at the Bor-
der Patrol facilities where Jakelin and
her father were held were not worthy
of our American ideals. The conditions
did not demonstrate respect for the
human dignity of the individuals in our
Federal Government’s care.
Look, I am a doctor. I know what a
functioning emergency medical re-
sponse protocol looks like and how it
should operate, and this was not it.
I saw women, infants, toddlers, and
the elderly packed and even piled on
top of each other, open toilets in
crowded cells without any privacy,
visibly sick people, children coughing
on one another, and I immediately saw
that the Border Patrol agents did not
have the resources to respond to a life-
threatening medical emergency.
Mr. Speaker, let me put this into per-
spective. I traveled to Haiti days after
the devastating 2010 earthquake, where
I served as the medical director of the
country’s largest camp of internally
displaced people. The conditions I saw
at the New Mexico Border Patrol facili-
ties were worse than those I saw in
Haiti, the most impoverished country
in the Western Hemisphere, after their
most challenging and devastating dis-
aster.
Here we are, the greatest nation on
our planet, and we are putting children
in cages and denying them free access
to food, water, and a private toilet.
Then and there, I committed myself
to creating humanitarian standards
that are worthy of human dignity: real
solutions, not empty promises, that
will save the lives of children at the
border.
I introduced legislation that makes
it clear Congress expects CBP to imple-
ment three crucial reforms as soon as
possible:
First, provide meaningful medical ex-
aminations of individuals entering our
borders. A basic physical exam would
have shown warning signs of Jakelin’s
septic shock and most probably saved
her life. A child who dies from septic
shock does not look normal 8 hours be-
forehand.
Second, invest in essential medical
equipment and trained medical per-
sonnel available to respond to life-
threatening emergencies. When med-
ical care is far away, agents need the
resources, equipment, and knowledge
to care for each other and the individ-
uals in their custody.
Third, provide basic humane living
conditions that are safe and hygienic,
where individuals can access adequate
food, water, and showers.
These are straightforward reforms.
They move us closer to a system that
is safe, humane, and aligns with our
fundamental ideals as Americans.
Our work is not done, but we have
reached an important milestone. We
are beginning to address the humani-
tarian crisis at our border, not with
rhetoric and political showboating or
grandstanding, but with real, life-sav-
ing solutions.
This week, we will not just pass a bill
that averts a government shutdown; we
will pass a bill that provides funding
for, and holds CBP accountable to, im-
plementing the humanitarian stand-
ards included in my legislation, H. Con.
Res. 17. These reforms will save lives
and help restore our legacy as a nation
that recognizes the dignity and funda-
mental rights of every human being.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE7.000 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1998 February 14, 2019
So, Mr. Speaker, I will speak the
names of those two children again:
Felipe Gomez Alonzo and Jakelin Caal
Maquin. We must have the courage to
recognize their humanity.
f
THANKING THE PENNSYLVANIA
NATIONAL GUARD FOR ITS WORK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, this week I had the honor
of meeting with the Pennsylvania Na-
tional Guard Association, which is
solely dedicated to more than 19,000
Guard members and more than 67,000
Guard veterans and their families.
The National Guard is an essential
element of the United States military.
Founded in 1636 as a citizen force orga-
nized to protect families and towns
from hostile attacks, today’s National
Guard soldiers hold civilian jobs or at-
tend college while maintaining their
military training, always ready to de-
fend the American way of life in the
event of an emergency.
The mission of the Pennsylvania Na-
tional Guard Association is to ensure
the Pennsylvania National Guard is
fully funded, manned, equipped, and
trained to perform their Federal and
State missions. That also includes en-
suring that members and veterans have
the benefits that they have earned.
Mr. Speaker, the Pennsylvania Na-
tional Guard mostly hails from the
Commonwealth, and they are prepared
to serve the Nation at a moment’s no-
tice. In fact, Pennsylvania Guard per-
sonnel provided extraordinary support
to areas affected by the disastrous 2018
hurricane season. They offered aviation
support, restored lines of communica-
tion, and lent a helping hand to their
fellow Americans in their time of need.
More than 1,000 Guard members as-
sisted in domestic operations, includ-
ing snowstorms and floods. In 2018,
Guard members were deployed
throughout the world in support of mo-
bile operations. They also participated
in training events at home and abroad
to enhance readiness.
As part of its Federal mission, ap-
proximately 1,000 Pennsylvania Na-
tional Guard personnel deployed
throughout the world in 2018 in support
of mobile operations, including Oper-
ation Spartan Shield, Operation Free-
dom Sentinel, and missions in support
of U.S. Air Force’s Central Command,
Air Force Special Operations Com-
mand, and NATO.
Mr. Speaker, I had the opportunity
to visit members of the Guard’s 28th
Infantry Division over the Thanks-
giving holiday. I led a codel last No-
vember to Kuwait, where we met with
members of the 28th Infantry Division
who were deployed in support of Oper-
ation Spartan Shield.
The servicemembers that we visited,
while serving honorably overseas, were
also serving in one of the Army’s most
historic units. The 28th Infantry Divi-
sion is the oldest continuous serving
division in the United States Army. In
1918, it earned its nickname ‘‘Iron Divi-
sion,’’ fighting during World War I, and
100 years later, the same division con-
tinues to defend freedom and liberty
around the world.
Since the attacks of 9/11, more than
35,000 Pennsylvania National Guard
members have deployed overseas. In
fact, Pennsylvania’s Fort Indiantown
Gap is the busiest Army National
Guard training center in the Nation.
The Pennsylvania National Guard is
also home to the 56th Brigade Combat
Team, which is one of the Army’s nine
Stryker Brigade Combat Teams. This
is a team that my son Logan belonged
to when he was in the National Guard
before he went to Active Duty. It was
the only National Guard Stryker bri-
gade in the United States Army.
Mr. Speaker, the Pennsylvania Na-
tional Guard continues to serve the
Commonwealth and the Nation with
pride and distinction. I look forward to
its continued success. I thank all of our
citizen soldiers, past and present, for
their service.
f
E-COMMERCE IS AN AMERICAN
SUCCESS STORY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
New Hampshire (Mr. PAPPAS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, recently I
spent the day in the Mount Washington
Valley, with local businesses, hearing
from small business owners about the
challenges that they face.
I met with the owners of White
Mountain Puzzles, a second-generation
family business that produces 1.6 mil-
lion made-in-the-U.S. puzzles a year
and sells them all over the world.
Later in the day, I stopped by Lupine
Pet, another terrific locally owned
business that sells durable pet collars
and harnesses.
Mr. Speaker, in keeping with our
proud Live Free or Die tradition in the
Granite State, we pay no sales taxes on
goods and services.
White Mountain Puzzles and Lupine
Pet are just two of the many small
businesses that have thrived under the
rules of the road of our State’s econ-
omy. Unfortunately, a recent Supreme
Court decision is casting a dark shadow
over these entrepreneurs. It is threat-
ening those who have brick-and-mortar
operations in our State and make a liv-
ing from online sales to customers
across the street and around the world.
Mr. Speaker, in June of 2018, the Su-
preme Court upended decades of prece-
dent. In its decision in the Wayfair
case, the Court ruled that a jurisdic-
tion may legally impose sales taxes on
customers of sellers that don’t have a
physical presence within that jurisdic-
tion’s borders.
Unfortunately, States across the
country are now rushing to capitalize
on this new taxing power, to the det-
riment of businesses in New Hampshire
that don’t impose sales taxes on con-
sumers and aren’t prepared to collect
them.
Ultimately, the Wayfair decision
could force untold numbers of small re-
tailers in my State to stop doing busi-
ness altogether over the internet. That
is a possibility that should alarm every
American.
We should be empowering entre-
preneurs and innovators, the true driv-
ing force of the American economy, not
stifling them with burdensome tax col-
lection requirements.
Here is the bottom line, Mr. Speaker:
Businesses in my district should not be
punished simply for using the internet
to reach their customer base.
Clearly, the time has come for Con-
gress to act, and there are common-
sense steps that Members of both par-
ties should embrace, regardless of the
tax laws in the States that we rep-
resent.
First and foremost, we should pre-
vent sales taxes from being imposed
retroactively, and we should give busi-
nesses enough time to understand this
Court decision. As a business owner
myself, I can tell you how unreason-
able it is to expect companies to some-
how meet this new tax collection obli-
gation at the drop of a hat, a financial
burden that they couldn’t possibly
have anticipated.
Second, given the high cost and com-
plexity of complying with different
sales tax laws in nearly 11,000 jurisdic-
tions, we should create an exception to
collection requirements for these small
businesses.
The great folks at White Mountain
Puzzles have a special talent for cre-
ating incredible jigsaw puzzles, not for
navigating complex unique sales tax
rules from every State and munici-
pality in America.
Dave and Scott at Lupine Pet don’t
have a legal department or a big team
of accountants to assist them in col-
lecting and remitting the right
amounts. And they say the cost of
compliance, including the software so-
lution for their small business, adds up
to at least $25,000 a year.
Let’s give them and millions of other
small business owners a well-deserved
break. Let’s give them the protections
that they deserve.
b 1015
Mr. Speaker, e-commerce is an Amer-
ican success story. Online sales have
created millions of jobs and connect
Americans from coast to coast.
Internet retailers give rural America
the opportunity to participate more
fully in our country’s economic suc-
cess.
Let’s give these online sellers, in-
cluding hundreds of small businesses in
the Granite State, the support and cer-
tainty they deserve to continue to
grow and prosper.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.002 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1999
February 14, 2019
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
VETERANS HISTORY PROJECT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. HURD) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
those who have answered the call to
serve our country can be found all
across the 23rd Congressional District
of Texas. From Monahans to Alpine,
Fort Davis to Eagle Pass, my team
crisscrossed the 29 counties I represent
and heard from 23 of our Nation’s he-
roes whose stories will be preserved for
generations to come through the Li-
brary of Congress’ Veterans History
Project.
From those who just finished serving
in the military to veterans of the Viet-
nam war and Second World War, these
men stood in the trenches overseas,
flew aircraft over Nazi Germany, and
put themselves in harm’s way to pro-
tect our Nation from threats across the
globe—from the Axis Powers to ISIS.
They paved the way for today’s service-
members who keep us safe every single
day.
I thank the Library of Congress for
preserving these stories so that we can
learn about our past and teach future
generations the value of selfless serv-
ice.
I thank all who have served, and God
bless these United States of America.
SAN ANTONIO CHRISTIAN SCHOOL SWIMMING
TEAM STATE TITLE
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to celebrate the outstanding
achievement of the San Antonio Chris-
tian School swim teams for winning
both the girls and boys Texas Associa-
tion of Private and Parochial Schools
Division 2 State Championships last
week.
This achievement is truly a testa-
ment to their dedicated work ethic and
incredible talents. What a fantastic
way to end an undefeated season. Hard
work and practice paid off. Their par-
ents, peers, and community are proud
of them.
Included in this group is a former in-
tern of mine, a gifted athlete and rising
star—Michael O’Brien of San Antonio,
Texas. Well done, Michael.
Enjoy these great moments. You will
treasure them for the rest of your
lives. Go Lions.
RUNNING START
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, in
2019, there are more women serving in
Congress than at any other point in
American history. This is a tremen-
dous achievement for our Nation and a
trend I hope will continue, because
while women are half the population,
they still make up less than one-quar-
ter of my congressional colleagues.
I rise today to recognize an organiza-
tion that is doing crucial work to
bridge this gap. Since its inception in
2007, Running Start has trained over
10,000 young women to run for office. I
am proud to be a congressional co-
chair of Running Start because our
elected leaders must better reflect the
makeup of our country.
With all the problems we face as a
nation, the only way we are going to
solve them is by working together, and
that will require including more
women in the conversation. Running
Start is training the next generation of
women leaders who do just that.
I hope my colleagues will join me in
supporting the incredible young women
in Running Start’s network and en-
courage the young women in their lives
and our lives to never let anyone ever
tell them they are not capable of run-
ning for office.
f
CLIMATE CHANGE WAITS FOR NO
ONE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. CASTEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
the very survival of humankind is in
peril, and there is no greater threat to
our continued existence than climate
change. From the inaction of this ad-
ministration, you would never guess
the seriousness of the risk confronting
us. For the sake of our very survival, I
urge my colleagues to put aside their
concerns about how our party leaders
or how our base will judge us.
All that truly matters is how our
grandchildren will judge us. There are
those who claim they don’t believe in
climate change. Those doubters de-
serve no more of our time or attention
than those who don’t believe in grav-
ity. Science doesn’t care. There are
those who claim we can’t make
progress until we have a new occupant
of the White House and a Democratic
majority in the Senate. To those I say,
We have no time to wait. Two years of
inaction is 2 years we can never get
back.
We in this body need to begin tack-
ling climate change now, and we need
to start by talking about it differently,
not as an unproven scientific theory,
not as a political inconvenience and
not as a job killer. It is an economic
opportunity. Action on climate change
can be the path to making the U.S.
more globally competitive.
I don’t speak on this floor today as a
theorist. From 2000 to 2016, I built mul-
tiple companies with missions to prof-
itably reduce greenhouse gas emis-
sions. My colleagues and I made U.S.
manufacturers more competitive by re-
ducing their energy expenses. We built
more than 80 projects and $300 million
of capital investment, and I can now
say three things with certainty: One,
there are no thermodynamic barriers
to drastically lowering CO2 emissions;
and two, there are no economic bar-
riers to businesses pursuing profits.
That leads me to three, that there are
a lot of legal barriers to profitably re-
ducing greenhouse gas emissions.
This gives us an opportunity, because
while we can’t change the laws of ther-
modynamics, and we can’t change the
laws of economics, we can change the
laws of the United States. We don’t
need to reinvent the wheel. Switzer-
land, Germany, and Denmark all use
half as much energy as we do per dollar
of GDP. Those countries have the same
access to talent, the same access to
capital and technology as we do, but
they use half as much energy. If all we
did was copy them, we could cut CO2
emissions by 50 percent.
I think we could do better. Consider
this: in 2007, over a decade ago, Con-
gress tried and failed to pass the Lie-
berman-Warner climate bill which was
seen by some as being too ambitious
because it sought to cut U.S. electric
sector emissions by 17 percent. It
didn’t pass, and there was a powerful
Senator who said at the time that the
bill would drastically increase energy
costs and cost millions of American
jobs, all for no environmental gain.
As Warner Wolf says, ‘‘Let’s go to the
videotape.’’ CO2 emissions since then in
the electric sector are down by nearly
25 percent per megawatt hour and real
power prices are down by 4 percent
over the last decade. Just imagine
what we could have done if we tried.
So why did emissions fall? Because of
economics.
We have gradually been building
more efficient, cleaner, and cheaper
power plants, and once those plants are
built, they always run more than the
older, less efficient plants, because
here is the little secret: businesses like
to make money, and you make more
money if you spend less on fuel.
Mr. Speaker, if my colleagues take
nothing else away from this speech, I
hope they will understand that point.
Everything we do to make our econ-
omy less dependent on expensive fossil
fuel lowers CO2 emissions and makes
our businesses more profitable. That
protects American jobs and makes our
citizens wealthier.
So let me take this opportunity to
speak to those who don’t believe the
science and to those who believe the
science but think a warmer world is a
good thing: Keep your beliefs. Hold on
to them. All I am asking is that you be
greedy. Greedy for America, as our
President has boasted. Because if you
are greedy, you will work with me to
see CO2 reduction as an opportunity for
cost reduction and profit maximiza-
tion.
I mentioned at the start of my re-
marks that the primary barrier to
meaningful CO2 reductions are U.S.
laws. That is not to say that those laws
have been written with bad intent. To
the contrary, many of those well-inten-
tioned laws have had unintentional,
negative consequences. Well-inten-
tioned aspects of our Tax Code often
cause capital to flow to the least eco-
nomic technologies. Well-intentioned
portions of the Clean Air Act discour-
age energy efficiency. Well-intentioned
social policies obscure the true cost of
fossil fuels, distorting capital markets
away from cheaper alternatives.
But that is great news because we
can fix all of those things. So let’s
make U.S. manufacturers more com-
petitive. Let’s help them cut energy
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.005 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2000 February 14, 2019
costs. Let’s protect U.S. jobs. Let’s
make our energy system more resil-
ient. And let’s lower CO2 emissions.
I think that is pretty bipartisan. And
as I go to work on the Select Com-
mittee on Climate Crisis, I will be
working toward writing and intro-
ducing legislation, and I look forward
to hearing all the great ideas from my
colleagues in this body. I don’t claim
to have all the answers, but I know
that we do. But for goodness’ sake,
let’s not wait.
f
HONORING JUDGE ASHFORD
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Nebraska (Mr. BACON) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in honor of Judge William Mark
Ashford of the Fourth Judicial District
Court of Nebraska who was known for
his jovial smile, gregarious nature, and
being a fearless voice for justice. Feb-
ruary 14th marks what would have
been his 67th birthday. His untimely
passing is a great loss for his family,
friends, and for the people of our com-
munity whom he served with the high-
est level of commitment, integrity, and
honor.
Appointed to the bench in 1988, Judge
Ashford’s work ethic and uncompro-
mising professional integrity quickly
garnered the respect of most and ruf-
fled the feathers of some. Armed with a
sharp legal mind and even sharper
focus on the public he served, Judge
Ashford was a stalwart judicial advo-
cate, fighting for transparency in and
out of the courtroom.
His eternal faith in humanity and in
the power of justice will continue to
serve as an unyielding example. Ne-
braska Supreme Court Chief Justice
Mike Heavican noted that Judge
Ashford’s work with the young adult
treatment court and his pioneering ef-
forts to establish the Douglas County
Veterans Treatment Court would be
sorely missed.
Veterans treatment courts are tap-
ping into the unique aspects of mili-
tary and veteran culture and using
them to the benefit of the veteran. Ac-
cording to the Omaha World Herald:
‘‘Ashford felt a calling to oversee vet-
erans court because his father was a
World War II pilot who once flew a
fighter plane called the Aksarben
Knight.’’
I extend my deepest condolences to
his friends and family members, espe-
cially his wife, Deb Ashford; sons, Ste-
ven and Sam Ashford; stepsons, Keith,
Kristopher and Kent; and brothers,
Brad and Carl Ashford.
AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY MONTH
Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today on the occasion of African Amer-
ican History Month to recognize two
key figures in Nebraska history, Will
Brown and George Smith, both mur-
dered by lynching at the hands of law-
less mobs. This is not a past Nebras-
kans are proud of, but it is a story we
must continue to tell so we never for-
get them or allow acts of hate like
these to ever be repeated.
Nearly 100 years ago in the summer
of 1919, Black people were killed amid
violent race riots occurring across the
country. Omaha, Nebraska, was not
immune during that Red Summer and
regrettably became known for one of
the most heinous acts of hate and ra-
cial violence in American history.
According to research, the destruc-
tive flames of hatred and racism at the
time were fanned by a series of politi-
cally motivated articles published in
newspapers like the Omaha Bee.
Alarmed at the Bee’s promotion of ra-
cial prejudice, Reverend John Albert
Williams, first president of the local
chapter of the NAACP and minister of
St. Philip’s Episcopal Church called
upon the editors of the Bee to stop
their propaganda.
On September 28, 1919, a raucous
crowd of more than 4,000, emboldened
by the destructive rhetoric, grew vio-
lent and set fire to the Douglas County
Courthouse. When Omaha Mayor Ed-
ward Smith tried to calm the crowd, he
was assaulted and nearly killed by the
mob before being rescued by local law
enforcement. Without a trial, the riot-
ous horde seized Mr. Brown, who had
been accused of rape and robbery. De-
spite his exclamations of innocence,
and physical evidence supporting his
claims, Mr. Brown was brutally mur-
dered. His body was paraded through
the streets as a form of racial ter-
rorism.
Equally disturbing was the lynching
of George Smith, also known as Joe
Coe, 28 years earlier in October of 1891.
Mr. SMITH was falsely accused of raping
a young girl, despite having a valid
alibi and witnesses who attested to his
innocence. Again, unchecked hatred
fueled the unjustified lynching without
any judicial process.
By shining light on these horrid
shadows of injustice in America, we
can begin to speak truthfully about
this difficult history so that reconcili-
ation can be achieved. It also allows us
to honor the inspirational leaders who
rise up to promote equality and eradi-
cate racial subjugation. The work of
the NAACP was tremendously effective
in awakening the Nation to the ur-
gency of stopping lynching.
Today in my community a coalition
has been formed called the Omaha
Community Council for Racial Justice
and Reconciliation, to coordinate ef-
forts to memorialize victims of lynch-
ing and raise awareness of racial vio-
lence in Douglas County.
I call on all who hear these words to
stand against hate, racism, and injus-
tice whenever and wherever it may be
found. We must ensure acts like these
are never allowed to occur again and
that the lessons of Will Brown and
George Smith’s deaths are never for-
gotten. We are a nation that respects
life, liberty, equality, and the rule of
law.
YEMEN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ROSE) for 5 minutes.
Mr. ROSE of New York. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to say that I was proud to
vote for H.J. Res. 37 and to stand in op-
position to continued U.S. engagement
in hostilities in Yemen as yet
undeclared by Congress. However, this
is just the first step in addressing just
how far astray we have gone when it
comes to Yemen and in our foreign pol-
icy more broadly.
Let’s be clear: the crisis unfolding in
Yemen right now is a consequence and
the responsibility of actions by both
Republican and Democratic adminis-
trations. We took a low level conflict,
and we put it on steroids. We took a re-
gional issue, and we turned it into the
biggest humanitarian crisis in the
world.
For what?
We started supporting the anti-
Houthi coalition because we didn’t
want Iran to expand its influence, and
here we are, the Houthis are closer
than ever to Tehran, and they are
launching Iranian-made missiles at Ri-
yadh.
I thought we were done doing dumb
stuff.
On top of all of this, the President
compounded this humanitarian crisis
by implementing a travel ban which
left the families of American citizens
stranded in a war zone that we our-
selves helped create.
Now, I represent one of the largest
Yemeni-American communities in the
United States. I have hundreds of fami-
lies in my district, Staten Island and
south Brooklyn, who worry about their
husbands, their wives, their children,
and their parents, who only want to be
reunited with them in the United
States.
Now, many families have told me
that they can apply for a waiver which
somehow makes this constitutional.
But not a single person from the Sec-
retary of State on down can tell me
how my constituents can actually get
the waivers that their family members
so desperately need. We still don’t
know.
Nobody cares about national security
more than I do, but this isn’t it. We are
the most powerful country in the
world, and we have trapped my con-
stituents’ loved ones in a war zone with
no answers for how they can get out of
there.
How does this make us more safe?
It is time we have a clear-eyed look
at how we conduct our foreign policy
and, more importantly, how we decide
to use military force in the first place.
This resolution is just one step in the
right direction.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.006 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2001
February 14, 2019
b 1030
CONGRATULATING KENTUCKY SU-
PREME COURT JUSTICE BILL
CUNNINGHAM ON HIS RETIRE-
MENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kentucky (Mr. COMER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Supreme Court
Justice Bill Cunningham from Lyon
County, of the First District of Ken-
tucky, on his upcoming retirement
from the Kentucky Supreme Court.
After serving in the United States
Army, Bill Cunningham was the
Eddyville city attorney, the public de-
fender for the Kentucky State Peniten-
tiary, and the Commonwealth’s attor-
ney for the 56th Judicial District. He
then served on the bench as a circuit
judge for 15 years before his election to
the Kentucky Supreme Court in 2006.
As an avid writer, Bill Cunningham
documented important parts of Ken-
tucky’s history in his books. Through
his writings and life as a concerned cit-
izen, he sought improved race relations
and minority representation on juries.
Justice Cunningham evidently passed
his passion for public service on to his
son, Congressman JOE CUNNINGHAM of
South Carolina. I am proud to serve
alongside Congressman CUNNINGHAM
and look forward to working with him
to promote bipartisan legislation in
the 116th Congress.
As Justice Cunningham begins the
next phase of his life, I join with the
people of western Kentucky to express
our gratitude for his lifetime of public
service to the Commonwealth of Ken-
tucky.
f
CONGRATULATING KENTUCKY SU-
PREME COURT JUSTICE BILL
CUNNINGHAM ON HIS RETIRE-
MENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
South Carolina (Mr. CUNNINGHAM) for 5
minutes.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Speaker, I,
too, rise today to call attention, along
with Congressman JAMIE COMER, to one
of Kentucky’s most fearless, tireless
public servants, who recently retired
from the Commonwealth’s highest
court at the beginning of this month
and who is my father, Justice Bill
Cunningham.
He began his long and distinguished
career by serving as a JAG officer in
the U.S. Army during the Vietnam war,
serving in Germany, Vietnam, and
Korea.
He returned home to serve later as
the city attorney, then the public de-
fender, then the prosecutor, followed
by circuit court judge, all before being
elected to Kentucky’s highest court,
the Kentucky Supreme Court, where he
has been a justice for the last 12 years.
His skills in the courtroom were not
just limited to the courtroom. Growing
up the youngest of five unruly boys, we
found that he brought those skills
home with him.
I recall one time when three of my
older brothers came home late, past
curfew, with the smell of alcohol. Their
stories did not jibe with one another,
so he immediately sequestered each
brother in three separate rooms and
went from room to room interrogating
each of them, only to find out their
story of a flat tire fell apart very
quickly when they could not decide on
which tire was flat and who fixed it.
He acted as the judge, the jury, and
the executioner of our household in dis-
ciplining five boys.
I recall one time being disciplined at
school for fighting. I came home. My
father told me: If you are in trouble at
school, you are in trouble at home.
He took a 25-pound weight, put it in
a backpack, and made me carry that
backpack around with me everywhere I
went—to school, back from school to
home—with the message that, if I was
going to be a weight on him, he was
going to put a weight on me. No doubt,
such behavior would probably call at-
tention to child services these days.
He is the bastion of public service; he
is the example of integrity; and, last
but not least, he is my hero.
Thank you, Dad, for all of your hard
work, for leading by example.
He treated every single person with
dignity and with respect. Even today,
when he goes inside the walls of Ken-
tucky’s State Penitentiary, the max-
imum security penitentiary, he walks
around in the yard and people approach
him—people he has prosecuted, people
he has sentenced to the penitentiary—
and they come up and want to shake
his hand because he treated every sin-
gle person with dignity and with re-
spect.
I want to thank my father, Justice
Bill Cunningham, for making this
world a better one.
And to my mother, who will be the
beneficiary to all of his newfound free
time, I wish to say to her: Good luck.
f
HONORING BUCKS COUNTY FIRST
RESPONDERS AT HEARTS FOR
OUR HEROES RECEPTION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK) for 5
minutes.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker,
Bucks County, Pennsylvania, is home
to some of the most thoughtful and
compassionate people in the Nation.
This was on full display earlier this
month when parents and students from
the Howard Hersch Religious School at
Congregation Brothers of Israel held a
reception for first responders, called
Hearts for Our Heroes.
Held at the Newtown Township
Building, first responders in attend-
ance received letters of appreciation
and cookies for their service and their
sacrifice. Students also sang a song of
gratitude to the heroes in our commu-
nity.
I would like to honor several people,
Mr. Speaker, who played a pivotal role
in ensuring that our community’s first
responders received the recognition
they deserve: Joan Hersch, Congrega-
tion Brothers of Israel Religious
School director; and Janet Barudin and
Amy Stinson, who co-chair the con-
gregation’s Caring Committee; as well
as Rabbi Aaron Gaber.
I would also like to extend my grati-
tude to all first responders in Newtown
Township and throughout Bucks Coun-
ty for all they do to keep us safe.
RECOGNIZING JUDGE REA B. BOYLAN
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the remarkable
career of a public servant in Bucks
County, Pennsylvania, who will be re-
tiring at the end of her term.
Judge Rea Boylan, a resident of
Hilltown, has spent 20 years on the
bench and is the most tenured member
of the Bucks County court of common
pleas.
In her years of service, Judge Boylan
has worked in the public defender’s of-
fice, the office of the district attorney,
and also was Bucks County controller
before her judgeship.
Throughout Judge Boylan’s tenure,
she has been known as a fair judge who
is not afraid to hold people accountable
and always seeks to rehabilitate those
in need.
Notably, her work with juveniles and
those struggling with addiction truly
embodies her dedication to both justice
and fairness.
I wish Judge Boylan all of the best in
her retirement, and I speak on behalf
of all of Bucks County when we thank
her wholeheartedly for her service.
CONGRATULATING NORTH PENN HIGH SCHOOL
SWIMMING COACH JEFF FAIKISH
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate North Penn
High School swimming coach Jeff
Faikish for being named Pennsylvania
Coach of the Year for girls swimming
and diving during the 2017–2018 school
year.
The National Federation of State
High School Associations awards
coaches who exemplify the high stand-
ards of sportsmanship, ethical and
moral character, and have received the
endorsement of their State high school
association.
Last fall, the North Penn High
School swim team won the State cham-
pionship and, under John’s leadership,
has competed in seven State champion-
ship meets.
Mr. Speaker, we congratulate John
for receiving this honor and all the
athletes of the North Penn girls swim
team for their outstanding achieve-
ments. We wish them all continued
success in their future endeavors.
f
BORDER SECURITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. BROOKS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, in fiscal year 2018, more than 2,000
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.009 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2002 February 14, 2019
illegal aliens were apprehended by Fed-
eral agents for homicides committed
on American soil. In addition, over
70,000 Americans are killed each year
by poisonous drugs, much of which is
shipped illegally into America across
our porous southern border by illegal
aliens, MS–13, and other drug cartels.
Stronger border security, which must
include wall construction, will save
thousands of American lives each year.
Unfortunately, in the worst betrayal
of America in history, socialist Demo-
crats, motivated by a lust for political
power, selfishly elevate illegal aliens
over American citizens because illegal
alien families overwhelmingly rely on
welfare, thus making them highly reli-
able Democrat voters who elect social-
ist Democrat politicians by diluting
the votes of American citizens.
Inasmuch as socialist Democrats
refuse to protect American lives from
illegal alien homicides, drug deaths,
and America’s porous southern border,
I urge President Trump to secure our
borders and build the wall under exist-
ing law and Presidential powers.
For example, title 10, section 284 of
the United States Code empowers
Presidents to order America’s military
to assist Federal drug and law enforce-
ment agencies in the fight against drug
and transnational organized crime.
Pursuant to this law, the President
may deploy active military and Na-
tional Guard troops to establish and
operate bases of operations; detect and
monitor surface traffic in Mexico and
in the United States within 25 miles of
the southern border; construct roads,
fences, barriers, and lighting to block
drug smuggling corridors across the
southern border; and use aerial and
ground reconnaissance.
For emphasis, this Federal law em-
powers President Trump to order
America’s military to construct walls
and barriers to block drug smuggling
corridors, with the side benefit of stop-
ping illegal aliens.
Mr. Speaker, another example of ex-
isting Presidential authority is the
power to declare a national emergency
and divert congressionally appro-
priated money to border security and
wall construction.
America invaded Iraq and Afghani-
stan based on 9/11 terrorist attacks
that killed roughly 3,000 people. In re-
sponse, America spent trillions of dol-
lars and lost thousands of lives in mili-
tary actions in Iraq and Afghanistan.
While 9/11 was horrific, 9/11 deaths
pale in comparison to hundreds of
thousands of Americans who are dead
or will die over the years because of il-
legal alien homicides and overdoses
caused by deadly drugs shipped across
America’s porous southern border.
For emphasis, a minimum of 50
Americans die each day we delay secur-
ing our southern border. That is a min-
imum of 15,000 dead Americans each
year. This death rate easily justifies a
Presidential declaration of a national
emergency. In fact, not one of the 58
national emergencies declared by a
President since 1979 is supported by a
worse death rate or threat to America
and American lives.
Mr. Speaker, an extraordinarily weak
and conflicted Congress is of no help.
Worse yet, this Congress is a hin-
drance. As such, I urge President
Trump, as America’s Commander in
Chief, to invoke title 10 United States
Code section 284, declare a national
emergency, and use every other au-
thority, statutorily and constitu-
tionally, he possesses to direct the
military to secure our southern border,
build the wall, and protect and save
American lives.
America’s military protects the bor-
ders and lives in South Korea, Iraq,
Syria, Afghanistan, Europe, and many
other countries. America and Ameri-
cans deserve no less protection.
f
WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO THE
DEMOCRAT PARTY?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Tennessee (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask one question today: What hap-
pened to the Democrat party?
Democrats, up until just recently,
were a lot closer to the middle. Take
John F. Kennedy, for example, who ar-
gued in favor of supply-side economics
and fought for tax cuts and personal re-
sponsibility.
Bill Clinton and DIANNE FEINSTEIN
are recorded decrying rampant illegal
immigration. Bill Clinton described
Democrat policies on abortion as safe,
legal, and rare. Even as recent as last
decade, Barack Obama attacked com-
panies for hiring illegal aliens.
But something new is emerging from
their ranks. Dangerous extremist ideas
are becoming the new normal on the
left side of the aisle.
Let’s begin with infanticide. Are
Democrats truly accepting killing ba-
bies outside the womb now?
A Democrat head of State, last
month, casually defended it on a radio
station broadcasting in the Nation’s
Capital. He explained to listeners that
an infant already delivered would be
kept comfortable while a mother and a
doctor discussed letting the child die.
b 1045
When pressed for clarification, he ex-
plained that the scenario he envisioned
involved a baby with deformities. As-
suming he meant something like Down
syndrome or something similar, this is
an outrageous claim. If you go and ask
people with Down syndrome, they
think their life is worth living, and I
couldn’t agree more.
If all of that is not sitting well with
you right now, well, we are just getting
started, or I should say, they are just
getting started.
How about the newly unveiled Green
New Deal? This massive overhaul of
the entire U.S. economy was reportedly
drafted over a single weekend by a
bunch of staffers and environmental
activists. The visionaries behind this
massive bill are hoping to eliminate air
travel, gut and rebuild every building
in America, eliminate 99 percent of
cars, eliminate nuclear energy, and ban
affordable energies like natural gas.
One of the authors of the Green New
Deal laments that we aren’t sure we
will be able to fully get rid of
flatulating cows fast enough to get
down to zero carbon emissions. Of
course, that has been pulled off their
website, following the appropriate na-
tional response.
But don’t worry, the authors tell us,
if passed into law, the government will
guarantee each and every one of us a
high-paying job, free education for life,
a house, free money, and healthy food
for all Americans.
How about the various proposals to
get free healthcare for everyone? The
most popular one of these, Medicare for
All, was introduced by a self-described
socialist and has received enthusiastic
endorsement of 2020 Democratic Presi-
dential candidates. Cautious estimates
of the cost of Sanders’ plan start at
around $32.6 trillion over the next 10
years.
Even if we implement the most ag-
gressive tax plan to seize and redis-
tribute wealth, the hard-earned work
of some Americans, we only raise $720
billion over 10 years, or 2 percent of
what Medicare for All will cost.
Keep in mind, our revenue for the en-
tire United States over that same pe-
riod will only be approximately $40
trillion, unless, of course, this bill
passed and we tailspin toward a second
Great Depression.
Democrats have abandoned all reason
in the immigration debate as well. We
are witnessing Democrat officials offer-
ing homes, voting rights, welfare, and
taxpayer-funded education to anyone
and everyone who is able to sneak into
the interior of the United States. It has
been estimated that each illegal bor-
der-crosser is a net fiscal burden of
$74,722 to the United States, and that is
before all the goodies I mentioned pre-
viously are added.
Moreover, we have one primary agen-
cy in charge of identifying and appre-
hending illegal aliens who go on to
commit other crimes, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, and Democratic
officials are demanding we eliminate
them. Instead, they tell us to give ev-
eryone amnesty, something estimated
to cost taxpayers another $2 trillion.
With all the free programs available
to illegal aliens in the United States, it
is no wonder they are flooding over the
southern border. According to the
White House, 400,000 migrants were ap-
prehended attempting to illegally
enter the United States in FY18 alone.
Along the way, reports from non-
partisan organizations state that one
in three women are sexually assaulted
on the trip north. They also have to
pass through something called the
route of death. Do we really want to
incentivize people to make this trek?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.010 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2003
February 14, 2019
A wall and a crackdown on illegal
immigration would surely
disincentivize migrants and save lives.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF ALFRED
J. DUNLAP
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. YOHO) for 5 minutes.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, today, I
would like to honor the memory of a
friend, a man from Ocala, Florida, a
man I consider a friend of mine, Mr. Al
Dunlap.
I had the pleasure of meeting Mr.
Dunlap at a charity event in my dis-
trict, where he and his wife of 50 years,
Judy, were providing scholarships for
local schoolchildren. A self-described
‘‘nothing kid from the slums of Hobo-
ken, New Jersey,’’ he was a tough guy,
a shrewd businessman known around
the world, but a man with a big heart.
Mr. Dunlap earned a degree in engi-
neering at the United States Military
Academy, West Point, and served our
Nation in the U.S. Army. He went on to
lead many successful businesses around
the world and had dined with kings and
queens and just wealthy people around
the world.
He moved his work down to the
Ocala, Florida, area, where I live. But
it is not his work in the business world
that he will be most remembered for.
Mr. Dunlap was an important part of
his community and was always there
to lend a helping hand to his friends,
his neighbors, and his community.
He supported my rival university in
our State, Florida State University, to
the tune of over $40 million, and we al-
ways had fun ribbing each other about
the Gators and the Seminoles.
During his lifetime, the kindness and
selflessness of Mr. Dunlap and his wife,
Judy, touched many lives, and he will
be greatly missed.
HONORING THE LIFE OF MURREL HINES
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to honor a man who was a pillar in our
community and in the agricultural
community, Mr. Murrel Hines. I have
known Mr. Hines, Murrel, for more
than 35 years. In fact, I knew him be-
fore I became a veterinarian and was
able to work on their family farm.
He and the rest of the Hines family
had a profound impact on my profes-
sional career as a large animal veteri-
narian but also as a person. The Hines
family farm is a generational farm that
goes back to the 1850s. Today, the
Hines family is the cornerstone of the
Gilchrest community.
When you look at farm families in
America, they are the salt of the
Earth. Mr. Hines and his family were
those people. They were the salt of the
Earth. They would do anything for you
at anytime, anywhere, any day, and
ask nothing from you in return.
Some of my earliest memories as a
young veterinarian, not even out of vet
school yet, included working with the
Hines family on their farm. I can recall
working cows in their pens in the
morning and joining the family for
lunch, where there was no shortage of
homemade biscuits by his wife, Ms.
Betty Jo. Jokes and stories ran wild,
and we always had a great time. He was
the pillar of the family, the patriarch.
One thing about Mr. Murrel, there
was never a shortage of work ethic in
the man. I saw him working cattle up
into his 80s every day, from morning
until night. In fact, he said he had re-
tired, but he would show up at 7:30 and
work until 9 at night.
Despite quitting school at the age of
13, Mr. Murrel had more common sense
and business acumen than most who go
all the way through college. He suc-
cessfully grew watermelons, tobacco,
peanuts, hay, grass, and cattle. He also
grew his father’s cattle operation be-
yond what others said could be done.
Mr. Murrel knew, according to the
Scriptures in the Psalms, that the Lord
had no need for a bull or a goat, for
every beast of the forest was His, as
were all the cattle on a thousand hills.
Murrel himself sure knew what it was
like to have that many cows. But seri-
ously, he was a proud caretaker of the
Lord’s land and a man of conviction
and faith.
Just last year, he was presented the
Conservation Stewardship Award for
his work in best farming practices. To
him, recognition and awards weren’t
necessary. He just always did what was
right.
He was, in every sense of the word, a
true cowboy. A vise-like grip, an easy
smile, a man of great faith but of few
words, he was a family man. Married to
his wife, Betty Jo, for over 70 years, he
was an example to us all when it came
to family, work, common sense, giving
back, and, ultimately, life.
It is my honor to have known him
and worked beside him and to have
shared so many memories with him
and the rest of the Hines family over
the years.
Mr. Speaker, in honor of my friend
and mentor, Mr. Murrel Hines, I would
like to close with ‘‘The Cowboy’s Pray-
er.’’
‘‘Heavenly Father, I pause, mindful
of the many blessings You have be-
stowed upon me. I ask that You will
guide me in my life. Help me, Lord, to
live my life in such a manner that
when I make that last ride to the coun-
try up there, where the grass grows
lush and the water runs cool, that You
will take me by the hand and say, ‘Wel-
come home, cowboy.’ Amen.’’
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 54
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. ESPAILLAT) at noon.
f
PRAYER
Reverend Dr. Barry C. Black, Chap-
lain, United States Senate, Wash-
ington, D.C., offered the following
prayer:
Lord of the harvest, we continue to
seek You, for we desire to do Your will.
You, O God, are our light and salva-
tion, so we refuse to be afraid.
As our lawmakers strive to walk
uprightly, provide them with a harvest
of truth, justice, and righteousness.
May they cultivate such ethical con-
gruence that their rhetoric will be
undergirded by right actions.
Lord, keep them aware of Your con-
tinuous presence, as they find in this
fellowship fullness of joy.
Show them the path to life, as Your
truth brings them to a safe harbor.
We pray in Your merciful name.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, pursu-
ant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote
on agreeing to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I object
to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentlewoman from Ohio (Mrs. BEATTY)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mrs. BEATTY led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 requests
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:10 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.012 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2004 February 14, 2019
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
MAYOR GREG PETTIS
(Mr. TAKANO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of a friend and
someone I looked up to, Mayor Greg
Pettis, of Cathedral City, California.
Motivated by his drive to fix the in-
justices that the LGBTQ community
faced back in the late eighties, Greg
took action and entered public life dur-
ing a time when acceptance and under-
standing was not the norm. He inspired
many, including me, by taking a coura-
geous stance and living life as his true
self, becoming Riverside County’s first
openly gay elected official. It was
Greg’s persistence that encouraged me
to continue pursuing my passion to
serve my community, regardless of the
setbacks I faced as an openly gay per-
son.
Though he was initially motivated by
his passion to improve the lives of
LGBTQ people, his lifetime of service
brought justice to all people. As mayor
of Cathedral City, Greg helped improve
transportation infrastructure in his re-
gion and recognized LGBTQ veterans in
his city by erecting a monument in
their honor. If his memorial service
was any indication, Mayor Pettis’ leg-
acy will live on for years to come.
f
SUPPORT WHOLE MILK IN SCHOOL
LUNCH PROGRAM
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of
my bill, the Whole Milk for Healthy
Kids Act. I recently introduced this
legislation with chairman of the House
Agriculture Committee COLLIN PETER-
SON and Ranking Member MIKE CON-
AWAY.
This bill would allow for whole milk,
both flavored and non-flavored, to be
offered in our school cafeterias.
Mr. Speaker, milk was once a staple
in the diet of our students, but con-
sumption in schools has dramatically
decreased since the Healthy, Hunger-
Free Kids Act of 2010 was implemented
and basically demonized milk fat that
we know today, based on science, is
where all the nutrition, let alone the
flavor, is.
Milk is the number one source of
nine essential nutrients in the diet of
many young Americans. We can pro-
vide the foundation for a solid, healthy
lunch in our schools that also tastes
great and that children will want to
drink and is good for them. When stu-
dents don’t consume milk, they are not
getting nutrients, such as calcium, po-
tassium, and vitamin D. This bill offers
more varieties to give kids the option
of consuming the milk they love.
I encourage my colleagues to support
the Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act
and put flavor back into school
lunches.
f
TRIBUTE TO CLARENCE LUMPKIN
(Mrs. BEATTY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, it is in-
deed an honor for me to rise today dur-
ing Black History Month to pay tribute
to Mr. Clarence Lumpkin, or as many
people called him, the Mayor of Lin-
den, in my Congressional District. He
passed away on January 28.
For almost 30 years, I had the oppor-
tunity and honor to work with him. He
was a dedicated community leader who
fought relentlessly for affordable hous-
ing and healthcare as well as meaning-
ful employment, not to mention a men-
tor to those countless individuals and
leaders in our community.
He leaves a legacy of true service,
and his funeral procession told the
story. The procession traveled past
places he had a hand in creating or sav-
ing, like the library on Cleveland Ave-
nue, the Columbus Fire Station 18, St.
Stephen’s Community House, and Lin-
den-McKinley STEM Academy.
So although we mourn his passing,
we can find comfort in the fact that his
life, his legacy, and his work will live
on for generations to come. My
thoughts and prayers are with his wife
of 72 years, Willa, his three children,
six grandchildren, friends, and the en-
tire Linden neighborhood.
f
RECOGNIZING MAYOR FRANK
SEFFROOD
(Mr. WILLIAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to take this time to recognize a
great man and honorable Texan, Mayor
Frank Seffrood of Copperas Cove, who
passed away December 28, 2018.
Mayor Seffrood lived his life as a
selfless servant for others. He served in
the U.S. Army for 23 years and later as
city councilman of 61⁄2 years before
being elected mayor of Copperas Cove
in 2005. He was just recently elected to
serve a second term on December 11 be-
fore he unexpectedly passed away.
Mr. Speaker, I want to bring atten-
tion to this because last Friday at the
Copperas Cove Chamber of Commerce
annual banquet, Mayor Seffrood was
awarded the Good Friend Award. This
is awarded to those who inspire others
to serve and volunteer and those who
show leadership and selflessly give
their time and their resources.
As a citizen of Copperas Cove for 55
years and as a compassionate leader, I
cannot think of someone better suited
to be this year’s recipient. His wife,
Rita, accepted the award on his behalf.
The Copperas Cove community has
already felt the immense loss of Mayor
Seffrood, but his kind and noble spirit
lives on through the people’s lives he
has touched. I am praying for the
Seffrood family and all those who loved
him during this difficult time.
In God We Trust.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Mr. MORELLE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to commend my colleagues for
their steadfast commitment to pur-
suing and achieving a bipartisan agree-
ment that prevents another govern-
ment shutdown, upholds our shared
values, and provides stability for
American families.
I am encouraged that we have re-
turned to a productive dialogue and set
a constructive tone that seeks to unite
and not further divide us. The Amer-
ican people expect and deserve nothing
less.
Now, it is my hope that we continue
that same spirit of bipartisanship as we
return our focus to governing and ad-
dressing the important issues facing
our Nation. That means working to-
gether to ensure access to quality, af-
fordable healthcare for every person, to
protect the promise of Social Security
and Medicare, to expand economic op-
portunity, and to stop the devastating
cycle of gun violence.
Progress can only be achieved
through cooperation and partnership,
and I look forward to working with my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
deliver results that uplift the lives of
all Americans.
f
PROTECTING INNOCENT LIFE
(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, today
I rise in support of human life and pro-
tections for newborn infants. This
should be a noncontroversial thing.
Newborn babies deserve access to med-
ical care.
In the weeks since Democrats
blocked the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act in the Senate,
my House colleagues have called for a
vote on this important, commonsense
legislation. I am a proud cosponsor of
Congresswoman ANN WAGNER’s bill to
define any infant who survives an abor-
tion as a legal person and ensure the
baby receives the same medical care
that any newborn receives.
This is in stark contrast to the legis-
lation just passed in the State of New
York and the proposal in the State of
Virginia which legalizes late-term
abortion even up until birth. These
radical attempts demonstrate that this
is a human rights issue that we must
address.
Protecting the dignity of human life
upholds our society’s highest values,
and denying lifesaving medical care for
newborn babies should defy our Na-
tion’s collective conscience.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.014 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2005
February 14, 2019
HONORING THE MEMORY OF
SENATOR HARRIS WOFFORD
(Mr. KENNEDY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the memory of Senator
Harris Wofford, a giant in our Nation’s
history and a dear friend.
For decades, at every single inflec-
tion point in our Nation’s march to-
wards equality, Senator Wofford stood
proudly and strongly on the side of jus-
tice and decency. But he wasn’t one
who could be confined only to our
shores. Before, during, and after his
time in the United States Senate, Har-
ris sought out injustice around the
world and asked how he could help.
Not only is he an inspiration to any
aspiring public servant, he has been a
close friend to generations of my own
family. To his husband, Mr. Charlton,
his children, Susanne, Daniel, and
David, and all of the members of his
family and friends who loved him so
dearly, know that our thoughts and
prayers are with you and that Harris’
memory and our Nation will never for-
get.
f
REMEMBERING TOMMY RUKAVINA
(Mr. EMMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to remember the life of a dear
friend, Tommy Rukavina, who passed
away after his battle with cancer.
Tommy’s life ended the way he lived,
with a fight. He wouldn’t have had it
any other way.
It is hard not to think of Tommy
when I travel northern Minnesota and
see all the great communities that rely
on the mining industry and when I am
with the amazing men and women who
sustain Minnesota’s Iron Range today.
These are the people Tommy cared
about. These are the people he rep-
resented and the people he helped.
Tommy Rukavina was outspoken. He
never shied away from a fight, and yet,
win or lose, he preserved civil discourse
in every interaction. After difficult
battles, you would still want to hang
out with Tommy.
The Croatian Sensation, as I once
called him, was passionate about life.
He was passionate about people, and he
was passionate about the causes he be-
lieved in and fought for every day. I
have no doubt that he has a special
place in Heaven, and I know Heaven
will never be the same now that he is
there.
Our State has suffered a great loss.
Tommy will be deeply missed.
Our condolences to his family and
loved ones, and a special thanks to all
of you for sharing Tommy Rukavina
with the rest of us.
b 1215
ELIMINATE SHUTDOWN TACTIC
FOREVER
(Mr. PHILLIPS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. PHILLIPS. Mr. Speaker, I am
proud to stand before you as a Member
of the most diverse freshman class in
our Nation’s history, sent to Wash-
ington to inspire collaboration and re-
build the American people’s faith in
their elected leaders. But much of our
tenure in Congress has been spent
under a shutdown, proving the Amer-
ican people were right to demand
change.
This dynamic must stop. To that end,
Representatives HOULAHAN, SLOTKIN,
ALLRED, and I rallied an energetic
group of 22 freshman Members, nearly
one-third of the entire class, behind the
Shutdown to End All Shutdowns Act,
known as the SEAS Act.
As we near agreement and the fear
and immediacy of a shutdown fades, I
will not forget the conversations I had
with Federal employees, parents, and
business owners in my district—the
real human stories of the shutdown.
It would be irresponsible and unfor-
givable for us to betray them once
again. They are not political pawns,
and many provide the very safety and
security we cherish in this country.
That is why I stand here to urge the
passing of the SEAS Act, to eliminate
this destructive tactic from the nego-
tiation toolbox forever.
f
RECOGNIZING CHAYNE DESSASO
(Mr. WATKINS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Speaker, duty,
honor, country—these three hallowed
words reverently dictate what you
ought to be, what you can be, and what
you will be. These words were Douglas
MacArthur’s in a speech to West
Point’s Corps of Cadets in 1962.
Memorizing it will be one of the
many challenges faced by a young man
from my district, Chayne Dessaso of
Leavenworth, Kansas. You see, Chayne
has recently been appointed to be a
cadet of the United States Military
Academy at West Point, my alma
mater.
West Point will teach Chayne rifle
marksmanship, military tactics, math,
chemistry, a foreign language, boxing,
engineering, swimming, gymnastics,
orienteering, history, poetry, first aid,
and philosophy. He will also learn
about camaraderie, sacrifice, leader-
ship, and the human spirit. And the
world will be a better place for it.
Well done, Chayne. Welcome to The
Long Gray Line.
f
USS ‘‘MICHAEL MONSOOR’’
(Mr. PETERS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor an American hero
whose motto should inspire us all: You
Never Quit.
Michael Monsoor wrote those words
with a permanent marker inside the
hat he wore during his BUDS training
in Coronado. The lettering has faded
but, displayed throughout the newly
commissioned USS Michael Monsoor,
the hat and its message will continue
to inspire sailors for years to come.
In 2001, Michael enlisted in the Navy
and set out to become a Navy SEAL.
An injury derailed his first attempt,
but Michael never quit. He returned,
completed basic SEAL training, and
was assigned to SEAL Team Three.
While deployed in Iraq, Michael ran
forward, not away, from incoming gun-
fire to protect his teammates; and,
when the time came, Michael threw
himself upon an enemy grenade to save
his team because Michael never quit.
For his service, he was awarded the
Bronze Star, the Silver Star, the Pur-
ple Heart, and the Medal of Honor. His
legacy perseveres in the proud vessel
stationed in San Diego.
Fair winds and following seas to the
sailors who will call the USS Michael
Monsoor their home, and may we all
never quit.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF ROBERT
MARTIN
(Mr. WESTERMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, at
the age of 93, on February 5, America
lost another hero from our Greatest
Generation. I rise today to honor the
life of Robert Martin of Spring Hill, Ar-
kansas, for his heroic actions in World
War II and his life of service.
Mr. Martin enrolled in the Army on
June 6, 1944, a day we know as D-day.
We think of it as the beginning of the
end of the war; although, it was just
the beginning of his service. But he had
a lot of service to give.
During his time overseas in the war,
he served in England, France, Belgium,
Holland, and Germany. Mr. Martin
fought in the Battle of the Bulge, was
wounded in December of 1944 and Janu-
ary and February of 1945, and spent
several months in the hospital recov-
ering from serious injuries.
Upon his return to the U.S., he was
awarded three Purple Hearts, a Bronze
Star Medal, Combat Infantryman
Badge, Prisoner of War Medal, a World
War II Victory Medal, and several oth-
ers.
Mr. Martin was a proud resident of
Arkansas and became known as the
community historian to everyone who
lived in Spring Hill, sharing his stories
with anyone who would listen.
Mr. Martin was a true American
hero. He spent his life serving his fel-
low man, and, for this, we remember
his legacy.
It is with great pride that I honor Mr.
Robert Martin.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.017 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2006 February 14, 2019
REMEMBERING LIVES LOST AT
MARJORY STONEMAN DOUGLAS 1
YEAR AGO
(Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Speaker, today is a very difficult day
for south Florida and for my commu-
nity. One year ago, we lost 17 innocent
lives at Marjory Stoneman Douglas in
Parkland.
The pain of the family and friends of
those we lost does not go away. I know.
I lost my father to gun violence.
Shortly after the tragedy at Park-
land, I met with the parents of the stu-
dents who lost their lives. All you want
to do is find a way to take away their
pain, but you can’t. You can listen to
them, share their story, hold their
hand, but you can’t take away their
pain.
When I spoke with parents like Re-
gina Talabert, Romania Duque, Manny,
Patricia, and other concerned Florid-
ians, I made a promise that I would not
stop until we changed our country’s
gun laws.
I want to be able to continue to look
at those parents, those students, and
all of those who have lost a loved one
to gun violence and tell them that I
will do everything that I can to pre-
vent another tragedy from happening.
We cannot wait for another mass
shooting, so I want to say that I am so
proud of my colleagues that we passed
H.R. 8 yesterday on the floor. We can
work together to prevent another
Parkland.
f
PROTECTING THE SANCTITY OF
LIFE
(Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to speak for those
who can’t speak for themselves: the
souls of our Nation’s unborn and new-
born children.
I have long championed pro-life legis-
lation and initiatives, but recent
events have shaken me and millions
across our country, compelling me to
address this body.
The act of abortion is tragic and
heartbreaking; however, the termi-
nation of human life for abortion sur-
vivors is something worse—criminal,
subhuman. But proposals exist in our
State governments that would allow
just that.
Allowing an infant to die or inten-
tionally killing an abortion survivor is
a disgrace and must not be allowed to
happen in any circumstance.
I echo the calls from Republican
leadership to immediately pass the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act to ensure the sanctity of life
remains a fundamental principle in
this country.
HONORING THE LIFE OF CHIEF
PETTY OFFICER SHANNON KENT
(Mr. DELGADO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise to honor the life of Chief Petty Of-
ficer Shannon Kent, a true hero from
Pine Plains, New York, who tragically
lost her life in service to this country
on January 16, 2019, in Syria.
Chief Kent was 35 years old and is
survived by her husband, a retired
member of the Army, and her two
young sons.
After graduating with honors from
Stissing Mountain High School on De-
cember 11, 2003, Chief Kent enlisted in
the United States Navy, where she
quickly rose through the ranks and
served as a member of the Navy’s
Cryptologic Warfare Unit.
Chief Kent was fluent in five dif-
ferent languages and six dialects of Ar-
abic and was one of the first women to
complete the rigorous course required
for troops to accompany Navy SEALs
on raids.
Chief Kent could run a marathon in 3
hours 30 minutes, do a dozen full-arm-
hang pull-ups, and then march for
miles with a 50-pound rucksack—amaz-
ing.
A cancer survivor, Chief Kent had as-
signments in Iraq, Afghanistan, and, fi-
nally, Syria. Just 1 month into her de-
ployment, Chief Kent was killed by a
suicide bomber.
A recipient of the Purple Heart and
the Bronze Star, Chief Kent gave the
ultimate sacrifice in service to our
country and will be remembered for her
courage and determination.
f
RECOGNIZING THE IRREPLACE-
ABLE WORK OF OUR COURT RE-
PORTERS DURING NATIONAL
COURT REPORTING AND CAP-
TIONING WEEK
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the
important and irreplaceable work done
by our court reporters during National
Court Reporting and Captioning Week,
which is February 9 through 16.
As guardians of the record, court re-
porters have had and do have a large
impact on capturing history for pos-
terity.
During our nearly 250 years of Amer-
ican history, court reporters have been
a cornerstone of our American justice
system. From George Washington’s
farewell address to Lincoln’s ‘‘House
Divided’’ speech, these noble servants
have transcribed some of the most im-
portant pieces of American history.
Today, with the help of new tech-
nology like that utilized by CART
captioners, reporters have been able to
expand beyond the courtroom to pro-
vide accessibility for millions of Amer-
icans who are deaf and hard of hearing
by providing captioning in real time
for live sporting and theater events,
church services, movie theaters, and
many other venues.
As I speak to you now, a stenog-
rapher, Julia, is seated next to me,
quietly but promptly recording my
every word.
So, on behalf of myself and all Mem-
bers of Congress, thank you for all the
hard work you do in support of this
House.
f
WE MUST ACT ON GUN VIOLENCE
(Mr. NEGUSE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 8.
I serve on the House Judiciary Com-
mittee. Last night, after 10 hours of de-
bate, our committee passed this bill to
be brought to the floor, and it is vital
that we pass it.
In Colorado and across our country,
we have experienced undue devastation
by countless tragedies of gun vio-
lence—Columbine, Aurora.
Mothers, sisters, brothers, husbands,
wives, and young children have been
lost at the hands of gun violence.
One year ago today, 17 lives were
taken in 6 minutes and 20 seconds in
Parkland, Florida.
There is no question we need to ad-
dress the epidemic of gun violence in
our country. We cannot sit idly by.
Universal background checks are over-
whelmingly supported by the American
people, and 20 States, including my
home State of Colorado, have either
wholly or partially closed the back-
ground check loophole.
Americans understand what it takes
to keep our communities safe from gun
violence, and it is time for Congress to
act as well.
So, Mr. Speaker, I rise today to say,
simply: Enough is enough. We must act
on gun violence. We must pass H.R. 8
here on the floor.
f
PROTECT THE RIGHT TO LIFE
(Mr. BANKS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BANKS. Mr. Speaker, like so
many others, I have been deeply dis-
turbed by the news out of the New
York and Virginia State Legislatures,
where infanticide is being legalized.
Today I rise in strong support of H.R.
962, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act.
Mr. Speaker, a child born alive after
a failed abortion is a living being just
like any other baby born prematurely.
Ending any life at 24 weeks or as a
newborn is murder.
The law just adopted in New York le-
galizes abortion up to 40 weeks, essen-
tially up to the moment of birth, and
this is atrocious.
We are facing a moral crisis, and I
fear for my children’s future with to-
day’s officials supporting and signing
bills into law like that of New York’s.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.019 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2007
February 14, 2019
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to denounce the radical sup-
port for infanticide and join me in re-
affirming and protecting the inalien-
able right to life.
Let’s do the right thing. Let’s bring
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act up for a vote in this House
and pass this bill to preserve the sanc-
tity of life.
f
b 1230
REPLACE ENBRIDGE INC.’S LINE 3
(Mr. STAUBER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to highlight the critical need to
replace Enbridge’s Line 3, an aging
pipeline dangerously corroding and op-
erating at only 51 percent.
Line 3 pipeline replacement project is
on its fourth year of review and has
met or exceeded every single required
environmental standard. The Min-
nesota Public Utilities Commission
unanimously voted to issue its certifi-
cate of need last year.
The project will create more than
4,000 construction jobs and enjoys the
support of construction trade unions
throughout the State of Minnesota.
The project is supported by dozens of
elected officials and thousands of Min-
nesotans. It will also generate an addi-
tional $19 million in property tax rev-
enue, providing a significant funding
increase to rural schools.
With all this benefit, it was greatly
disappointing to hear we would have
further delays. Unfortunately, certain
State officials in Minnesota feel be-
holden to, in the words of our oper-
ating engineers, ‘‘environmental extre-
mism.’’ These environmental extrem-
ists are the same folks who vandalized
the current pipeline just last week,
ironically creating a dangerous situa-
tion for themselves and the environ-
ment.
f
VA SALUTE TO VETERAN
PATIENTS WEEK
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize our Na-
tion’s veterans and the work of those
who care for them during National Sa-
lute to Veteran Patients Week. Across
the country this week, VA hospitals
are celebrating our veterans and show-
ing appreciation for those who may not
have loved ones with whom to spend
Valentine’s Day.
During last year’s National Salute to
Veteran Patients Week, 288,000 valen-
tines were delivered to VA medical
centers from schoolchildren and var-
ious organizations across our country.
These efforts included more than 1,400
community groups and 9,000 volun-
teers. I hope that this year we can
build on that effort and show even
more gratitude to our veterans.
I am proud to see our Nation come
together for a week like this one and
all the volunteers who took the time to
express their respect and appreciation.
To all our veteran patients, thank
you for your service, and I hope that
you have a wonderful Valentine’s Day.
f
VALENTINE WISHES TO AMIE SUE
SPANO
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, 28 years
ago today was a very good day. In fact,
it was one of the best days of my life.
You see, it was the day that Amie Sue
Wurzel said yes. She said yes to my
clumsy marriage proposal.
Since then, we have been through a
lot together. We raised four kids, com-
pleted undergraduate school and law
school, moved eight times, started and
grew a business, grieved the death of
her brother and my father, struggled
through my significant health chal-
lenges, and won six elections.
I loved her back then, but the days,
months, and years of shared heartache,
struggle, laughter, sickness, joy, com-
mitment, and faithfulness have caused
my love for her to grow stronger and
deeper than my words can possibly ex-
press.
She has put up with and even sup-
ported my crazy ideas and dreams,
even when they have required great
sacrifice for her and for our family.
On this Valentine’s Day, Amie Sue,
even though we are apart, I need you to
know and understand how grateful I
am that you said yes and how very
much I love you.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
BOARD OF REGENTS OF SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to sections 5580
and 5581 of the revised statutes (20
U.S.C. 42–43), and the order of the
House of January 3, 2019, of the fol-
lowing Members on the part of the
House to the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution:
Ms. MATSUI, California
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, California
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO
UNITED STATES GROUP OF THE
NATO PARLIAMENTARY ASSEM-
BLY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 1928a,
and the order of the House of January
3, 2019, of the following Member on the
part of the House to the United States
Group of the NATO Parliamentary As-
sembly:
Mr. VELA, Texas
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF JOHN
F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE
PERFORMING ARTS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to section 2(a) of
the National Cultural Center Act (20
U.S.C. 76h(a)), amended by Public Law
107–117, and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, of the following Mem-
bers on the part of the House to the
Board of Trustees of the John F. Ken-
nedy Center for the Performing Arts:
Mr. KENNEDY, Massachusetts
Mrs. BEATTY, Ohio
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
JOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to 15 U.S.C.
1024(a), and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, of the following Mem-
bers on the part of the House to the
Joint Economic Committee:
Mr. BEYER, Virginia
Mr. HECK, Washington
Mr. TRONE, Maryland
Mrs. BEATTY, Ohio
Ms. FRANKEL, Florida
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST ME-
MORIAL COUNCIL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to 36 U.S.C. 2302,
and the order of the House of January
3, 2019, of the following Members on the
part of the House to the United States
Holocaust Memorial Council:
Mr. DEUTCH, Florida
Mr. SCHNEIDER, Illinois
Mr. LEWIS, Georgia
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 35
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1827
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. DEGETTE) at 6 o’clock
and 27 minutes p.m.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.021 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2008 February 14, 2019
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 14, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
February 14, 2019, at 12:50 p.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 488.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 14, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
February 14, 2019, at 4:28 p.m.:
That the Senate agrees to the report of the
committee of the conference H.J. Res. 31.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 14, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
February 14, 2019, at 4:54 p.m.:
That the Senate agreed to S. Con. Res. 4.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.J.
RES. 31, FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPART-
MENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
2019, AND PROVIDING FOR PRO-
CEEDINGS DURING THE PERIOD
FROM FEBRUARY 15, 2019,
THROUGH FEBRUARY 22, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–10) on the
resolution (H. Res. 131) providing for
consideration of the conference report
to accompany the joint resolution (H.J.
Res. 31) making further continuing ap-
propriations for the Department of
Homeland Security for fiscal year 2019,
and for other purposes, and providing
for proceedings during the period from
February 15, 2019, through February 22,
2019, which was referred to the House
Calendar and ordered to be printed.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.J.
RES. 31, FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPART-
MENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
2019, AND PROVIDING FOR PRO-
CEEDINGS DURING THE PERIOD
FROM FEBRUARY 15, 2019,
THROUGH FEBRUARY 22, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
by direction of the Committee on
Rules, I call up House Resolution 131
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 131
Resolved, That upon adoption of this reso-
lution it shall be in order to consider the
conference report to accompany the joint
resolution (H.J. Res. 31) making further con-
tinuing appropriations for the Department of
Homeland Security for fiscal year 2019, and
for other purposes. All points of order
against the conference report and against its
consideration are waived. The conference re-
port shall be considered as read. The pre-
vious question shall be considered as ordered
on the conference report to its adoption
without intervening motion except: (1) one
hour of debate; and (2) one motion to recom-
mit if applicable.
SEC. 2. On any legislative day during the
period from February 15, 2019, through Feb-
ruary 22, 2019—
(a) the Journal of the proceedings of the
previous day shall be considered as approved;
and
(b) the Chair may at any time declare the
House adjourned to meet at a date and time,
within the limits of clause 4, section 5, arti-
cle I of the Constitution, to be announced by
the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
SEC. 3. The Speaker may appoint Members
to perform the duties of the Chair for the du-
ration of the period addressed by section 2 of
this resolution as though under clause 8(a) of
rule I.
b 1830
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Colorado is recognized for
1 hour.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
for the purpose of debate only, I yield
the customary 30 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE),
pending which I yield myself such time
as I may consume. During consider-
ation of this resolution, all time yield-
ed is for the purpose of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers be given 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Colorado?
There was no objection.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
the Rules Committee met and reported
a rule, House Resolution 131, providing
for the consideration of the conference
report to accompany H.J. Res. 31, the
Consolidated Appropriations Act of
2019.
The rule provides for consideration of
the legislation under a conference re-
port rule and provides for 1 hour of de-
bate. The rule also provides for stand-
ard recess procedures through Friday,
February 22.
Madam Speaker, this legislation has
been a long time coming. In December,
the Senate passed a clean continuing
resolution for the seven appropriation
bills which hadn’t been completed. The
President said at the time he would
sign that bill, but then the President
changed course and demanded $5.7 bil-
lion for his campaign promise of a bor-
der wall.
As we now know, this led to the long-
est government shutdown in United
States history: 35 days. This put our
country in jeopardy by withholding
paychecks for 800,000 Federal employ-
ees who are patriots and provide crit-
ical services to our country and to all
Americans.
Put simply, this was not an issue
worth shutting down the Federal Gov-
ernment. That is why I am pleased we
are here today to avoid another shut-
down and begin to get the agencies af-
fected by the shutdown back on track.
This bill provides appropriations for
the seven remaining appropriations
bills through the end of the fiscal year,
including Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment, Food and Drug Administration;
Commerce, Justice, Science; Financial
Services and General Government;
Homeland Security; Interior and Envi-
ronment; State and Foreign Oper-
ations; and Transportation, Housing
and Urban Development.
Over the past 6 weeks, we heard testi-
mony from the chairs and ranking
members of the Appropriations Com-
mittee numerous times as we tried to
reopen the government last month.
A constant theme from those hear-
ings, from both Democrats and Repub-
licans, was respect for the appropri-
ators and their ability to negotiate a
deal. Today’s result is confirmation of
that trust we placed in our appropri-
ators.
I want to congratulate all the com-
mittee Members and staff for their
work over the last few weeks.
The conference report in front of us
today is by no means perfect, but it
represents a compromise between
Democrats and Republicans and be-
tween the House and the Senate.
There are many programs well fund-
ed by this bill. For instance, the Cen-
sus Bureau will see an increase of more
than $1 billion as they prepare for the
2020 Census, to ensure an accurate
count.
NASA, which invests heavily in Colo-
rado and across all of the country, will
see a $763 million increase over last
year to fully fund NASA’s science mis-
sion directorates and support human
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE7.008 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2009
February 14, 2019
exploration, from the international
space station, to the Moon, and on to
Mars by 2033.
This legislation provides $17 billion
in funding for new infrastructure in-
vestments in roads, bridges, transit,
and housing, and the bill blocks at-
tempts by the White House to ham-
string the EPA and other agencies
from protecting our environment.
Importantly, the bill overrides the
President’s decision to freeze Federal
employee pay this year. Instead, it pro-
vides a 1.9 percent pay raise for all Fed-
eral employees.
This conference agreement also
makes smart investments in border se-
curity by investing $755 million in in-
frastructure and technology at ports of
entry, additional funds to hire customs
agents, $563 million for immigration
judges to reduce the backlog, and hu-
manitarian aid for Central American
countries and along our border to those
who need the help.
The bill also provides $1.375 billion
for border fencing, with restrictions
protecting sensitive areas and local in-
volvement, and takes steps to reduce
the immigration detention bed levels,
for which I am confident the House will
provide rigorous oversight.
Madam Speaker, there are a few
things missing from this agreement to
help us repair the damage from the
longest partial government shutdown
in United States history.
First, the bill does not provide Fed-
eral contractors backpay from the
shutdown. Federal contractors often
work side by side with other Federal
employees and perform jobs important
to the country and all Americans.
These contractors did nothing wrong
and deserve to be made whole, just like
the 800,000 Federal employees who
missed paychecks. Congress needs to
work together and make this right.
Additionally, during this shutdown,
my State of Colorado, along with Cali-
fornia, Louisiana, Vermont, and Wash-
ington, took steps to ensure fairness
for excepted Federal employees to
make them eligible for unemployment
insurance because they were forced to
continue working without knowing
when they would be paid.
Unemployment benefits are a lifeline
for situations just like this where there
is nowhere else to go, but, unfortu-
nately, the United States Department
of Labor choose to make it more dif-
ficult for States to provide these bene-
fits. The Department has said it will
not reimburse States for these legiti-
mate costs and has threatened addi-
tional penalties, putting earned bene-
fits for other unemployed workers at
risk.
I am a cosponsor of legislation pro-
duced by Representative KATIE HILL
from California which would clarify
current law and ensure our States are
reimbursed as intended by Congress.
For reasons I don’t quite understand,
my friends on the other side of the
aisle would not accept this provision. I
plan to continue working with Rep-
resentative KATIE HILL and Chairman
RICHIE NEAL from the Ways and Means
Committee to help States like Colo-
rado.
Additionally, I worked to introduce
two pieces of legislation during the
shutdown to help Federal employees
deal with the effects of the shutdown.
First was H.R. 545, the Financial Relief
for Feds Act, which was introduced by
Representative PETE OLSON from Texas
and Representative DON BEYER from
Virginia and me, and this was to en-
sure Federal employees who made
withdrawals during a shutdown from
their Thrift Savings Plan or other re-
tirement accounts weren’t penalized
for their early withdrawals.
TSP saw a 35 percent increase in
hardship withdrawals during the shut-
down as Federal employees did any-
thing they could to help pay their bills.
I hope our legislation is considered by
the House quickly to make these Fed-
eral employees whole again.
I also introduced H.R. 781, The Stu-
dent Loan Relief for Feds Act, with
Representative WILL HURD from Texas
to allow Federal employees to defer
their student loans without penalty
during a government shutdown. A typ-
ical student loan payment is between
$200 and $300 a month, and that is
money you don’t have if you are not
getting a paycheck.
These are examples of legislation we
need to pass to fix problems created
during the shutdown.
There is one more bill I will be intro-
ducing today—I just put it in the hop-
per—to prevent these shutdowns from
ever happening again.
If Congress and the White House have
a political disagreement, our Federal
employees and the American people
shouldn’t be the pawns who suffer the
consequences of the disagreement. My
bill, the No More Shutdowns Act, pro-
vides automatic continuing appropria-
tions for any fiscal year when appro-
priations haven’t been enacted.
This means whenever there would be
a lapse in the appropriations, funding
would continue at previously enacted
levels, along with an increase to the
account for inflation until Congress
passes an appropriation bill. This is
common sense and would allow our
Federal agencies to continue their
work without the start and stop of
shutdowns and short-term CRs.
I hope my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle will join me in making sure
shutdowns do not happen again.
Overall, Madam Speaker, this is a
good compromise to fully fund these
agencies so we can finish last year’s
work and allow Congress to move on to
other important issues that we were
sent here to do, like reducing
healthcare costs and repairing infra-
structure across the country.
I urge all my colleagues to support
the rule and the underlying conference
agreement, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I thank
my good friend from Colorado (Mr.
PERLMUTTER) for yielding, and I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, we are here today to
pass an appropriations package that
should complete our work and fully
fund the government for fiscal year
2019.
As Members of this body know, this
has been a long road, perhaps much
longer than we expected at the begin-
ning.
As we saw at the start of this Con-
gress, the difficulties this body can
sometimes face in coming to an agree-
ment can translate into difficulty and
hardship for the American people. I
think I can speak for all of us here in
this body when I say that government
shutdowns are bad for the American
people, bad for government, and bad
policy, and we should all strive to
never let them happen again.
Now, of course, we have a little bit
different view of how that shutdown
came about. It is worth noting for the
record that the House actually did vote
to fund the government and produced a
bill in December that the President
said he would sign and a majority of
the United States Senate actually fa-
vored.
But the Senate gets to set its own
rules. They could reach a number of 60,
but the Democratic minority chose not
to do that. So, given that, that is what
shut down the government, and we
have all been dealing with the con-
sequences of it ever since.
But today we are poised to finish our
work, and though the road may have
been difficult, I think Members should
look back on this process and commend
themselves for what they have accom-
plished.
Last September, we finalized and
passed into law 5 of the 12 funding bills,
an accomplishment we had not
matched in over 20 years. Those five,
which included the two largest bills—
Defense and Labor, Health and Human
Services, Education, and Related Agen-
cies—covered approximately 75 percent
of all Federal discretionary spending.
Prior to the end of the FY 2018 year,
the House also passed four additional
spending bills, which we then moved to
conference with the Senate.
Indeed, of the seven outstanding
spending bills, six of them were nego-
tiated with the Senate and have been
ready to be moved for final passage for
quite some time. The sticking point
has been the final bill on that for
Homeland Security, which vexed Mem-
bers for some time. But though we did
not reach a deal on Homeland Security
quickly, we did eventually reach a
deal.
Today, I am pleased to be standing
with my colleagues to bring up seven
bipartisan, bicameral, fully negotiated
and conferenced spending bills that are
ready to be passed and sent to the
President’s desk for signature.
As we finish the work for fiscal year
2019 and move into our efforts for fiscal
year 2020, I want to commend my fel-
low members of the Appropriations
Committee for their hard work.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.028 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2010 February 14, 2019
Thanks to the leadership of people
like Ranking Member KAY GRANGER,
Chairwoman NITA LOWEY, and Chair-
man RODNEY FRELINGHUYSEN, and
thanks to the hard work of dozens of
Members, we are at last ready to send
these bills to the President.
I congratulate my friends and col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle and,
indeed, offer those same congratula-
tions to the entire House.
I look forward to working together
on fiscal year 2020 in the weeks and
months ahead. Perhaps, working to-
gether, we can get all the bills passed,
conferenced with the Senate, and sent
to the President by the end of the fis-
cal year.
That will certainly be my goal and
the goal of every appropriator on both
sides of this Chamber and on both sides
of the rotunda in the Capitol Building.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
b 1845
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank my
friend, Mr. COLE. We had a lot of hear-
ings in the Rules Committee where we
heard a lot of appropriations bills and,
quite frankly, we knew that if we had
some time and the appropriators were
able to act, that they would come to an
agreement, an agreement that didn’t
give everybody all that they wanted,
but gave them something that they
wanted.
I think our trust was appropriate at
that time.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from California (Mrs.
TORRES).
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, since the 116th Congress took
office this January, I have voted five
times to open up the Federal Govern-
ment. And today I rise in support of
the conference report. I want to con-
gratulate the conferees, and specifi-
cally, Chairman LOWEY, Ranking Mem-
ber GRANGER, and the other conferees
for their hard work, for coming to-
gether, and spending so much time to
ensure that we have a bill moving for-
ward that opens up our government.
This is a bipartisan statement about
who we are as a country. This was a
fight to reclaim the country that wel-
comed me as a little girl from Guate-
mala, to make sure that this country
welcomes other children who come
here fleeing violence and poverty.
This bill will prevent another stupid,
costly government shutdown, and it is
time that we give our Federal workers
some certainty, move past this crisis,
and get down to the business of gov-
erning.
Madam Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this measure.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, I will offer an amend-
ment to the rule to provide for consid-
eration of H.R. 1239, the Protecting
Women Act of 2019.
This bill provides a straight exten-
sion of the Violence Against Women
Act, or VAWA, as is it commonly
known, through the end of the fiscal
year.
Beginning in 1994, VAWA has pro-
vided grants to State, local, and Tribal
law enforcement officials to inves-
tigate and prosecute violent crimes
against women, including domestic vi-
olence, sexual assault, dating violence,
and stalking.
Unfortunately, VAWA is scheduled to
expire, literally, tomorrow, and my
friends on the other side, frankly, are
just standing by and watching it hap-
pen, even though they control this
Chamber.
Republicans fought to include an ex-
tension of VAWA in the underlying
conference report as we had done in
previous continuing resolutions, but we
were rebuffed by our other friends on
the other side of the aisle, and they
have not made any move to schedule a
separate vote on this floor to avoid a
lapse in this critical program, so Re-
publicans will.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent to insert the text of my
amendment in the RECORD, along with
extraneous material, immediately
prior to vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I urge a
‘‘no’’ vote on the previous question.
Madam Speaker, I yield such time as
she may consume to the gentlewoman
from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO), my good
friend and fellow member of the Rules
Committee, to discuss her bill and this
previous question.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I
thank Representative COLE for yielding
me the time.
Madam Speaker, if the previous ques-
tion is defeated, we will amend the rule
to bring an extension of the Violence
Against Women Act, which I have ti-
tled the Protecting Women Act of 2019.
Without action, the Violence Against
Women Act will expire tomorrow at
midnight. Madam Speaker, I am a sur-
vivor of domestic violence, and as a
survivor of domestic violence, I am
calling on all of my colleagues to reau-
thorize this critical bill that helps
women and children who have experi-
enced the trauma and pain of abuse and
who need our support.
While we may not agree on every pro-
vision of the current Violence Against
Women Act, I think we can all agree on
the overall importance of this law and
the programs and services it provides.
Since the Violence Against Women
Act was first signed into law in 1994, it
has played a vital role in supporting
American women who have experienced
domestic violence, sexual assault, dat-
ing violence, stalking, and trafficking,
and improving our response to these
crimes while we work to prevent them
altogether.
Progress has been made, but there is
more work to do. In fact, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, about one in three women
and one in six men experience some
form of contact sexual violence during
their lifetime.
I am confident that every Member of
this body believes those statistics are
unacceptable. I know that we agree
that we must end domestic violence
and care for victims left in its wake.
We need to enhance awareness, work
for prevention, and ensure those
harmed physically and mentally have
access to the resources and support
they need.
A clean extension of the Violence
Against Women Act through the end of
the fiscal year ensures that the law and
the programs it supports remain in
place.
It ensures there isn’t a lapse in serv-
ices for those in need while we discuss
ways that we can strengthen and im-
prove it together.
As a co-chairwoman of the bipartisan
Congressional Caucus for Women’s
Issues, I want a bill that every woman
in this Chamber can support. I know
that my co-chair of the Caucus, Con-
gresswoman BRENDA LAWRENCE, has
also told me she wants a Violence
Against Women Act that every woman
in this Chamber can support.
That is why, if the previous question
is defeated, Republicans will seek a
vote on a clean extension of the last
Violence Against Women Act reauthor-
ization. This will give us time, Repub-
licans and Democrats, to work toward
a bipartisan solution that helps women
and girls, protects religious liberties,
and protects women and children.
I hope all my colleagues will recog-
nize the importance of acting now to
prevent a lapse in authorization and
defeat the previous question so that we
can work to protect the vulnerable
from these heinous crimes.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I appreciate Mrs.
LESKO’s and Mr. COLE’s comments. In
the bill, there is $400-plus million for
VAWA. It isn’t as if it has been forgot-
ten. But I hear this, and over the last
few years, the Republicans have done
nothing but try to defund VAWA.
So I am expecting a bill that was
signed by Bill Clinton and was au-
thored by the former chairwoman of
the Rules Committee, Louise Slaugh-
ter, will be something that Democrats
will certainly push forward. After lis-
tening to Mr. COLE and Mrs. LESKO, I
am sure all of the Republicans will be
on board with extending VAWA.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
this is a Republican bill that we are
trying to fix to keep the government
open and not holding our Federal em-
ployees hostage.
I support this bill with qualifications
that I know that in the 2020 fiscal year,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.030 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2011
February 14, 2019
Democrats will put forward a humane
bill that addresses many of these
issues. We gave $1.37 billion for bar-
riers, not the wall.
We are protecting the environment in
my own State: the Bentsen-Rio Grande
Valley State Park, the National But-
terfly Center, the Santa Ana National
Wildlife Refuge, places where I have
gone and people are pleading: Don’t put
fences there.
We brought down the number of ICE
detention beds from 49,000–50,000 to
40,000, and, of course, we have provided,
as I have indicated, and fought for fa-
cilities that deal with those children
and women that are coming across:
$415 million for enhanced medical sup-
port; transportation; food; clothing for
migrants in detention, particularly
children; and $30.5 million for family
case management.
As my good friend said, we brought
up the alternative detention from
82,000 to 100,000. As my good friend said,
there is $400 million for VAWA. We are
funding these programs because we un-
derstand how important they are.
Finally, of course, in the justice area,
we have given money for Byrne grants;
Community Oriented Policing Serv-
ices, sexual assault kits and DNA, Sec-
ond Chance Act programs, and we fund-
ed NASA.
But more importantly, Madam
Speaker, I think we have made a very
important point that should be made,
and that is, as we work toward fiscal
year 2020 appropriations, it is critical
that we ensure that robust account-
ability of DHS, including limiting the
agency’s transfer authority and dra-
matically reducing the number of peo-
ple who are held in detention, utilizing
proven alternatives to detention, in-
cluding community-based alternatives
and parole for the vast majority of peo-
ple who are held in detention who pose
no public safety threat or risk.
ICE—we have to realize, there must
be due process and justice. It is unfor-
tunate that this administration’s
treatment of immigrants is uncon-
scionable and inhumane. We can do
better and we will do better.
But the final point of all of this
today is, we stand on the floor to not
hold our Federal employees hostage
and to open the government. I will be
going forward with the qualifications
of working on a better bill.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of
H.J. Res. 31, which makes the consolidated
appropriations needed to fund the depart-
ments, agencies, and programs of the federal
government through September 30, 2019, and
hopefully brings to a merciful end the uncer-
tainty and hardship cruelly inflicted upon fed-
eral employees, contractors, and the American
people by the President’s decision to shut
down the government.
I thank Chairman LOWEY, Ranking Member
GRANGER, and their fellow House conferees
for their work in reaching this bipartisan agree-
ment.
Left to our own devices, House Democrats
clearly could and would have made many dif-
ferent and better funding decisions but this
agreement is the best deal attainable in the
circumstances, and importantly, it responsibly
funds the government for the remainder, while
securing our border.
Madam Speaker, coming from a border
state, I am very pleased that this legislation
does not provide the President the billions of
dollars he demanded for a wasteful, ineffec-
tive, and immoral concrete wall.
In fact, it rejects the President’s demand for
$5.7 billion for his wall and provides instead
$1.375 billion for physical barriers with lan-
guage specifying that new fencing is limited to
currently deployed designs—ruling out the
President’s border wall proposal.
My constituents and other Texans will be
gratified to learn that this legislation specifi-
cally prohibits construction on sensitive envi-
ronmental areas such as the Bentsen-Rio
State Park, the National Butterfly Center, the
Santa Ana Wildlife Refuge, La Lomita Histor-
ical Park, and the Lower Rio Grande Wildlife
Refuge between Brownsville, TX, and the Gulf
of Mexico.
I also strongly approve that the legislation
provides a path to a reduction in ICE detention
beds from 49,057 today to 40,520 at the end
of the fiscal year, bringing the number of de-
tention beds back to the level of average daily
population funded in the FY18 omnibus bill.
This reduction in ICE detention beds, com-
bined with Democratic control of the Appro-
priations Committee and new biannual inspec-
tions of detention facilities, will provide a
check on the Trump Administration’s out-of-
control deportation policy that targets law-abid-
ing families instead of focusing on deporting
violent criminals;
The agreement before also provides funding
a more humane immigration system with $415
million for enhanced medical support, trans-
portation, food and clothing for migrants in de-
tention, particularly children and families;
$30.5 million for family case management; an
expansion in Alternatives to Detention partici-
pants from 82,000 to 100,000; and a prohibi-
tion on ICE using information collected by
HHS from sponsors of migrant children for re-
moval and deportation purposes.
I also strongly support the new investments
in national security provided in the legislation,
including a new Coast Guard Polar Security
Cutter, the first icebreaker in over 40 years;
and an $884 million increase for the Transpor-
tation Security Administration.
In addition to the bipartisan compromise on
Homeland Security, the legislation before us
includes six other appropriations bills that re-
ject the President’s deep budget cuts and in-
stead make bold investments in to fund the
programs Americans depend on and need to
move our nation forward.
For example, the agreement funds a 1.9
percent pay raise to federal workers that over-
rides the President’s decision to deny these
hardworking and dedicated public servants a
pay raise.
The agreement provides $3.8 billion for the
2020 Census, an increase of $1 billion, to en-
sure a fair and accurate count.
The agreement provides more than $3 bil-
lion for state and local law enforcement to
keep communities safe, including by address-
ing the opioid crisis, closing sexual assault kit
backlogs and hiring more police officers.
Madam Speaker, all Members should cele-
brate the fact that the agreement provides
more than $17 billion in funding for new infra-
structure investments to improve our roads,
bridges, highways, railways and mass transit.
Another reason why I strongly support the
legislation before us is because it restores and
increases investments in job-creating initia-
tives for economic and business development,
including for minority and women-owned busi-
nesses, that the Trump Administration tried to
eliminate or reduce drastically.
Madam Speaker, the bipartisan agreement
before us rejects the Trump Administration’s
attacks on the environment by blocking the
Administration’s deep cuts to initiatives to pro-
tect clean water, clean air and public lands
and it invests more than $9 billion in the EPA
and Land and Water Conservation Fund.
The agreement reinforces and strengthens
America’s global leadership by rejecting the
Trump Administration’s radical cuts and secur-
ing $9.1 billion in security assistance for allies,
including $3.03 billion for Israel, $5.7 billion for
PEPFAR and $1.7 billion for the Food for
Peace program.
Madam Speaker, I would like to draw par-
ticular attention to provisions in the consoli-
dated appropriations conference report that
are of special interest to my congressional dis-
trict.
Customs and Border Protection: $1.375 bil-
lion, $4.325 billion less than the $5.7 billion
the Trump administration requested, for ap-
proximately 55 miles of physical barrier along
the southern border in the Rio Grande Valley
of Texas.
$564 million for the installation of non-intru-
sive imaging equipment in the in-bound lanes
of southwest border land ports of entry—sig-
nificantly increasing the percentage of cars
and commercial cargo scanned for narcotics
and other contraband.
$415 million for humanitarian relief specifi-
cally for medical care, transportation, food and
cloth; for humanitarian improvements to the
McAllen Central Processing Center; and for a
new El Paso CBP processing facility.
$100 million for new border security tech-
nology.
$77 million for opioid equipment and staffing
for use at international mail and express con-
signment facilities.
$59 million for 600 new CBP Officers and
encourages CBP to use fee funding to hire up
to 600 additional CBP officers for a total of
1,200 new officers.
Does not fund the Administration’s request
for joint detention facilities.
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE)—Provides an appropriated level for de-
tention beds that establishes Congress’s intent
to reduce the daily population in ICE detention
to approximately 40,520 by the end of the fis-
cal year, down from a current count of ap-
proximately 49,060.
Expands the Alternatives to Detention pro-
gram from 82,000 to 100,000.
Provides $30.5 million for ATD family case
management, which improves compliance with
immigration court obligations by helping fami-
lies’ access community-based support for
basic housing, healthcare, legal, and edu-
cational needs.
Provides $40 million for additional ICE staff-
ing dedicated to overall ATD case manage-
ment, particularly for asylum seekers.
Funds additional detention facility inspectors
in the Office of Professional Oversight to bring
the number of inspections up from once every
three years to twice per year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.032 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2012 February 14, 2019
Provides funding to bring the number of de-
tention facilities in compliance with PREA re-
quirements from 86 percent to 97 percent.
Provides $7.4 million for additional attorneys
and for courtroom expansion to assist in the
backlog of immigration cases currently in the
system.
$1.9 billion for Homeland Security Investiga-
tions (HSI), which focuses on a wide variety of
investigations with a cross-border nexus, in-
cluding those related to human trafficking, fi-
nancial crimes and cyber investigations.
$7.5 million for new HSI Victim Assistant
Specialists and $44 million for new staffing to
enhance opioid/fentanyl-related investigations
and analyses.
No funding for additional enforcement and
removal field personnel.
Coast Guard—12 billion total funding ($10.3
billion in discretionary funding) and provides
for an additional 250 military personnel.
Transportation Security Agency (TSA)—$4.9
billion in net discretionary funding, an increase
of $884 million above the request and $5 mil-
lion above the FY 2018 enacted level.
Includes additional funding for computed to-
mography imaging systems and $40 million for
airport explosive detection system reimburse-
ment.
Fully funds the TSA Visible Intermodal Pre-
vention and Response teams, staffing at exit
lanes, as required by law, and the Law En-
forcement Officer reimbursement program.
Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA)—$16.6 billion in net discretionary
funding, an increase of $5.5 billion above the
request and $4.2 billion above the FY 2018
enacted level.
$12 billion for disaster relief to help States,
communities and citizens respond to and re-
cover from disasters, as well as cost effective
mitigation to reduce the risk from future disas-
ters.
$3.1 billion for grants to help States, com-
munities, citizens, and nonprofit organizations,
with every grant being at or above the FY
2018 level, including $277 million for training,
exercises, and education for our Nation’s first
responders and emergency managers.
An additional $111 million above the request
for the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Secu-
rity Agency to address high priority cybersecu-
rity and infrastructure protection vulnerabilities.
$10 million in direct funding for Citizenship
and Integration grants, instead of relying on
fee revenue to support the program.
$820 million to support cutting edge science
and technology programs.
The bill includes the following provisions re-
lated to phisical barriers: continues language
allowing only fencing designs in use as of
2017 and prohibits construction on sensitive
environmental areas such as the Bentsen-Rio
State Park, the National Butterfly Center, the
Santa Ana Wildlife Refuge, La Lomita Histor-
ical Park, and the Lower Rio Grande Wildlife
Refuge between Brownsville, TX and the Gulf
of Mexico.
The bill improves transparency by requiring
ICE to make public information about the num-
bers and types of people in its custody, such
as families; border apprehension detainees;
interior enforcement detainees; and those who
are in custody who have a positive credible
fear claim.
Prohibits DHS from preventing a Member of
Congress from entering any facility that is
used to detain or otherwise house children
and directs DHS to make no changes to the
current operations and facility conditions in an-
ticipation of a congressional oversight visit.
Prevents DHS from destroying any record
related to potential sexual assault or abuse of
any individual in DHS’s custody.
Prohibits ICE from using information pro-
vided by the Office of Refugee Resettlement
about sponsors or potential sponsors of unac-
companied children to arrest, detain, or re-
move those individuals, unless that information
reveals the individual has a dangerous crimi-
nal background.
Prevents DHS from placing pregnant
women in restraints who are in the custody of
DHS, except in extraordinary circumstances.
Provides oversight of ICE treatment of detain-
ees, including protections for pregnant refu-
gees, prohibiting destruction of detainee sex-
ual assault records, and public reporting re-
lated to detainees in ICE custody.
$6.075 billion in discretionary funding for
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for
Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), which is
$100 million below the FY 2018 enacted level
and $325 million above the President’s budget
request.
$73.477 billion for Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program (SNAP), which will fully
fund the program in 2019.
$23.141 billion for Child Nutrition Programs,
which will fully fund the program in 2019.
International Programs: $1.716 billion for
Food for Peace and $210.255 million for the
McGovern-Dole International Food for Edu-
cation and Child Nutrition Program.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is
funded at $3.08 billion in discretionary funding
for the FDA, an increase of $269 million.
Census Bureau—$3.82 billion, an increase
of more than $1 billion above FY 2018 and
$20.9 million above the President’s budget re-
quest, to enable the Bureau to effectively pre-
pare for a thorough, accurate, and cost-effec-
tive 2020 Decennial Census.
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) is
funded at $3.37 billion, equal to the Presi-
dent’s budget request.
Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP)
Program: $140 million, equal to the FY2018
enacted level. The President had proposed
completely eliminating this program.
NOAA Climate Research: $159 million, an
increase of $1 million above the FY2018 en-
acted level and $60.4 million above the Presi-
dent’s budget request.
National Weather Service: $1 billion for op-
erating expenses, an increase of $6.6 million
above the FY 2018 enacted level and $85.5
million above the President’s budget request.
U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ)—$30.9
billion overall for Department of Justice, which
is more than $638 million above the FY 2018
enacted level and $2.1 billion above the Presi-
dent’s budget request.
Federal Bureau of Investigation—$9.6 bil-
lion, an increase of $177 million above the FY
2018 enacted level and $653 million above the
President’s budget request.
United States Attorneys—$2.2 billion, an in-
crease of $75 million above the FY 2018 en-
acted level and $107 million above the Presi-
dent’s budget request.
United States Marshals Service—$2.93 bil-
lion, an increase of $25 million above the FY
2018 enacted level and $104 million above the
President’s budget request.
Drug Enforcement Administration—$2.3 bil-
lion, an increase of $77 million above the FY
2018 enacted level and $80 million above the
President’s budget request.
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives (ATF)—$1.3 billion, an increase of
$23 million above the FY 2018 enacted level
and the same as the President’s budget re-
quest.
Grants to State and Local Law Enforce-
ment—$3.02 billion:
1. $423.5 million for Byrne JAG;
2. $303.5 million for the Community Ori-
ented Policing Services (COPS) Program;
3. $178 million to address sexual assault kit
and other DNA evidence backlogs;
4. $87.5 million for Second Chance Act pro-
grams;
5. $347 million for grant programs to ad-
dress the opioid crisis;
6. $100 million for the STOP School Vio-
lence Act;
7. $497.5 million for Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA) programs; and
8. $75 million for grants to improve the
NICS firearms background check system.
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion (NASA)—$21.5 billion, an increase of
$763.9 million above the FY 2018 enacted
level and $1.6 billion above the President’s
budget request.
$1.93 billion for Earth science, an increase
of $10 million above the FY 2018 enacted
level and $146.8 million above the President’s
budget request, to enable better scientific in-
formation about the Earth and its changing cli-
mate.
$725 million for aeronautics research, an in-
crease of $40 million above FY 2018 and
$91.1 million above the President’s budget re-
quest, to continue efforts to make passenger
air travel safer, more fuel efficient, less noisy,
and more environmentally sustainable.
$110 million for NASA’s STEM education ef-
forts, an increase of $10 million above FY
2018, to enable NASA to inspire young people
to pursue future careers in science. This
amount includes funding increases for the
Space Grant program, Minority University Re-
search and Education Project, and Established
Program to Stimulate Competitive Research
(EPSCOR). The President had proposed elimi-
nating funding for all of these.
$8.1 billion for the National Science Founda-
tion (NSF), an increase of $307.6 million
above the FY 2018 enacted level and $603
million above the President’s budget request.
Legal Services Corporation is funded at
$415 million, $5 million above the FY 2018 en-
acted level; the President had proposed com-
pletely eliminating this program, which helps
provide legal assistance to underserved com-
munities.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commis-
sion—$379.5 million.
International Trade Commission (ITC)—$95
million to enable ITC to investigate unfair trade
practices that harm American companies.
Crime Victims Fund is funded at $3.35 bil-
lion for victims and for victim services, includ-
ing a Tribal set-aside of nearly $168 million for
programs to assist Native American victims of
crime.
Federal Defender Services—$1.15 billion,
an increase of $71.7 million.
District of Columbia (DC)—$726 million for
special payments to DC, an increase of $4.2
million above the FY 2018 enacted level and
$67.2 million above the President’s budget re-
quest; the bill rejects the President’s proposal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14FE7.011 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2013
February 14, 2019
to eliminate the Tuition Assistance Grant
(TAG) Program.
Office of Government Ethics (OGE) is fund-
ed at $17 million, a modest increase over both
the President’s budget request and the FY
2018 enacted level.
Small Business Administration (SBA) is
funded at $715 million, which is $14.5 million
above the FY 2018 enacted level and $36.4
million above the President’s budget request.
The cap on SBA’s 7a loan program in-
creases to $30 billion, which is $1 billion more
than the current level and this amount in-
cludes $247.7 million for Entrepreneurial De-
velopment Programs (EDP), which is $55 mil-
lion more than the President’s budget request.
National Park Service is funded at $3.22 bil-
lion, an increase of $20 million above the FY
2018 enacted level and $521 million above the
President’s budget request.
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of In-
dian Education is funded at $3.08 billion, an
increase of $17 million above the FY 2018 en-
acted level and $667 million above the Presi-
dent’s budget request.
Land and Water Conservation Fund is ap-
propriated $435 million, which is $10 million
above the FY 2018 enacted level and $435
million above the President’s budget request.
Clean Water State Revolving Fund receives
$1.7 billion, which is equal to the 2018 en-
acted level and $300 million above the Presi-
dent’s budget request.
Safe Drinking Water State Revolving Fund
is funded at $1.2 billion, which is equal to the
2018 enacted level and $300 million above the
President’s budget request.
Indian Health Service is funded at $5.8 bil-
lion, an increase of $266 million above the FY
2018 enacted level and $380 million above the
President’s budget request.
Smithsonian Institution is funded at $1.04
billion, equal to the FY 2018 enacted level and
$86 million above the President’s budget re-
quest.
$155 million for the National Endowment for
the Arts and Humanities (NEA/NEH), the
President’s budget proposal to eliminate the
Agencies.
$5.1 billion for State Department Oper-
ations, which is $114 million above the FY
2018 enacted level and $662 million above the
President’s budget request, and $6.1 billion for
Embassy and Diplomatic Security, which is the
same as the FY 2018 enacted level and $716
million above the President’s budget request.
Security Assistance—$9.15 billion, including
$3.3 billion for Israel, fully meeting U.S. com-
mitments under the new Memorandum of Un-
derstanding.
Education and Cultural Exchanges—$701
million, which is $55 million above the FY
2018 enacted level and $542 million above the
President’s budget request.
Contributions to International Organiza-
tions—$1.36 billion for assessed contributions
to international organizations, which is $107
million less than the FY 2018 enacted level
and $265 million above the President’s budget
request.
Contributions to International Peace-
keeping—$1.55 billion, which is $169 million
above the FY 2018 enacted level and $355
million above the President’s budget request.
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief
(PEPFAR)—$5.7 billion, which is $50 million
above the FY 2018 enacted level and $945
million above the President’s budget request,
including $1.35 billion for the Global Fund to
Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria.
U.S. Agency for International Development
(USAID)—$1.37 billion in total funding for the
operating expenses of USAID, which is $25
million above the FY 2018 enacted level and
$258 million above the President’s budget re-
quest.
Global Health Programs—$3.1 billion, in-
cluding $575 million for family planning pro-
grams, $302 million to fight tuberculosis, $145
million for nutrition programs, $755 million to
combat malaria, and $290 million for GAVI,
the Vaccine Alliance.
Development Assistance—$3 billion for De-
velopment Assistance.
Economic Support Fund (ESF)—$3.7 billion
in total funding for Economic Support Funds,
which is $251 million less than the FY 2018
enacted level.
Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster As-
sistance—$7.8 billion, which is $173 million
above the FY 2018 enacted level and $1.46
billion above the President’s budget request.
International Disaster Assistance (IDA)—
$4.4 billion, which is $100 million above the
FY 2018 enacted level and $828 million above
the President’s budget request.
Refugee Assistance—$3.4 billion, which is
$73 million above the FY 2018 enacted level
and $632 million above the President’s budget
request.
Multilateral Assistance—$1.86 billion to
meet U.S. commitments to multilateral organi-
zations and international financial institutions,
which is equal to the FY 2018 enacted level
and $440 million above the President’s budget
request.
Peace Corps—$410 million, $500,000
above the FY 2018 enacted level and $14 mil-
lion above the President’s budget request.
Millennium Challenge Corporation—$905
million, which is equal to the FY 2018 enacted
level and $105 million above the President’s
budget request.
Department of Transportation (DOT) $86.5
billion overall for DOT, including $9 billion for
new transportation infrastructure. National In-
frastructure Investments (TIGER or BUILD) is
funded at $900 million, a decrease of $600
million below the FY 2018 enacted level and
$900 million above the President’s budget re-
quest. The funding will be allocated 5o percent
to urban areas and 5o percent to rural areas.
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)—
$17.5 billion, which is $549 million below the
FY 2018 enacted level and $1.3 billion above
the President’s budget request.
Airport Improvement Program grants receive
an additional $500 million to accelerate infra-
structure investments at airports.
Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)—
$49.3 billion, an increase of $1.8 billion above
the FY 2018 enacted level and $3.5 billion
above the President’s budget request.
Highway Infrastructure Programs are funded
at $3.3 billion for highway and bridge rehabili-
tation and construction as well as safety im-
provements at railroad grade crossings.
National Highway Traffic Safety Administra-
tion (NHTSA)—$966 million, an increase of
$19 million above the FY2018 enacted level
and $52 million above the President’s budget
request.
Federal Railroad Administration (FRA)—
$2.9 billion, which is $218 million below the
FY 2018 enacted level and $1.9 billion above
the President’s budget request.
Amtrak is funded at $1.9 billion, equal to FY
2018 enacted level, and $670 million is pro-
vided for rail infrastructure improvements.
The Magnetic Levitation Program is funded
at $10 million.
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) is fund-
ed at $13.4 billion, 2.3 billion above the Presi-
dent’s budget request. Within this amount,
Capital Investment Grants are funded at $2.6
billion, sufficient to fund all signed Full Fund-
ing Grant Agreements and continue work on
projects in the development pipeline.
Transit Infrastructure Grants are funded at
$700 million to improve and modernize transit
infrastructure.
Maritime Administration (MARAD)—$1.1 bil-
lion, which is $419 million above the Presi-
dent’s budget request; within this amount, the
Maritime Security Program is funded at $300
million, funding is provided for the construction
of a new schoolship, and $293 million is pro-
vided for port infrastructure development.
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration (PHMSA)—$275 million, which
is $21 million above the President’s budget re-
quest.
$8 billion for new housing and public infra-
structure.
Public and Indian Housing (PIH)—$31 bil-
lion, an increase of $6.4 billion above the
President’s budget request.
Tenant-Based Rental Assistance is funded
at $20.3 billion, adequate to renew all existing
vouchers.
Public Housing Capital Fund is funded at
$2.8 billion and the Choice Neighborhoods Ini-
tiative is funded at $150 million-both programs
will revitalize our nation’s public housing stock.
A mobility voucher demonstration program
is funded at $25 million.
Community Planning and Development
(CPD)—$7.7 billion, an increase of $29 million
above the FY 2018 enacted level and $5 bil-
lion above the President’s budget request.
Homeless Assistance Grants are funded at
$2.6 billion.
Community Development Block Grants are
funded at $3.4 billion.
The HOME program is funded at $1.3 bil-
lion.
Housing Opportunities for Persons with
AIDS is funded at $393 million.
Housing Programs are funded $12.7 billion,
an increase of $726 million above the Presi-
dent’s budget request.
$61 million is for the renovation and con-
struction of housing units for the elderly and
$30 million is for new housing units for per-
sons with disabilities.
Project-Based Rental Assistance is fully-
funded at $11.7 billion.
Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity is fund-
ed at $65.3 million, equal to the FY 2018 en-
acted level and $3 million above the Presi-
dent’s budget request.
Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy
Homes is slated to receive $279 million, an in-
crease of $49 million above the FY 2018 en-
acted level and $134 million above the Presi-
dent’s budget request.
Madam Speaker, the collateral damage
caused by the Trump Shutdown was substan-
tial, long lasting, and unnecessary because it
could have been avoided had the President
not reneged on his promise to sign the con-
tinuing resolution passed by the Senate unani-
mously on December 19, 2018.
Instead, the President callously shut down
the government for 35 days, furloughing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:12 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14FE7.012 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2014 February 14, 2019
800,000 civil servants and forcing nearly half
that many to work without pay, which cost the
national economy more than $11 billion in lost
productivity and economic output.
Because the President broke his promise,
frontline federal employees, including law en-
forcement and public safety personnel, worked
without pay from December 22 through Janu-
ary 25, 2019.
The way these federal workers, many of
whom risk their lives in the service of this
country, were treated was shameful.
The shutdown forced some employees to
look for new jobs or take on extra work, and
the pressure was immense for employees and
families with no other source of income.
Among those not receiving a pay check for
their work were 3,200 Secret Service agents
who risk their lives every single day to protect
the President and his family.
In addition to the federal employees working
without pay, hardworking federal employees at
agencies like the Department of Justice, the
Department of Homeland Security, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and NASA had been fur-
loughed without pay, plunging them and their
families into uncertainty.
Madam Speaker, shutting down the Govern-
ment of the United States, or any portion
thereof, is not an acceptable tactic or strategy
for resolving differences regarding policy,
funding levels, or governing philosophy.
It should never happen again.
Given the damage mercilessly inflicted on
the American people and the economy by the
Trump Shutdown, Congress has a fiduciary
duty to the American people to ensure the
continued, uninterrupted operations of the
Government of the United States and its serv-
ices.
And that begins with an overwhelming ma-
jority vote in support of H.J. Res. 31.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank my
friend, frankly, for his response on the
VAWA issue. And I don’t pretend to
speak for all Republicans. I will point
out to my friend, actually the last time
we did a reauthorization, I voted
against the Republican bill to bring the
Senate Democratic bill to the floor be-
cause I thought it was a better bill. It
was a stronger bill.
It had Tribal provisions and it had
areas we had not addressed previously.
I thought those were good changes. It
is pretty unusual for me to break with
my own team and bring down the Re-
publican bill and pass the Democratic
bill, but I was proud to do it because it
was a better bill.
I don’t think simply having money in
place is the same as having the author-
izations in place. This is an oppor-
tunity, in my view, to just have con-
tinuity while we do exactly what my
friend suggests. Let’s find a way, and
come together. I think we will. That
has traditionally been a bipartisan bill.
I hope we do it. But I don’t see a reason
why we should have a lapse in author-
ity.
This is something we tried to put, ac-
tually, in conference in the base bill,
and it would not have prevented my
friends from going on and offering a
new authorization. It was just simply,
let’s keep this going.
So to me, the previous question that
we will offer should the rule be de-
feated, will have that opportunity, and
I hope my friends avail themselves of
that.
In addition to that, I want to thank
my friends genuinely for the coopera-
tion in this process on the appropria-
tions bills themselves. As I said, six of
these bills were essentially agreed to in
December in a bipartisan way between
both the House and the Senate.
So we will hear the argument or
could hear the argument tonight. All of
this is new, and there is a 1,000-plus
page bill, and what have you. The re-
ality is, there are probably about 75
pages, I am told from the conferees, of
new text here. Most of this is actually
something that this House has voted on
and passed in December.
Not reopening old issues and settling
them where we could and then moving
forward is something my friends ought
to be proud of. I think it was abso-
lutely the right thing to do. It let us
get on to the important business of fis-
cal year 2020 more quickly and more
expeditiously.
And my friends are in the majority,
and if they want to make changes
there, additions or subtractions, they
will be in a position to do that. But I
think closing the book here is a good
one.
I hope all of us, honestly, as Repub-
licans and Democrats—I have been
around here long enough to be in the
minority, in the majority, and in the
minority again. It tends to move back
and forth.
But as my friends have pointed out,
these are important funding bills that
provide for the continuity of govern-
ment. And in these negotiations no-
body ever gets everything they want. It
is not possible, even when one side or
the other controls both Chambers and
the White House. I have been here
when that has happened on our side
and on my friend’s side. You still never
get everything you want in appropria-
tions.
But I think there is going to be a pre-
mium placed on cooperation and nego-
tiations going forward. There is no
question. We have a Democratic House,
we have a Republican Senate, and we
have a Republican President.
Everything that we are going to ac-
complish in the next 18 months for the
American people will have to be a com-
promise where we work together. I ac-
tually think this is a good first step in
starting that process. I think my
friends are to be commended in doing
that.
We won’t get every vote for this un-
derlying legislation on our side. I doubt
my friends will get every vote on their
side, but we will have a pretty substan-
tial bipartisan majority in favor of
moving forward, fully funding the gov-
ernment and, hopefully, that sets the
example for what we do in fiscal year
2020.
b 1900
Again, I look forward to working
with my friends going forward. I look
forward to beginning that process here
tonight by working together to pass a
bill the Senate has already passed in an
overwhelmingly bipartisan fashion and
that the President has said he will
sign, and I assume that he certainly
will.
As difficult as this road has been,
Madam Speaker, I think this is actu-
ally a hopeful moment for this Cham-
ber and maybe the beginning of good
habits of negotiation, compromise, and
cooperation, because we are certainly
going to need those habits going for-
ward.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I reserve the balance of my time to
close.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I thank my friend,
and, again, I thank him quite sincerely
for his work. We have had the oppor-
tunity to work together now in the
Rules Committee for a little while. We
hadn’t had that opportunity pre-
viously. He is always a thoughtful and
an interesting voice in that body and
certainly here on the floor.
While we will disagree over the rule
and might well disagree over the pre-
vious question, on the underlying legis-
lation, I suspect my friend and I will be
voting on the same side tonight.
That is something I hope that the
American people take note of. We will
have lots of Democrats and lots of Re-
publicans voting on the same side. Yes,
we have our differences about how we
got here or what we would have liked.
But at the end of the day, we have
come together and given the American
people what they deserve, and that is a
fully funded, operational government,
and we have resolved our differences in
conference.
I, too, want to join my friends in con-
gratulating the chair of the conference
committee, Chair LOWEY; congratu-
lating our ranking member, KAY
GRANGER; and congratulating their
counterparts, Senator SHELBY and Sen-
ator LEAHY for the work they did in
working through these knotty issues
and bringing us together.
Yes, I wish it happened more quickly,
but they are not the only players. I
think all four of them worked in good
faith and served our Chambers well in
their deliberations.
Madam Speaker, in closing, I urge
support for the underlying measure.
While the process of finalizing full-year
funding for fiscal year 2019 may have
taken longer than we expected, today’s
measure will complete the process. I
expect the House will pass these seven
bills today, and I expect that the Presi-
dent will sign them in the very near fu-
ture.
I applaud and commend my col-
leagues for their hard work and hope
that we will carry this spirit of biparti-
sanship with us as we move forward
into the fiscal year 2020 appropriations
process.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE7.013 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2015
February 14, 2019
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I thank my col-
leagues for joining me here today to
speak on the rule and the conference
report. Providing funding for the Fed-
eral Government is one of our most
basic responsibilities here in the Con-
gress. Unfortunately, the Congress in
the last session failed to get it done
and pass an appropriations package or
even a short-term continuing resolu-
tion, and that resulted in a 35-day shut-
down, the longest in U.S. history,
something I hope we all can avoid from
this point forward.
Starting on day one of the new Con-
gress, House Democrats began by work-
ing to reopen the government, so we
could negotiate the remaining issues
on border security and finish last
year’s work once and for all. Today, we
are accomplishing that goal.
I want to close with a thank you to
the Appropriations Committee, which
worked very hard to get this done. I
thank the Rules Committee, where we
heard every one of these appropriations
bills.
I especially thank the 800,000 Federal
employees affected by the shutdown, as
well as the other 1.2 million Federal
employees across the country. They
are patriots. The employees are patri-
ots for the work they do each and
every day on behalf of our country and
our citizens.
I met with dozens of Federal employ-
ees during the shutdown. I heard about
the uncertainty of how to pay bills and
the mental anguish from being side-
lined from work because they were not
excepted or essential. Despite all that,
I still heard that they were proud of
their work of 10, 20, even 25 years in
public service and how they just want-
ed to get back to their jobs.
Madam Speaker, I say to Mr. COLE
that I am hopeful, too, that we can
come together on these important re-
sponsibilities. There are going to be
basic disagreements, and hopefully, we
can work together to iron out most of
those. But shutting down the govern-
ment is something we have to avoid
from this point forward. So I hope the
lessons we in Congress learned from
the shutdown are not forgotten, and we
continue working together to prevent
this from happening again.
Madam Speaker, I encourage a ‘‘yes’’
vote on the rule and on the previous
question.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. COLE is as follows:
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
Sec. 4. Immediately upon adoption of this
resolution, the House shall proceed to the
consideration in the House of the bill (H.R.
1239) to reauthorize Department of Justice
programs that combat violence against
women, and for other purposes. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. The bill shall be considered as read.
All points of order against provisions in the
bill are waived. The previous question shall
be considered as ordered on the bill and on
any amendment thereto to final passage
without intervening motion except: (1) one
hour of debate equally divided and controlled
by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on the Judiciary; and (2)
one motion to recommit.
Sec. 5. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of H.R. 1239.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield back the balance of my time,
and I move the previous question on
the resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on ordering the previous
question will be followed by a 5-minute
vote on adoption of the resolution, if
ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 229, nays
195, not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 85]
YEAS—229
Adams
Aguilar
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—195
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—7
Aderholt
Allred
Cárdenas
Deutch
Engel
Kinzinger
Quigley
b 1926
Messrs. RUTHERFORD, GRIFFITH,
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington, and Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.034 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2016 February 14, 2019
SHIMKUS changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mses. BASS, SPEIER and JACKSON
LEE changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This
will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 230, nays
196, not voting 5, as follows:
[Roll No. 86]
YEAS—230
Adams
Aguilar
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—196
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—5
Allred
Deutch
Kinzinger
Lieu, Ted
Quigley
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1935
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.J.
RES. 31, FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPART-
MENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to House Resolution 131, I call up the
conference report on the joint resolu-
tion (H.J. Res. 31) making further con-
tinuing appropriations for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes, and
ask for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD). Pursuant to House Res-
olution 131, the conference report is
considered read.
(For conference report and state-
ment, see Book II of the proceedings of
the House of February 13, 2019, at page
H1589.)
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from New York (Mrs. LOWEY)
and the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
GRANGER) each will control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the bill before us would
prevent another government shutdown
by completing the remaining appro-
priation bills for fiscal year 2019. It rep-
resents what is possible in a strong
democratic process when we work hard
to reach agreement that puts politics
aside and puts the American people
first.
This bipartisan compromise rejects
the President’s irresponsible budget
cuts and, instead, invests in priorities
that will strengthen our families, com-
munities, and economy.
Additionally, it does not contain poi-
son pill riders that threaten the envi-
ronment, public health, and consumer
protections in the House Republican
versions of these bills.
Among the bill’s vital increases are
$80 million for State and local law en-
forcement to keep communities safe, $1
billion for the Census Bureau, $308 mil-
lion for research and development at
the National Science Foundation, $25
million for the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, $293 million for port infra-
structure, and $123 million for grants
to combat homelessness.
Strong international affairs funding
will help stabilize the world’s economy,
meet unprecedented humanitarian
needs, and continue our fight against
radical extremism and terrorism.
Federal workers will receive a 1.9
percent pay raise that the President
attempted to deny hardworking fami-
lies.
The Homeland Security division of
this bill upholds Democratic values and
funds smart and effective border secu-
rity, including construction and
screening technology at ports of entry,
where most drugs illegally enter the
country.
The $1.375 billion it provides for bor-
der barriers is 76 percent less than
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.037 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2017
February 14, 2019
what the President demanded for a
concrete wall, and critical protections
are put in place for environmentally
sensitive areas.
Neither Democrats nor Republicans
got everything they wanted.
Every Democrat and nearly every Re-
publican who served on the conference
committee to write this bill has signed
it in support. I thank the conferees for
their hard work and commitment to
this process, which we couldn’t have
completed without our excellent, dedi-
cated staff, both majority and minor-
ity.
My friends, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise today in support of H.J. Res. 31,
a bipartisan plan to fund the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security and the re-
maining appropriations bills for fiscal
year 2019.
Earlier this month, I had an oppor-
tunity to travel to the southern border
to see firsthand the situation we face
and hear from experts on the ground
about the best way to address the crisis
there. The President is correct; this is
a crisis that must be addressed, both
for the safety and security of the
American people and for the well-being
of those who are coming here.
We have a responsibility to come to-
gether and support what experts on the
border say they need to address the se-
curity and humanitarian crisis.
While this bill falls short of what I
would like to see, it will provide our
Customs and Border Patrol and Immi-
gration and Customs Enforcement
agents the tools necessary to continue
combating the threat we face.
In particular, the bill provides $1.375
billion for 55 new miles of wall or phys-
ical barriers, as well as additional
technology to combat human and drug
trafficking. It is a good downpayment
that will allow us to build new barriers
in the areas that the Border Patrol
says it is needed most.
The bill also supports Immigration
and Customs Enforcement priorities by
funding detention beds at a higher
level than the amount enacted last
year. This will allow agents the flexi-
bility to address surges in illegal immi-
gration and apprehensions.
It also does not include any limits on
ICE enforcement actions that could
cause dangerous criminals to be re-
leased into our country.
b 1945
The agreement prevents another un-
necessary shutdown by including fund-
ing for the remaining unfunded appro-
priations bills: Agriculture; Commerce,
Justice, Science; Financial Services
and General Government; Interior;
State and Foreign Operations; and
Transportation, Housing and Urban De-
velopment.
By voting for these bills today and
funding these vital areas of the Federal
Government, we will secure America
and our allies, promote economic pros-
perity, protect human life, promote the
health and safety of all Americans, and
make vital investments in our Nation’s
infrastructure.
Mr. Speaker, it would take hours to
go through all the bipartisan provi-
sions included in this bill, so let me
take a few minutes to discuss some of
the highlights.
They increase funding for Federal
law enforcement to combat terrorism,
espionage, drug traffickers, gangs, and
violent criminals; combat the financ-
ing of terrorism and terrorist groups;
and strengthen the development and
enforcement of sanctions against Iran,
North Korea, Russia, and Cuba by pro-
viding increased funding for the Office
of Terrorism and Financial Intel-
ligence.
We keep our commitment to Israel’s
security by fully funding the new
memorandum of understanding.
We encourage economic development
and job creation in rural communities
across the country.
We boost growth and development of
America’s small businesses by pro-
viding the opportunity to obtain cap-
ital through various Small Business
Administration loan programs.
We provide funding necessary to im-
plement the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of
2017. This will ensure that American
families are keeping more of their
hard-earned dollars, our small busi-
nesses are empowered to grow and ex-
pand, and investments are flowing to
communities that need it most.
We maintain all pro-life language in-
cluded in the various bills enacted dur-
ing the 115th Congress under the Re-
publican majority.
We advance drug treatment and re-
covery initiatives and improve preven-
tion and enforcement by investing in
Justice grant programs that support
things like prescription drug moni-
toring and at-risk youth programs.
We increase and focus funding on
medical product safety, including fund-
ing to fight opioid abuse. We advance
drug and biological product manufac-
turing within the United States and
approve rare disease medications. We
modernize generic drug development.
We provide increased funding for the
Department of the Interior and U.S.
Forest Service to fight devastating
wildfires that threaten our commu-
nities.
And we ensure rural areas have the
same access to basic utilities that
urban areas do by investing in critical
infrastructure.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague
and friend, Chairwoman LOWEY, for all
her hard work in these negotiations. As
always, she has been an honest broker
and a tough negotiator throughout the
process. I look forward to continuing
to work with her in this Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I also thank our part-
ners on the other side of the Capitol,
Senate Appropriations Committee
Chairman SHELBY and Vice Chairman
LEAHY, for their hard work, and all the
members of the conference committee,
especially the House Republicans, Con-
gressmen FLEISCHMANN, PALAZZO, and
GRAVES.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, I thank the
hardworking staff of the Appropria-
tions Committee for their tireless
work, over the last 3 weeks in par-
ticular.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this measure, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD), the hard-
working chairwoman of the Homeland
Security Subcommittee.
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Speaker,
let me begin by thanking the ranking
member of the subcommittee, CHUCK
FLEISCHMANN, for the courteous way in
which he represented and fought for
the minority’s priorities.
The negotiations on the DH funding
bill were among the hardest I have ex-
perienced to date. Although we did not
win every battle, we won many.
We prevented new funding for immi-
gration enforcement field personnel.
We secured funding to increase deten-
tion facility inspections from once
every 3 years to twice a year.
We won funding to increase detention
facility compliance with the Prison
Rape Elimination Act to provide more
victim assistance specialists and to ex-
pand the Alternatives to Detention
program, including $30.5 million for
family case management.
We held firm on a provision to pre-
vent ICE from using information from
the Office of Refugee Resettlement to
detain and remove sponsors of unac-
companied children.
We improved transparency by requir-
ing ICE to make information public
about the numbers and categories of
people in its custody.
While I am not happy with the out-
come on border fencing, we did limit
funding for border fencing to only
$1.375 billion, no higher than last year.
We also won protections for several
ecologically sensitive areas in Texas.
And we secured hundreds of millions of
dollars for humanitarian efforts to en-
sure migrants who spend time in CBP
custody are appropriately cared for.
Our bill also has large investments in
equipment to detect drugs and other
contraband at our ports of entry, where
the real threat lies.
The bill funds 600 new Customs offi-
cers to help facilitate commerce and
reduce wait times at the ports.
The bill also includes funds for the
Coast Guard’s first heavy icebreaker in
40 years and provides robust support
for FEMA preparedness and disaster re-
sponse grants.
Compared to the current detention
bed level, we significantly reduced the
funding available for ICE detention
beds for the rest of this fiscal year.
Unfortunately, we were unable to
reach agreement on how to prevent
OMB from giving ICE a blank check for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.040 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2018 February 14, 2019
detention beds during continuing reso-
lutions, and we were unable to effec-
tively prevent DHS’ abuse of its trans-
fer authority to increase detention
beds. That transfer authority is in-
tended to address unforeseen changes
in circumstances. It is not to be used
as a tool for routinely defying congres-
sional intent on spending.
As chair of the Homeland Security
Appropriations Subcommittee, I will
demand the Department honor the in-
tent of Congress and fully justify any
use of its transfer authority. I will hold
public hearings to ensure the American
people know when that authority is
being abused and, if not corrected, re-
double my efforts to ensure that au-
thority is taken away.
While not a perfect bill, the only al-
ternative to this negotiated bill is a
yearlong CR, which would not only in-
clude DHS but all the civilian depart-
ments and agencies for which the bill
before us has significant new funding
initiatives important to Democrats and
Republicans alike.
The fact is, Federal agencies need
full-year funding bills if we expect
them to carry out their missions effec-
tively, especially after the trauma of
the longest partial government shut-
down.
It is time to put fiscal year 2019 be-
hind us so we can start in earnest on
fiscal year 2020 and the oversight op-
portunities it provides.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote for the bill.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
4 minutes to the gentleman from Ken-
tucky (Mr. ROGERS).
Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr.
Speaker, I rise in support of this legis-
lation, but first, I want to congratulate
our committee’s distinguished chair
and ranking member on their master-
ful work in shepherding this com-
promise to the floor. This is a historic
dynamic duo that we have in charge of
our committee, and they have produced
the historic product that we have be-
fore us tonight.
Mr. Speaker, we have a crisis at our
southern border, period. There is no de-
nying that our Nation’s security is
threatened by the seemingly unending
flow of drugs that find their way into
nearly every American community, as
well as the violence of the brutal car-
tels that profit from this trade.
Where does it take place? On that
border. So we do have a problem. It is
an emergency. President Trump is ab-
solutely correct that we can’t allow
this ruthless criminality to continue
unchecked.
This bill takes important steps to se-
cure this country: $1.3 billion for fur-
ther construction at the border for a
wall and additional resources for DHS
to hire more personnel and deploy ad-
vanced technology in the region.
In addition to the security crisis,
there is also a very real humanitarian
crisis that we simply can’t ignore.
Thousands of vulnerable women and
children are seeking a better, safer life
in the confines of this country. It is
not the American way to turn our
backs on these people, and that is pre-
cisely why we have processes under
Federal law to facilitate legal entry
into our country.
This bill also takes important steps
to enforce our current immigration
laws. The bill funds an expansion of the
Alternatives to Detention program. It
also increases attorney and courtroom
staffing to reduce the backlog of cur-
rently pending immigration cases.
While the challenges at our border
have rightly grabbed headlines, the bill
also funds a number of other important
Federal agencies through the end of
the fiscal year. Importantly, it ensures
that our dedicated public servants can
continue to show up to work without
fear of losing another paycheck.
In my Kentucky district, for exam-
ple, hundreds of Federal prison employ-
ees showed up to a dangerous, difficult,
often thankless job for over a month,
not knowing when the next paycheck
would come, if at all. I thank them,
and I am pleased to support this bill
that will continue to support the Bu-
reau of Prisons.
Also for Kentucky, this bill con-
tinues our momentum in combating
the opioid epidemic by fully supporting
community prevention efforts and drug
courts to get people into treatment.
This bill also provides $115 million
for the abandoned mine lands pilot pro-
gram, which helps create economic de-
velopment in Appalachian coal commu-
nities.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, as the ranking
member of the State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Sub-
committee, I am especially pleased
that this bill includes significant fund-
ing to secure our diplomatic posts and
to support critical allies like Israel,
Jordan, Egypt, Georgia, Ukraine, and
others.
The bill also continues vigorous over-
sight of U.S. assistance programs, pro-
hibits funding for the Green Climate
Fund, and respects the sanctity of life
around the world.
Mr. Speaker, this bill is not perfect.
It is not everything we wanted, but it
is a true product of compromise. I urge
my colleagues to support it.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. CUELLAR), a member of the Appro-
priations Committee and a distin-
guished conferee.
Mr. CUELLAR. Mr. Speaker, I cer-
tainly thank Chairwoman LOWEY for
her leadership and the staff on both the
Republican side and the Democratic
side for working so hard.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Speaker
PELOSI, Chairwoman ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Ranking Member KAY GRANGER, and, of
course, all the members, the conferees,
who worked so hard to come up with
this bipartisan, bicameral spending
package. The conferees worked to-
gether to make sure that we seek an
acceptable funding solution for the dif-
ferent sides we have.
Now, what do we have here? It is a
matter of vision. There are some people
who see the border as a crisis, and I re-
spectfully disagree with them. There
are some of us who live on the border
who see the border as a place of com-
munity, opportunity, where we raise
our families, where we send our kids to
school, and where we have trade and
tourism.
In that place called the border, I will
tell you that if you look at crime rates,
the border crime rate is lower than the
national crime rate. I am not going to
pick any selective cities, but I can tell
you that I can pick any city, and the
crime rate in the cities of some of my
colleagues are higher than the border
crime rate that we have.
b 2000
We came up with a balance between
what those two visions were. What we
did is we found a way to provide tech-
nology at ports of entry, found a way
to balance border security, but, at the
same time, provide security.
On the border, we don’t believe in
open borders. We want to see smart
border security, and I think that is
what this bill does. We were able to get
together. It is a bill that provides fund-
ing not only for border security, but,
keep in mind, there are six other bills
that provide money for agriculture,
transportation, education, and
healthcare.
For that reason, Mr. Speaker, I ask
all Members to vote ‘‘yes’’ on this con-
ference report.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. DIAZ-BALART).
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in strong support of this leg-
islation.
This bill shows that, despite our dis-
agreements, when we work through our
differences to find common ground, we
can break the gridlock.
I thank, by the way, Chairman PRICE
for his leadership and his partnership.
We have worked together now for over
4 years, and I have gained a special ap-
preciation for his dedication to public
service and, frankly, for his deep un-
derstanding of the programs under our
jurisdiction. I look forward to continue
working with him and continue devel-
oping our friendship.
I would like to say a quick word
about Chairwoman LOWEY and Ranking
Member GRANGER and the role that
they have played in pulling this fund-
ing bill together. I have had the privi-
lege, Mr. Speaker, of knowing these
two leaders for a number of years now.
What all of us saw them achieve in just
the last few days is no surprise to any
of us in this body who know them well.
They only achieved this through hard
work, tough compromise, and grit, and
they deserve our thanks.
Mr. Speaker, let me turn a minute to
the transportation and housing invest-
ments included in this bill. This bill
doubles down our infrastructure invest-
ments from the 2018 T-HUD bill. Frank-
ly, again, it is a second historic down-
payment to rebuild our Nation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.041 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2019
February 14, 2019
With this bill, we provide a total of
$20 billion in new funding over 2 years
for roads, for bridges, for rails, and for
ports. That is a big number. As I said
before, the T-HUD bill is the infra-
structure bill and maybe the only one
that we will get a chance to vote on.
This bill will create jobs and improve
the quality of life for countless Ameri-
cans.
I am also particularly proud that this
bill makes a new investment in port in-
frastructure with a focus on seaports
at high volume locations. This port
program, coupled with other transpor-
tation investments in the bill, will cre-
ate opportunities for American manu-
facturers and exporters.
Mr. Speaker, I am also proud of the
housing portion of this bill. This meets
our commitments to help the most vul-
nerable among us with decent, afford-
able housing.
This is a good bill, Mr. Speaker, par-
ticularly if you care about our vet-
erans, our disabled, and our elderly.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
an additional 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Florida.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. This bill also in-
cludes funding to rebuild urban, subur-
ban, and rural communities with block
grant funding that goes directly to the
local decisionmakers and to the local
communities.
Again, this is a good bill, Mr. Speak-
er. I thank, again, the leaders for put-
ting this together.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
what I believe is a bill that will create
jobs, rebuild our communities, secure
our future, and, yes, stop the gridlock.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I am very
pleased to yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
PRICE), the distinguished chairman of
the Transportation, and Housing and
Urban Development, and Related Agen-
cies Subcommittee.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my colleague for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
conference agreement—bipartisan and
bicameral—averting a second reckless
Trump shutdown.
This legislation represents the best
possible deal to responsibly fund our
government and secure our border,
while holding true to our values as
Americans.
This agreement denies the President
billions of dollars for an unnecessary
wall. It includes a number of provisions
to hold the administration account-
able. And it boosts funding for humani-
tarian support for migrants, alter-
natives to detention, and family case
management.
The bipartisan agreement also in-
cludes six additional appropriations
bills beyond Homeland Security. For
example, the Transportation-HUD bill,
on which Chairman DIAZ-BALART and I
worked cooperatively for many
months, is included in this package.
It increases the Trump budget for in-
frastructure by $23 billion, and it in-
cludes investments that were totally
eliminated in the Trump budget: com-
munity development block grants, the
HOME program, New Starts for transit,
and the BUILD program. All these are
made whole, having been, of course,
eliminated in that earlier Trump budg-
et.
These six bills were all caught up in
the Trump shutdown. They are now
salvaged by this agreement. The deal is
not perfect. We know that. But it rep-
resents the best way to reject the
President’s outrageous border demand,
keep our government open, and address
our pressing national needs.
Mr. Speaker, let’s send this bill to
the President’s desk. Then let’s fight
to overturn this phony ‘‘national emer-
gency.’’
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Idaho
(Mr. SIMPSON), my friend.
Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support
this conference report and commend
Chairwoman LOWEY and Ranking Mem-
ber GRANGER and their staffs for the
hard work that goes into this. Not
many people understand the important
and long time that is spent by the staff
in trying to put these bills together.
I could sit here until the cows come
home, which might be shorter than we
think if we run out of cows and get rid
of those. But anyway, I could talk
about the provisions in this bill that
are important to Idaho, whether it is
the PILT payment, the sage-grouse
listing, or other provisions, but this is
an important bill.
What I would like to bring to my col-
leagues’ attention is a very important
section of this conference agreement,
section 7. It is with sadness that this
section is included. It honors the late
Stephen Sepp.
Sepp, as he was known to his friends
and colleagues, spent the last 8 years
as a senior adviser to the House Appro-
priations Committee. He was instru-
mental in the enactment of division O
of the 2018 Consolidated Appropriations
Act. I know this division well because
it was the fire borrowing and forest
management reforms I advocated and
worked on for several years.
Sepp steadfastly worked with Mem-
bers, the committees, the administra-
tion, and staff over several years to re-
solve the problems that fire borrowing
caused for the Forest Service and the
Department of the Interior. More than
that, he helped solve a problem that
threatens the lives and property of peo-
ple in the West and, in fact, all over
the country.
His strength, his courage, his sense of
humor, and his vast knowledge of the
Federal budget law and rules made him
indispensable, especially to his col-
leagues. Without Sepp, division O
would never have passed.
Along with my fellow colleagues on
the Appropriations Committee, the
chairwoman, and the ranking mem-
ber—and I know our former colleague
had a hand in this, Rodney Freling-
huysen—we would all like to express
our gratitude to his wife, Diem, and
children, Ashley and Matthew, for al-
lowing him the many, many hours he
spent with us making Congress and the
Nation better.
Our thoughts are with him today as
we pass this.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill. Let’s put the 2019 ap-
propriations behind us so that we can
move on to 2020.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I am very
pleased to yield 2 minutes to the dis-
tinguished gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. LEE), a senior member of
the committee and a conferee who
worked so hard to put this bill to-
gether.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker,
first of all, let me thank Chairwoman
LOWEY for yielding. Also, I must thank
her for her tireless work, day and
night, on behalf of the American peo-
ple.
Also, let me thank our Homeland Se-
curity chairwoman, LUCILLE ROYBAL-
ALLARD, for her brilliance and her hard
work. She pushed hard for a bill that
reflects our American values, and I ap-
preciate her leadership.
The phenomenal work of Chair-
woman LOWEY, Chairwoman ROYBAL-
ALLARD, all the members of the con-
ference committee, and all the Appro-
priations chairs and ranking members
has just been amazing. I really do sa-
lute them for that. This has been a
very, very difficult negotiation, but
they all did it.
This legislation, of course, Mr.
Speaker, is not perfect. It is not the
bill that I would have written or cho-
sen. And, yes, I have serious concerns
with several of the provisions, which I
will discuss.
But let me tell you, this bill will
keep the government open. It will pre-
vent another shutdown, which caused
so much misery for Federal workers
and their families. And it provides
funding for humanitarian assistance,
which is desperately needed at the bor-
der.
Once more, the package of bills in-
cludes funding increases for six other
spending bills, including housing for
people living with AIDS, transpor-
tation grants for low-income commu-
nities, increased funding for homeless-
ness, and Section 8 vouchers.
As a member of the Department of
Homeland Security Conference Com-
mittee, I was proud to fight for many
of our priorities in this bill, which real-
ly reflect our American values.
Being born and raised in the beau-
tiful border town, as I have said before,
of El Paso, Texas, I understand what it
means to live in a border community
and why these issues are so important.
They speak to our sense of morality
and who we are as a country and, yes,
as well as our security.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.043 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2020 February 14, 2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. LEE of California. With this bill,
Democrats held the line, Mr. Speaker,
in denying the President $5.7 billion in
funding for an unnecessary concrete
wall. Instead, it includes $1.3 billion in
border fencing only. And it includes
strong language to protect sensitive lo-
cations.
Last year, I traveled to Brownsville
and McAllen, Texas, where I saw the
horrors of the Trump administration’s
family detention jails. I saw children
sleeping on concrete floors. It was
cruel and inhumane.
Not only did we secure $415 million in
this bill for humanitarian relief, in-
cluding for enhanced medical support,
transportation, and food at our border,
but we got many, many programs and
funding for alternatives to detention.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has again ex-
pired.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 10 seconds to the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. LEE of California. Finally, Mr.
Speaker, let me just say it is the first
step. It is far from perfect, but it does
lay the groundwork that really ad-
dresses many of the issues that myself
and my colleagues on the conference
committee have fought so hard for.
Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and
I ask for an ‘‘aye’’ vote.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
5 minutes to the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. FLEISCHMANN).
Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise tonight in support of this joint res-
olution.
Earlier today, our colleagues in the
United States Senate overwhelmingly
passed this bill. I believe it was 83–16.
At this point in time, I would like to
begin by thanking my colleagues in the
House: Mrs. LOWEY, the chairman of
the committee; Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
the distinguished subcommittee chair-
man; and Ms. GRANGER, the ranking
member. And I have been privileged to
serve, Mr. Speaker, as the ranking
member, the highest Republican, on
the House Appropriations Homeland
Security Subcommittee.
Where were we? From time to time,
in our great Republic, we hit a blip; we
have a problem; we run into a dif-
ficulty. We did that in this shutdown.
This was a very odd situation. We had
actually passed five appropriations
bills, and seven were left remaining.
Mr. Speaker, that put us in a very
awkward situation where there was a
partial government shutdown. I heard
the rhetoric on both sides of the aisle,
and I know it was sincere, but it hurt.
It hurt our country, and it hurt work-
ers. But we reopened the government.
In the interim, Members of the House
from both parties and Members of the
Senate from both parties came to-
gether and convened. There was a wide,
wide difference of opinion on that first
day. I heard it. I was in that room. Ev-
eryone was acting in good faith,
strong-held convictions.
A lot of naysayers and skeptics and
cynics said we weren’t going to get
there, but we owed it to the American
people to get there. And, Mr. Speaker,
we got there.
We didn’t get there with a bill that I
would have drawn. My bill, candidly,
would look more like the bill that
President Trump would have wanted:
more money for border security and
more money for ICE. But we came up
with an agreement that the vast ma-
jority of Americans could support and
the vast majority of Members in both
Houses could support.
b 2015
And that is what I think the Amer-
ican people need to look to: Where did
we agree?
We agreed in this great bill for in-
creased funding for our beloved ally in
the Middle East, Israel.
Just in this Chamber the other day,
Members of both parties condemned
anti-Semitism, as we must. We backed
that commitment up with our full sup-
port and unprecedented funding for our
ally, Israel. We can all be proud of
that.
We, Mr. Speaker, came together with
a compromise bill that will have some
new border wall—not as much as I
would have wanted. We will have more
ICE beds—not as many as I would have
wanted.
But, Mr. Speaker, I have been in this
Chamber for 8 years. I saw us come to-
gether and work together. My col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle,
sometimes our differences are bipar-
tisan, sometimes our differences are bi-
cameral. Today, we are going to come
together as Americans and pass this
bill.
It is not a great bill, but it is a good
bill. It represents compromise, and it
will, I believe, restore the faith of the
American people, not only in our insti-
tutions, but in our great Republic.
We can be proud that we came to-
gether when they said ‘‘can’t’’ and we
said ‘‘can.’’
So I will vow to continue, as we work
forward, to work with Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, a very fine lady. We view the
world sometimes differently; some-
times we view it in a very similar
light. But as we go into 2020 and we fall
under the draconian Budget Control
Act, the dreaded sequester, we will
have to address that. We will have a
debt ceiling vote.
The American people need to know
our work will not be easier; it will be
harder. But let our resolve be to do the
work of the American people, as we
have done today and we will do in the
future.
May God bless the United States of
America.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from California (Mr. AGUILAR),
a member of the Appropriations Com-
mittee and a very important conferee.
Mr. AGUILAR. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to thank the chairwoman for her
leadership throughout this process.
It has been 3 weeks, colleagues, since
the end of the longest shutdown in
American history—35 days—where we
saw friends and neighbors who hurt,
where this body didn’t do enough to
push back against a shutdown that
hurt our communities and hurt individ-
uals throughout this country.
This is a compromise bill, and we are
here today to reflect that good will and
that good faith effort of Democrats and
Republicans negotiating together to
find compromise.
But let’s talk a little bit about what
this bill would do.
This bill protects our national secu-
rity. This bill works to improve the
only true crisis that we have at our
southern border, which is the humani-
tarian crisis. This bill invests in tech-
nology and in ports of entry. This bill
ensures that we have the resources to
protect this country.
This bill also unlocks the other ap-
propriations bills that will fund the
Environmental Protection Agency,
make investments in the Census, and
make investments in transportation.
What this bill will not do is this bill
will not fund the President’s wall from
sea to shining sea, a wall that he said
Mexico would pay for.
So we tried another path. We tried a
bipartisan path of working together to
iron out our differences and to come to
an agreement, to keep government
open, to protect our national security.
That was the focus of the conferees,
and that is what we sought to accom-
plish.
But we also did two important things
in this document. We ensured that the
congressional intent was there when it
comes to topics that we don’t always
agree on; and we will ensure, this body
will ensure, that we will hold the ad-
ministration accountable, that we will
provide oversight that hasn’t been pro-
vided, and that we will ensure that na-
tional security is protected.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman
from California.
Mr. AGUILAR. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairwoman LOWEY and Ranking Mem-
ber GRANGER for their leadership
throughout this process, for Chair-
woman ROYBAL-ALLARD and for Rank-
ing Member FLEISCHMANN. And I would
like to thank all of our staff members
on both sides of the aisle who worked
day and night to make sure that this
document was in front of us in a timely
manner and that ensured that we
didn’t have another shutdown.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this joint resolution.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. PERRY).
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from Texas for the
opportunity.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.044 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2021
February 14, 2019
Mr. Speaker, this is bad policy fol-
lowing bad process—an 1100-plus-page
bill dropped at midnight last night, and
we are acting like we can’t walk and
chew gum at the same time. We are
acting like we can’t keep our Federal
Government open and fix our border
situation.
Let’s talk about what is happening
because that is the problem. At least, if
nothing else, we should do no harm.
Let’s not make the situation worse.
Mr. Speaker, this bill provides am-
nesty for anyone in a household of an
unaccompanied minor, and it protects
the people who have smuggled those
children into the United States and en-
courages them to do that even more.
And even more than that, once they
are here, we cut $700 million out of
ICE, and we reduced their bed space. So
there are less people looking for those
people who are here illegally.
Then when we find the criminals,
when they have committed some crime
and we find them, we can’t even keep
them. We have to release them back
into our communities. Mr. Speaker,
city councils are now deciding where
we secure our border.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the time
and urge a ‘‘no’’ vote.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. SERRANO), the chairman of
the Commerce, Justice, Science Sub-
committee.
Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, this
bill—Commerce, Justice, Science—
comes in at $71.5 billion, which is $1.6
billion above 2018.
One of the highlights of the bill is
that it restores many programs that
had been zeroed out by the administra-
tion, including the Legal Services Cor-
poration, which comes in at over $368
million.
NOAA gets extra money for climate
research, and we put in $368 million for
opioid epidemic issues. The President
wanted $336 million; we came in at $368
million.
To me, the greatest accomplishment
in this particular part of the bill is $1
billion for the Census, to continue to
work on the Census. This is a major
victory, and we thank the other side
for agreeing that this is something
that has to be done and something that
is important for all of us.
So I am asking not only for you to
applaud the CJS part of the bill but
also to vote for the whole bill.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
4 minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. JOYCE).
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I
rise in strong support of this bipartisan
conference agreement, and I thank my
ranking member for yielding time to
highlight several items in the Interior,
Environment, and Related Agencies di-
vision of this agreement.
I also want to thank my colleague,
KEN CALVERT, the former chairman of
the subcommittee, for his leadership on
this bill last Congress.
The highlights I am about to summa-
rize are really a result of efforts to ne-
gotiate a reasonable compromise with
the Senate and our mutual friend and
current chair of the subcommittee,
BETTY MCCOLLUM.
Division E of the conference agree-
ment provides $35.6 billion for the De-
partment of the Interior, Environ-
mental Protection Agency, the Forest
Service, the Indian Health Service, the
Smithsonian Institution, and more
than a dozen related agencies.
This conference agreement enhances
our Nation’s economic prosperity in
many ways:
By cutting an additional $15 million
from the EPA regulatory programs;
By fully funding the Payments in
Lieu of Taxes program, which is crit-
ical to the counties with Federal lands;
and
By increasing America’s investment
in its own abundant energy resources.
Additionally, this conference agree-
ment promotes health and safety by
providing targeted increases to accel-
erate the cleanup of America’s most
polluted lands, waters, and airsheds;
By providing an additional $300 mil-
lion for healthcare, law enforcement,
and related programs to honor our
country’s sacred trust and treaty obli-
gations to American Indians and Alas-
ka Natives; and
By providing $3.9 billion for the De-
partment of the Interior and the U.S.
Forest Service to fight devastating
wildfires that threaten our commu-
nities, and to reduce the severity of fu-
ture wildfires.
Finally, this conference agreement
continues to make critical investments
in our Nation’s infrastructure, includ-
ing:
$47 million to reduce the mainte-
nance backlogs at our Nation’s na-
tional parks, wildlife refuges, and other
public lands;
$2.9 billion for the Clean Water and
Drinking Water State Revolving Loan
Funds; and
$68 million for the Water Infrastruc-
ture Finance and Innovation Act pro-
gram, which will be leveraged with pri-
vate investments to finance more than
$7 billion in water infrastructure
projects, nationwide.
Personally, I have a vested interest
in the resources provided in this bipar-
tisan package. Having grown up in
northeast Ohio, I cherish my memories
of fishing and swimming in Lake Erie
with my family and friends. My wife,
Kelly, and I have been proud to share
the importance of protecting this pre-
cious resource with our children.
The Great Lakes are one of the great-
est natural resources and economic
powerhouses in the United States.
They constitute the largest group of
freshwater lakes on Earth and hold 95
percent of the United States’ surface
freshwater. The lakes also support over
1.5 million jobs and provide $62 billion
in wages, annually.
Protecting the Great Lakes is not a
red issue or a blue issue. Many Mem-
bers of Congress from both sides of the
political aisle understand the impor-
tant role the lakes play in our lives
and understand the importance of pro-
tecting them.
My colleague BETTY MCCOLLUM has
been a great partner to work with in
my fight to protect the Great Lakes,
and I am happy to report that the con-
ference agreement provides full fund-
ing for the Great Lakes Restoration
Initiative, which helps us address
invasive species like Asian carp, reduce
phosphorus runoff that causes harmful
algal blooms, and protect and preserve
the Great Lakes for future generations.
In closing, I want to sincerely thank
the staff on both sides of the aisle for
their hard work, their professionalism,
and their ability to work together
under extremely difficult cir-
cumstances in order to get an annual
appropriation bill over the finish line
once again.
I also want to thank the many thou-
sands of Federal employees who carry
out the programs funded in this con-
ference agreement. Your dedication to
serving your fellow Americans in spite
of the sacrifices asked of you by your
government—especially this year—is
the glue that helps us bind together as
one nation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this conference agreement.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. BISHOP), the
distinguished chairman of the Agri-
culture Subcommittee.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
when I spoke on the floor about fin-
ishing the FY19 bills, we were in the
midst of what turned out to be the
longest government shutdown in our
history. Thankfully, that is behind us.
But to ensure it stays behind us, we
need to pass this conference report.
The bipartisan leadership and staff
and the conferees have done an admi-
rable job. This bill is good but not per-
fect. It makes significant investments
in rural development; it includes lan-
guage setting aside funding for per-
sistent poverty counties; it has a mod-
est increase for the Farm Production
and Conservation mission area; and do-
mestic nutrition programs are all well-
funded.
On the international side, the bill
provides good funding for Food for
Peace and the McGovern-Dole Pro-
gram.
Finally, FDA gets $3 billion, includ-
ing significant investments to fight the
opioid epidemic.
But I must say, candidly, that I have
some regrets. My strongest regret,
however, is that we are not considering
the disaster supplemental today.
The House and Senate passed sepa-
rate bills a month ago that would have
provided desperately needed relief to
our farmers, ranchers, and commu-
nities coast to coast, in Hawaii and the
territories that were devastated by
tragic disasters, but those bills must
still be reconciled. The country must
get this disaster bill passed, and get it
passed soon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.046 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2022 February 14, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BEYER). The time of the gentleman has
expired.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman
from Georgia.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
the conferees have done well; neverthe-
less, I urge my colleagues to support
this bill. It is a good bill.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. RUTHERFORD).
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of the compromise appropriations
package that includes major wins for
our national security and our economic
success. In fact, this move tonight will
authorize seven different appropriation
bills that fund critical agencies and
programs within our government.
Now, this is not the bill that I would
have written, and this is probably not
the bill that any of my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle would have
written, but we have all finally found a
compromise that Congress can pass and
the President has indicated he will sign
into law.
b 2030
This is not a loss for the President,
but a win for the Department of Home-
land Security, and a significant step in
the right direction for border security.
Democrats called for no wall funding.
Today we will approve $1.4 billion for
new barriers. Democrats called for pro-
abortion policies, but today, we will
approve and maintain multiple pro-life
protections.
Democrats called for less ICE deten-
tion beds. Today we will be approving
funding for an estimated 45,000 beds
and an additional $750 million for 13,000
beds, if needed.
We increased ICE funding by $500 mil-
lion; increased CBP by almost $1 bil-
lion; and fund the first Coast Guard
icebreaker in over 40 years.
This bill strengthens our national se-
curity and brings us one step closer to
bringing our southern border under
operational control.
This bill also includes many prior-
ities that are of significant importance
to northeast Florida. There is $4 billion
in additional funding to help FEMA re-
spond to national disasters like Hurri-
cane Michael and Hurricane Florence.
There is $468 million to help local
communities combat opioid traf-
ficking, which has ravaged parts of
northeast Florida.
On the first anniversary of 17 lives
murdered in Parkland, Florida, I am
proud to vote in support of $100 million
in grants authorized under my STOP
School Violence Act which was signed
into law last year. Since the passage of
this bill, the STOP School Violence
Act has yielded over $175 million in
grants to help protect schools across
the United States.
I understand this is not a perfect bill
before us today, but we cannot afford
another shutdown that puts almost 1
million people out of work. We cannot
afford another CR that kicks the can
down the road, causing uncertainty
and increasing the cost of government.
Let’s end this stalemate, build the
wall, and secure our southern border. I
congratulate the committee, and I urge
my colleagues to support this com-
promise package and send it to the
President.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the distinguished gentle-
woman from Minnesota (Ms. MCCOL-
LUM), the chairwoman of the Interior,
Environment, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in strong support of this conference
committee report. The Interior and En-
vironment section provides $35.6 bil-
lion, which is $300 million more than
fiscal year 2018 enacted.
We made critical investments in this
legislation in Indian Country, environ-
mental protection, public land manage-
ment, and the arts. The Environmental
Protection Agency is funded at $8.8 bil-
lion. This funding will enhance the
EPA’s ability to protect human health
and the health of our environment.
We continue to invest in land and
water conservation funds, civil rights
initiative programs, and historic pres-
ervation. We worked in a bipartisan
way to increase funding for the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts and the
Humanities.
Finally, it is critically important
that this Interior bill upholds the Fed-
eral Government’s trust responsibil-
ities to our Native American brothers
and sisters.
Funding for Indian Country is over $1
billion more than the President’s budg-
et, and we did it in our committee’s
nonpartisan way. Programs in the Inte-
rior bill impact all of us, from pre-
serving our natural and cultural re-
sources, to protecting our health and
safety.
Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and
I encourage my colleagues to vote for
it as well.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the distinguished gentle-
woman from Florida (Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ), chairwoman of the Military
Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Re-
lated Agencies Subcommittee.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support this bi-
partisan agreement which, while not
perfect, keeps our government open
and funds many essential, crucial
needs. It also passes sound policy, like
one preventing our government from
using asylum-seeking children to be
used as bait to arrest immigrants seek-
ing to sponsor them.
I urge all Members to vote for this
important compromise.
However, I cannot stay silent on the
President’s threat to declare a national
emergency to pay for his boondoggle of
a border wall. This lawless end-run
around Congress is a craven act built
on lies and distraction.
The President would steal funds we
use to support our brave young soldiers
just to pay for an ancient monument to
waste. Rather than own up to his lie
that Mexico would pay for it, Trump
would degrade our national security to
try to steal his way to his totem to
vanity and hate.
Will Trump ever look our soldiers
and veterans in the eye and tell them
that it is they who will pay for the wall
of waste? Of course not.
If this President wants to com-
promise our military with this tin-pot
authoritarian tactic, he is going to
have to come through this Congress to
do it.
I urge my colleagues to vote for this
agreement and reject Trump’s big na-
tional emergency lie.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I sup-
port this conference agreement before
us today, and I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote.
I yield back the balance of my time.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks on the conference
report to accompany H.J. Res. 31.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the remainder of my time to
close.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to once
again thank my fellow conferees. In a
divided government, none of us will get
everything we want, but I am proud
that 16 of us, all appropriators, could
work through a series of difficult deci-
sions and sign a bipartisan agreement.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my friends on
both sides of the aisle to vote ‘‘yes,’’
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in op-
position to the Conference Report to Accom-
pany H.J. Res. 31.
Our country used to celebrate being a na-
tion of immigrants, one that protected the most
vulnerable and those fleeing from violence and
persecution. We are, after all, home to the
American Dream. Increasingly, though, this
country’s policies have become a nightmare
for immigrant families, adults, and children.
People, including children, have died under
our custody, and immigrants and refugees are
being targeted, detained and deported with lit-
tle oversight or accountability, and with no re-
gard for keeping families together. DHS, spe-
cifically it’s enforcement methods and immi-
gration policy is out of alignment with our
American values, and instead of increasing its
funding to separate families and cage children,
we must step back and conduct an audit of
DHS funding and policies, with an eye towards
decreasing its budget and ending the mili-
tarization of our immigration system. More im-
portantly, we need an audit of our morality as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.048 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2023
February 14, 2019
a country. Our true test is how we treat the
most vulnerable amongst us, including our
neighbors seeking a better life.
Since the creation of DHS in 2003, both
CBP and ICE’s budgets have more than dou-
bled, to a total of nearly $24 billion today.
Moreover, transfer and reprogramming author-
ity allow ICE and CBP to siphon money from
other departments to support their activities,
leaving their true budgets largely unaccount-
able and often illusory. ICE, for instance, has
redirected appropriations to grow its detention
camps and enforcement operations, spending
beyond what Congress appropriated. This deal
does nothing to restrict this transfer authority
and will see an increase in immigration deten-
tion of more than 11 percent, or 5,000 addi-
tional detentions every day, and representing
a 25 percent increase total over Obama Ad-
ministration levels.
It is unconscionable that our federal budget
would be spent on private detention centers,
like those run by Core Civic and GEO Groups,
who hold hundreds of millions of dollars in
contracts from DHS for private detention
camps. These for-profit camps are violating
human rights by not providing hot water, serv-
ing spoiled food and denying medical care.
Not coincidentally, each of Core Civic and
GEO Group gave $250,000 to President
Trump’s inaugural committee. Our budget is
not a tool for rewarding campaign supporters,
and it cannot be used to perpetuate human
rights abuses or make a profit on the backs of
children and our immigrant neighbors.
The Conference Report also provides
$1.375 billion for wall construction, a complete
waste of resources that makes us no safer but
perpetuates environmental degradation and
dehumanizes border communities. It expands
CBP’s short term custody without any safe-
guards, increases funding for Homeland Secu-
rity Investigation ICE agents who conduct mili-
tarized raids and abuse rights and their au-
thority, and funds border security technology
despite a long history of DHS abuses.
Once we voted to reopen the government,
albeit short-term, a few of my colleagues and
I released a letter declaring that we would not
vote for an increase in funding for the harmful,
hateful, and inhumane actions of some agen-
cies within DHS. We asked that the con-
ference committee work to cut DHS funding,
get rid of transfer authority for funds so the
Trump Administration can no longer use the
DHS as a slush fund, and implement stronger
accountability measures beyond just reporting.
It is unfortunate that this DHS funding bill in-
cludes none of this. Instead, it includes money
for a wall, an increase in DHS funding, and
lacks necessary accountability measures. We
should be fighting for a just border and a com-
prehensive immigration system. We must de-
mand change. We owe it to the American peo-
ple and those coming to this country for a bet-
ter life. A presidency built on misinformation,
fearmongering, and division should not be re-
warded for its threats of shutdowns and insti-
tuting national emergencies.
My Democratic colleagues in the conference
have negotiated in good faith with the Presi-
dent and Republican leadership, and even de-
spite this, Republicans have confirmed that
once again President Trump will ignore the
principles that the Constitution has set forth
and declare a National Emergency. Both sides
should be alarmed at this continuous degrada-
tion of the rule of law, separation of powers,
and disregard for our Constitution.
I cannot in good conscious vote for this
DHS funding bill. On behalf of my immigrant
neighbors, I must reject hateful policies and
rhetoric by the Trump Administration. I am
committed to working toward a just border, a
welcoming country, and a comprehensive im-
migration system that respects the humanity
and dignity of people while inspiring people to
live up to the best of our country’s ideals.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 131,
the previous question is ordered.
The question is on adoption of the
conference report.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on adoption of the con-
ference report will be followed by a 5-
minute vote on agreeing to the Speak-
er’s approval of the Journal, if ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 300, nays
128, not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 87]
YEAS—300
Adams
Aguilar
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Bacon
Balderson
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Emmer
Engel
Eshoo
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gottheimer
Granger
Green (TX)
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Miller
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Price (NC)
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Veasey
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Young
NAYS—128
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Banks
Biggs
Bilirakis
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Clarke (NY)
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Correa
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Doggett
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Escobar
Espaillat
Estes
Gallagher
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gohmert
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Jayapal
Johnson (LA)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
LaHood
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McClintock
Meadows
Meuser
Mitchell
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Norman
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Pressley
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Rogers (AL)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steube
Taylor
Timmons
Tipton
Tlaib
Vargas
Vela
Velázquez
Walberg
Walker
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—4
Allred
Deutch
Kinzinger
Quigley
b 2059
Mrs. HARTZLER changed her vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE7.015 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2024 February 14, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER changed his vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the conference report was agreed
to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. ALLRED. Mr. Speaker, as I am back
home in Dallas, Texas, on paternity leave with
my family, I submit the following vote expla-
nation. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 85, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 86, and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 87.
f
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, Members
are advised that, with House and Sen-
ate passage of the fiscal year ’19 con-
ference report, votes are no longer ex-
pected in the House on Friday, Feb-
ruary 15.
Next votes are expected on Monday,
February 25, 2019, at 6:30 p.m.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PROVIDING FOR A CORRECTION IN
THE ENROLLMENT OF H.J. RES. 31
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker’s table the concurrent resolu-
tion (S. Con. Res. 4) making consoli-
dated appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes, and ask for its imme-
diate consideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the con-
current resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
The text of the concurrent resolution
is as follows:
S. CON. RES. 4
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That, in the enroll-
ment of the joint resolution H.J. Res. 31, the
Clerk of the House of Representatives shall
amend the long title so as to read: ‘‘Making
consolidated appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes.’’.
The concurrent resolution was con-
curred in.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that the Committee on
the Judiciary be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 962, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, and I ask for its immediate
consideration in the House so we can
defend life.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I ask for im-
mediate consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the
gentleman from Oklahoma continue to
seek recognition?
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, we have had
a bill that has been tied up in Judici-
ary for a long time. It is about defend-
ing life. It is about making sure that
we do not take away life from people
that are unborn. I just ask for its im-
mediate consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 10 a.m. tomorrow. There will
be no votes expected.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
f
CONGRATULATING SPIKE LEE ON
HIS ACADEMY AWARD NOMINA-
TION
(Ms. CLARKE of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today during Black His-
tory Month to honor a man who rep-
resents Brooklyn, New York, to the
fullest, a trailblazer, an innovator, and
a cinematic genius: Brooklyn’s own
Spike Lee.
On behalf of the people of the Ninth
Congressional District of New York, I
would like to congratulate Spike Lee,
a son of Brooklyn, on receiving the
first-ever best director Oscar nomina-
tion despite a more than 30-year career
in film.
He joins the ranks of only six other
African Americans to ever be nomi-
nated for the category.
Mr. Lee was raised in Brooklyn and
attended Morehouse College, where he
received a bachelor of arts in mass
communications. He received a fine
arts degree from NYU’s Tisch School of
the Arts.
Many of Mr. Lee’s films have exam-
ined race relations, colorism in the
Black community, and the role of the
media in contemporary life and polit-
ical issues.
Spike has never ceased to speak out
against injustice in the Black commu-
nity.
He has been outspoken on police bru-
tality, environmental injustice, and
other issues that affect communities in
Brooklyn and beyond.
His love of Brooklyn is reflected in
his activism and his work.
Forty Acres and a Mule, Spike’s pro-
duction company, is based in Brooklyn,
contributing in part to the economy
that keeps our city running.
He shot films like ‘‘Do the Right
Thing’’ and ‘‘Crooklyn’’ in Brooklyn,
allowing viewers to experience all that
we know and love about Brooklyn.
Spike Lee continues to produce work
that pushes the envelope on topics that
need to be discussed.
‘‘BlacKkKlansman,’’ for which he is
being nominated, has received praise
and adoration for its topics around
combating racism.
f
REMEMBERING THE HON. WALTER
B. JONES, JR.
(Mr. BUDD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BUDD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life, service and leg-
acy of my friend and colleague from
North Carolina, Walter B. Jones, Jr.
Congressman Jones served the people
of North Carolina’s Third District hon-
orably for more than two decades,
being elected 13 times, starting in 1994.
He passed away on Sunday in Green-
ville, on his birthday.
Congressman Jones will be remem-
bered for his courage, conviction, and
character. He was a man led by his
faith, never wavering in his support for
the unborn. He was known as a staunch
pro-life advocate.
He was just as tough when it came to
his support of the military. His district
covered both the Marine Corps’ Camp
Lejeune and Marine Corps Air Station
Cherry Point, and he worked hard to
give our servicemen and -women a bet-
ter quality of life.
Our country is better off when people
like Walter Jones are serving in this
body. Please join me in praying for his
family and loved ones throughout this
difficult time.
f
THE REAL NATIONAL EMERGENCY
(Mr. GALLEGO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. GALLEGO. Mr. Speaker, let’s be
clear. Donald Trump’s Presidency is
the real national emergency.
President Trump fired the FBI direc-
tor to protect his national security ad-
viser. He tried to rip healthcare from
millions of Americans and destroy pro-
tections for people with preexisting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:10 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.051 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2025
February 14, 2019
conditions. He orchestrated the largest
transfer of wealth from middle class
families to rich families.
And Trump has done nothing in the
face of epidemic levels of gun violence
and devastating impacts of climate
change.
Why is Trump lying about a national
emergency at the border? He is doing it
to distract the American people from
the fact that he has no plan to improve
healthcare, improve our schools, or do
one damn thing for working people in
this country.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
SHERRILL). Members are reminded to
refrain from engaging in personalities
toward the President.
f
REMEMBERING THE HON. WALTER
B. JONES, JR.
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise tonight in memory of our friend,
Walter Jones, congressman from North
Carolina.
Walter was a kind, gentle, sweet soul
of a man, who I admired even in the
brief time we had to serve here to-
gether.
I found him to be a man of integrity
who always put what he thought was
right for the people of his district and
this country first.
Sometimes he had a vote he might
regret, but he did everything he could
to make that right.
He went so far as to make the fami-
lies of a fallen soldier feel that much
more comfortable with a letter—to
every one that he could possibly do—
showing compassion and showing that
at least one congressman knows what
their pain is.
So, to his family; his wife, Joe Anne;
and his daughter Ashley; all his con-
stituents and friends and neighbors in
North Carolina, our hearts are with
you at the loss of a man whose main
goal was to please God and walk with
Jesus Christ. We admire him, and we
will miss him.
f
BIPARTISAN CONSENSUS
(Mr. KILMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. KILMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to express my relief that the
House of Representatives has passed a
bipartisan compromise that keeps our
government open, secures our border,
and upholds our values.
Now, this is not an agreement that
either party would have written on its
own, but rather than funding for an in-
effective border wall, this bill, instead,
prioritizes border security funding for
methods and technologies that have
proven effective.
This bill also rejects irresponsible
budget cuts and, instead, invests addi-
tional dollars in important priorities
like funding for economic development
assistance programs, environmental
protection, and transportation infra-
structure.
I want to thank all of the conferees
for working together to forge a bipar-
tisan consensus to fund government,
invest in our priorities, and keep our
country safe.
It is about time that Congress gets to
work on more legislative priorities
that will strengthen our families,
strengthen our communities, and
strengthen our economy. That is what
the American people elected us to do,
and I hope my colleagues will join me
in these efforts going forward.
f
b 2115
ISSUES OF THE DAY
(Mr. GOHMERT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, I,
too, miss my friend Walter Jones. I
just greatly treasured the hour each
week we spent together visiting. It was
a fitting tribute today at his funeral.
I do want to address this bill we just
passed. I had hoped to vote for it after
I was hearing, well, it is not much
money; it is less than $2 billion. But
the trouble is there are provisions in
here that are going to make it difficult
to remove anybody who is here if they
have got a child in there.
And, yes, I know, there is language
that says if it is based on information
shared by HHS, so that means they are
going to be covered up with discovery
requests, FOIA requests, probably peo-
ple will find Obama judges who let peo-
ple out.
This was not a good bill in the end.
That is why I had to vote ‘‘no.’’
f
HUMANITARIAN COMPROMISE
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
this bill that we came to have to fix as
a Republican bill was a compromise,
but it was a compromise with humani-
tarianism and passion and compassion.
This border security and funding bill
that Democrats fixed did some good
things. In particular, it raised the
number to 100,000 alternative detention
sites for women and children; it pro-
vided healthcare where there was no
healthcare so that little children would
not die at the border; and it prevented
ICE from using data to deport people
who are trying to pick up their chil-
dren.
The good news is our Federal employ-
ees will not be held as hostages, and we
have given them a 1.9 percent raise. As
well, we provided for Food for Peace,
for people who are struggling around
the world, $1.7 billion.
As a member of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, we provided $423 million for the
Byrne Grant; $178 million to address
sexual assault kits and other DNA; $100
million for STOP School Violence; $497
million, Madam Speaker, for the Vio-
lence Against Women Act; and $75 mil-
lion for gun control, or at least the
checks for background.
Madam Speaker, this is a humani-
tarian bill, and I ask my colleagues to
recognize it.
f
PASS UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND
CHECK LEGISLATION
(Mr. HIMES asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, it is
Valentine’s Day, and we have all spent
the evening together, which is kind of
funny. We did it in the service of keep-
ing the government open with a bill
that funds the government in a strong,
bipartisan vote, and that is a good
thing.
But, Madam Speaker, Valentine’s
Day will never again be a truly happy
day because, of course, it is the 1-year
anniversary of the Douglas shootings
in Florida in which 17 young people,
with their lives ahead of them, had
those lives snuffed out at the end of a
gun.
It is a particularly poignant moment
for me and for those of us from Con-
necticut because we still can’t forget,
of course, the 20 children, 6 to 7 years
old, and six adult staff who lost their
lives in December of 2012 at the Sandy
Hook Elementary School.
So, Madam Speaker, I just rise to
point out that we are hearing a lot to-
night about an emergency declaration;
and if 30,000 to 40,000 Americans, in-
cluding these young angels, losing
their lives every single year is not an
emergency, I don’t know what is.
This House, after 8 years of inaction
and pathetic moments of silence,
moved a bill, H.R. 8, for universal back-
ground checks out of committee yes-
terday. The least we can do as an insti-
tution is to take the small step of pass-
ing that bill into law to keep young
and all Americans safe.
f
OMNIBUS SPENDING BILL
(Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend her remarks.)
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to express
my relief that Democrats and Repub-
licans have come together to advance a
bipartisan spending measure to keep
the government open and deliver for
the American people.
President Trump’s recent irrespon-
sible government shutdown over his de-
mand for an unnecessary, medieval
wall was misguided and hurt our dedi-
cated Federal employees and their fam-
ilies and threatened our economy.
I want to applaud my colleagues, the
incredible Chairman LOWEY, Represent-
ative PETE AGUILAR, Representative
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.054 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2026 February 14, 2019
ROYBAL-ALLARD, and all of our con-
ferees for their diligent work to reach
the compromise bill that we are send-
ing to the President’s desk tonight.
This legislation promotes 21st cen-
tury border security and humanitarian
support for migrants in detention, al-
ternatives to detention, and family
case management.
The American people sent a strong
message when they elected a Demo-
cratic majority in this House in No-
vember, and they want Congress to
focus on delivering real results that
will benefit the lives of hardworking,
middle-class families.
f
OMISSION FROM THE CONGRES-
SIONAL RECORD OF WEDNES-
DAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019 AT PAGE
H1572
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 11 o’clock
and 50 minutes p.m.
f
CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.J.
RES. 31, FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPART-
MENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
2019
Mrs. LOWEY submitted the following
conference report and statement on the
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 31) making
further continuing appropriations for
the Department of Homeland Security
for fiscal year 2019, and for other pur-
poses:
(For conference report and state-
ment, see proceedings of the House of
February 13, 2019, in Book II.)
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. QUIGLEY (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for today on account of death
in the family.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. QUIGLEY (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for today on account of death
in the family.
f
PUBLICATION OF BUDGETARY
MATERIAL
ADJUSTMENT TO COMMITTEE ALLOCATION FOR
FISCAL YEAR 2019
Mr. YARMUTH. Madam Speaker, pursuant
to section 30104 of the Bipartisan Budget Act
of 2018 and the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985, I hereby
submit for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD a revised 302(a) allocation for the
Committee on Appropriations for fiscal year
2019 that is adjusted to reflect amounts for
disaster relief funding.
Questions may be directed to Jennifer
Wheelock or Raquel Spencer.
DISCRETIONARY APPROPRIATIONS—APPROPRIATIONS
COMMITTEE 302(a) ALLOCATION
(IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
BA OT
Current Allocation (General Purpose):
Fiscal Year 2019 ...................................... 1,245,897 1,298,510
Change for H.J. Res. 31 Disaster Relief Re-
quirements:
Fiscal Year 2019 ...................................... 12,000 600
Revised Allocation (General Purpose):
Fiscal Year 2019 ...................................... 1,257,897 1,299,110
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 488. An act to amend title 18, United
States Code, to specify lynching as a depri-
vation of civil rights, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Speaker, I move that the House
do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 9 o’clock and 21 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Fri-
day, February 15, 2019, at 10 a.m.
h
EXPENDITURE REPORTS CONCERNING OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the fourth quar-
ter of 2018, pursuant to Public Law 95–384, are as follows:
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Travel to Honduras, Guatemala—September 29–
October 2, 2018
Hon. Bradley Byrne .................................................. 9/29 10/1 Honduras .............................................. .................... 276.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 276.00
10/1 10/2 Guatemala ............................................ .................... 479.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 479.92
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 509.01 .................... .................... .................... 509.01
Hon. Madeleine Bordallo ......................................... 9/29 10/1 Honduras .............................................. .................... 276.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 276.00
10/1 10/2 Guatemala ............................................ .................... 479.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 479.92
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 509.01 .................... .................... .................... 509.01
Maria Vastola .......................................................... 9/29 10/1 Honduras .............................................. .................... 276.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 276.00
10/1 10/2 Guatemala ............................................ .................... 479.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 479.92
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,236.01 .................... .................... .................... 1,236.01
Brian Greer .............................................................. 9/29 10/1 Honduras .............................................. .................... 276.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 276.00
10/1 10/2 Guatemala ............................................ .................... 479.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 479.92
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 509.01 .................... .................... .................... 509.01
Travel to Italy, Spain, Bahrain—October 8–16,
2018
Margaret Dean ......................................................... 10/8 10/11 Italy ....................................................... .................... 1,086.39 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,086.39
10/11 10/13 Spain .................................................... .................... 1,433.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,433.47
10/13 10/16 Bahrain ................................................. .................... 968.07 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 968.07
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,823.11 .................... .................... .................... 9,823.11
Brian Garrett ........................................................... 10/8 10/11 Italy ....................................................... .................... 1,086.39 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,086.39
10/11 10/13 Spain .................................................... .................... 1,433.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,433.47
10/13 10/16 Bahrain ................................................. .................... 968.07 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 968.07
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,823.11 .................... .................... .................... 9,823.11
Andrew Schulman .................................................... 10/8 10/11 Italy ....................................................... .................... 1,086.39 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,086.39
10/11 10/13 Spain .................................................... .................... 1,433.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,433.47
10/13 10/16 Bahrain ................................................. .................... 968.07 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 968.07
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,823.11 .................... .................... .................... 9,823.11
Travel to Japan, Mongolia—October 13–20, 2018
Kimberly Lehn .......................................................... 10/14 10/17 Japan .................................................... .................... 3,849.87 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,849.87
10/17 10/20 Mongolia ............................................... .................... 856.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 856.79
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,485.30 .................... .................... .................... 13,485.30
Mark Morehouse ...................................................... 10/14 10/17 Japan .................................................... .................... 3,849.87 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,849.87
10/17 10/20 Mongolia ............................................... .................... 856.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 856.79
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 16,072.63 .................... .................... .................... 16,072.63
Jamie Jackson .......................................................... 10/14 10/17 Japan .................................................... .................... 3,849.87 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,849.87
10/17 10/20 Mongolia ............................................... .................... 856.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 856.79
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,485.30 .................... .................... .................... 13,485.30
Jason Schmid .......................................................... 10/14 10/17 Japan .................................................... .................... 3,849.87 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,849.87
10/17 10/20 Mongolia ............................................... .................... 856.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 856.79
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,485.30 .................... .................... .................... 13,485.30
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:10 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE7.057 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2027
February 14, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018—
Continued
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Travel to South Korea, Japan—October 27–No-
vember 2, 2018
Hon. William M. ‘‘Mac’’ Thornberry ......................... 10/28 10/30 South Korea .......................................... .................... 426.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 426.00
10/30 11/2 Japan .................................................... .................... 673.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 673.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 16,744.01 .................... .................... .................... 16,744.01
Jennifer Stewart ....................................................... 10/28 10/30 South Korea .......................................... .................... 426.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 426.00
10/30 11/2 Japan .................................................... .................... 673.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 673.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 16,744.01 .................... .................... .................... 16,744.01
Travel to Afghanistan—October 29–November 2,
2018
Mark Morehouse ...................................................... 10/30 11/1 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 66.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 66.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,177.13 .................... .................... .................... 9,177.13
Jennifer Bird ............................................................ 10/30 11/1 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 66.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 66.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,177.13 .................... .................... .................... 9,177.13
Jason Schmid .......................................................... 10/30 11/1 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 66.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 66.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,177.13 .................... .................... .................... 9,177.13
William Spencer Johnson ......................................... 10/30 11/1 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 66.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 66.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,177.13 .................... .................... .................... 9,177.13
Travel to South Korea, Laos—October 29–Novem-
ber 7, 2018
Glen Diehl ................................................................ 10/30 11/4 South Korea .......................................... .................... 1,739.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,739.16
11/4 11/7 Laos ...................................................... .................... 298.85 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 298.85
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,425.23 .................... .................... .................... 7,425.23
Craig Greene ............................................................ 10/30 11/4 South Korea .......................................... .................... 1,739.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,739.16
11/4 11/7 Laos ...................................................... .................... 298.85 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 298.85
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,623.23 .................... .................... .................... 8,623.23
David Giachetti ........................................................ 10/30 11/4 South Korea .......................................... .................... 1,614.90 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,614.90
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,234.23 .................... .................... .................... 5,234.23
Travel to Germany, Belgium—November 4–9,
2018
Kimberly Lehn .......................................................... 11/5 11/8 Germany ................................................ .................... 899.96 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 899.96
11/8 11/9 Belgium ................................................ .................... 312.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 312.55
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,591.73 .................... .................... .................... 3,591.73
Lindsay Kavanaugh ................................................. 11/5 11/8 Germany ................................................ .................... 899.96 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 899.96
11/8 11/9 Belgium ................................................ .................... 312.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 312.55
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,591.73 .................... .................... .................... 3,591.73
Katie Sutton ............................................................. 11/5 11/8 Germany ................................................ .................... 899.96 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 899.96
11/8 11/9 Belgium ................................................ .................... 312.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 312.55
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,591.73 .................... .................... .................... 3,591.73
Jamie Jackson .......................................................... 11/5 11/8 Germany ................................................ .................... 899.96 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 899.96
11/8 11/9 Belgium ................................................ .................... 312.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 312.55
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,591.73 .................... .................... .................... 3,591.73
Travel to Belgium—November 5–9, 2018
Maria Vastola .......................................................... 11/6 11/9 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,099.10 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,099.10
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,027.03 .................... .................... .................... 2,027.03
Leonor Tomero ......................................................... 11/6 11/9 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,099.10 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,099.10
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,027.03 .................... .................... .................... 2,027.03
Travel to France, Belgium—November 8–13, 2018
with CODEL Carter
Hon. Steve Russell .................................................. 11/9 11/11 France ................................................... .................... 1,310.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,310.00
11/11 11/13 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,084.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,084.00
Hon. Ralph Abraham ............................................... 11/9 11/11 France ................................................... .................... 1,310.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,310.00
11/11 11/13 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,084.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,084.00
Hon. Paul Cook ........................................................ 11/9 11/11 France ................................................... .................... 1,310.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,310.00
11/11 11/13 Belgium ................................................ .................... 1,084.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,084.00
Delegation expenses ....................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,386.00 .................... 2,729.00 .................... 10,115.00
Travel to Canada—November 16–18, 2018
Hon. Mike Gallagher ................................................ 11/16 11/18 Canada ................................................. .................... 502.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 502.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,050.92 .................... .................... .................... 1,050.92
Kimberly Lehn .......................................................... 11/16 11/18 Canada ................................................. .................... 502.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 502.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 867.94 .................... .................... .................... 867.94
Travel to Turkey—November 16–18, 2018
Hon. Rob Wittman ................................................... 11/17 11/18 Turkey ................................................... .................... 467.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 467.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,511.03 .................... .................... .................... 15,511.03
David Sienicki .......................................................... 11/17 11/18 Turkey ................................................... .................... 467.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 467.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,511.03 .................... .................... .................... 15,511.03
Travel to Afghanistan—November 17–21, 2018
Hon. Jim Banks ....................................................... 11/18 11/20 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 66.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 66.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,042.03 .................... .................... .................... 11,042.03
Hon. Rob Wittman ................................................... 11/19 11/20 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
Hon. Thomas Suozzi ................................................ 11/18 11/20 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 66.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 66.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 18,029.13 .................... .................... .................... 18,029.13
Mark Morehouse ...................................................... 11/18 11/20 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 66.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 66.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,506.33 .................... .................... .................... 10,506.33
Paul Arcangeli ......................................................... 11/18 11/20 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 66.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 66.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,469.33 .................... .................... .................... 6,649.33
Travel to Czechia, Uzbekistan, Djibouti, Kuwait,
Ireland—November 16–28, 2018
Hon. Trent Kelly ....................................................... 11/17 11/18 Czechia ................................................. .................... 385.44 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 385.44
11/18 11/20 Uzbekistan ............................................ .................... 459.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 459.09
11/20 11/21 Djibouti ................................................. .................... 371.30 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 371.30
11/21 11/23 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 731.66 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 731.66
11/23 11/24 Ireland .................................................. .................... 294.30 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 294.30
Hannah Thoburn ...................................................... 11/17 11/18 Czechia ................................................. .................... 398.87 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 398.87
11/18 11/20 Uzbekistan ............................................ .................... 555.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 555.40
11/20 11/21 Djibouti ................................................. .................... 369.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 369.50
11/21 11/23 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 845.02 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 845.02
11/23 11/24 Ireland .................................................. .................... 201.62 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 201.62
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 61,544.47 .................... 281,034.85 .................... 2,729.00 .................... 345,308.32
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. WILLIAM M. ‘‘MAC’’ THORNBERRY, Feb. 1, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31,
2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Jerry Couri ................................................................ 11/4 11/10 Ecuador ................................................. .................... 1,488.15 .................... 871.60 .................... .................... .................... 2,359.75
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE7.001 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2028 February 14, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31,
2018—Continued
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Annelise Rickert ....................................................... 11/4 11/10 Ecuador ................................................. .................... 1,402.75 .................... 871.60 .................... .................... .................... 2,274.35
Alexander Ratner ..................................................... 11/4 11/10 Ecuador ................................................. .................... 1,488.15 .................... 871.60 .................... .................... .................... 2,359.75
Hon. Richard Hudson .............................................. 11/8 11/11 France ................................................... .................... 2,394.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,394.00
11/11 11/13 Brussels ................................................ .................... 400.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 400.00
Hon. David Loebsack ............................................... 11/17 11/18 Germany ................................................ .................... 260.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 260.00
11/19 11/20 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 802.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 802.00
11/20 11/21 Ireland .................................................. .................... 217.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 217.00
Hon. Larry Bucshon ................................................. 11/17 11/21 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 66.00 .................... 14,209.83 .................... .................... .................... 14,275.83
Hon. Bill Flores ........................................................ 11/18 11/19 Turkey ................................................... .................... 467.00 .................... 15,487.03 .................... .................... .................... 15,954.03
11/19 11/20 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 84.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 84.00
Peter Spencer .......................................................... 12/9 12/12 Poland ................................................... .................... 4,117.32 .................... 3,410.00 .................... .................... .................... 7,527.32
Jean Fruci ................................................................ 12/9 12/14 Poland ................................................... .................... 4,299.32 .................... 3,591.13 .................... .................... .................... 7,890.45
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 8,518.05 .................... 16,824.63 .................... .................... .................... 25,342.68
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
HON. GREG WALDEN, Jan. 31, 2019.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
189. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Indiana; Neg-
ative Declarations for Commercial and In-
dustrial Solid Waste Incineration and Sew-
age Sludge Incineration Units for Designated
Facilities and Pollutants [EPA-R05-OAR-
2018-0600; FRL-9989-36-Region 5] received Feb-
ruary 12, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
190. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Indiana; Rea-
sonable Further Progress Plan and Other
Plan Elements for the Chicago Nonattain-
ment Area for the 2008 Ozone Standard [EPA-
R05-OAR-2017-0147; FRL-9989-33-Region 5] re-
ceived February 12, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
191. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; North Caro-
lina; Ozone NAAQS Update [EPA-R04-OAR-
2018-0531; FRL-9989-38-Region 4] received Feb-
ruary 12, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
192. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; OR: Lane
County Outdoor Burning and Enforcement
Procedure Rules [EPA-R10-OAR-2018-0596;
FRL-9989-56-Region 10] received February 12,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
193. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Ohio; Attain-
ment Plan for the Lake County SO2 Non-
attainment Area [EPA-R05-OAR-2015-0699;
FRL-9989-48-Region 5] received February 12,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
194. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-614, ‘‘Omnibus Public Safety and Jus-
tice Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
195. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-620, ‘‘Firearms Safety Omnibus
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
196. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-625, ‘‘Anthony Bowen Way Designa-
tion Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-
198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
197. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-626, ‘‘District of Columbia Depart-
ment of Aging and Community Living
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
198. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-628, ‘‘Limitations on Products Con-
taining Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
199. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-627, ‘‘Parent-led Play Cooperative
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
200. A letter from the Deputy Chief, En-
forcement Bureau, Federal Communications
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
final rule — Amendment of Section 1.80(b) of
the Commission’s Rules; Adjustment of Civil
Monetary Penalties to Reflect Inflation re-
ceived February 14, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
201. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary rule — Safety Zone; Mississippi
Canyon Block 20, South of New Orleans, LA,
Gulf of Mexico [Docket Number: USCG-2018-
1062] (RIN: 1625-AA08) received February 14,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
202. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Security Zone; Puget
Sound, Tacoma, WA [Docket Number: USCG-
2018-1082] (RIN: 1625-AA87) received February
14, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
203. A letter from the Attorney, CG-LRA,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Drawbridge Operation Regula-
tion; Hudson River, Albany and Rensselaer,
NY [Docket No.: USCG-2017-0926] (RIN: 1625-
AA09) received February 14, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
204. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Sac-
ramento New Year’s Eve Fireworks Display,
Sacramento River, Sacramento, CA [Docket
No.: USCG-2018-1089] (RIN: 1625-AA00) re-
ceived February 14, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. PERLMUTTER: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 131. Resolution providing
for consideration of the conference report to
accompany the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 31)
making further continuing appropriations
for the Department of Homeland Security for
fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes, and
providing for proceedings during the period
from February 15, 2019, through February 22,
2019 (Rept. 116–10). Referred to the House Cal-
endar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for him-
self, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr.
SMITH of Missouri, and Mr. LEWIS):
H.R. 1219. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to prohibit the Internal Rev-
enue Service from carrying out seizures re-
lating to a structuring transaction unless
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE7.001 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2029
February 14, 2019
the property to be seized derived from an il-
legal source or the funds were structured for
the purpose of concealing the violation of an-
other criminal law or regulation, to require
notice and a post-seizure hearing for such
seizures, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and in addition
to the Committee on Financial Services, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. ESHOO (for herself, Mr.
TAKANO, Ms. NORTON, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. COURT-
NEY, Mr. BEYER, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
and Mr. THOMPSON of California):
H.R. 1220. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to provide for certain re-
quirements relating to charges for internet,
television, and voice services, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Ms. PINGREE (for herself, Mr.
HOYER, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. POCAN, Ms. LEE of
California, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
CUELLAR, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. FUDGE,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. PANETTA, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, and Ms.
NORTON):
H.R. 1221. A bill to amend the Department
of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 to
reaffirm the authority of the Under Sec-
retary of Agriculture for Research, Edu-
cation, and Economics, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. BISHOP
of Utah, and Mr. HUNTER):
H.R. 1222. A bill to amend the Pittman-
Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facili-
tate the establishment of additional or ex-
panded public target ranges in certain
States; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CLYBURN (for himself, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
HORSFORD, Ms. HILL of California,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CLAY, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. HASTINGS,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Ms. MOORE, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. PLASKETT, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Ms. WILSON of Florida, and Mr.
COHEN):
H.R. 1223. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the increase in
unrelated business taxable income by
amount of certain fringe benefit expenses; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself and Ms.
HERRERA BEUTLER):
H.R. 1224. A bill to promote and protect
from discrimination living organ donors; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committees on Over-
sight and Reform, House Administration,
Education and Labor, and Financial Serv-
ices, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah (for himself,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. VELA, Mr. COOK, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr.
BERGMAN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. MENG,
Mr. COOPER, Mr. TURNER, Mr. TIPTON,
Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. ROONEY of Florida,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. GAETZ, Mrs. WALORSKI,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Ms. NORTON, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. ALLEN, Mrs.
LESKO, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
LUJÁN, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. LAMB, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Ms. WILD, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Ms. PINGREE, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. LIPIN-
SKI, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Mr. PETERS, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. SIRES,
Mr. STEWART, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. MOON-
EY of West Virginia, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. STIVERS, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. WELCH,
Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Ms. LEE of California, Mr. MARSHALL,
Mr. YOUNG, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of
Puerto Rico, Mr. AMODEI, Mr. GIBBS,
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr.
BIGGS, Mr. KATKO, Mrs. RADEWAGEN,
Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. HILL of Arkan-
sas, Mr. CLEAVER, Ms. SCANLON, Mr.
RUIZ, Mr. CLAY, Ms. DEAN, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. ENGEL,
Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. ROUDA, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. BUDD, Mr. COLE,
Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. LONG, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr. SIMP-
SON, Ms. STEFANIK, and Ms.
HOULAHAN):
H.R. 1225. A bill to establish, fund, and pro-
vide for the use of amounts in a National
Park Service and Public Lands Legacy Res-
toration Fund to address the maintenance
backlog of the National Park Service, United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of
Land Management, and Bureau of Indian
Education, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Education and
Labor, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself,
Mr. BILIRAKIS, Ms. ESHOO, and Ms.
HERRERA BEUTLER):
H.R. 1226. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to provide States with
the option of providing coordinated care for
children with complex medical conditions
through a health home; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Ms. CHENEY, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
and Mr. DUNN):
H.R. 1227. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to clarify liability pro-
tections regarding emergency use of auto-
mated external defibrillators; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself and Mr. KATKO):
H.R. 1228. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, with respect to civil forfeitures
relating to certain seized animals; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi,
Mr. KILMER, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama,
Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, and Mrs. LURIA):
H.R. 1229. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide that an indi-
vidual may remain eligible to participate in
the teacher loan forgiveness program under
title IV of such Act if the individual’s period
of consecutive years of employment as a full-
time teacher is interrupted because the indi-
vidual is the spouse of a member of the
Armed Forces who is relocated during the
school year pursuant to military orders for a
permanent change of duty station, or the in-
dividual works in a school of the defense de-
pendents’ education system under the De-
fense Dependents’ Education Act of 1978 due
to such a relocation, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself,
Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. KATKO, Mr. HURD of Texas, Ms.
ADAMS, Mr. TAKANO, and Mr.
GROTHMAN):
H.R. 1230. A bill to amend the Age Dis-
crimination in Employment Act of 1967 and
other laws to clarify appropriate standards
for Federal employment discrimination and
retaliation claims, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. FRANKEL (for herself, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Mr. KHANNA, and
Mr. POCAN):
H.R. 1231. A bill to prevent a nuclear arms
race resulting from weakened international
restrictions on the proliferation of
intermediate- and shorter-range missiles,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Miss RICE of New York (for herself
and Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi):
H.R. 1232. A bill to amend the Illegal Immi-
gration Reform and Immigrant Responsi-
bility Act of 1996 to repeal certain waiver au-
thority relating to the construction of new
border barriers, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security.
By Mrs. DEMINGS (for herself and Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi):
H.R. 1233. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish a fund for
private landowners, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Homeland Security,
and in addition to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. VELA (for himself and Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi):
H.R. 1234. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to prohibit seizing pri-
vate land for a border wall, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, and in addition to the Committee on
Homeland Security, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself and
Mr. CONNOLLY):
H.R. 1235. A bill to provide that the term of
office of certain members of the Merit Sys-
tems Protection Board shall be extended by
a period of 1 year, to limit such members
from concurrently holding positions within
the Federal Government, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. BEYER, Mr. DEUTCH,
and Ms. BROWNLEY of California):
H.R. 1236. A bill to support State, Tribal,
and local efforts to remove access to fire-
arms from individuals who are a danger to
themselves or others pursuant to court or-
ders for this purpose; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr.
YOUNG, Ms. PINGREE, and Mr. POSEY):
H.R. 1237. A bill to amend the Federal
Ocean Acidification Research and Moni-
toring Act of 2009 to establish an Ocean
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14FE7.100 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2030 February 14, 2019
Acidification Advisory Board, to expand and
improve the research on Ocean Acidification
and Coastal Acidification, to establish and
maintain a data archive system for Ocean
Acidification data and Coastal Acidification
data, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. ABRAHAM (for himself, Mr.
ESTES, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, and
Mr. GUEST):
H.R. 1238. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Agriculture to treat certain planted soybean
crops as harvested commodity crops under
the Market Facilitation Program; to the
Committee on Agriculture.
By Mrs. LESKO:
H.R. 1239. A bill to reauthorize Department
of Justice programs that combat violence
against women, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on Energy and Com-
merce, Natural Resources, and Financial
Services, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. GOLD-
EN, and Ms. PINGREE):
H.R. 1240. A bill to preserve United States
fishing heritage through a national program
dedicated to training and assisting the next
generation of commercial fishermen; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut (for
himself, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania,
Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. KING of New York,
Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of
Illinois, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms. DELAURO,
Ms. DELBENE, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. RYAN, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Mr. WALBERG, Mr. BRIN-
DISI, Mr. BLUMENAUER, and Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 1241. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase and make per-
manent the exclusion for benefits provided
to volunteer firefighters and emergency
medical responders; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. BERGMAN (for himself and Mr.
PETERSON):
H.R. 1242. A bill to enact as law certain
regulations relating to the taking of double-
crested cormorants; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. POCAN, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. WILD, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. MATSUI, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. CASTEN
of Illinois, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, and Ms. NORTON):
H.R. 1243. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to develop a na-
tional strategic action plan and program to
assist health professionals and systems in
preparing for and responding to the public
health effects of climate change, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. LEVIN of Michigan (for him-
self, Mr. BERA, Mr. BEYER, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN
F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. CARSON
of Indiana, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms.
JUDY CHU of California, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. CLARK
of Massachusetts, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. COHEN, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms.
DEGETTE, Ms. DELAURO, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. ENGEL,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. GABBARD, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. HECK, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
HIMES, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. HUFFMAN,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KILDEE, Mr.
KILMER, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Ms. MENG, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. NADLER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
NEGUSE, Ms. NORTON, Mr. PALLONE,
Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr.
POCAN, Ms. PORTER, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mr. RASKIN, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Mr. STANTON, Ms. STEVENS,
Mr. TAKANO, Ms. TITUS, Ms. TLAIB,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Mr. WELCH, Ms. WILD, and Mrs.
MURPHY):
H.R. 1244. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to clarify that all provi-
sions shall apply to legally married same-sex
couples in the same manner as other married
couples, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. LAHOOD (for himself and Mrs.
WALORSKI):
H.R. 1245. A bill to amend title IV-A of the
Social Security Act, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. LAHOOD (for himself and Mrs.
WALORSKI):
H.R. 1246. A bill to amend title IV-A of the
Social Security Act, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. LAHOOD (for himself, Mrs.
WALORSKI, and Mr. WENSTRUP):
H.R. 1247. A bill to amend title IV-A of the
Social Security Act, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in
addition to the Committee on Education and
Labor, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. PINGREE (for herself and Mr.
GOLDEN):
H.R. 1248. A bill to amend the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act to designate certain river
segments within the York watershed in the
State of Maine as components of the Na-
tional Wild and Scenic Rivers System, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Ms. GABBARD (for herself, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr.
POCAN):
H.R. 1249. A bill to prohibit the Secretary
of Defense from obligating or expending
funds for missiles banned by the INF Treaty;
to the Committee on Armed Services, and in
addition to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BABIN (for himself, Mr. GOH-
MERT, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. TAYLOR,
Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. GOODEN, Mr.
WRIGHT, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr.
MCCAUL, Mr. CONAWAY, Ms. GRANGER,
Mr. THORNBERRY, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
FLORES, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr. CASTRO
of Texas, Mr. ROY, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
HURD of Texas, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr.
WILLIAMS, Mr. BURGESS, Mr. CLOUD,
Mr. CUELLAR, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas,
Mr. CARTER of Texas, Mr. ALLRED,
Mr. VEASEY, Mr. VELA, Mr. DOGGETT,
Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr. BRADY, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, and Ms. GARCIA of Texas):
H.R. 1250. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
11158 Highway 146 North in Hardin, Texas, as
the ‘‘Lucas Lowe Post Office’’; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr. LAR-
SON of Connecticut, Mr. MARCHANT,
Mr. KIND, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. TONKO, and Mr. HURD
of Texas):
H.R. 1251. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for the tax-ex-
empt financing of certain government-owned
buildings; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS (for himself, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. AGUILAR, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Mr. TAKANO, Mr. CALVERT, Mr.
CORREA, Mr. PETERS, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Mr. HUNTER, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. ROUDA,
Mr. VARGAS, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. BERA,
Mr. COOK, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Mrs. DAVIS of
California, Ms. WATERS, Ms. BASS,
Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. COSTA, Mrs.
TORRES of California, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. MATSUI, Ms. LEE of
California, Ms. SPEIER, and Mr.
RUIZ):
H.R. 1252. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
6531 Van Nuys Boulevard in Van Nuys, Cali-
fornia, as the ‘‘Marilyn Monroe Post Office’’;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS (for himself, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. AGUILAR, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Mr. TAKANO, Mr. CALVERT, Mr.
CORREA, Mr. PETERS, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Mr. HUNTER, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. ROUDA,
Mr. VARGAS, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. BERA,
Mr. COOK, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Mrs. DAVIS of
California, Ms. WATERS, Ms. BASS,
Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. COSTA, Mrs.
TORRES of California, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. MATSUI, Ms. LEE of
California, Ms. SPEIER, and Mr.
RUIZ):
H.R. 1253. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
13507 Van Nuys Boulevard in Pacoima, Cali-
fornia, as the ‘‘Ritchie Valens Post Office
Building’’; to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 1254. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to achieve parity between the
cost of living adjustment with respect to an
annuity under the Federal Employees Re-
tirement System and an annuity under the
Civil Service Retirement System, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and
Mrs. WALORSKI):
H.R. 1255. A bill to provide for the more ac-
curate computation of retirement benefits
for certain firefighters employed by the Fed-
eral Government; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14FE7.100 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2031
February 14, 2019
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr.
KING of New York, and Mr. LAN-
GEVIN):
H.R. 1256. A bill to permit disabled law en-
forcement officers, customs and border pro-
tection officers, firefighters, air traffic con-
trollers, nuclear materials couriers, mem-
bers of the Capitol Police, members of the
Supreme Court Police, employees of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency performing intel-
ligence activities abroad or having special-
ized security requirements, and diplomatic
security special agents of the Department of
State to receive retirement benefits in the
same manner as if they had not been dis-
abled; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, and in addition to the Committees
on Intelligence (Permanent Select), and For-
eign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. COURTNEY (for himself, Mr.
LARSON of Connecticut, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mr. COOPER, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
SIRES, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
GOLDEN, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. MICHAEL
F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. COLE,
Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. HIMES, and Mrs.
HAYES):
H.R. 1257. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in commemora-
tion of the United States Coast Guard; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. CRENSHAW:
H.R. 1258. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to provide for the inclusion of
homeschooled students in Junior Reserve Of-
ficer’s Training Corps units; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio (for him-
self, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr.
BANKS, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma,
Mr. NORMAN, Mr. LAMALFA, and Mr.
POSEY):
H.R. 1259. A bill to authorize private par-
ties to compel the Securities and Exchange
Commission to seek sanctions by filing civil
actions, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 1260. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the charitable de-
duction to all taxpayers regardless of wheth-
er a taxpayer itemizes deductions in order to
encourage and increase charitable giving; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. DELBENE (for herself, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. HECK, and Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington):
H.R. 1261. A bill to establish a national pro-
gram to identify and reduce losses from land-
slide hazards, to establish a national 3D Ele-
vation Program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources, and in
addition to the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 1262. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to increase the age at which a
rifle or shotgun may be acquired from a fed-
erally licensed firearms dealer, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 1263. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to subject to the require-
ments of the National Firearms Act any
semiautomatic rifle that has the capacity to
accept a detachable magazine; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 1264. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to provide
the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission
and the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Ac-
cess Commission with access to certain drug
payment information, including certain re-
bate information; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. DUFFY (for himself, Mr.
PETERSON, and Mr. GIANFORTE):
H.R. 1265. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act with respect
to nursing facility requirements, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means, and in addition to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
NORTON, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, and
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ):
H.R. 1266. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to require firearm assembly
kits to be considered to be firearms; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 1267. A bill to designate a mountain
ridge in the State of Montana as ‘‘B-47
Ridge’’; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. BIGGS,
Mr. CALVERT, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. HICE of
Georgia, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. HUNTER,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. MCCLIN-
TOCK, Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Mr. MULLIN, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, and Mr.
TIPTON):
H.R. 1268. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Interior to submit to Congress a report
on the efforts of the Bureau of Reclamation
to manage its infrastructure assets; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana (for
himself, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. LAMBORN,
Mr. GAETZ, Mr. POSEY, Mr. HICE of
Georgia, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. WEB-
STER of Florida, Mr. KING of Iowa,
Mr. BANKS, Mr. BARR, Mr. HUIZENGA,
Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. LUETKEMEYER,
Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. ROUZER, Mr.
CHABOT, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. GIBBS,
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr.
NORMAN, Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr.
RATCLIFFE, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. WEBER
of Texas, Mr. FLORES, Mr. BABIN, Mr.
PERRY, and Mr. GROTHMAN):
H.R. 1269. A bill to amend the Revised
Statutes of the United States to prevent the
use of the legal system in a manner that ex-
torts money from State and local govern-
ments, and the Federal Government, and in-
hibits such governments’ constitutional ac-
tions under the first, tenth, and fourteenth
amendments; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
By Ms. KAPTUR:
H.R. 1270. A bill to reauthorize the United
States-Poland Parliamentary Exchange Pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mr. RUTHERFORD, and Mr.
RYAN):
H.R. 1271. A bill to establish in the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs a pilot program in-
stituting a clinical observation program for
pre-med students preparing to attend med-
ical school; to the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. PETERS, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Miss RICE of New York, Mrs.
MURPHY, and Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 1272. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to reduce the
number of members of the Federal Election
Commission from 6 to 5, to revise the method
of selection and terms of service of members
of the Commission, to distribute the powers
of the Commission between the Chair and
the remaining members, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration.
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for him-
self and Mr. STEWART):
H.R. 1273. A bill to direct the Director of
National Intelligence to submit an assess-
ment of the intentions of the political lead-
ership of the Russian Federation, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Intel-
ligence (Permanent Select), and in addition
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. TAKANO,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. MASSIE, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Mr. PALLONE, Mr. RUSH, Mr. HIMES,
Ms. OMAR, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
TONKO, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. RASKIN,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. SARBANES, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. ESHOO,
Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr. SERRANO,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. AMASH, Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts,
Ms. TLAIB, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. NADLER, Mr. LEWIS,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. WATERS, and
Mr. SCHRADER):
H.R. 1274. A bill to repeal Public Law 107-
40; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. LEWIS (for himself, Mr. CLY-
BURN, Mr. HOYER, and Mr. NADLER):
H.R. 1275. A bill to modernize voter reg-
istration, promote access to voting for indi-
viduals with disabilities, protect the ability
of individuals to exercise the right to vote in
elections for Federal office, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on House Admin-
istration, and in addition to the Committees
on the Judiciary, Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, Veterans’ Affairs, Oversight and Re-
form, and Education and Labor, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
ROUDA, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Mr. CISNEROS, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mr. MCNERNEY, Ms. HAALAND,
and Ms. JUDY CHU of California):
H.R. 1276. A bill to reaffirm the policy of
the United States with respect to manage-
ment authority over public land, and for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14FE7.100 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2032 February 14, 2019
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources, and in addition to the Committee
on Agriculture, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. LUJÁN (for himself, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
CICILLINE, Ms. CLARK of Massachu-
setts, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. MICHAEL
F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
ENGEL, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Ms. HILL of California,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. MATSUI, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
NEGUSE, Ms. NORTON, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. POCAN, Mr. ROUDA,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms.
SCHRIER, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. TITUS, Mr.
TONKO, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
WELCH, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. COX of California, Ms. WILD, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, and Mr. CLAY):
H.R. 1277. A bill to establish a State public
option through Medicaid to provide Ameri-
cans with the choice of a high-quality, low-
cost health insurance plan; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mr.
MEEKS, Ms. CLARKE of New York, and
Mr. ESPAILLAT):
H.R. 1278. A bill to establish the African
Burial Ground International Memorial Mu-
seum and Educational Center in New York,
New York, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. PAYNE (for himself, Ms. DEAN,
Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. CASTEN
of Illinois, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. WILD, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. COHEN, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS
of Illinois, Mr. RUSH, Ms. MENG, Mr.
CICILLINE, Ms. MOORE, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
FOSTER, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. ENGEL,
Mr. NORCROSS, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mrs. HAYES, and Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York):
H.R. 1279. A bill to authorize the Director
of the Bureau of Justice Assistance to make
grants to States, units of local government,
and gun dealers to conduct gun buyback pro-
grams, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PERLMUTTER:
H.R. 1280. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing resolutions; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on the Budget, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. ROUZER (for himself and Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia):
H.R. 1281. A bill to repeal the Environ-
mental Protection Agency’s most recent rule
for new residential wood heaters; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. RUSH (for himself, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, and Ms. CLARKE of New
York):
H.R. 1282. A bill to require certain entities
who collect and maintain personal informa-
tion of individuals to secure such informa-
tion and to provide notice to such individ-
uals in the case of a breach of security in-
volving such information, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 1283. A bill to establish a nonpartisan
commission on immigration reform and bor-
der security; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary, and in addition to the Committees on
Homeland Security, and Rules, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SCHWEIKERT (for himself, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, and Mr. AGUILAR):
H.R. 1284. A bill to amend the Clean Air
Act to give States the option of monitoring
covered criteria air pollutants in designated
areas by greatly increasing the number of air
quality sensors in exchange for greater regu-
latory flexibility in the methods of moni-
toring, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia:
H.R. 1285. A bill to amend the Consumer
Financial Protection Act of 2010 to establish
an Office for Under-Banked, Un-Banked, and
Underserved Consumers, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. KILMER,
and Mr. ROUDA):
H.R. 1286. A bill to prohibit consumer cred-
it reporting agencies and lenders from tak-
ing adverse action against federal employees
and contractors impacted by the government
shutdown, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. SWALWELL of California (for
himself, Mr. COHEN, Ms. DEAN, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. CRIST, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. MCNERNEY,
Ms. MENG, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
RYAN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SOTO,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, and Ms. WILSON of
Florida):
H.R. 1287. A bill to authorize the Attorney
General to make grants to States and units
of local government to implement statutes,
rules, policies, or procedures to authorize
courts to issue relinquishment orders with
respect to individuals charged with or con-
victed of a crime of domestic violence, or
subject to a domestic violence protective
order, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. NORTON, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, and Mr. MCGOV-
ERN):
H.R. 1288. A bill to ensure due process pro-
tections of individuals in the United States
against unlawful detention based solely on a
protected characteristic; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for
himself, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
DUNN, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
ROONEY of Florida, and Mr. WEBER of
Texas):
H.R. 1289. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to provide for a moratorium
on number reassignment after a disaster dec-
laration, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. TURNER (for himself and Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio):
H.R. 1290. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exempt certain emer-
gency medical devices from the excise tax on
medical devices, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. TURNER:
H.R. 1291. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exempt student workers
for purposes of determining a higher edu-
cation institutions employer health care
shared responsibility; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. VELA (for himself and Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi):
H.R. 1292. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to require border com-
munity stakeholder consultation before the
Secretary of Homeland Security may con-
struct, install, deploy, operate, or maintain
additional physical barriers, tactical infra-
structure, or technology between ports of
entry along the land border with Mexico, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security.
By Mr. VELA (for himself, Mr. VARGAS,
and Mr. LUJÁN):
H.R. 1293. A bill to prohibit the use of
amounts appropriated for military construc-
tion or the Army Corps of Engineers for the
construction of barriers, land acquisition, or
any other associated activities on the south-
ern border without specific statutory author-
ization from Congress; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure, and in
addition to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H.R. 1294. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to deny the deduction for
executive compensation unless the employer
maintains profit-sharing distributions for
employees; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H.R. 1295. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand the availability
of penalty-free distributions to unemployed
individuals from retirement plans; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. HOYER (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. TRONE,
Mr. BEYER, Mr. CONNOLLY, and Ms.
WEXTON):
H. Con. Res. 19. Concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds for
the Greater Washington Soap Box Derby; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. HICE of Georgia:
H. Res. 132. A resolution providing for the
consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 109)
recognizing the duty of the Federal Govern-
ment to create a Green New Deal; to the
Committee on Rules.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for him-
self, Ms. BASS, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CLYBURN,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. COHEN, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs.
HAYES, Ms. NORTON, Mr. HORSFORD,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
KHANNA, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. LEWIS, Ms. LOFGREN,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. MEEKS, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. POCAN, Mr. RICHMOND,
Mr. RUSH, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Mr. VEASEY, and Ms.
WILSON of Florida):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14FE7.100 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2033
February 14, 2019
H. Res. 133. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of the designation of Janu-
ary 1, 2015, to December 31, 2024, as the
‘‘International Decade for People of African
Descent’’; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. DELGADO (for himself, Ms.
STEFANIK, and Mr. BUDD):
H. Res. 134. A resolution honoring the life
of Chief Petty Officer Shannon M. Kent; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. MCNER-
NEY, Ms. NORTON, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. SERRANO, and Mr.
CHABOT):
H. Res. 135. A resolution expressing support
for designation of February 14 as World
Bonobo Day; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. SIRES (for himself, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. ROO-
NEY of Florida, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
WALTZ, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL):
H. Res. 136. A resolution affirming that the
Government of Cuba’s foreign medical mis-
sions constitute human trafficking; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
H.R. 1219.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 1220.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clauses 3 and 18 of Section 8 of Article I of
the U.S. Constitution.
By Ms. PINGREE:
H.R. 1221.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of the US Constitu-
tion
By Mr. KIND
H.R. 1222.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. CLYBURN:
H.R. 1223.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 1224.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clauses 3 and 18 of Article 1 Section 8 of
the U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
H.R. 1225.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, section 3, clause 2
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida:
H.R. 1226.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. OLSON:
H.R. 1227.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 1228.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. 1, Sec. 8 ‘‘The Congress shall have
Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Im-
posts and Excises, to pay the Debts and pro-
vide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States.’’
By Mr. CHABOT:
H.R. 1229.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: ‘‘. . . To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia:
H.R. 1230.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Ms. FRANKEL:
H.R. 1231.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 1232.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII
By Mrs. DEMINGS:
H.R. 1233.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. VELA:
H.R. 1234.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is pursuant to Article I, Section 8
of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 1235.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution of the United States grants Con-
gress the power to enact this law.
By Mr. CARBAJAL:
H.R. 1236.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. BONAMICI:
H.R. 1237.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. ABRAHAM:
H.R. 1238.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mrs. LESKO:
H.R. 1239.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
The Congress shall have Power to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 1240.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
‘‘To regulate commerce with foreign na-
tions, and among the several states, and with
the Indian tribes’’
By Mr. LARSON of Connecticut:
H.R. 1241.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: The Con-
gress shall have Power to lay and collect
Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay
the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States.’’
By Mr. BERGMAN:
H.R. 1242.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 18—‘‘The Con-
gress shall have power to make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 1243.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3. To regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with the Indian
tribes.
By Mr. LEVIN of Michigan:
H.R. 1244.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the Constitution.
By Mr. LAHOOD:
H.R. 1245.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion, Congress has the power ‘‘to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or any Department or Officer there-
of’’.
By Mr. LAHOOD:
H.R. 1246.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion, Congress has the power ‘‘to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or any Department or Officer there-
of’’.
By Mr. LAHOOD:
H.R. 1247.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion, Congress has the power ‘‘to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or any Department or Officer there-
of’’.
By Ms. PINGREE:
H.R. 1248.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. GABBARD:
H.R. 1249.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L14FE7.100 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2034 February 14, 2019
The United State Constitution including
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. BABIN:
H.R. 1250.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 1251.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII, Clause I
By Mr. CÁRDENAS:
H.R. 1252.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1.
All legislative powers herein granted shall
be vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS:
H.R. 1253.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1.
All legislative powers herein granted shall
be vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 1254.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 1255.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 1256.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. COURTNEY:
H.R. 1257.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. CRENSHAW:
H.R. 1258.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power of Congress ‘‘to pro-
vide for the common Defence’’ and to ‘‘to
raise and support Armies’’, as enumerated in
Article I, section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio:
H.R. 1259.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: ‘‘to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or any Department or Officer thereof.’’.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 1260.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. DELBENE:
H.R. 1261.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 1262.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 1263.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 1264.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
By Mr. DUFFY:
H.R. 1265.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The power granted to Congress under Arti-
cle I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 1266.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8,
Clause 18:
‘‘To make all laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into execution
the foregoing powers, and all other powers
vested by this Constitution in the govern-
ment of the United States, or in any depart-
ment or officer thereof’’
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 1267.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 1268.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 (the Spending
Clause). The Supreme Court, in South Da-
kota v. Dole (1987), reasoned that conditions
and limitations on funds were constitutional
and within the power of Congress under the
Spending Clause. Article 1 Section 8 Clause 3
(Commerce Clause) If the matter in question
is not a purely local matter (intra-state) or
if it has an impact on inter-state commerce,
it falls within Congress’ power to ‘‘regulate
commerce among the several states.’’
Article 1 Section 8 Clause 18 (the Necessary
and Proper Clause) which grants Congress
the power to make all laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into execu-
tion the foregoing powers, and all other pow-
ers vested by this Constitution of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
H.R. 1269.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 9 (‘‘Congress
shall have Power . . . To Constitute Tribu-
nals inferior to the Supreme Court.’’) and
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (‘‘The Congress
shall have Power . . . to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.’’).
By Ms. KAPTUR:
H.R. 1270.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Sec 8. Clause 2: To regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes;
By Ms. KAPTUR:
H.R. 1271.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to Article 1,
Section 8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. KILMER:
H.R. 1272.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 4 of the United States
Constitution, granting Congress the author-
ity to make laws governing the time, place,
and manner of holding Federal elections.
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI:
H.R. 1273.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
United States Constitution, Article I, Sec-
tion 8
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 1274.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 1275.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. LOWENTHAL:
H.R. 1276.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
‘‘The Congress shall have power to dispose
of and make all needful rules and regulations
respecting the territory or other property
belonging to the United States; and nothing
in this Constitution shall be so construed as
to prejudice any claims of the United States,
or of any particular state.’’
By Mr. LUJÁN:
H.R. 1277.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1. Section 8.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 1278.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clauses 1, 17, and 18
By Mr. PAYNE:
H.R. 1279.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, 3, and 18
Article I, Section 9, Clause 7
By Mr. PERLMUTTER:
H.R. 1280.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. ROUZER:
H.R. 1281.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Consistent with the understading and in-
terpretation of Commerce Clause, Congress
has the authority to enact this legislation in
accordance with Clause 3 of Section 8, Arti-
cle 1 of the U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 1282.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have power to . . . provide for the
. . . general welfare of the United States
. . .’’;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: The Congress
shall have power ‘‘To regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes;’’ and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:58 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE7.022 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2035
February 14, 2019
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have power ‘‘To make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof.’’
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 1283.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. SCHWEIKERT:
H.R. 1284.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S.
Constitution: The Congress shall have Power
to make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia:
H.R. 1285.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 1286.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Commerce Clause
By Mr. SWALWELL of California:
H.R. 1287.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, 3, and 18; Ar-
ticle I, Section 9, Clause 7
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 1288.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 1289.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
By Mr. TURNER:
H.R. 1290.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution—The Congress shall
have Power to lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and
provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States; but all Duties,
Imposts and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution—To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof
By Mr. TURNER:
H.R. 1291.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution—The Congress shall
have Power to lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and
provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States; but all Duties,
Imposts and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution—The Congress shall
have Power . . . To regulate Commerce with
foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with Indian Tribes.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution—To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. VELA:
H.R. 1292.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is pursuant to Article I, Section 8
of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. VELA:
H.R. 1293.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H.R. 1294.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States; but
all Duties, Imposts and Excise ty shall be
uniform throughout the United States.
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by the Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H.R. 1295.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States; but
all Duties, Imposts and Excise shall be uni-
form throughout the United States.
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by the Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 35: Mr. VEASEY and Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 51: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 62: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. LAM-
BORN, Mr. MITCHELL, and Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 93: Mr. RASKIN and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 94: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 95: Mr. BUCSHON, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mrs. ROBY, and Mr. HUIZENGA.
H.R. 96: Ms. JACKSON LEE and Mr. HAS-
TINGS.
H.R. 120: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 208: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. CISNEROS, Mrs.
TRAHAN, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. CORREA,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. RUIZ, and Mr. CASTRO of
Texas.
H.R. 230: Mr. KIM and Mr. NEAL.
H.R. 236: Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 295: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 309: Mr. MCNERNEY and Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 336: Mr. PERRY and Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 339: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 357: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 394: Mr. MCNERNEY and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 397: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. PRICE of North
Carolina, Ms. FUDGE, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. HILL of California, and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 444: Mrs. LURIA and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 447: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 448: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ and Mr.
DEFAZIO.
H.R. 510: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 517: Mr. SCALISE.
H.R. 532: Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 549: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 553: Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. BUCSHON, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr.
HIMES, Mr. STEUBE, and Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 555: Mr. MOULTON and Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 562: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana and Mr.
COX of California.
H.R. 568: Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 575: Mr. SPANO and Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 587: Mr. STEWART, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mr. WALBERG, Mrs. RODGERS of Wash-
ington, and Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 596: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 598: Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 601: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 613: Ms. HILL of California, Mr. OLSON,
and Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 615: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 628: Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 647: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 663: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr.
GOSAR, and Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER.
H.R. 678: Ms. WEXTON and Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 686: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 687: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 708: Mr. FULCHER.
H.R. 714: Mr. HUNTER, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, and Mr. SHIMKUS.
H.R. 717: Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 721: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
TAKANO, Ms. NORTON, Mr. KILMER, Mrs. MUR-
PHY, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Mr. HIMES, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. PETERSon, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. MAST, Mr. SCHIFF,
and Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 737: Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr.
FORTENBERRY, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. SIRES,
Mr. SMUCKER, and Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 748: Mr. COLE, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
VELA, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. BUDD, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mr. NEGUSE, Mrs. ROBY, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. COHEN, Mr. BERA,
Ms. MENG, Mr. FERGUSON, and Mr. COOK.
H.R. 761: Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 764: Mr. TURNER, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr.
LUETKEMEYER, and Mr. WEBSTER of Florida.
H.R. 791: Mr. WRIGHT and Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 792: Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 796: Mr. ALLEN, Mr. KEVIN HERN of
Oklahoma, Mr. FLORES, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr.
POSEY, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. DESJARLAIS,
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. DUNCAN,
and Mr. KELLY of Mississippi.
H.R. 806: Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, and Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 808: Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SABLAN, Mr. KING
of Iowa, Miss RICE of New York, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. Luján, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. KILMER, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. PETERSon, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. HAGEDORN, Ms. WILD, Mr. PRICE
of North Carolina, Mr. ABRAHAM, and Ms.
CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 810: Mr. SIRES and Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 824: Mr. VISCLOSKY, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. PALLONE, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Ms. WEXTON, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Mr. Cárdenas, Mr. COHEN, and Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE7.029 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2036 February 14, 2019
H.R. 832: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 850: Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 852: Mr. GOLDEN and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 855: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 860: Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 861: Mr. HIGGINS of New York and Mr.
GARAMENDI.
H.R. 864: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. LOFGREN,
Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, and Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 869: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. CARSON of Indi-
ana, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. HASTINGS, and Mr. MCNER-
NEY.
H.R. 873: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
MORELLE, Ms. KAPTUR, and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 874: Mr. LAMB, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. GALLEGO, and Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 884: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan.
H.R. 890: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 900: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 916: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 929: Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr. RYAN,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. COURTNEY, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. FOSTER,
Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. PERLMUTTER,
Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. MOONEY of
West Virginia, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mrs. BEATTY,
and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 947: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 949: Mr. WRIGHT and Mr. ABRAHAM.
H.R. 953: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 955: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 956: Mr. BUCK, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr.
BANKS, Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana, Mr. OLSON,
and Mr. PALMER.
H.R. 959: Mr. CALVERT, Mr. JOYCE of Penn-
sylvania, and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 960: Mr. CALVERT and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 961: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. TURNER, and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 962: Mr. YOHO and Mr. SHIMKUS.
H.R. 1002: Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. POCAN, and Mr.
MOULTON.
H.R. 1011: Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. PALLONE, and
Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1012: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. LOFGREN,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1013: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1025: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 1041: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 1043: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 1046: Mr. SOTO and Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 1049: Mr. KENNEDY, Mrs. HAYES, and
Mr. WALBERG.
H.R. 1054: Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 1055: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mrs.
HAYES, and Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 1069: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1074: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut.
H.R. 1087: Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 1092: Mr. MCGOVERN and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1108: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms. DEAN, Mr.
EVANS, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. HILL of California,
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms. OMAR, Mr. PAL-
LONE, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. POCAN, Miss RICE of
New York, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
SOTO, and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 1133: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
MOORE, and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 1137: Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
COHEN, Ms. MENG, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. COSTA, and
Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 1139: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 1142: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1146: Mrs. LURIA, Ms. DELBENE, and
Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 1154: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 1181: Mr. WRIGHT and Mr. GOHMERT.
H.R. 1184: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1185: Mr. ROUDA, Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr.
VEASEY, and Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 1186: Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. RASKIN,
and Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 1193: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 1205: Mr. COOPER.
H.J. Res. 38: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.J. Res. 45: Mr. CLOUD, Mrs. LESKO, and
Mr. BUDD.
H. Con. Res. 15: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, and Mr. LUJÁN.
H. Res. 33: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana and Mr.
ROSE of New York.
H. Res. 60: Ms. JUDY CHU of California and
Mr. SIMPSON.
H. Res. 72: Mr. BABIN, Mr. WOMACK, Mr.
PALMER, Mr. GOODEN, and Mr. JOYCE of
Pennsylvania.
H. Res. 75: Ms. WILD and Mr. KIND.
H. Res. 106: Ms. HOULAHAN and Mr. JOYCE
of Pennsylvania.
H. Res. 107: Mr. DUNCAN.
H. Res. 109: Mr. CLAY.
H. Res. 116: Mr. OLSON.
H. Res. 119: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H. Res. 129: Mr. CONNOLLY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE7.033 H14FEPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1337
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2019 No. 29
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. To-
day’s opening prayer will be offered by
Pastor Eddie Edmonds of Moler Avenue
Church of the Brethren from Martins-
burg, WV.
The guest Chaplain offered the fol-
lowing prayer:
Let us pray.
Creator God, we give You thanks and
praise for the phenomenal country in
which we live, move, and have our
being. Our thanks also for the men and
women You have called to serve in this
government and specifically the Sen-
ate. Our prayer is that You will equip,
empower, and encourage each indi-
vidual Senator as they work to answer
the call to serve the people of this
great Nation. Their decisions impact
the lives of not only those they serve
but also people the world over. Help
them to remember those who have lit-
tle, need much, and are challenged
each day of their lives. Give each Sen-
ator strength to make wise decisions
and the courage to stand up in the face
of adversity, doing the right thing,
first time, every time, putting others
first in each decision rendered. May
Your peace fill the lives of each Sen-
ator and those they serve until You
come again to claim Your Kingdom.
We pray in the Most Holy Name of
Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The majority leader is
recognized.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 483 and S.J. RES. 8
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there are two measures at
the desk due a second reading en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the meas-
ures for the second time en bloc.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 483), to enact into law a bill by
reference.
A bill (S.J. Res. 8) recognizing the duty of
the Federal Government to create a Green
New Deal.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
in order to place the measures on the
calendar under provisions of rule XIV,
I would object to further proceedings
en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
measures will be placed on the cal-
endar under rule XIV.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
last night, our colleagues Chairman
SHELBY and Ranking Member LEAHY
filed the final text of a bipartisan, bi-
cameral legislative agreement. For the
past couple of weeks, in conference
with their House counterparts, they
have worked in good faith to reach a
compromise to address urgent prior-
ities, including funding for our Na-
tion’s border security.
The product of this work is a com-
promise that no side will view as a per-
fect deal. For instance, I am frustrated
by House Democrats’ cynical opposi-
tion to including commonsense exten-
sions of the Violence Against Women
Act and other important items. Never-
theless, this agreement is something
both sides should view as an important
step, and today, I hope we will vote to
advance it.
When the Senate votes on the agree-
ment, we will be voting to avoid a sec-
ond partial shutdown and provide the
certainty of a fully functioning Federal
Government. We will be voting to de-
liver another downpayment on the
President’s commitment to securing
our Nation’s borders and keeping
American communities safe. And we
will do it free from the influence of poi-
son pills that sought to derail progress
and stifle compromise.
To be sure, in recent months, we
have seen the radical left go out of its
way to try to gum up the works. Even
the Speaker of the House threw her
support behind wild assertions that
tried-and-true methods of securing sov-
ereign borders were now immoral. They
said there wouldn’t be more than one
dollar for border barriers. They said
there should be fewer tools for the men
and women who enforce our immigra-
tion laws. Fortunately, none of that
nonsense has carried the day.
So here we are, with a solemn deal in
front of us. As the Senate prepares to
vote later today, I want to extend my
deepest gratitude to Chairman SHELBY,
along with Ranking Member LEAHY
and my colleagues on the Appropria-
tions Committee. This legislation will
mark success for our bipartisan process
by finalizing all the regular appropria-
tions bills for the fiscal year. Thanks,
as well, to Shannon Hines and the en-
tire Appropriations staff, whose hard
work made this agreement and all of
last year’s progress possible.
Later today, I hope each of my col-
leagues will join me in moving forward
with the agreement produced by this
hard work, and the President will sign
it into law.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.000 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1338 February 14, 2019
UNANIMOUS CONSENT
AGREEMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, the cloture vote on
the motion to proceed to H.J. Res. 1
occur at a time to be determined by
the majority leader, in consultation
with the Democratic leader.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, leadership time is
reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to consider
the following nomination, which the
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of William
Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be Attor-
ney General.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Florida.
f
HONORING THE MEMORY OF THE
VICTIMS OF THE SENSELESS AT-
TACK AT MARJORY STONEMAN
DOUGLAS HIGH SCHOOL
Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, a year
ago this afternoon, I was sitting in my
office in the Russell Office Building
when a news report began to flash
about a shooting at a high school in
South Florida. I was the father at the
time—in the case of one of my two
older children—of a child who was still
a high school student in South Florida.
You would normally be interested, just
in being a Senator from the State, but
you would be most particularly inter-
ested as a parent. As it turns out, the
incident and the shooting took place at
a school that was about 50 miles—
about 50 minutes—from my home, and
we all know of the story and of the
lives that were lost in this terrible
tragedy.
On a personal level, it is clearly an
issue that has affected me, first, be-
cause I am one of two Senators who
represent the State. Every person who
was impacted—every victim, everyone
who was wounded—is a constituent of
ours. Yet, as I have also pointed out,
my two oldest children are the same
ages as the victims. When you see the
pictures and you hear the stories, you
can’t help but recognize the stories and
the pictures, maybe just not individ-
ually. I didn’t know any of the victims
personally, but the stories are familiar.
They are the stories of my children and
their friends, who are of the same age
and are at the same times in their
lives.
It is impossible to fully comprehend
unless you have gone through the loss
of a child—by the grace of God, I have
not—particularly under such tragic
and traumatic circumstances.
Throughout the last 12 months, as we
have reached different milestones in
my two daughters’ lives, whether it
was their proms or graduation days, or
whether it was dropping off my oldest
at college or attending a class ring
ceremony for a junior, we have been al-
most reminded, for just a moment, of
the parents who had expected to have
been doing the same during this time
of the year but have been unable.
I have learned a lot from those par-
ents, many of whom I have gotten to
know personally and have worked
alongside, in the last year, on a num-
ber of issues. In the year that has
passed, they have, as have the stu-
dents, turned their grief into effective
activism. The parents, in particular,
are the ones with whom I have
interacted the most here in Wash-
ington on a regular basis, and it is why
I thought it appropriate to come to the
floor today. I think they would say
that the best way to honor the memo-
ries of the children they lost is to take
actions that will work to make sure
that no other parent will ever have to
face this again.
Several of the parents have publicly
described what happened a year ago
today as the most avoidable mass mur-
der in American history, but what was
it that enabled this to happen? Why
was it avoidable? What could have been
done to address it?
In the brief moments that we have
here—my colleague from Florida will
have additional statements as well—I
want to point to some of the things we
now know that we didn’t know a year
ago today or in the days that followed.
From it, not only should that spark
outrage, but it should also spark ideas
about how to fix those things so never
again will any parent have to face what
they did and none of my colleagues will
have to stand here and give a speech
like the ones my colleague from Flor-
ida and I have to give today.
At the outset, let me say that the
credit for much of what I am about to
speak about belongs to the extraor-
dinary journalists at the South Florida
Sun Sentinel, who have done a remark-
able job over the last 10 months of re-
vealing to the public many facts that
would have been unknown otherwise.
At a time when there is so much de-
bate about journalism and its role in
our society and in public service and in
politics, they deserve tremendous cred-
it for bringing this to light, and I think
it is an example of why journalism re-
mains an important institution in our
country.
A lot of the attention in this debate
has been paid to the issues that we are
familiar with and have been debating
long before this tragedy: a ban on cer-
tain weapons, universal background
checks, taking on what is described as
the gun lobby. These issues dominated
the national media coverage, and sup-
port for these positions is not new.
They predate this tragedy.
In our Republic, people most cer-
tainly have the right to advocate for
this or against it. They have the right
to lobby for it. They have the right to
vote for candidates who support these
positions and to vote against those who
do not. They are valid issues to debate
on public policy, but at the end of the
day, neither go directly to the heart of
this particular case and to the facts
that led up to it.
At the heart of this is that the killer,
the perpetrator of this terrible tragedy,
was known to be dangerous for a long
time by many people in positions of
power and authority at the school dis-
trict, the sheriff’s office, and at the
FBI, and no one did anything about it.
This is now a documented fact.
Early in the days after this, we saw
images of the sheriff and the super-
intendent lecturing people and talking
about what a great job they had done,
but the facts will show that it was
their incompetence that allowed this
to happen, and, then, even worse, they
tried to cover it up.
There is an article entitled ‘‘Schools
culture of tolerance lets students like
[the killer] slide,’’ by Megan O’Matz
and Scott Travis, reporters at the
South Florida Sun Sentinel. I am going
to read from it, and then I am going to
introduce it into the RECORD. I am not
going to read the whole article.
Here is how it opens:
Broward schools have grown so tolerant of
misbehavior that students like [the killer]
are able to slide by for years without strict
punishment for conduct that could be crimi-
nal.
The culture of leniency allows children to
engage in an endless loop of violations and
second chances, creating a system where
kids who commit the same offense for the
10th time may be treated like it’s the first.
. . .
[The killer] was suspended at least 67 days
over less than a year and a half at
Westglades Middle School, and his problems
continued at Marjory Stoneman Douglas
High School. . . .
The South Florida Sun Sentinel ob-
tained the killer’s discipline records,
they reviewed discipline policies, and
here is what they found:
Students can be considered first-time of-
fenders even if they commit the same offense
year after year.
The district’s claim of reforming bad be-
havior is exaggerated.
Lenient discipline has an added PR benefit
for the district: lower suspensions, expul-
sions and arrests along with rising gradua-
tion rates.
It goes on to say:
Many teachers and parents say Broward
has created a culture in which teachers are
expressly told or subtly pressured not to
send students to the administration for pun-
ishment so a school’s image is not tarnished.
One teacher who taught for 37 years
in the district before retiring said she
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.002 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1339
February 14, 2019
retired early due to her concerns about
student discipline.
Here is a quote:
It was so many things. I had three students
bring knives to my classroom. One was out
of the classroom for one day. Another had so
many things on his record, he was gone for
five days. None were expelled.
Part of this leniency is a program
called the Promise program, which the
superintendent of the district claims
has a 90-percent success rate by keep-
ing students from reoffending. That is
a misleading statistic because, ‘‘A stu-
dent can commit a subsequent infrac-
tion without being considered a repeat
offender as long as it’s not the exact
same violation, in the exact same year.
Each year they start with a clean
slate.
In the interest of time, I ask unani-
mous consent that the rest of this arti-
cle be entered into the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Sun Sentinel, May 12, 2018]
SCHOOLS’ CULTURE OF TOLERANCE LETS
STUDENTS LIKE NIKOLAS CRUZ SLIDE
(By Megan O’Matz and Scott Travis)
Broward Schools have grown so tolerant of
misbehavior that students like Nikolas Cruz
are able to slide by for years without strict
punishment for conduct that could be crimi-
nal.
The culture of leniency allows children to
engage in an endless loop of violations and
second chances, creating a system where
kids who commit the same offense for the
10th time may be treated like it’s the first,
according to records and interviews with
people familiar with the process.
Cruz was suspended at least 67 days over
less than a year and a half at Westglades
Middle School, and his problems continued
at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School,
until he finally was forced to leave.
The South Florida Sun Sentinel obtained
Cruz’s discipline records, reviewed discipline
policies and found:
Students can be considered first-time of-
fenders even if they commit the same of-
fenses year after year.
The district’s claim of reforming bad be-
havior is exaggerated.
Lenient discipline has an added PR benefit
for the district: lower suspensions, expul-
sions and arrests along with rising gradua-
tion rates.
SCHOOL DISTRICT SHUTS DOWN INFORMATION
AFTER STONEMAN DOUGLAS SHOOTING
The forgiving attitude goes beyond the
schools’ controversial Promise program, the
target of considerable public scrutiny for en-
abling students to avoid criminal charges for
misdemeanor offenses.
The program, the pride of Superintendent
Robert Runcie, was designed to use coun-
seling and mentoring to help students avoid
the school-to-prison pipeline. Under former
zero-tolerance policies, black students ended
up suspended, expelled and arrested at rates
that were widely disproportionate to their
peers.
Desmond Blackburn, then Broward’s chief
school performance and accountability offi-
cer, specifically instructed teachers and staff
in a video years ago to challenge and nurture
students, while using suspensions, expulsions
and arrests as ‘‘absolute last resorts.’’
Now, many teachers and parents say
Broward has created a culture in which
teachers are expressly told or subtly pres-
sured not to send students to the administra-
tion for punishment so a school’s image is
not tarnished.
Mary Fitzgerald taught for 37 years in the
district before retiring from Sunrise Middle
in Fort Lauderdale in 2016. She said she re-
tired a year early due to her concerns about
student discipline.
‘‘It was so many things. I had three stu-
dents bring knives to my classroom. One was
out of the classroom for one day. Another
had so many things on his record, he was
gone for five days. None were expelled.’’
NO ONE HEEDED WARNING SIGNS ABOUT NIKOLAS
CRUZ BEFORE SCHOOL SHOOTING
Safety concerns at Sunrise were brought
up at faculty meetings. ‘‘The message out
there is that the students are untouchable.
Habitual negative behavior means nothing
anymore,’’ state the minutes of a Faculty
Council meeting on Feb. 2, 2015.
‘‘My principal basically would tell me it
was his job to market the school. He was ad-
amant about not looking bad,’’ Fitzgerald
said.
Runcie, in an interview with the Sun Sen-
tinel, acknowledged there are complaints
that discipline isn’t consistently enforced.
In a memo to principals Wednesday,
Runcie said he reinforced that ‘‘we have to
be vigilant in reporting every incident so
that we can ensure our students who are vic-
tims, as well as offenders, get the appro-
priate intervention and support.
‘‘We’re going to try to make sure, from the
top, we’re sending the right message related
to discipline and holding our schools ac-
countable,’’ he said.
The superintendent said in the memo that
he will propose the School Board create a
Climate and Discipline Department to ‘‘bet-
ter monitor and support school teams as
they address students with major challenges
and concerns.’’
THE PROMISE PROGRAM
The Pine Ridge Education Center, just out-
side Fort Lauderdale, houses the Promise
program, as well as secure classrooms for
other children who have been expelled from
their regular school but need supervision and
guidance.
The principal describes it as a ‘‘school of
promise and encouragement, not a school of
punishment.’’ Students call it the ‘‘Zap
School,’’ as in you’ve been ‘‘zapped’’ and sent
there as punishment.
Runcie claims the Promise program has a
90 percent success rate at keeping children
from re-offending, but that statistic can be
deceiving.
A student can commit a subsequent infrac-
tion without being considered a repeat of-
fender, as long as it’s not the exact same vio-
lation, in the exact same year.
The following year, they start with a clean
slate.
‘‘It’s extremely problematic,’’ said Tim
Sternberg, a former assistant principal at
Pine Ridge Educational Center who adminis-
tered the Promise program. ‘‘You can de-
velop a psyche that it is OK to commit crime
because you can refresh the clock every
year.’’
Sternberg says he doesn’t have confidence
in the district’s data. ‘‘They aren’t tracking
kids over time.’’
Asked about kids starting each year anew,
without marks against them from prior se-
mesters, Runcie told the Sun Sentinel he
will review it.
‘‘We’ll make whatever adjustments we
need to. We review the discipline policy
every year and have made some adjustments
and continue to take feedback.’’
INSIDE THE MATRIX
The district’s Student Code of Conduct,
first created in 2004–05, includes a com-
plicated discipline ‘‘matrix’’ that lists the
prescribed punishment for a litany of of-
fenses: skipping school, violating rules,
being disruptive, having drugs, fighting, de-
stroying property, committing a crime.
It was designed to help staff make fairer
and more equitable decisions in handing out
penalties. But potential punishments have
become more lenient over the years.
More than five years ago, a high school
student who used profanity toward a staff
member would receive a three- to 10–day sus-
pension. That was reduced to one to two days
after the discipline chart was revised.
The first violation for disruptive classroom
behavior called for an in-school suspension of
one to five days. Later, it was reduced to a
suspension of under one day.
Since the 2012–13 school year, suspensions
have declined 27 percent, according to the
Florida Department of Education. Incidents
reported to law enforcement have fallen 8
percent. The number of arrests per 1,000 stu-
dents: down 64 percent.
The district’s menu of choices for dealing
with rule-breaking students include deten-
tion, internal suspension, out-of-school sus-
pension and expulsion, where children can be
sent to an alternative education center.
Or another option: the Promise program.
UNDER ATTACK
Runcie is proud and protective of the pro-
gram, which was launched under his leader-
ship in November 2013 when the Broward
Sheriff’s Office, the Public Defender’s Office,
the NAACP, the state Department of Juve-
nile Justice and the State Attorney signed
an agreement to reduce school-based arrests.
But the program is under attack because of
widespread allegations that Cruz, the Mar-
jory Stoneman Douglas school shooter, bene-
fited from it.
Runcie had insisted that Cruz was not in
the Promise program, but he did an abrupt
shift this week and said Cruz had been re-
ferred to it in 2013 for vandalizing a bath-
room. Cruz did not complete the three-day
stint, the district said, but administrators
haven’t said why.
BROWARD SCHOOLS BACKTRACK ON GUNMAN
NIKOLAS CRUZ’S PROMISE PROGRAM CONNECTION
A couple of months later, he was sent to a
special school for children with severe emo-
tional and behavioral disorders. As a tot, he
was found to be developmentally delayed and
had been considered a special needs child in
school, entitled to certain services and pro-
tections under law.
Some parents and community leaders have
criticized the superintendent for misleading
the public about Cruz, and the school district
appears not to be able to make sense of all of
the records it has on him.
‘‘To me, it’s an indication that the various
discipline programs in place at the district
are confusing, poorly implemented and exe-
cuted, and clearly if we take the district at
its statement, they’ve been difficult to
track,’’ said Ryan Petty, whose daughter
Alaina was one of 17 people shot to death in
Cruz’s Valentine’s Day massacre. ‘‘If the
records are this difficult to find, clearly it
would be difficult to know whether this is
helping students or not.’’
Despite Cruz’s history of discipline prob-
lems, neither the schools nor police ever
steered him to the justice system.
Mr. RUBIO. The second article—I
will be brief on this—is from the Sun
Sentinel, by Scott Travis: ‘‘Broward
schools fought against 2013 plan for
more security money.’’
They turned down a proposal to levy
$55 million in tax dollars for school
safety, and one of the quotes is this:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.004 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1340 February 14, 2019
One of the school board members slammed
the proposal. They said they’d rather ask
voters for money to improve technology and
renovate old schools, which they did in No-
vember of 2014.
In hindsight, that was a terrible mis-
take.
There is another article from the Sun
Sentinel: ‘‘What’s being done to stop
another school shooting.’’ Again, it is a
very long article. I will just say this:
Once he decided to shoot up a school, there
wasn’t much to stop [the killer].
His threats were ignored, the campus was
wide open, the school doors were unlocked
and students had nowhere to hide.
What has changed after 10 months
since the shooting? This was back on
December 29, 2018.
At least a quarter of campuses do not have
single-entry points to control intruders. Safe
spaces to protect children in classrooms
haven’t been identified.
The killer wasn’t welcome at that
high school, by the way.
He was known by former classmates and
even administrators as a potential school
shooter. And still he walked right onto cam-
pus.
It goes on to say:
[The killer] didn’t keep his homicidal
urges quiet. But the schools incompetently
handled the threat he represented to his fel-
low classmates and teachers.
[The killer’s] lust for violence had been
documented officially 69 times in his life. At
least 30 people knew of his troubling behav-
ior before the shooting.
In fact, I have here with me the
record of those 69 discipline points. It
is extensive, and I ask unanimous con-
sent that that record be entered into
the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
The table below shows the history of inci-
dents involving Nikolas Cruz as reported by
school officials during his time at
Westglades Middle School and Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High. In between those
schools, Cruz attended Cross Creek, a public
school in Pompano Beach for students with
emotional and behavioral disorders.
Date School Type of incident
5/15/12 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
5/17/12 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
5/30/12 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
6/5/12 ........................................................................................ WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISOBEDIENCE/INSUBORDINATION
8/12/12 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ Profanity towards Staff
8/28/12 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ FIGHTING
2/20/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
2/20/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
2/25/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
3/4/13 ........................................................................................ WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
3/4/13 ........................................................................................ WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
3/11/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTIVE (UNRULY) BEHAVIOR
3/11/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTIVE (UNRULY) BEHAVIOR
3/20/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ FALSE ALARM/911
4/8/13 ........................................................................................ WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ OUT OF ASSIGNED AREA
4/10/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ RULES VIOLATION (Includes Classroom Rules)
4/10/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTIVE (UNRULY) BEHAVIOR
4/17/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTIVE (UNRULY) BEHAVIOR
4/17/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
4/22/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
5/6/13 ........................................................................................ WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY DIRECTED TOWARDS STAFF MEMBER
5/20/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ OUT OF ASSIGNED AREA
5/21/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTIVE (UNRULY) BEHAVIOR
5/22/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTIVE (UNRULY) BEHAVIOR
8/23/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTION ON CAMPUS (MINOR)
8/27/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
9/3/13 ........................................................................................ WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTIVE (UNRULY) BEHAVIOR
9/11/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
9/16/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
9/18/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
9/23/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTIVE (UNRULY) BEHAVIOR
9/24/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
9/30/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
10/1/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ LEVEL 3 BUS VIOLATION
10/2/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ LEVEL 3 BUS VIOLATION
10/3/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ VANDALISM <$1000
10/15/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISOBEDIENCE/INSUBORDINATION
10/22/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DEFIANCE OF AUTHORITY/HABITUAL
10/29/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTIVE (UNRULY) BEHAVIOR
10/29/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
11/4/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTIVE (UNRULY) BEHAVIOR
11/8/13 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ LEVEL 3 BUS VIOLATION
11/12/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY DIRECTED TOWARDS STAFF MEMBER
11/12/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY DIRECTED TOWARDS STAFF MEMBER
11/19/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROHIBITED/DISTRACTING ITEMS-POut-of-School
SuspensionESSION/USE
11/19/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTION ON CAMPUS (MINOR)
11/20/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTION ON CAMPUS (MINOR)
11/25/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ VANDALISM <$1000
12/11/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY DIRECTED TOWARDS STAFF MEMBER
12/12/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ ASSAULT (VERBAL)/THREAT—LOW LEVEL NON
CRIMINAL
12/17/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ DISRUPTION ON CAMPUS (MINOR)
12/19/13 .................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ PROFANITY DIRECTED TOWARDS STAFF MEMBER
1/29/14 ...................................................................................... WESTGLADES ................................................................................................................................................................................ FALSE ALARM/911
2/24/16 ...................................................................................... STONEMAN .................................................................................................................................................................................... PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
9/20/16 ...................................................................................... STONEMAN .................................................................................................................................................................................... FIGHTHING MEDIUM
9/29/16 ...................................................................................... STONEMAN .................................................................................................................................................................................... PROFANITY/USE OF INSULTING/OBSCENE LANG
12/22/16 .................................................................................... STONEMAN .................................................................................................................................................................................... PROFANITY DIRECTED TOWARDS STAFF MEMBER
1/19/17 ...................................................................................... STONEMAN .................................................................................................................................................................................... ASSAULT (VERBAL)/THREAT—LOW LEVEL NON
CRIMINAL
Mr. RUBIO. Wrapping up on this
point, there is another article from the
Sun Sentinel entitled ‘‘Hide, deny,
spin, threaten: How the school district
tried to mask failures that led to Park-
land shooting.’’ It talks about efforts
that were made by the school district
to keep from the public the sorts of
things that we are now finding out.
Finally, ‘‘Here’s what the [school dis-
trict] knew about the Parkland shoot-
er’’ is another article that talks about,
time and again, how this killer told
people he was going to do this—not
just one person, but multiple people—
and nothing was in place to do any-
thing about it.
I wrap up with a couple of points.
The first is that the Marjory Stoneman
Douglas High School Public Safety
Commission empaneled by the State
looked at these shootings and from it,
I think, are pretty instructive of some
of the things I hope we can work on to-
gether. It looked at a 20-year period
and found that 48 individuals com-
mitted 46 of these attacks, and 35 were
students, and 10 were former students.
So 45 of the 48 were either students or
former students.
It found that the most typical weap-
on used was a semiautomatic pistol. It
found that 50 percent of these attacks
were done with weapons that were
taken from the home—not even pur-
chased, but taken from the home. It
found that in four of five incidents, at
least one person had some knowledge
that they were going to do this, and in
more than half of the cases, at least
two people knew they were going to do
this.
It is on the basis of these discoveries,
working with many of the parents
whose children lost their lives a year
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.005 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1341
February 14, 2019
ago today, that last year we pursued on
a bipartisan basis and passed the STOP
School Violence Act, which provides,
over a 10-year period, $100 million a
year for strengthening school security,
providing school training to identify
threats before they take action, and
creating school threat assessments and
crisis intervention. That has passed.
It is why this year I have reintro-
duced the Extreme Risk Protection
Order and Violence Protection Act,
which will dedicate the Department of
Justice funds to incentivize States to
give law enforcement the authority to
prevent individuals that pose a threat
to themselves or others the ability to
purchase or possess firearms, so that if
information like what was available to
authorities in Parkland is available to
people now, they can actually go to
court—to prove their case with due
process, and take the guns away from
this person before they go out and com-
mit this crime. More importantly, they
can alert their parents to secure the
guns at home so they don’t use that
gun to commit the crime.
I have also introduced a bipartisan
bill, the Threat Assessment Prevention
and Safety Act. It creates a task force
of experts to provide recommendations
for a national strategy to keep our
communities safe from targeted vio-
lence through threat assessment and
management, which experts say is the
best way to identify potential killers
before they act.
If something like this had been in
place, it is highly likely that authori-
ties, putting all this together—what we
know today—would have said this indi-
vidual is a serious threat and we need
to do something about it before they
take action.
And, finally, yesterday, Senator
GRASSLEY and I reintroduced the EA-
GLES Act, which would reauthorize
and expand the U.S. Secret Service Na-
tional Threat Assessment Center to
help communities proactively mitigate
threats of violence in schools.
It is my hope that this terrible trag-
edy and what we have learned about it
will guide us and will provide us a road
map of concrete steps that we can take
to empower communities, schools, and
police departments and parents and
families with the tools they need, not
just to identify people who are poten-
tially violent but to prevent it from
happening and to get out ahead of it—
maybe it is a risk assessment or maybe
it is institutionalized mental health or
wraparound services, but anything that
can be done.
I raise all of this today because if you
were to speak to the families, as I
know my colleague from Florida and I
often do, they will tell you that the
most important thing we can do to
honor the memory of their children
whom they lost in this terrible tragedy
is to make sure it doesn’t happen to
anybody else.
Now, there is one more thing we
would like to do to honor the victims
of this tragedy. My colleague Senator
SCOTT and I have put forth a resolution
that commemorates this day. It honors
the survivors. It pledges continued sup-
port for their recovery. It recognizes
the strength and resiliency of Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School and the
community that surrounds it. It ex-
presses gratitude to the emergency
medical and healthcare professionals of
the community for their efforts in re-
sponding and caring for the victims
and survivors. Most of all, it com-
memorates the victims who were killed
in the attack, and it offers the Senate’s
heartfelt condolences and deepest sym-
pathies to the families, loved ones, and
friends of the victims.
Madam President, as if in legislative
session, I ask unanimous consent that
the Senate proceed to the consider-
ation of S. Res. 71, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 71) honoring the
Memory of the Victims of the Senseless At-
tack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High
School 1 Year Ago.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
being no objection, the Senate pro-
ceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. RUBIO. I ask unanimous consent
that the resolution be agreed to, the
preamble be agreed to, and the motions
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 71) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
Mr. RUBIO. I yield the floor.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ator from Florida be given 3 minutes to
speak on the resolution of his colleague
from Florida, and then I speak on lead-
er time, to be followed immediately by
Senators WHITEHOUSE, SCHATZ, and
MERKLEY.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Florida.
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Madam Presi-
dent, I thank my colleague Senator
RUBIO for standing with me to remem-
ber the victims and their families on
this tragic anniversary and for his un-
wavering commitment to school safety.
Alyssa Alhadeff, Scott Beigel, Martin
Duque Anguiano, Nicholas Dworet,
Aaron Feis, Jaime Guttenberg, Chris
Hixon, Luke Hoyer, Cara Loughran,
Gina Montalto, Joaquin Oliver, Alaina
Petty, Meadow Pollack, Helena
Ramsay, Alex Schachter, Carmen
Schentrup, Peter Wang—one year ago
today, these 17 souls were taken from
us in a brutal act of violence. They
were sons and daughters, brothers and
sisters; they were students and athletes
and musicians and teachers. Not a day
goes that I don’t think about that day
and the amazing people who were
snuffed out by the deranged actions of
a madman.
Over the course of the last year, I
have spent countless hours with the
families of the victims. Unfortunately,
I wish we had never met like this. They
have been partners in our efforts to en-
sure that this never happens again. We
worked together, along with educators,
mental health professionals, and law
enforcement, to pass the Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School Public
Safety Act, to make sure our State
does everything in its power to prevent
tragedies like this from happening
again.
Today, the State of Florida stands
united with heavy hearts. Nothing we
say here today can bring back the lives
that were lost. Nothing we do can re-
place the angels of Marjory Stoneman
Douglas High School who were taken
from us too soon. But we must never
forget them. We must honor their
memory every day, and we must re-
dedicate ourselves to the goal of ending
violence in our schools.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
later today we will vote on the agree-
ment by the conference committee to
keep the government open, as well as
provide additional border security.
Once again, I applaud the members of
the conference committee and their
staffs. They were the nub here, and
they did outstanding work, nights and
weekends, to reach an agreement. We
knew that if the conference committee
were allowed to work, they could bring
this together. The agreement is a vali-
dation of the idea that when you put
Members of both parties in a room to
negotiate in good faith, when everyone
is willing to give and take, progress is
never out of reach. So, again, I thank
the members of the committee.
The agreement is a reasonable com-
promise. It provides additional funding
for smart, effective border security. It
does not fund the President’s wall, but
it does fund smart border security ini-
tiatives that both parties have always
supported, including increased security
at our ports of entry and humanitarian
assistance at our border. Most impor-
tantly, it will keep our government
open.
Everyone, I believe, including the
President, wants to avoid a repeat of
what happened before Christmas. Ev-
eryone wants to avoid another sense-
less government shutdown. I expect
Congress will pass this bill sometime
this afternoon, and President Trump
should sign it immediately.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.006 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1342 February 14, 2019
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Madam President, on another sub-
ject, this morning, I challenge Leader
MCCONNELL to say that our climate
change crisis is real, that it is caused
by humans, and that Congress needs to
act. Let me elaborate.
The Republican leader fashions him-
self as someone who doesn’t waste time
with political stunts. I am not sure I
could count the number of times he has
shrugged off a piece of legislation by
calling it a ‘‘futile gesture’’ because
the President will not sign it or be-
cause he thinks it would be a waste of
the Senate’s time.
Yet, on Tuesday, the Republican
leader announced he would bring up his
Green New Deal resolution for a vote
because he wants to make sure every-
body has the ‘‘opportunity to go on
record and see how they feel’’ about it,
knowing full well his entire party will
vote against it, including himself, and
that it will not pass.
Since Republicans took control of
this Chamber in 2015, they have not
brought a single Republican bill to
meaningfully reduce carbon emissions
to the floor of the Senate—not one bill.
Republicans have controlled this
Chamber for 4 years and have not
brought a single bill to significantly
reduce carbon emissions.
We are supposed to conduct the busi-
ness of the Nation. We are supposed to
tackle our country’s greatest chal-
lenges. Well, climate change is the No.
1 threat to our planet, yet not a single
Republican bill that addresses climate
change in a meaningful way has
reached the floor—not a one. In fact,
the Republican majority has spent the
Senate’s time on legislation that would
make climate change even worse. In
one instance, the Republican leader
moved to repeal a commonsense and
vital program to reduce methane emis-
sions, and it failed only because a few
brave Republicans joined all of the
Democrats in voting no.
Now, with amazing irony, the first
measure to address climate change
from the Republican leader—the first
one in 4 years—will be one that he
wants all of his Members to vote
against. Let me say that again. The
Republican leader announced he is
going to bring up a resolution he in-
tends to vote against.
That is what the American people
hate about Congress, the pointless par-
tisan games. Next time you see con-
gressional approval level hovering
around 15 percent, don’t ask why. This
is why: Leader MCCONNELL proposing
resolutions so he can vote against
them and never proposing anything on
this subject, climate change, that is
constructive.
I hope the American people are pay-
ing attention because they need to see
what is going on here. The American
people need to see that this is all there
is to the Republican plan to deal with
climate change. This is all they can
muster—a political stunt, not designed
to make progress, not designed to move
the ball forward. They are bringing a
resolution forward so that they can all
vote against it.
This cheap, cynical ploy evidently
represents the sum total of Senate Re-
publicans’ leadership on the vital issue
of climate change, an issue that cries
out for serious engagement by Mem-
bers of both parties. But rather than
seriously engage on the issue, our Re-
publican colleagues are taking a page
from President Trump’s petty play-
book, trying to make this a game of
political ‘‘gotcha.’’ They are taking
their lead from the President, a man
who is so willfully ignorant and foolish
that he thinks he is clever by ridi-
culing the global scientific consensus
on climate change whenever it snows.
Well, the American people are not
laughing. They weren’t laughing when
a U.S. Senator brought a snowball to
the floor of this Chamber to mock cli-
mate science. They weren’t laughing
when President Trump called climate
change a hoax perpetrated by the Chi-
nese. The rest of the world isn’t laugh-
ing either, not when basically every
country in the world—including Syria,
North Korea, and Iran—is working to-
gether to reduce carbon emissions
while the Trump administration has
forced the United States to sit on the
sidelines. I would say to our Repub-
lican colleagues that this is no game,
and it is no joke. Climate change is
deadly serious, and the time for all of
us to treat it that way is now, before it
is too late.
So when the Republican leader says
he wants to bring the Green New Deal
resolution up for a vote, I say: Go for
it. Bring it on. You think it might em-
barrass Democrats to vote on a non-
binding resolution that some of us may
support but not others. Trust me, we
will be fine because the American peo-
ple know that our entire party actually
believes that climate change is hap-
pening and it is caused by humans. We
actually believe the consensus of the
worldwide scientific community that
climate change is an existential threat
to this planet, one that threatens not
only our children and our grand-
children but all of us right now.
We actually believe that we need to
do something about climate change. Do
Republicans believe that? Do Repub-
licans agree with the overwhelming
consensus of the scientific community?
Does Leader MCCONNELL? I seriously
want to know, and so do the American
people.
So today, I am issuing a challenge to
the majority leader. I don’t do this
often, and my colleagues know I would
rather work in a bipartisan way on cli-
mate change, but this stunt—his cyn-
ical stunt—demands a response.
I challenge Leader MCCONNELL to say
that our climate change crisis is real,
that it is caused by humans, and that
Congress needs to act. That is what
two-thirds of the American people
agree with—two-thirds.
My strong suspicion, unfortunately,
however, is that McConnell can’t say
that and won’t. Leader MCCONNELL has
voted six times against sense-of-the-
Senate resolutions that climate change
is real and human activity has contrib-
uted to it. He has dodged the issue time
and again, but maybe his opinion has
changed. So when Leader MCCONNELL
brings his Green New Deal resolution
forward for a vote, we Democrats de-
mand our own amendment votes. Let’s
see if anything has changed since 2015,
when only five brave Republicans were
able to vote yes on a resolution saying
climate change is real and caused by
humans. Two of them aren’t even here
anymore.
If Leader MCCONNELL blocks amend-
ments, we will know where he and his
party stand: against science, against
fact—ostriches with their heads buried
in the sand as the tide comes in.
If Leader MCCONNELL allows amend-
ments, allows an actual, real debate on
climate change, we will see which of
our Republican friends are finally
ready to admit that climate change is
real—is happening right now—and are
ready to act on it. Unlike what Leader
MCCONNELL is proposing, that would be
actual progress.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, let me start by thanking Leader
SCHUMER for his incredible remarks
this morning. There is a surge of en-
ergy around this issue. He has rep-
resented that surge of energy very
well. He challenged the other side of
the aisle to bring it on. Let me sign up
right now as the proud member of the
‘‘bring it on’’ caucus. Bring it on. We
are looking forward to this conversa-
tion on our side.
It is clear that the people of America
want action. The polling is immensely
strong on this issue. It is clear that the
people of America see this issue in
their daily lives. This is not academic
theory any longer. They see the
wildfires. They see the droughts. They
see the floods. They see the sea level
rise. They see the fish moving about.
This is in their lives now, and the poll-
ing shows that.
A vast majority of Americans say
they are—and this is the word in the
poll—‘‘worried’’ about climate change.
The world has reported they see this as
the No. 1 issue facing the world’s secu-
rity.
Against that backdrop of an active,
engaged, and knowledgeable American
population and a world that is looking
for the United States to lead, the city
on the hill, what—what—do we get
from the Republican majority in the
Senate? We get a bill, a measure
brought to the floor—the first time, as
Leader SCHUMER pointed out, that the
Republican-controlled majority has
brought any meaningful legislation re-
lated to climate change to the floor—
that they intend to vote against.
Who brings a bill to the floor that
you intend to vote against? How is that
possibly sincere or serious, and what is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.008 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1343
February 14, 2019
your alternative? If you don’t like the
Green New Deal, what is your plan?
Where is there one?
The fact is, since the Citizens United
decision and since the fossil fuel indus-
try powered up its political efforts,
there is now no Republican Senator in
the Senate who has cosponsored any
serious bill to significantly reduce car-
bon dioxide emissions. They stay away
from this issue like the plague.
The world has changed around us.
The 2020 election has already begun, in
many respects. Voters are alert to this.
A Democratic House is ready to
produce real legislation, meaningful
legislation. With any luck—actually on
the House side, somewhat bipartisan
legislation, and here in the Senate, the
blockade continues, and the only meas-
ure brought to the floor is a trick vote
that its sponsors will actually vote
against. That is a pathetic statement
of where our friends on the other side
are on this.
I hope this actually turns into a
breakthrough moment in which there
are some serious conversations on the
other side to say this is not tenable;
this is ridiculous; we are going to be
embarrassed by this; but on our side,
we say bring it on.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The Senator from
Hawaii.
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, our
friends on the other side of the aisle—
the Republicans—are misreading the
moment. The planet is in an emergency
situation, and instead of coming to the
table with ideas on how to fix it, they
are running the same play they always
run; that is, that they take a popular
idea—investing in clean energy, maybe
making college more affordable, mak-
ing the Tax Code more fair—and they
try to characterize it as a liberal
project so people put on their partisan
uniforms.
Our ideas are popular, and what they
have done recently is, they have taken
a batch of our ideas and have said: So-
cialism. You are going to turn into
Venezuela if you do all of these things.
I know you think you want affordable
college. I know you think you want cli-
mate action. I know you think you
want to not get ripped off by the Tax
Code, but that will cause you to be
Venezuela.
This is the play they run every time,
and they run it with cover from the
Wall Street Journal’s editorial board
and FOX News to try to trick the
American people into opposing ideas
they actually like.
That is what is happening with this
nonbinding resolution that 12 Senators
have cosponsored. Republicans are try-
ing to take frequently asked ques-
tions—a document that was posted on
the website of a new Member of Con-
gress, and then subsequently taken
down and disavowed, and make you be-
lieve this is what Democrats want to
do when it comes to climate action.
They want you to believe we want to
take away ice cream and aviation and
everything that is good in the world
because they know their position on
climate change is absolutely unten-
able.
Over the last couple of days, I read
some what we call very serious people
in Washington, DC, sort of marveling
at Leader MCCONNELL’s trolling exer-
cise. This is supposed to be the world’s
greatest deliberative body. It is not
Twitter. This is supposed to be where
we solve the greatest problems facing
the United States. This is not where we
troll each other. This is where we are
supposed to have the great debates.
Senate Democrats have done all sorts
of work on climate: the ITC and the
PTC for solar and wind, conservation
and efficiency, carbon pricing, fighting
deforestation. So Republicans do not
have the high ground here. They are
trying to make this a partisan exer-
cise, where you have several news orga-
nizations churning because they don’t
want to deal with climate change.
If the Senate Republican leadership
wants to bring up anything about cli-
mate, I echo the words of Senator
SCHUMER and Senator WHITEHOUSE: We
have never been more fired up. We are
going to take this opportunity to have
a real debate about climate because
Republicans do not have a plan to ad-
dress climate change. That is not a
rhetorical flourish. That is not an ac-
cusation. That is just an observation.
They don’t have a plan to stop climate
pollution. They do not agree with 99
percent of the scientific community
saying not just that this problem ex-
ists but that Congress must act.
If you look at the last session of Con-
gress, it is actually worse than that. I
want to put this in context. The last
session of Congress spanned two of the
worst years of weather in U.S. history.
In 2017, there were about 10 million
acres that were burned by wildfires.
There were Hurricanes Harvey, Irma,
and Maria. In 2018, we had the costliest
and deadliest wildfires California had
ever seen. In these two record-setting
years, climate change cost the econ-
omy and the taxpayers billions of dol-
lars. Communities all across the coun-
try struggled to rebuild and recover.
People lost their lives, their homes,
and their livelihoods.
In these 2 years, the number of pieces
of legislation that Republicans put for-
ward to address climate change—even
if I thought they were inadequate, even
if I thought they were the wrong ap-
proach, even if I thought they were
half measures or too private sector-ori-
ented, whatever the criticism might
have been, I can’t even make criticisms
of their climate policy. They have no
climate policy other than to make
things worse.
They have allowed coal companies to
leak dirty water and waste into
streams without having to clean it up.
They voted to make it easier for oil
and mining companies to pay foreign
governments. They allowed the Presi-
dent to start the process of pulling out
of the Paris accords. They allowed him
to begin the process of rolling back
your fuel efficiency standards, to re-
peal the Clean Power Plan, to prop up
coal—even though it makes no eco-
nomic sense in a lot of instances any-
more—and they put climate deniers in
top science positions in the govern-
ment.
They put Secretary Zinke in charge
of the Department of the Interior, and
the first thing he did was to open up
lands for oil and gas leases. They put
Scott Pruitt in charge of the EPA, and
when he finally proved to be a political
liability—not for his climate policy but
because of his personal habits—they re-
placed him with someone with the
same policies, Andrew Wheeler, who is
literally a coal lobbyist.
If you wrote all of this into a screen-
play, people would say: That is a little
too on the nose. That is a little too ob-
vious. This is ridiculous. This is not ac-
tually how Washington works. They
wouldn’t put a coal lobbyist in charge
of the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy, would they? They did. They did.
It is not just that Republicans don’t
have a plan to make things better, it is
that the Democratic approach is to
treat this like the emergency it is and
invest in clean air, clean water, and
smarter infrastructure, and the Repub-
lican approach is to put polluters in
charge to actively, aggressively, and
proudly make climate change worse.
I have seen the right approach work
in Hawaii. For decades, since the de-
mise of the sugar plantation, we relied
on imports of fossil fuels for our energy
needs. As recently as 2010, we got more
than 90 percent of our electricity from
burning oil, which is the dumbest way
to do things. It is very expensive and
very dirty. Less than a decade later, we
are well on our way to 100 percent
clean energy.
We have addressed the legitimate
concerns, we ignored trolls, and we
moved forward together. We have quin-
tupled clean energy, lowered elec-
tricity rates, and created tons of jobs.
Clean energy is the future for Hawaii,
and it is the future for the United
States. This can be done. Do not be
afraid.
If Republicans think the Democratic
ideas are no good, fine; then offer a dif-
ferent plan. They are the only major
political party in the developed world
that doesn’t even believe climate
change is a problem. There is no other
issue where the majority party denies
that the problem exists at all, not
cyber security, not healthcare, not
even income inequality. This is not
tenable.
Whenever a Senate Democrat or a
group of Senate Democrats come to the
floor to talk about climate change, we
usually have a good little group over
here, and always—always—in my 7
years in the U.S. Senate, there is al-
ways an empty Chamber on the Repub-
lican side—empty. The only Republican
I am ever talking to is someone who is
maybe waiting to give a speech about
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.010 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1344 February 14, 2019
something else or the Presiding Offi-
cer. That is because Republicans in the
Senate have no plan at all as it relates
to climate change.
We have trillions of dollars in infra-
structure that needs to be addressed
over the next couple of decades. We
could make those investments in ways
that also address climate. We could
offer tax breaks for clean energy. We
should reenter the Paris accord, but
they are pulling the same play they al-
ways do, to make this so partisan, to
mock the issue itself so they can con-
tinue to do nothing. They are whistling
past the graveyard.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, how
do we make our communities, our
States, our Nation, and our planet bet-
ter for our children? How do we make
it better for our children’s children and
their children? Isn’t that the task we
have in the U.S. Senate, to make
things work better, not worse?
We have this question before us: Do
we have a carbon pollution problem?
What is the answer, yes or no? I ask
each of my colleagues, yes or no?
Presiding today is a new Member of
the Senate from Florida. I have been
down to Florida. I will tell you that I
heard about the rising seawater pol-
luting the aquifers and creating fresh-
water supply problems for communities
in Florida. I heard about coastal ero-
sion. I heard about coral reefs being
damaged and the fish offshore. I heard
about the toxic red algae on the gulf
side—so toxic it is killing fish and dol-
phins and turtles and manatees, and
they are washing up on the shore of
Florida on the gulf side.
The people have two problems. The
toxic algae is creating breathing prob-
lems, and then there is a stench arising
from the dying sea life. People on the
gulf side of Florida say: We have to
take inland vacations.
I know my colleague presiding today
knows about these issues in his State
because we see the impacts of carbon
pollution and climate chaos in every
single State. We certainly see it in my
State. We see it through the more pow-
erful forest fires—hotter, more acreage,
and more destruction. We see it in the
smoke affecting the communities and
the economies throughout Oregon. Of
course, we saw the devastating forest
fires in California, wiping out the town
of Paradise and afflicting so many
other communities.
It is not just the impact on the nat-
ural world; it is the impact on the peo-
ple. When you affect the fisheries, you
affect the fishermen. When you affect
the forests, you affect the timber in-
dustry. When you proceed to produce
conditions of more floods and more
droughts, you affect the farmers and
ranchers of America. It is the people of
America.
How about the Panhandle of Florida.
It was wiped out by a more powerful
hurricane, driven by those warmer
ocean temperatures. What does one say
to them—that there is not an issue;
that we don’t have a problem?
The entire scientific community of
the world has said you can see the facts
on the ground, but we don’t need them
to see the facts on the ground. We see
it through the everyday impacts on
Americans, on our farmers, our ranch-
ers, and on our communities plagued
by smoke or wiped out by hurricanes.
So we do have a problem. The answer
is, yes, we do have a problem. If you
say there is no problem, then your
head is stuck in the tar sands, and you
are failing your responsibility not just
as a U.S. Senator, you are failing your
responsibility as a human being. You
are failing your constituents if you
think there is no problem, while their
lives and their economy are being so
dramatically impacted by this issue.
I ask my colleagues, did you come
here to fail your constituents, to fail as
a Senator, to fail as a human being to
address this issue? Did you come to
fail, or did you come to take on the
issues that face us and build a better
world for your children?
If you believe there is a significant
challenge, what are you doing about it?
What actions are you planning? Be-
cause if you believe there is a problem
and you are not putting forward a plan
to address it, then your leadership is a
failure.
So we have a choice on the Repub-
lican side of the aisle. Is it that you are
too obsessed with the power of the
Koch Brothers to address the needs of
the citizens of the United States of
America, that you have your heads
stuck in the tar sands? Is that the
issue, or is it that you want to sit on
the sidelines? You know there is a
problem, but you want to sit on the
sidelines and do nothing, in which case
you are a failed leader.
So how about reject ignorance, and
how about reject failed leadership and
come together to make a better world
for our children. That is what we need
to do, all of us, together, because the
impacts we see from carbon pollution
and climate chaos—those are not im-
pacts affecting blue America or red
America; they touch the lives of every
citizen, no matter which political
party they belong to. It is going to af-
fect every child we have now and every
child born in the future, whether they
register as a Democrat or a Repub-
lican. We have already wasted decades
in getting at this issue. Let’s waste no
more time.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Pursuant to the
order of February 13 with respect to
the Barr nomination, I ask the Chair to
put the question on the nomination of
William Barr to be Attorney General at
12:30 p.m. today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from West Virginia.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, before I
begin with my remarks, I would like to
take a moment, as I think everybody
here in the country should, to remem-
ber and honor all the lives lost 1 year
ago today during the shooting at Mar-
jory Stoneman Douglas High School in
Parkland, FL. It was a horrible act, as
the Presiding Officer of the Senate is
well aware, and its reverberations are
still felt deeply today, especially
among those who lost friends and loved
ones, many of whom work day in and
day out to keep their memory alive.
We have before us on the floor today
a bipartisan government funding meas-
ure, and as the chairman of the Home-
land Security Appropriations Sub-
committee, I rise in support of the con-
ference agreement to secure our border
and fund our government and end any
possibility of a shutdown at the same
time. This agreement is a compromise
between Republicans and Democrats,
between the House and the Senate, and
because it is a compromise, none of us
really got everything we wanted.
When you are working to reach an
agreement, whether you are in govern-
ment or in a family, it is important to
understand the difference between
compromising on details and compro-
mising on your principles. While this
agreement may compromise on some of
the specifics, it does not compromise
on our commitment to our Nation and
to secure our Nation. That commit-
ment is also shared by our President,
who has been unwavering in his prom-
ise to strengthen our border. It is a
goal we must achieve in a smart and
informed way to address the real and
ever-changing challenges we face as a
nation.
On the border itself, I have been very
clear that our agreement had to in-
clude three critical elements, three
legs of the stool: physical barriers,
technology, and personnel.
There were a few sticking points with
our Democratic colleagues. We did hear
from the Speaker of the House that
there would be no wall or there would
not be $1 for the wall. Instead, this
agreement provides almost triple the
money for new wall construction that
we appropriated last year. In fact, we
will pay for 55 new miles of wall in the
Rio Grande Valley where Customs and
Border Protection has told us it is des-
perately needed. This agreement will
build twice as many miles of new wall
as last year’s appropriations, despite
the fact that we were negotiating with
those who didn’t want to have any
wall.
Would I have preferred more money
for the wall? Of course. But this bill
provides the most money ever in a sin-
gle appropriations bill for a barrier. I
drafted legislation—passed by the Sen-
ate Appropriations Committee last
June—that would have fully funded the
President’s budget request for the wall.
I would have voted for higher
amounts—and did, actually, in com-
mittee—of funding for the wall. That is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.011 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1345
February 14, 2019
because I believe strongly that phys-
ical barriers are a vital part of securing
our border. I saw it myself when I
toured the borders in California and
Texas. I saw the need. I saw how the
walls work. And I will stand side by
side with the President as he works to
secure additional money to construct a
border wall in the future.
We got $1.375 billion, and that is a
long way from $1. It is a critical down-
payment on the President’s ultimate
border security goal. The best path for-
ward to secure our border today is to
pass this agreement.
The bill also stands with the men and
women of ICE, Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement. A statutory cap on
the number of ICE detention beds
would have required dangerous crimi-
nals to be released from ICE custody. It
would have posed a threat to families
and communities across the country,
and it would have compromised an im-
portant principle. This agreement re-
jects that anti-ICE proposal.
I have said many times that I sup-
port the men and women of ICE and
their important work to secure our Na-
tion, and that is why the agreement be-
fore us gives ICE the operational flexi-
bility it needs to accomplish its goals.
Taking advantage of the flexibility
this bill provides, ICE can utilize 18
percent more detention beds than they
are currently using. That means ICE
can continue interior enforcement ef-
forts and be ready to respond to any
surges on the border, so it gives ICE
the flexibility they need.
I say to my friends who, like me,
want more money for the wall: This
agreement is better for the wall and
better for ICE than any other alter-
native. Rejecting this agreement will
cost dozens of miles of new wall and
jeopardize ICE’s ability to detain dan-
gerous criminals.
Another government shutdown can-
not and should not be allowed to hap-
pen. We need to provide certainty to
our Federal workers and the American
people whom we serve. I also think we
need to restore trust in our ability to
work across the aisle, to work across
party lines to reach settlement, nego-
tiated settlement that moves us for-
ward, because if we are in a stalemate,
we are standing still. In my opinion, if
you are standing still, you are actually
going backward, and we don’t want to
do that as a nation.
The work done by the men and
women in our Federal workforce during
the shutdown should continue to be ap-
plauded. Without pay and in a period of
great uncertainty, thousands of men
and women did their jobs at the high-
est level. We should be thankful for
their service, and we are.
One of the things I am proud of in
this bill is a 1.9-percent pay increase
for the men and women of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security. This is
ICE. This is Border Patrol. To the
Coast Guard, Secret Service, FEMA, we
salute you.
Under this agreement, we will also
hire 200 new Border Patrol agents over
the fiscal year 2018 funded level to de-
fend and police our border, and we will
add $600 million for nonintrusive in-
spection technology.
As I have said before, border wall,
personnel, and technology are all vital
parts of securing our border. They are
very critical in addressing the drug epi-
demic that has plagued my State of
West Virginia and many other parts of
this country.
This bill includes the highest level of
funding ever in a homeland security
appropriations bill to combat the
opioid epidemic—more than $700 mil-
lion—and it has funds for investiga-
tions when it comes to human traf-
ficking, looking into the dark web, and
other crimes.
The homeland security portion of
this agreement also takes a major step
forward in advancing our Nation’s
Coast Guard by building a new polar
security cutter to help address oper-
ational needs in the Arctic. This is
critical to our homeland security. We
also address the needs of the TSA, the
Secret Service, and FEMA—to name
just a few of the other entities within
this title.
This bill is not the bill I would have
written alone. I don’t get to do that. It
is the product of give-and-take that is
necessary to forge a bipartisan con-
sensus. It is a strong compromise that
will help secure our border and make
America safer.
Senator JON TESTER, the ranking
member of our subcommittee and the
Senator from Montana, has been an ex-
cellent partner as we have worked to
deliver a bill worthy of the men and
women of the Department of Homeland
Security. So I thank him for his efforts
throughout this process. We have
worked very well together.
I also want to thank Chairman
SHELBY and Vice Chairman LEAHY for
their work in guiding the Appropria-
tions Committee to a deal. These are
seasoned appropriators who know how
to get the job done. Their leadership
has demonstrated that the Appropria-
tions Committee can come together
and forge bipartisan consensus in the
national interest.
The leaders of the House Appropria-
tions Committee, Chairman NITA
LOWEY, whom I know very well; and
Ranking Member KAY GRANGER, who is
a good friend of mine from my service
in the House; as well as my counter-
part in the House and chairman of
Homeland Security, LUCILLE ROYBAL-
ALLARD; and Ranking Member CHUCK
FLEISCHMANN, of the Homeland Secu-
rity Subcommittee. They deserve our
gratitude for forging ahead with a will-
ingness to negotiate.
I also appreciate the contributions of
all the members of our conference com-
mittee, and I would like to thank a
group of individuals who have dedi-
cated a lot of nights, weekends, and
family time to this effort. Their knowl-
edge of the facts and their commitment
to the cause never waned, even though
their time to sleep did wane. Shannon
Hines, who is Chairman SHELBY’s right-
hand woman on the committee, was
fantastic. Thank you to Adam Telle,
Peter Babb, Christian Lee, Chris Cook,
and Thompson Moore of the Homeland
Security Subcommittee staff, which I
chair, as well as to my own appropria-
tions staffer, J.T. Jezierski. I say
thank you—a big thank you.
I have spent the majority of my time
today and the last several weeks on my
bill—our bill. My thanks and congratu-
lations also go to my fellow chairmen
who have titles in this package. They
have produced legislation that will
help West Virginia expand access to
broadband, combat the opioid epi-
demic, enhance our transportation, fos-
ter economic development, and ad-
vance scientific research and dis-
covery. They, too, faced similar chal-
lenges to draft bipartisan legislation,
and they too got it done.
In closing, although conferees com-
promised on details, we did not com-
promise our principles. Passing this
conference agreement is in our na-
tional security interest. It will provide
the resources, the direction, and the
support that the President has said
many times he needs to protect our Na-
tion.
I am very proud to have been a part
of this process, and I encourage my col-
leagues to join me in a bipartisan fash-
ion in passing this bill later this after-
noon.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from California.
f
JUSTICE FOR VICTIMS OF
LYNCHING ACT OF 2019
Ms. HARRIS. James Baldwin once
said:
Not everything that is faced can be
changed. But nothing can be changed until it
is faced.
That is why we are here again today,
to face the history of lynching in this
country. From 1882 to 1986, the U.S.
Congress failed to pass anti-lynching
legislation when it had the opportunity
more than 200 times.
We have an opportunity, once again,
to right this wrong and face the ugly
history of lynching in America. Let’s
recall this stain on America’s history.
Lynching is an act of terror. It is mur-
der.
These were summary executions. Vic-
tims of lynching were dragged out of
their homes. They had ropes wrapped
around their necks. They were hanged
on trees. In many cases, they were cas-
trated and burned as crowds of people
watched and applauded. The premise
underlying all of these acts was that
Black people were not full human
beings.
According to the Equal Justice Ini-
tiative, lynching was used as an instru-
ment of terror and intimidation 4,084
times during the late 19th and 20th cen-
turies.
In 1955, Emmett Till, a 14-year-old
African-American boy, was lynched in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.013 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1346 February 14, 2019
Mississippi after being accused of of-
fending a woman in her family’s gro-
cery store. When Emmett Till’s mother
held open her son’s casket at his fu-
neral, the image of his body became
one of the starkest examples of racial
violence in America.
These lynchings, I think no one can
deny, were acts of violence. They were
needless, horrendous acts of violence,
and they were motivated by racism.
Lynchings were crimes that were com-
mitted against innocent Americans.
These crimes, for the most part, did
not go without consequence. They rare-
ly were followed by an arrest or the
charging of a crime or the prosecution
of a crime or the punishment for the
crime. Of course, the victims of these
acts and their families never received
justice in our courts of law or in their
community.
This is an uncomfortable history to
think of, to talk about, and under-
standably makes many people uncom-
fortable because of the violence we are
describing, because it is part of Amer-
ica’s history, because it is something
we have never truly acknowledged and
recognized, in terms of the crime it
was, the crime it is, and how we,
through our laws, must recognize the
seriousness of it.
Today we have that opportunity, and
we must recognize the context in which
we discuss it today. Just in the last
month, we have had difficult and high-
profile conversations about slavery and
blackface, issues that are claimed to be
part of a bygone era. However, it is
clear that in many ways our past is our
present.
Lynching is not a relic of the past. In
2011, three men in Brandon, MS, mur-
dered an African-American man, James
Craig Anderson. They robbed him, beat
him, and ran him over with a truck.
That is modern-day lynching.
Let’s be clear. No one should have to
fear for their life because of their race,
national origin, religion, or sexual ori-
entation. We must confront hate di-
rectly.
In December of 2018, our Senate col-
leagues, I am proud to say, voted
unanimously, in a bipartisan way, to
pass the Justice for Victims of Lynch-
ing Act, which I proudly introduced
with Senators BOOKER and SCOTT. After
100 years and more than 200 failed at-
tempts in the U.S. Congress, the U.S.
Senate finally spoke the truth about
lynching.
Today I have reintroduced the bill
and will ask the Senate to pass it
again. The Justice for Victims of
Lynching Act is a historic piece of leg-
islation that would make lynching a
Federal crime for the first time in
American history. With this bill, we fi-
nally have a chance to speak the truth
about our past and make clear that
these hateful acts should never happen
again and, God forbid, they do, we are
making clear there will be swift, seri-
ous, and severe consequences.
We can now finally offer some long
overdue justice and recognition to the
victims of lynching and their families.
As Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., said:
‘‘The time is always right to do what is
right.’’
I now yield the floor to my friend and
colleague, the great Senator from the
great State of New Jersey, CORY BOOK-
ER.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. BOOKER. Thank you.
Mr. President, I thank Senator HAR-
RIS for her partnership and leadership
on this bill. I also thank my colleague
and my friend, TIM SCOTT from South
Carolina, for his leadership and part-
nership on this legislation.
As Senator HARRIS just said, this is
not the first time we have come down
to the floor of the U.S. Senate to im-
plore this body to recognize lynching
for what it is—bias-related terror. It is
not the first time we have come down
to this body to try to right the wrongs
of history. After numerous attempts—
dozens and dozens—during the height
of lynchings in the United States, this
body failed to act. This body did not
stand up to protect American citizens
and condemn the horrors of lynching.
In December of last year, as Senator
HARRIS and I were standing here, this
body actually made a historic decision.
It was a profound moment, an emo-
tional moment. They made the deci-
sion to pass the Justice for Victims of
Lynching Act by unanimous consent—
no opposition.
After a long, painful, and shameful
history of this body, the U.S. Senate fi-
nally voted unanimously to make
lynching a Federal crime. Unfortu-
nately, the bill was not taken up in the
House before the end of the last Con-
gress. So we are here today with the
hope and expectation that for the sec-
ond time this body will make history
by passing Federal anti-lynching legis-
lation and that, for the first time in
history, this bill will actually become
the law of the land.
Senator HARRIS referenced the Equal
Justice Initiative, which documented
over 4,000 cases of racially motivated
lynchings between 1877 and well into
the 20th century. Lynchings were used
to terrorize, marginalize, and oppress
Black communities, to kill human
beings in order to sow deeper fear, in-
equality, and injustice for generations.
The use of lynching to inflict racial
terror is ugly, disturbing. It is a tragic
part of our history, but we know its
legacy does not just live in our history
books. Less than 2 weeks ago, an actor
and activist was brutally attacked in
Chicago by two men yelling racial and
homophobic epithets.
Lynching is not a relic of the past.
We are seeing in the present pernicious
evil, and we still have yet to confront
this in this body. Bias-motivated acts
of violence and intimidation in Amer-
ica are actually on the rise. Hate
crimes are on the rise for the third
year in a row. Hate crimes against
Black Americans are on the rise. Hate
crimes against Jewish Americans are
on the rise. Hate crimes against
LGBTQ Americans and Muslim Ameri-
cans are on the rise. This is unaccept-
able. Justice for the victims of lynch-
ing has been too long denied, and as we
look forward we must collectively in
this body make a strong, unequivocal
statement.
The last time Senator HARRIS and I
came to the floor with this request, I
read from an excerpt of a speech given
by Congressman George Henry White,
the first Member of Congress to intro-
duce an anti-lynching bill more than a
century ago and the last Black Member
of Congress to serve for decades fol-
lowing Reconstruction.
In 1901, in the last speech he ever
gave on the floor, the last speech of a
Black Congressman for decades, he said
about the terror of lynching: ‘‘This evil
peculiar to America, yes, to the United
States, must be met somehow, some
day.’’
For too long in this body, in the U.S.
Congress, we have relied on the inevi-
tability of ‘‘some day’’ when it comes
to addressing this profound injustice.
For too long we have failed—failed—to
ensure justice for the victims of lynch-
ing, and failed to make clear that in
the United States of America, in this
great country, lynching is and always
has been not just a Federal crime but a
moral failure.
We have the opportunity right now,
again, to make history in this moment.
We have the opportunity right now to
recognize the wrongs of both our his-
tory and our recent past, to honor the
memories of those so brutally mur-
dered, and to leave a legacy that future
generations can look back on. We will
know, after some 200 attempts in this
body in more than 100 years, that on
this day, this moment in American his-
tory—notably Valentine’s Day; as one
leader once said, ‘‘Never forget that
justice is what love looks like in pub-
lic’’—that on this day, we can right
this wrong.
I would like to recognize the Senator
from California.
Ms. HARRIS. Thank you, Senator
BOOKER. Happy Valentine’s Day to you.
Mr. President, as in legislative ses-
sion, I ask unanimous consent that the
Senate proceed to the immediate con-
sideration of S. 488, introduced earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 488) to amend title 18, United
States Code, to specify lynching as a depri-
vation of civil rights, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Ms. HARRIS. I know of no further de-
bate on the bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.015 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1347
February 14, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the bill having been
read the third time, the question is,
Shall the bill pass?
The bill (S. 488) was passed as fol-
lows:
S. 488
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Justice for
Victims of Lynching Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The crime of lynching succeeded slav-
ery as the ultimate expression of racism in
the United States following Reconstruction.
(2) Lynching was a widely acknowledged
practice in the United States until the mid-
dle of the 20th century.
(3) Lynching was a crime that occurred
throughout the United States, with docu-
mented incidents in all but 4 States.
(4) At least 4,742 people, predominantly Af-
rican Americans, were reported lynched in
the United States between 1882 and 1968.
(5) Ninety-nine percent of all perpetrators
of lynching escaped from punishment by
State or local officials.
(6) Lynching prompted African Americans
to form the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People (referred to in
this section as the ‘‘NAACP’’) and prompted
members of B’nai B’rith to found the Anti-
Defamation League.
(7) Mr. Walter White, as a member of the
NAACP and later as the executive secretary
of the NAACP from 1931 to 1955, meticulously
investigated lynchings in the United States
and worked tirelessly to end segregation and
racialized terror.
(8) Nearly 200 anti-lynching bills were in-
troduced in Congress during the first half of
the 20th century.
(9) Between 1890 and 1952, 7 Presidents peti-
tioned Congress to end lynching.
(10) Between 1920 and 1940, the House of
Representatives passed 3 strong anti-lynch-
ing measures.
(11) Protection against lynching was the
minimum and most basic of Federal respon-
sibilities, and the Senate considered but
failed to enact anti-lynching legislation de-
spite repeated requests by civil rights
groups, Presidents, and the House of Rep-
resentatives to do so.
(12) The publication of ‘‘Without Sanc-
tuary: Lynching Photography in America’’
helped bring greater awareness and proper
recognition of the victims of lynching.
(13) Only by coming to terms with history
can the United States effectively champion
human rights abroad.
(14) An apology offered in the spirit of true
repentance moves the United States toward
reconciliation and may become central to a
new understanding, on which improved ra-
cial relations can be forged.
(15) Having concluded that a reckoning
with our own history is the only way the
country can effectively champion human
rights abroad, 90 Members of the United
States Senate agreed to Senate Resolution
39, 109th Congress, on June 13, 2005, to apolo-
gize to the victims of lynching and the de-
scendants of those victims for the failure of
the Senate to enact anti-lynching legisla-
tion.
(16) The National Memorial for Peace and
Justice, which opened to the public in Mont-
gomery, Alabama, on April 26, 2018, is the
Nation’s first memorial dedicated to the leg-
acy of enslaved Black people, people terror-
ized by lynching, African Americans humili-
ated by racial segregation and Jim Crow, and
people of color burdened with contemporary
presumptions of guilt and police violence.
(17) Notwithstanding the Senate’s apology
and the heightened awareness and education
about the Nation’s legacy with lynching, it
is wholly necessary and appropriate for the
Congress to enact legislation, after 100 years
of unsuccessful legislative efforts, finally to
make lynching a Federal crime.
(18) Further, it is the sense of Congress
that criminal action by a group increases the
likelihood that the criminal object of that
group will be successfully attained and de-
creases the probability that the individuals
involved will depart from their path of crim-
inality. Therefore, it is appropriate to speci-
fy criminal penalties for the crime of lynch-
ing, or any attempt or conspiracy to commit
lynching.
(19) The United States Senate agreed to
unanimously Senate Resolution 118, 115th
Congress, on April 5, 2017, ‘‘[c]ondemning
hate crime and any other form of racism, re-
ligious or ethnic bias, discrimination, incite-
ment to violence, or animus targeting a mi-
nority in the United States’’ and taking no-
tice specifically of Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation statistics demonstrating that
‘‘among single-bias hate crime incidents in
the United States, 59.2 percent of victims
were targeted due to racial, ethnic, or ances-
tral bias, and among those victims, 52.2 per-
cent were victims of crimes motivated by
the offenders’ anti-Black or anti-African
American bias’’.
(20) On September 14, 2017, President Don-
ald J. Trump signed into law Senate Joint
Resolution 49 (Public Law 115–58; 131 Stat.
1149), wherein Congress ‘‘condemn[ed] the
racist violence and domestic terrorist attack
that took place between August 11 and Au-
gust 12, 2017, in Charlottesville, Virginia’’
and ‘‘urg[ed] the President and his adminis-
tration to speak out against hate groups
that espouse racism, extremism, xenophobia,
anti-Semitism, and White supremacy; and
use all resources available to the President
and the President’s Cabinet to address the
growing prevalence of those hate groups in
the United States’’.
(21) Senate Joint Resolution 49 (Public
Law 115–58; 131 Stat. 1149) specifically took
notice of ‘‘hundreds of torch-bearing White
nationalists, White supremacists, Klansmen,
and neo-Nazis [who] chanted racist, anti-Se-
mitic, and anti-immigrant slogans and vio-
lently engaged with counter-demonstrators
on and around the grounds of the University
of Virginia in Charlottesville’’ and that
these groups ‘‘reportedly are organizing
similar events in other cities in the United
States and communities everywhere are con-
cerned about the growing and open display of
hate and violence being perpetrated by those
groups’’.
(22) Lynching was a pernicious and perva-
sive tool that was used to interfere with
multiple aspects of life—including the exer-
cise of Federally protected rights, as enu-
merated in section 245 of title 18, United
States Code, housing rights, as enumerated
in section 901 of the Civil Rights Act of 1968
(42 U.S.C. 3631), and the free exercise of reli-
gion, as enumerated in section 247 of title 18,
United States Code. Interference with these
rights was often effectuated by multiple of-
fenders and groups, rather than isolated indi-
viduals. Therefore, prohibiting conspiracies
to violate each of these rights recognizes the
history of lynching in the United States and
serves to prohibit its use in the future.
SEC. 3. LYNCHING.
(a) OFFENSE.—Chapter 13 of title 18, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘§ 250. Lynching
‘‘Whoever conspires with another person to
violate section 245, 247, or 249 of this title or
section 901 of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 3631) shall be punished in the same
manner as a completed violation of such sec-
tion, except that if the maximum term of
imprisonment for such completed violation
is less than 10 years, the person may be im-
prisoned for not more than 10 years.’’.
(b) TABLE OF SECTIONS AMENDMENT.—The
table of sections for chapter 13 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 249 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘250. Lynching.’’.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Con-
gratulations.
Ms. HARRIS. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent. Thank you to all of our col-
leagues.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, late
last night, we received the text of the
appropriations agreement to fund the
remaining portions of the government
through the end of this fiscal year,
which is through the end of September.
We were successful in doing some-
thing that we had not done in a long
time previously, which was to fund 75
percent of the Federal Government,
leaving 25 percent remaining. Unfortu-
nately, the remaining 25 percent was
held hostage to this unreasonable and
unnecessary debate over whether we
should fund border security. I say the
debate was unnecessary because I
thought that we all shared a conviction
that it was important to secure our
border.
It is important to note that most of
the bill that we will vote on later
today has been out in the public do-
main for more than 6 months. It is the
product of bipartisan deliberation by
the Appropriations Committee and has
been available to any Senator who
might want to be acquainted with the
details.
The part that is relatively new is the
detail relative to border security. I am
pleased that, notwithstanding Speaker
PELOSI’s statement that physical bar-
riers are somehow immoral, this does
authorize and fund up to 55 miles of ad-
ditional fencing along the U.S.-Mexico
border.
I believe that border security con-
sists of three components: physical
barriers in hard-to-control locations;
technology, which is important as a
force multiplier; and then, of course,
the boots on the ground—the Border
Patrol agents, who are absolutely es-
sential. I am pleased to say that this
piece of legislation incorporates all
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.016 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1348 February 14, 2019
three of those components of what
makes up smart and sensible border se-
curity.
I am also happy to see that the ini-
tial demands made by our colleagues
across the aisle that we limit the num-
ber of detention beds are not in this
bill and that law enforcement can con-
tinue to detain people with criminal
records who happen to be illegally in
this country so that we can discourage
and deter further illegal immigration.
One of the worst aspects of our bro-
ken immigration system is this notion
of catch-and-release. During the
George W. Bush administration, I re-
member talking to Secretary Chertoff
about this huge upsurge in Brazilians
coming across our border. I asked Sec-
retary Chertoff why we were seeing all
these Brazilians coming. He said it was
catch-and-release. They knew that if
there were no penalty associated with
coming across or if they wouldn’t be
detained, there was no deterrence.
I am glad to see that this appropria-
tions bill, which will prevent another
government shutdown, contains no cap
on detention beds to detain criminal
aliens and others who are exploiting
vulnerabilities in our immigration sys-
tem.
I would say, though, one of the things
that is notably absent in this bill is an
extension of the Violence Against
Women Act, which provides resources
to assist women who are victims of do-
mestic violence and sexual assault. Re-
publicans made absolutely clear from
the get-go that we wanted to extend
the current law. I am incredulous that
our Democratic colleagues objected to
extending the current law, the Vio-
lence Against Women Act.
It is really hard for me to believe
that Speaker PELOSI and House Demo-
crats object to a modest extension of
this critical legislation, which helped
countless victims receive the support
they need, but because of the political
jockeying, the Violence Against
Women Act will expire at midnight to-
morrow. There were two options avail-
able to us. One was to provide an ex-
tension through the end of the fiscal
year—through the end of September—
which would have allowed us to work
on a long-term reauthorization under
regular order. The second option,
which our Democratic colleagues
chose, is to do nothing and let this im-
portant legislation expire while trying
to plot out a long-term plan. The
choice seemed pretty obvious to me,
but apparently not to Speaker PELOSI
and not to the Democratic leader here
in the Senate.
Since my days as attorney general, I
have long been a believer in advocating
for victims’ rights. I am beyond dis-
appointed that we have ended up in
this situation. It is shameful to play
politics with the Violence Against
Women Act. But because of their ob-
struction, this important resource for
victims across the country will lapse
tomorrow night at midnight.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. President, we have seen a lot of
discussion lately about the so-called
Green New Deal. It has been stealing
headlines and capturing people’s imagi-
nations. It has been the subject of a lot
of social media interaction and cer-
tainly has had a lot of coverage on TV
and in the papers.
It has ended up causing quite a head-
ache for our colleagues across the aisle
who have tried to explain exactly what
they are trying to do and how they are
trying to do it. Last week, the junior
Senator from Massachusetts intro-
duced with Congresswoman OCASIO-
CORTEZ of New York a resolution that
was framed as a way to create jobs and
fight climate change. A number of
Presidential aspirants here in the Sen-
ate—and there are a lot—quickly em-
braced this resolution.
If you lived in a vacuum and you saw
only the text of the resolution, you
might say: Well, this is a pretty good
idea. It mentions things like creating
high-wage jobs, ensuring economic
prosperity, investing in infrastructure
and industry, and securing clean air
and water for all. That sounds pretty
good. But the resolution does not spell
out how we are supposed to achieve all
of those things.
Fortunately, one of the authors re-
leased a summary, which, oddly
enough, provided more details on what
the Green New Deal strives to do. It
tells us more than the actual resolu-
tion does. One of the lines of the reso-
lution says to ensure ‘‘prosperity and
economic security for all people of the
United States.’’ But the summary
clarifies that this is, in reality, a new
entitlement program on steroids. This,
at a time when our national debt just
hit $22 trillion, adds additional entitle-
ment spending on top of it.
This provision would guarantee every
person in the United States a job,
healthcare, education, healthy food,
and paid vacations. They might have
thrown in free beer and pizza too. But
they take it even a step further. Ac-
cording to the Green New Deal, the
government will foot the bill for any
person who is ‘‘unable or unwilling to
work.’’ If you don’t like your job, don’t
want to get out of bed in the morning,
don’t feel like going to the office
today, no worries. The Green New Deal
says you don’t have to go to work. And
the people who do go to work—the
hard-working taxpayers of America—
will foot the bill.
Another component of this Green
New Deal is to move to 100 percent
clean and renewable energy in just 10
years. I come from an energy State,
the State of Texas. When people think
about Texas, they think about oil and
gas, but we actually believe in all of
the above. We generate more elec-
tricity from wind than any other State
in the country because we have more
infrastructure deployed for that.
I actually think moving toward
cleaner and renewable energy is a good
thing. But they want to do it in 10
years, and they don’t answer the ques-
tion about how much it will cost. Some
estimates put the pricetag at $5.7 tril-
lion. That is $2 trillion more than our
annual tax revenue. In other words, it
would add $3.7 trillion to the national
debt.
Remember, that is just for the en-
ergy portion of the Green New Deal.
There are other components, as well.
There is Medicare for All, which, of
course, would destroy the private in-
surance industry and employer-pro-
vided coverage and would be
unaffordable. They offer free college,
paying the way for people who are able
but don’t want to work.
This is an extraordinary wish list,
combining the most costly ideas of the
radical fringes on the left in one place.
It is really remarkable they were able
to condense all of these into one place,
where we could understand the entire
picture.
The resolution also commits to up-
date ‘‘all existing buildings . . . to
achieve maximal energy efficiency,
water efficiency, safety, affordability,
comfort, and durability.’’ I am all for
local and State government and, where
it is appropriate, Federal Government
to talk about building codes and en-
ergy efficiency. That is a desirable
thing. But to try to retrofit every gov-
ernment building, every airport, every
football stadium, every home, every
grocery store, and every shopping
mall—every single building in the
United States would have to be up-
dated. How crazy is that? How much
would that cost?
On second thought, I guess we don’t
have to worry about updating airports
because the Green New Deal also calls
for building ‘‘high-speed rail at a scale
where air travel stops becoming nec-
essary.’’ I saw an interview with our
friend the Senator from Hawaii, who
was asked about that component of the
Green New Deal. She said: Well, that
wouldn’t work very well for Hawaii.
High-speed rail wouldn’t exactly get
you from the west coast out to Hawaii.
I hate to burst their bubble, but this
is not something that is feasible or
easy to do. Look at California talking
about high-speed rail. Earlier this
week, Gov. Gavin Newsom announced
the State was hitting the brakes on a
high-speed rail project because it
would take too long and cost too much.
I bet Governor Newsom and I don’t
agree on a lot from a political stand-
point, but I agree with him on that.
Last March, California estimated
that the project would cost between $77
and $98 billion, and that is just to con-
nect Northern and Southern California.
I can’t imagine how much it would cost
to build a high-speed rail to connect
California to Maine. If the word
‘‘green’’ refers to the amount of money
this would cost, then at least that
point is accurate.
There are no details on how we are
going to pay for all of this, of course,
because our Democratic colleagues
know that the Green New Deal is en-
tirely fantasy—it is unrealistic. These
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.017 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1349
February 14, 2019
are just talking points that have been
designed to appeal to the fringe of their
political party and to make a political
statement. That is why a number of
our colleagues on the Democratic side
changed their tune once the majority
leader announced that the Senate
would vote on this resolution.
Generally speaking, in my experience
in the Senate, if you introduce a bill or
a resolution, you are thrilled to hear
the majority leader say he is going to
schedule it for a vote on the floor—but
not the Senator from Massachusetts,
one of the proponents of the Green New
Deal. Following the leader’s announce-
ment, he released a statement that de-
cried Senator MCCONNELL’s effort to
‘‘sabotage’’ the Green New Deal by his
giving them a vote on their resolution.
Apparently, holding a vote on some-
thing you have introduced is now a
form of sabotage in this wild and
wacky world in which we currently
live. The Senator from Minnesota, who
announced her bid for President, later
downplayed her support and brushed it
all off as aspirational.
Our constituents didn’t send us to
Washington to advocate for partisan
wish lists that will never be voted on.
They want us to be accountable as
their elected Representatives. They
sent us here to craft legislation that
can and will make our country strong-
er. This Green New Deal is nothing
more than a Socialist agenda that is
being disguised as feel-good environ-
mental policy, and it is indicative, un-
fortunately, of the hard left turn our
friends across the aisle, the Democratic
Party, have taken.
The Green New Deal is not what our
country needs, and as we have heard
from both Republicans and Democrats
over the last several days, it is not
what our country wants.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, later
today, we hope we will have an oppor-
tunity to vote on legislation that will
fund the government and provide much
needed support for border security.
While no agreement is perfect and not
everybody gets everything one wants,
this makes a significant downpayment
on a border wall as well as on other
border security measures. At the same
time, it funds all of the appropriations
bills for this fiscal year.
I hope, as our Members review the
text, they will have an opportunity to
conclude that we will be able to get the
votes that will be necessary to move
the legislation through the Senate and,
hopefully, ultimately, through the
House and to the President and that
the President will be able to sign it
into law. So stay tuned on that. Hope-
fully, that will all transpire later
today.
TAX REFORM
Mr. President, tax reform is working.
When Republicans took office 2 years
ago, we had one goal in mind, and that
was to make life better for the Amer-
ican people. Key to that goal was get-
ting our economy going again after
years of economic stagnation under the
Obama administration. We took action
to lift burdensome regulations, and in
December of 2017, we passed the his-
toric, comprehensive reform of our Na-
tion’s Tax Code.
Why the Tax Code?
Well, the Tax Code plays a huge role
in the health of our economy. It helps
to determine how much money individ-
uals and families have to spend and to
save. It helps to determine whether a
small business can expand and hire. It
helps to determine whether larger busi-
nesses hire, invest, and stay in the
United States. A small business owner
who faces a huge tax bill is highly un-
likely to be able to expand her business
or to hire a new employee. A larger
business is going to find it hard to cre-
ate jobs or to improve benefits for em-
ployees if it is struggling to stay com-
petitive against foreign businesses that
pay much less in taxes. A larger busi-
ness is also unlikely to keep jobs and
investment in the United States if the
Tax Code makes it vastly more expen-
sive to hire American workers.
Before we passed tax reform a year
ago in December, our Tax Code was not
helping our economy. It was taking
way too much money from American
families, and it was making it harder
for businesses, large and small, to cre-
ate jobs, increase wages, and grow.
That is why, after months of work, we
passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
This legislation cut tax rates for
American families, doubled the child
tax credit, and nearly doubled the
standard deduction. It lowered tax
rates across the board for owners of
small- and medium-sized businesses,
farms, and ranches. It lowered our Na-
tion’s massive corporate tax rate,
which, up until January 1 of last year,
was the highest corporate tax rate in
the developed world. It expanded busi-
ness owners’ ability to recover the
costs of the investments they make in
their businesses, which frees up cash
that they can reinvest in their oper-
ations and in their workers. It also
brought the U.S. international tax sys-
tem into the 21st century so that
American businesses would not be op-
erating at a competitive disadvantage
next to their foreign counterparts.
I am proud to report that the Repub-
licans’ economic policies are working.
Our economy is thriving. The economy
grew at a robust 3.4 percent in the
third quarter of 2018. January marked
the 11th straight month that unem-
ployment has been at or below 4 per-
cent. That is the longest streak in
nearly five decades. The number of job
openings hit a record high in Decem-
ber. Once again, there were more job
openings than job seekers. In fact, job
openings outnumbered job seekers by
more than a million jobs. Think about
that. There are more job openings than
there are people who are looking for
work. It is not just by a little but by a
lot—by a million job openings.
The Department of Labor reports
that the number of job openings has
outnumbered the number of job seekers
now for 10 straight months. Wage
growth has accelerated. Wages have
now been growing at a rate of 3 percent
or greater for 6 straight months. The
last time wage growth reached this
level was in 2009—a decade ago.
A Bloomberg article from yesterday
reported:
A strong labor market is proving to be [a]
blessing for job switchers as they pocket big-
ger raises amid record openings. Median
wage growth for those who jumped to new
positions picked up to 4.6 percent in January
from a year earlier—the fastest pace since
October of 2007.
Median household income is at an
all-time, inflation-adjusted high of
$61,372, and the list goes on.
These are a lot of statistics, but be-
hind those numbers are American fami-
lies whose lives are improving, thanks
to Republican economic policies—
American families who no longer have
to choose between a car repair and a
dentist’s bill; American families who
now have a little extra every month to
put away for the kids’ college or for
their retirement. Thanks to Repub-
lican economic policies, Americans are
feeling more optimistic and more hope-
ful about their futures.
Gallup reports: ‘‘Americans’ opti-
mism about their personal finances has
climbed to levels not seen in more than
16 years, with 69 percent now saying
they expect to be financially better off
‘at this time next year.’ ’’
There are 57 percent of Americans
who ‘‘rate the economy as excellent or
good,’’ according to Gallup, which is
the highest level since January of 2001.
There are 69 percent of Americans
who say that now is a good time to find
a quality job, which is the highest per-
centage that Gallup has ever recorded.
There is optimism in this country.
There is optimism within families, and
there is optimism within small busi-
nesses. There is optimism at every
level when it comes to this economy
and the jobs and the wages that are
being created as a result of these eco-
nomic policies.
When it came time to draft tax re-
form, we had hoped it could have been
a bipartisan endeavor. After all, many
of the ideas that we included were the
product of both Republican and Demo-
cratic proposals. As someone who has
been around tax policy for a number of
years and had served as a member of
the Senate Finance Committee when
tax reform was written, I have seen
many of the bills that have been intro-
duced.
A few years ago, I led a task force
that took ideas from both sides and in-
corporated them into a document that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.019 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1350 February 14, 2019
we put out there that provided for
many of the ideas that were included in
tax reform, and some of those were
Democratic ideas. What happened, un-
fortunately, was that the Democrats
were not over the 2016 election, and
they absolutely refused to collaborate
on tax reform legislation. Now they are
trying to pretend that the economic
progress we have made over the past 2
years doesn’t exist.
In a recent tweet, one Democrat
Presidential hopeful here in the Senate
went so far as to actively mislead
Americans about tax reform by falsely
suggesting that tax reform raised taxes
for the middle class when, instead, it
lowered taxes for an estimated 90 per-
cent of middle-class Americans. The
Washington Post called her tweet
‘‘nonsensical and misleading.’’ Presum-
ably, most Americans are well aware
that the size of their tax refunds has
nothing to do with the size of their tax
bills.
That statement—made by a Demo-
cratic candidate for President—peddles
a blatantly false narrative in the hopes
of scoring political points, and for that
statement, she was awarded four
Pinocchios by the Washington Post,
which is about as big a whopper as you
can get. Luckily, no matter how much
the Democrats try to pretend that our
economy isn’t improving, they can’t
hide the reality that Republican eco-
nomic policies are making life better
for American families.
I am proud of everything we have ac-
complished so far, and we are going to
keep working to ensure that our econ-
omy can thrive for the long term and
to make sure that every American will
have access to a secure and prosperous
future.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I rise
today to speak on the government
funding agreement announced last
night. I greatly appreciate the work of
Senator SHELBY, Senator LEAHY, and
the Appropriations Committee in their
efforts to reach a bipartisan agree-
ment. I appreciate the efforts of Sen-
ator MCCONNELL, Senator SCHUMER,
and our House counterparts, as well, to
reach an agreement.
I am glad we will avert another gov-
ernment shutdown and also make crit-
ical investments in several areas that
are important to my home State of
Minnesota; however, there is an impor-
tant piece of unfinished business that
wasn’t included in the agreement, and
that is to provide backpay for the em-
ployees of Federal contractors who
were forced out of work for more than
a month during the shutdown.
During the longest Federal shutdown
in history, thousands of Americans
who serve as contractors to the Federal
Government lost over a month’s pay
through no fault of their own, and
these are people who work as security
guards and clean office buildings, and
they work shoulder to shoulder with
Federal employees for all of us. Unfor-
tunately, and this is important, while
Federal employees have received back-
pay—a bill this Chamber passed unani-
mously—their contractor counterparts
have been left out in the cold with no
backpay.
I have introduced legislation, which
has bipartisan support, which would
right this wrong, and it should have
been included in the final budget deal,
but it appears that the White House
blocked it.
I have talked with many of my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle here
in the Senate Chamber, and I have not
found a single person who says contrac-
tors don’t deserve backpay. We all
agree on this, and that is why every
Democrat in this Chamber has cospon-
sored my bill, and that is why several
of my Republican colleagues and many
others in this room have not only co-
sponsored but have also expressed sup-
port for finding a solution to this chal-
lenge.
So why not provide backpay to con-
tractors in the funding bill before us
today? Because it appears the White
House apparently has said not to do it.
But I have talked to the White House
just in the last week. I didn’t hear any
fundamental reasons why our plan
couldn’t go forward and why challenges
couldn’t be resolved.
While I don’t claim to know the
White House’s motivation in opposing
this bill, I do know there are several
misconceptions about this legislation
that I would like to address today.
First, some have claimed that the
problem is just too complicated to
solve or that it would involve an un-
tested process, but that is not right.
My bill would allow Agencies to
make what is called equitable adjust-
ment to contract prices to compensate
contractors who provide backpay to
their furloughed employees. This equi-
table adjustment process is used regu-
larly by contracting officers and con-
tractors. It has already been used to
address other shutdown-related claims,
including hundreds of claims for shut-
down-related compensation this year
alone. This process has already been
used to pay contractors, just not for
backpay. So my bill would build on the
existing processes already in place.
These processes are established, and it
is just not that complicated.
Second, some have claimed that the
administrative costs of the bill would
just be too large, and that is simply
false.
It is true that Agencies would need
to take administrative steps to imple-
ment the bill, just as they do with the
passage of any legislation. But, again,
my bill builds on an existing adminis-
trative process that is used regularly
and efficiently without large adminis-
trative costs.
Let me be clear. If the White House
or anyone has suggestions on ways to
improve this legislation to make it
easier to implement, we are all ears.
We would be happy to accommodate
any reasonable suggestion; we just
haven’t seen any. We haven’t received
any specific suggestions.
Too often, contractors are invisible
to the public, but they suffered greatly
during this recent shutdown. Rep-
resentative AYANNA PRESSLEY and I re-
cently authored an op-ed about this,
and it included a story about a woman
named Tamela, whom we both met. We
wrote in our op-ed:
Tamela was worried that she would fall be-
hind on her mortgage and car payments, ru-
ining the good credit she’d worked so long
and so hard to build. And as she spoke, beads
of sweat rolled down her face. Was she nerv-
ous about speaking in front of a crowd? No.
As Tamela explained, she’s diabetic and has
high blood pressure. Without her regular
paycheck, she hadn’t been able to afford the
co-pay for a doctor’s appointment to have
her blood pressure tested and her prescrip-
tion renewed. So she was going without her
medicine.
I recently received a letter from
Annie, a Federal contractor in Duluth.
Annie wrote to me:
I am losing wages that I count on each
month to make significant payments to-
wards my student loans and contributions to
my savings, (including my retirement sav-
ings). I can honestly say I never thought I’d
be applying for unemployment, especially as
a 31-year-old, but today I did just that.
These employees deserve backpay.
They had nothing to do with creating
this crisis, and we should all be able to
come together in a bipartisan way to
make sure these Federal contract em-
ployees receive backpay. So I stand
here today to say I am going to con-
tinue working to get this bill passed,
and I look forward to continuing to
work with my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle to find a path forward.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, today
we hope to vote on a bipartisan, bi-
cameral agreement that will fully fund
the government and provide additional
measures to strengthen our border se-
curity.
I want to applaud all of the members
of the conference committee who
worked on this agreement. I particu-
larly want to recognize those Senate
Members, led by Chairman SHELBY and
Vice Chairman LEAHY, for negotiating
a bipartisan compromise that will keep
the government’s doors open. Neither
side got everything they wanted—that
is why it is called a compromise—but
in the end, fully funding the govern-
ment and keeping it open is what is
best for the American people.
What we saw during the 35-day gov-
ernment shutdown was that it took a
terrible toll on our Federal workers,
and it cost the U.S. economy $11 bil-
lion—including $3 billion that is gone
forever, according to the Congressional
Budget Office.
Across the country, Federal workers
have been very anxiously waiting to
see if we were going to come to an
agreement, if they were going to be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.020 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1351
February 14, 2019
able to pay their mortgages, afford gro-
ceries, and get their prescriptions.
Well, today, hopefully we can put their
minds at ease. We can pass this legisla-
tion, and hopefully the President will
sign it, because failure to do so would
once again deprive Americans of im-
portant government services and throw
our economy into a tailspin.
I urge all of our colleagues in Con-
gress to take up this funding legisla-
tion, to pass it, and the President to
sign it as soon as it reaches his desk.
Protecting our borders should not be
an exercise in partisanship, and I am
glad to see that this bill supports com-
monsense investments that focus on
the technology, infrastructure, and
personnel that are needed at the south-
ern and northern borders to provide ac-
tual security that works.
The bill provides $1.375 billion for
targeted fencing in vulnerable areas
along the southern border and more
than $800 million for Border Patrol
agents, better surveillance and screen-
ing technologies, and increased secu-
rity at our ports of entry. When
resourced and deployed appropriately,
these types of smart investments are
far more likely to interrupt the flow of
narcotics than a costly and ineffective
border wall.
Importantly, the legislation also in-
cludes $77 million for opioid equipment
and staffing to interdict fentanyl and
other synthetic opioids that are
shipped through international mail and
express consignment facilities. This is
particularly important to States like
mine, New Hampshire, where we have
the second highest overdose death rate
from opioids in the country. So many
of those deaths are caused by the syn-
thetic fentanyl. The opioid epidemic is
a true national emergency, and Federal
investments like these are needed to
stop the illegal flow of these drugs into
the country.
When Congress takes up and passes
this deal, it will not only pass the ap-
propriations bill for the Department of
Homeland Security but also six other
appropriations bills that have unfortu-
nately been waylaid by our shutdown.
This appropriations package supports
critical Federal investments across all
government Agencies, and I want to
highlight just a few of those, starting
with the programs funded in the bipar-
tisan Commerce, Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies appropriations bill
for fiscal year 2019.
As ranking member of the CJS Sub-
committee, I worked closely with my
colleague Senator MORAN from Kansas,
who chairs the subcommittee, and we
crafted what I believe is a truly bipar-
tisan bill that will promote the econ-
omy, protect the American people, and
secure our Nation’s leadership in
science and innovation.
For example, the fiscal year 2019 CJS
bill provides $468 million in dedicated
Justice Department grant programs to
tackle the opioid epidemic. The legisla-
tion will provide funding to State and
local governments and those organiza-
tions working on the frontlines—pro-
viding a balanced approach of law en-
forcement, treatment, and recovery re-
sources to help our communities that
are dealing with opioid and fentanyl
deaths. This amount is $21 million
higher than the fiscal year 2018 level
and $336 million higher than the Presi-
dent’s budget request. For commu-
nities desperately fighting opioid ad-
diction, any further delay in funding is
dangerous and could be deadly, so it is
critical that we pass this bill today.
Importantly, the legislation also con-
tains the highest funding level ever for
the Office on Violence Against
Women—$497.5 million for critical pro-
grams that provide training for police
officers and prosecutors, rape preven-
tion programs, and funding for wom-
en’s shelters.
While I am glad that the appropria-
tions package provides funding for
these Violence Against Women Act
programs, more work needs to be done
to better support survivors of domestic
and sexual violence. I look forward to
continuing to work with my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle to address the
complex issue of domestic violence.
The appropriations package also sup-
ports investments in our national in-
frastructure and provides more than
$49 billion to the Federal Highway Ad-
ministration to modernize our high-
ways and repair our bridges.
This legislation would also provide a
$1.3 billion increase for housing pro-
grams like rental assistance and home-
less support services. For us in New
Hampshire, that means that 9,500 low-
income households will continue to
have a place they can call home.
I am pleased that the appropriations
package includes a 1.9-percent pay in-
crease for Federal civilian employees.
This is a cost-of-living increase that is
long overdue.
During the shutdown, I had a chance
to meet with a number of our Federal
workers, and one of the things that im-
pressed me the most was the dedication
those workers had to their jobs and to
serving the people of this country.
They were going to work without get-
ting paid and without knowing when
they were going to get paid. Yet they
showed up every day because of their
commitment to the people of this
country.
In addition to passing this appropria-
tions package, Congress should take
further action to provide financial se-
curity to Federal employees and con-
tractors. We just heard our colleague
TINA SMITH talking about the impor-
tance of providing the pay to those
people who so far are not slated to get
backpay. I have cosponsored legisla-
tion to secure backpay for the Federal
contractor employees, including jani-
torial, food, and security service work-
ers who were furloughed or forced to
accept reduced work hours as a result
of the shutdown. I hope we in Congress
will take up and pass the bills Senator
SMITH outlined as soon as possible.
I know you know this, Mr. President,
because we have talked about it, but
Americans are tired of partisanship.
They expect their elected officials to
work together to come to a bipartisan
compromise and to do what is good for
the country, and I couldn’t agree more.
The Senate will soon consider an ap-
propriations package to supply Federal
investments for programs that support
national defense, small businesses, con-
servation of public lands, food assist-
ance for low-income families, and so
much more. This package also includes
compromised proposals to improve our
border security.
I hope that we will pass this package
this afternoon and that the President
will sign this legislation into law as
soon as it passes the House.
Federal workers are dedicated to
serving the American people, and they
have families to care for. They should
never again be used as pawns. We
should never again use shutting down
the Federal Government as an excuse
over disagreements over policy issues.
It is time for our elected leaders to
move away from the partisan politics
and to live up to the expectations of
our constituents. Let’s fund the gov-
ernment, and let’s do it today.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, Wil-
liam Barr is unquestionably qualified
to serve as Attorney General, a posi-
tion to which he was confirmed unani-
mously in 1991, in President George
H.W. Bush’s administration. Mr. Barr’s
record of public service and long career
in the law are exemplary. I have care-
fully reviewed his record, listened to
his testimony before the Judiciary
Committee, and questioned him for an
hour in my office. Given the significant
issues before the Department of Justice
and the fact that it is currently led by
an unconfirmed, Acting Attorney Gen-
eral, I will vote to confirm Mr. Barr.
It is imperative that the Senate con-
firm an Attorney General who is com-
mitted to allowing the Special Counsel
to complete his investigation
unimpeded. Mr. Barr gave this commit-
ment under oath to the Judiciary Com-
mittee and again to me in our private
meeting. He testified clearly that he
will not permit any interference in
Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation
into Russian attempts to influence the
2016 election. In fact, Mr. Barr told the
committee that he believes ‘‘the over-
arching public interest is to allow
[Special Counsel Mueller] to finish.’’
He also said he would resign if he were
ordered by the President to fire the
Special Counsel without good cause.
Mr. Barr testified, ‘‘The country needs
a credible resolution to these issues,
and if confirmed, I will not permit par-
tisan politics, personal interests, or
any other improper consideration to
interfere with this or any other inves-
tigation. I will follow the Special
Counsel regulations scrupulously and
in good faith, and on my watch, Bob
[Mueller] will be allowed to finish his
work.’’
Not only must the Special Counsel be
allowed to finish his work, but also his
conclusions must be as open and trans-
parent to the public as possible. The
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.022 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1352 February 14, 2019
Special Counsel regulations, put in
place during the Clinton administra-
tion, have guided administrations from
both parties for two decades. Those
regulations instruct the Special Coun-
sel to submit a confidential report to
the Attorney General, and Mr. Barr
testified that he will be as transparent
as possible about the report, consistent
with the law. He told me he will always
err on the side of disclosure and be-
lieves transparency is critical to the
public’s confidence in the investiga-
tion. When asked whether he would
allow the President or his attorneys to
edit any report, Mr. Barr told the com-
mittee, ‘‘That will not happen.’’
Mr. Barr and I also discussed the
memo he wrote in 2018 about obstruc-
tion of justice and his views on execu-
tive power. I asked him whether sub-
orning perjury would be obstruction.
He said yes. I asked him what he would
do if the President asked him to stop
an otherwise lawful investigation. He
said he would resign. We discussed the
political checks that exist to limit Ex-
ecutive power, and he described the
Special Counsel as a ‘‘super charged po-
litical check.’’
Some have suggested, however, that
Mr. Barr’s memo means he believes the
President cannot obstruct justice at
all. In a letter to Chairman Graham,
Mr. Barr responded: ‘‘Quite the con-
trary, [the memo] expressed my belief
that a President, just like anyone else,
can obstruct justice if he or she en-
gages in wrongful actions that impair
the availability of evidence. Nor did
the memorandum claim, as some have
incorrectly suggested, that a President
can never obstruct justice whenever he
or she is exercising a constitutional
function. If a President, acting with
the requisite intent, engages in the
kind of evidence impairment the stat-
ute prohibits—regardless whether it in-
volves the exercise of his or her con-
stitutional powers or not—then a
President commits obstruction of jus-
tice under the statute. It is as simple
as that.’’
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosen-
stein has said publicly that Mr. Barr’s
memo had no impact on the investiga-
tion. Mr. Rosenstein also noted, ‘‘Lots
of people offer opinions to the Depart-
ment of Justice, but they don’t influ-
ence our own decision making.’’
Mr. Barr’s views on executive power,
while legitimate, differ from my own
and do concern me as a member of the
legislative branch. His opinions high-
light the tension that sometimes
emerges among the branches of govern-
ment and which is rooted in the separa-
tion of powers. On any given matter, I
would likely argue for a more limited
approach to Executive power. Regard-
less of his philosophy, Mr. Barr has
noted correctly that the President is
not above the law.
Mr. Barr brings considerable experi-
ence to bear on important legal policy
matters at the DOJ. He testified that
he supports efforts to protect the civil
rights of LGBT individuals and that he
is against discrimination against any-
one on account of their gender identity
or sexual orientation. He further stated
that he is willing to support ‘‘red flag
laws’’ as a step toward preventing gun
violence.
Mr. Barr offered his commitment to
implementing the newly enacted
FIRST STEP Act, a bill I supported
and that he described as one that ‘‘rec-
ognizes the progress we have made over
the past three decades in fighting vio-
lent crime.’’ Mr. Barr is also com-
mitted to combating scams and fraudu-
lent schemes that target seniors,
which, as chairman of the Senate
Aging Committee, I have investigated
and urged the Department to
prioritize.
Finally, Mr. Barr has served our
country previously with distinction.
One hundred and twenty former offi-
cials and employees from various ad-
ministrations have praised Mr. Barr’s
‘‘character of unwavering commitment
to the rule of law without regard to
favor or politics.’’ His nomination is
supported by many leaders from the
law enforcement community, including
the Fraternal Order of Police and the
Federal Law Enforcement Officers As-
sociation. In his testimony before the
Judiciary Committee, Mr. Barr pledged
to run the Department of Justice with
professionalism and integrity. He noted
that the President did not seek any
promises from him and that he made
none to the President.
Mr. Barr has pledged his allegiance
to the rule of law, the Constitution,
and the American people. He has served
our country honorably in the past, and
I believe he will do so once again.
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise to
support William Barr’s nomination to
be Attorney General of the United
States. After meeting with Mr. Barr, I
am convinced he is a qualified can-
didate and is committed to upholding
our constitutional liberties.
Mr. Barr’s record of achievement and
civil service to our country stretches
back over 30 years. Early in his career,
he served as an intelligence analyst at
the CIA and an assistant attorney gen-
eral in the Department of Justice Of-
fice of Legal Counsel. He was later ap-
pointed Deputy Attorney General in
the George H.W. Bush administration
before becoming our 77th United States
Attorney General. Mr. Barr’s suit-
ability for the role of attorney general
has been tested before; in fact, he has
excelled in that capacity.
Concerns have been raised regarding
Mr. Barr’s position with respect to the
Second Amendment. Wyoming is a
State of gunowners, and I am a strong
defender of our Second Amendment
rights, so naturally I probed these con-
cerns. I had the opportunity to person-
ally meet with Mr. Barr and directly
ask him about his stance on the Second
Amendment. He gave me direct an-
swers and made it clear that he does
not support limiting our Second
Amendment rights.
Ultimately, the Constitution solely
grants Congress power of law-making. I
am prepared to work with my Senate
colleagues to protect against any ef-
forts that would undermine our con-
stitutional rights, and I will continue
to conduct congressional oversight on
the executive branch, a duty I take
very seriously.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
rise to vote against William Barr’s
nomination to serve as Attorney Gen-
eral. Although Mr. Barr has served as
Attorney General in the past, I do not
believe he is the right candidate to
lead the Department of Justice at this
time.
Americans are facing unprecedented
times. The President fired former FBI
Director James Comey to circumvent
and frustrate a Federal investigation.
Former Deputy Director of the FBI An-
drew McCabe confirmed today that he
opened an investigation into the Presi-
dent himself regarding his potential
ties to Russia after Comey’s firing.
Special Counsel Robert Mueller is in-
vestigating President Trump and his
campaign for collusion and Russian in-
terference in the 2016 Presidential elec-
tions. Some of the President’s close
confidants have been indicted, pled
guilty and are cooperating with the
Special Counsel. Yesterday, a judge
ruled that President Trump’s former
campaign manager, Paul Manafort,
lied to Federal investigators about his
interactions with Russians during the
campaign.
During this tumultuous time, Ameri-
cans need an Attorney General who
values transparency, who is inde-
pendent, and who can stand up to a
President who has shown repeatedly
that he believes that the Attorney
General of the United States is his per-
sonal attorney and not the attorney of
the American people. After closely fol-
lowing Barr’s nomination hearing and
analyzing his record, I do not believe
he will stand up to the President and
effectively lead the Department.
Before Barr was formally nominated
to be Attorney General, he wrote and
distributed a 19-page memo where he
characterized the Mueller investiga-
tion as ‘‘fatally misconceived’’ with
‘‘potentially disastrous implications
not just for the Presidency, but for the
Executive branch as a whole and for
the Department in particular.’’ Barr
wrote this memo well aware that his
knowledge of the facts surrounding the
Mueller probe is severely limited to
public reporting.
Nevertheless, Barr concluded that
Trump’s publicly reported interactions
with former FBI Director James
Comey could not constitute obstruc-
tion of justice and sent the memo to
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosen-
stein, Assistant Attorney General
Steve Engel, the Solicitor General,
White House Special Counsel, Jared
Kushner’s attorney, and Donald
Trump’s personal attorneys. He made
certain that everyone in Trump’s orbit
knew his name and knew about this
memo.
This behavior should alarm not only
Senators but every American. Former
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.006 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1353
February 14, 2019
FBI Director Comey testified under
oath that President Trump said to him,
‘‘I need loyalty, I expect loyalty.’’
President Trump publicly railed
against former Attorney General Ses-
sions for following the guidance of De-
partment of Justice ethics officials and
recusing himself from anything per-
taining to the Russia investigation.
During his confirmation hearing, Barr
would not commit to following the ad-
vice of career ethics officials at DOJ if
they recommend that he recuse himself
from the Russia investigation to avoid
any appearance of conflicts of interest.
Instead, he said that he would rely on
his own judgment. Mr. Barr is essen-
tially asking Senators to trust him and
his judgment. Why should Senators
trust his judgment when there are sys-
tems and processes in place that were
created for this exact circumstance?
Mr. Barr cannot call himself an insti-
tutionalist concerned with maintaining
the rule of law while seemingly being
unwilling to submit to the rule of law
when it applies to him.
It is not surprising that the Presi-
dent would select as his next Attorney
General someone who not only refuses
to recuse himself from the investiga-
tion but also believes that elements of
Mueller’s probe are ‘‘fatally mis-
conceived.’’
Finally, during his confirmation
hearing, Barr was repeatedly pressed
by Republicans and Democrats on
whether or not he would agree to re-
lease the final Mueller report in its en-
tirety. Barr would not commit to do so.
I believe that the report should be
made available not only to Members of
Congress but to all Americans so that
they can see the evidence for them-
selves and reach their own conclusions.
If we want Americans to trust their ju-
dicial system, we must insist on trans-
parency and honesty.
Beyond those issues, I am concerned
about Mr. Barr’s commitment to civil
rights. During his confirmation hear-
ing, he seemed ignorant about the dis-
parate treatment between Whites and
Blacks in our criminal justice system.
When he served as Attorney General
under President George W. Bush, he ad-
vocated for policies that have in turn
led to mass incarceration of nonviolent
offenders. In 2015, he publicly opposed
the Sentencing Reform and Corrections
Act, bipartisan legislation that would
have reduced Federal mandatory mini-
mums, and required the Bureau of Pris-
ons to provide more rehabilitative pro-
gramming to prisoners.
Last year, Congress passed the First
Step Act with broad bipartisan sup-
port. The First Step Act included simi-
lar provisions to the Sentencing Re-
form and Corrections Act. The First
Step Act will not be successful without
direction from the Attorney General. I
intend to use my position on the Ap-
propriations Committee to hold Barr
accountable and to make sure he is
proactively implementing this law.
Americans deserve to have an Attor-
ney General who is loyal to the office
and not to the President. I do not be-
lieve Mr. Barr is that Attorney Gen-
eral.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON BARR NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Barr nomination?
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
North Carolina (Mr. BURR).
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 54,
nays 45, as follows:
The result was announced—yeas 54,
nays 45, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 24 Ex.]
YEAS—54
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—45
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Burr
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table and that the President
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session for a pe-
riod of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
VETERANS’ AFFAIRS OVERSIGHT
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, it is
no secret that the 116th Congress got
off to a rocky start as we tried to ad-
dress the ongoing partial shutdown.
Despite that, I remain optimistic that
we can work together to get things
done for the American people.
Those looking for an example of how
to find common ground should look no
further than the important work Con-
gress has done, and continues to do, for
our veterans. The hearing room of the
Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee is
traditionally one of the most bipar-
tisan places in Washington. It is also
one of the busiest.
Last Congress, under Chairman ISAK-
SON’s leadership, we held 30 hearings,
considered 56 pieces of legislation, and
sent to the full Senate 17 of President
Trump’s nominees to serve our vet-
erans.
That spirit of cooperation continued
here on the floor. During the last ses-
sion of Congress, the Senate passed 23
major pieces of veteran-related legisla-
tion. As a result, the President signed
into law bills that significantly en-
hance healthcare, education, retire-
ment, and other benefits for our vet-
erans.
I want to talk briefly about two of
the more notable measures—the VA
MISSION Act and the Forever GI bill—
to underscore why it is so important
for Congress to operate in a collabo-
rative manner. Bipartisan oversight of
the Departments and Agencies that im-
plement the laws we pass in that
Chamber is critical to ensuring that
the executive branch follows the intent
of Congress. These two laws highlight
just how important that is.
Let’s start with the VA MISSION
Act. This law was passed to replace the
Veterans Choice Act, which was cre-
ated in response to the VA Health Ad-
ministration scandal of 2014. This was a
good first step. The Choice Program
addressed many shortcomings within
the VA system. However, my col-
leagues and I quickly learned it had its
own share of troubles. Specifically, we
heard repeated stories of difficulties
navigating the complex and confusing
bureaucratic process. Despite the new
reforms, many veterans were still fac-
ing unacceptably long wait times at
VA medical centers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.009 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1354 February 14, 2019
Through our oversight of the Choice
Program, we recognized that more
needed to be done to strengthen and
streamline VA healthcare services and
its community care programs. That
was the genesis of the VA MISSION
Act. One of the key reforms in the VA
MISSION Act is that it enables vet-
erans to seek quality healthcare serv-
ices in their own communities, whether
inside the VA system or from a private
sector provider.
Specifically, the law requires the De-
partment to establish access and qual-
ity standards that will be used as the
framework for the VA and the veteran
to decide when to get care in a VA fa-
cility and when to get care in the com-
munity. If the VA is unable to meet
certain designated access standards,
veterans will be given the option to re-
ceive care in the community. Last
week, the VA announced the proposed
new access standards to determine a
veteran’s eligibility for the community
care that will take effect this June.
I am pleased that the VA maintained
the spirit of the law in its proposed ac-
cess standards. We understood that by
providing additional access to commu-
nity healthcare resources, there would
be an added cost. As chairman of the
Appropriations subcommittee that has
jurisdiction over the VA, the entire
committee will be closely working
with the Department and my col-
leagues. Together, we will have the re-
sponsibility of making sure that the al-
location of resources to support vet-
erans’ healthcare is spent wisely.
Oversight is also crucial to uncover
negligence on the part of the Agencies
charged with implementing the law.
This is exactly what happened when
the VA failed to fully comply with the
housing stipend rates set by the For-
ever GI bill.
Passage of the initial GI bill after
World War II was seen as a turning
point in the way our Nation treated
those who have served. The program is
designed to give service men and
women the building blocks they needed
to succeed after leaving the military.
The problem is, those building blocks
have changed in the 70-plus years since
the GI bill was first instituted. Since
then, Congress modernized the GI bill
when it passed the post 9/11 GI bill.
After 17 years of war, it was once again
time for an update.
The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Edu-
cational Assistance Act—also known as
the Forever GI bill—brings educational
benefits to veterans so that they can
receive them in this modern era. It be-
came apparent, however, that the VA
was implementing key provisions of
the law incorrectly. When Secretary
Wilkie testified before the VA Com-
mittee last September, I pressed him
about the Department’s failure to fully
award the housing allowances for more
than 340,000 Forever GI bill bene-
ficiaries.
According to the statute, the VA
should have used the Department of
Defense’s 2018 basic allowance for hous-
ing rates. This should have been cal-
culated based on the ZIP Code where
the student takes the majority of
classes, rather than on the ZIP Code in
which the school’s main campus is lo-
cated. Instead, some GI bill recipients
were receiving housing stipends at the
2017 rate and based on the school’s ZIP
Code. This was clearly unacceptable.
Once it was evident that the VA was
not following the statute, Congress had
an obligation to act. That is why Sen-
ator SCHATZ and I introduced the For-
ever GI Bill Housing Payment Fulfill-
ment Act to demand an immediate fix
from the VA. That bill became law
within a matter of weeks from its in-
troduction.
With this law, what we are asking of
the VA is really threefold. The first is
to make every unpaid or underpaid vet-
eran whole. The second is to be ac-
countable for the errors that have hap-
pened and prevent them from recurring
in the future. The third is to fix the
problems to prevent them from recur-
ring so that we will not go through this
problem again. It is promising to see
that the VA has begun to carry out
some of the requirements that have
been dictated in the Forever GI Bill
Housing Payment Fulfillment Act.
The VA recently announced the
members of the tiger team that the VA
is required to assemble per the statute.
For those who are unfamiliar with the
term, a tiger team is a team of special-
ists tasked to achieve a specific goal.
In this case, it is comprised of six sen-
ior benefits and IT officials at the VA
who will be tasked with providing Con-
gress a detailed plan to correct this
egregious error. Hopefully, the move to
quickly establish this team is reflec-
tive of the seriousness with which the
Department takes this mandate. It is
frustrating that it has taken another
act of Congress to get to this point, but
all of us are committed to ensuring
that the VA follows the law as written.
In a spirit of cooperation, the leader-
ship of the congressional committees
who oversee the Department recently
sent a letter to Secretary Wilkie to re-
quest that the VA work collaboratively
with Congress throughout the imple-
mentation process. This message was
echoed during a recent subcommittee
hearing I chaired about the VA’s imple-
mentation of a modern, commercial,
electronic health record. It is impor-
tant to ensure that the VA is able to
share information with the Depart-
ment of Defense and community
healthcare providers while it under-
takes the largest health record mod-
ernization project in the Nation’s his-
tory. With all of the reforms getting
underway simultaneously, it is vital
for the VA to share information open-
ly, even predecisional information, so
that we can work together and have a
common understanding of the impact
of changes, including costs, and can as-
sess the challenges that may arise.
The laws we pass in this Chamber are
a key part of our legacy, but our over-
sight responsibilities are of equal im-
portance. The bipartisan manner in
which the Veterans’ Affairs Committee
works to uphold that oversight respon-
sibility sets an excellent example for
the rest of Washington to follow.
We appreciate the hard work of Sec-
retary Wilkie and that of his team and
all of those in the VA system who work
so very hard on behalf of our Nation’s
veterans. In working together, we can
ensure that veterans receive the bene-
fits they deserve and were promised.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
f
VICTIMS OF GUN VIOLENCE
Mr. MURPHY. I thank the Presiding
Officer.
Mr. President, from time to time, I
come to the floor of the Senate to
share with my colleagues stories of the
victims of gun violence. I had hoped
the statistics that consistently show
this country has a gun violence rate
that is 10 to 20 times higher than those
of other similar high-income nations—
data that shows this continuing epi-
demic of mass slaughter during which
we average a mass shooting almost
every day—would have compelled my
colleagues to action. It hasn’t. So I
have tried to come down to the floor as
often as I can to explain who these peo-
ple are and to explain the genius that
has been lost from this world when
lives are cut so short by gun violence—
gun violence that is largely prevent-
able in this country.
I come to the floor with an unusually
heavy heart because I want to talk
about some of the lives that were lost
a year ago today at the shooting in
Parkland, FL, at Marjory Stoneman
Douglas High School. It was a year ago
that I was actually walking to the
floor to give a speech on immigration
when I learned of another mass shoot-
ing. It hits hard for those of us who
represent Connecticut because we are
still working through the ripples of
grief that never ever disappear in a
community that has been shattered by
an episode of catastrophic gun vio-
lence—in our case, in Sandy Hook, CT.
In February of last year, 17 students
and teachers were gunned down in
their classrooms at Marjory Stoneman
Douglas High School. One of them was
Peter Wang.
Peter was 15 years old. He was a U.S.
Army Junior Reserve Officers’ Train-
ing Corps cadet. He was getting ready
to celebrate the Chinese New Year with
his family. His two younger siblings
and many other friends called him a
natural leader.
When the shooter entered the high
school, Peter had a choice to make: He
could run and protect himself or he
could try to help his fellow students in
need. He chose the latter. He chose to
hold a door open to help his classmates
escape. He saved other people’s lives
while he lost his own.
Classmate Jared Burns said: ‘‘For as
long as we remember him, he is a
hero.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.025 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1355
February 14, 2019
‘‘He yanked open a door that allowed
dozens of classmates, teachers and
staffers to escape,’’ officials said.
His middle school basketball coach
said that he was just a ‘‘joyful person.’’
His sacrifice, according to his coach,
‘‘just made perfect sense’’ because he
was that selfless.
Peter was posthumously accepted to
the U.S. Military Academy at West
Point for his heroic actions on that
day.
Alex Schachter was a freshman who
played the trombone and baritone in
the marching band, and he loved to
play basketball. He loved music so
much that in middle school, he took
two band classes so that he could get
ready to join the marching band in
high school, which was his dream. His
Eagle Regiment Marching Band actu-
ally won the State championship in
Tampa.
His dad said that he was just a sweet-
heart of a kid. He said that he just
wanted to do well to make his parents’
happy.
His dream was to attend the Univer-
sity of Connecticut. He told everybody.
He was only a freshman, but he knew
where he was going to college. He
wanted to go to my State, to Con-
necticut. He wore a UConn sweatshirt
almost every single day to school. His
favorite song was an old one by Chi-
cago, ‘‘25 or 6 to 4,’’ which is kind of an
odd choice for a 14-year-old. Yet
UConn’s band actually chose to play
that song at halftime at one of UConn’s
football games, and UConn admitted
Alex posthumously because his dream
was to be a UConn Husky.
Helena Ramsay was full of laughter
and had this infectious smile. She was
17 when she was shot that day. She
loved all kinds of music, although she
was mostly into K-pop. She had all
sorts of other interests too. She was in-
terested in human rights and the envi-
ronment. She joined the school’s
United Nations Club and the Christian
faith-based First Priority Group. She
was always looking out for her friends.
One of her friends said: ‘‘When I was
stressed out from my chemistry lab
that I thought I was going to fail, she
calmed me down and told me that it
was going to be OK.’’
One of her best friends said that she
was ‘‘one of the kindest people I’ve
ever met.’’
When the gunman walked into her
classroom, she turned to her friend to
make sure that her friend was safe and
told her to shield herself with books.
People described it as a ‘‘moment of
bravery in the face of horror.’’
Another hero that day was Aaron
Feis. He was an assistant football
coach, and he was a security guard. He
threw himself in front of his kids. That
is how he died that day.
The football program’s spokesperson
said:
[Aaron] died the same way he lived—he put
himself second. . . . He was a very kind soul,
a very nice man. He died a hero.
One of his football players who had
been going through leukemia treat-
ments remembered that Aaron had
guided him through those treatments.
He would send me prayers. He would send
me Bible scripts and just stuff to cheer up
my day.
Aaron died while protecting the kids
at that school.
These 4 stories are amongst those of
the 17 people who died at Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School. Yet 93
people die every day from gun violence.
Most of those are suicides. A bunch of
them are homicides. Others are acci-
dental shootings, but they are all pre-
ventable.
As we remember today the mass
shooting at Parkland, it is important
that even on those days on which no-
body puts up on cable news a mass
shooting, there are still somewhere
around 90 people who die every day,
and I will tell you about one of them.
Corey Dodd was 25 years old when he
died last month in Baltimore, MD.
That morning, he told Marissa, his
wife, to stay home and rest with their
3-year-old and their 3-week-old while
he took the 5-year-old twins to school.
After he dropped the twins off at school
and pulled up outside their home, he
was shot to death. The 3-year-old was
inside. Marissa had to tell her kids
that Daddy wasn’t coming home.
She said:
I’ve told the kids that Daddy is done. He’s
not coming back.
Their family was planning to move
because Corey was looking for work,
and they were going to move to wher-
ever he found work. He had recently
finished a program to earn his commer-
cial driver’s license. Things were look-
ing up for Corey and Marissa and their
four kids.
I didn’t know Corey, but I know
something about his death because I
happened to be in Baltimore on that
day. I happened to be at Corey’s kids’
school at the moment he was shot. I
was inside that school when an an-
nouncement came over the loud speak-
er that there was a code green. I didn’t
know what a code green meant. A few
minutes later, I found out that it is
what happens inside schools in Balti-
more when there is a shooting in the
neighborhood. They locked down the
school and our classroom and pulled
down the shades, and we turned off the
lights. A few minutes later, the police
notified us that the scene was clear,
that the school was safe, and that the
day could go on. Yet, unbeknownst to
me, just down the hall from me inside
that school were two twins whose fa-
ther had been shot blocks away from
that school. Their lives will never be
the same.
Part of the reason we care so much
about this epidemic is that it is not
just the victims; it is also about the
people who are left behind. Imagine
going to an elementary school in which
you fear for your life when you walk to
and from school and where parents of
your friends are shot at 10:30 in the
morning. It changes their brains, the
trauma these kids go through in a
school like that. It makes their little,
tiny, developing brains unable to learn.
There is a biological process that actu-
ally happens to these kids. That trau-
ma is what Parkland has been going
through for the last year, and that
trauma is what kids in Baltimore, New
Haven, Hartford, Chicago, and New Or-
leans go through every single day. We
are ruining millions of children all
across this country because of an epi-
demic that we could choose to solve,
that we could choose to do something
about.
This week, the House of Representa-
tives had a hearing and a meeting to
move forward with a universal back-
ground checks bill that is supported by
97 percent of Americans. It will pass
the House of Representatives, with Re-
publican and Democratic support, with
flying colors. Do you know what that
tells us? It tells us that the most im-
portant thing we could do to save lives,
to cut down on the 93 people who are
killed every day, is to pass that uni-
versal background checks bill. In
States that have universal background
checks, there is about 30 percent less
gun crime and fewer gun homicides
than in States that don’t have those
universal background checks.
As we remember 1 year since the
massacre at Parkland and as we strive
to understand that this is an epidemic
that takes 90 people every day, know
that it is within our power to do some-
thing about it. We can’t eliminate
every single gun death. We can’t stop
every suicide or every homicide, but
with commonsense legislation that is
supported by 97 percent of Americans,
we can make a big difference, and we
can send a signal to would-be shooters
who are contemplating violence that
they should not interpret our silence as
a quiet endorsement. It is up to us.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.
f
REMEMBERING WALTER JONES
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I come to
the floor with a heavy heart today. A
colleague in the House passed away,
and right at this very moment, down in
Greenville, NC, we have a number of
Congressmen and friends and family
members congregated to celebrate the
life and mourn the death of Congress-
man Jones.
Congressman Jones served in Con-
gress for over 24 years. His dad served
before that. Between the two of them,
the Jones family has represented the
eastern portion of North Carolina for 50
out of the last 53 years.
Now, Congressman Jones was some-
body who was a bit of a maverick and
a bit of an independent spirit on the
House side, and we didn’t agree on cer-
tain measures. But I never doubted his
sincerity and his heart and his commit-
ment to North Carolina and to this
great Nation.
He is survived by his wife Joe Anne
of over 50 years. In fact, they were
married in 1966.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.027 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1356 February 14, 2019
He has a number of people in the
statehouse who served with him, in a
chamber where I was speaker of the
house. They are mourning his death
today. I couldn’t be there in person be-
cause we have to be here for the votes
that we are taking up this afternoon,
but I wanted the Jones family to know,
and all the people in Eastern North
Carolina, how much I cared for and
loved Walter Jones.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, one of the
reasons why I continue to be here in
Washington rather than visiting with
family and friends of Congressman
Jones is that we have a very important
vote that we expect the Senate to take
up here sometime this afternoon.
It is a vote that is borne out of com-
promise. To quote Winston Churchill—
I think it was—it is the worst possible
option except for all the other options
considered up to this point.
It is not perfect, but it is important
that we get the votes and that we en-
courage the President to sign this bill
into law.
Now, I walked through the hallway
this morning, and I had the press come
up to me. Some in the press probably
want to report honestly, but others
want to create a narrative.
So the latest narrative is this: Sen-
ator, how do you feel about a bill that
just got published last night—1,200
pages—and you are going to be asked
to vote on it today?
I told them, specifically, because I
have been following this measure since
the last Congress. I said: Are you refer-
ring to the almost-1,200-page bill, of
which all but 41 pages were matters
that were taken up in the Appropria-
tions Committee, voted out of com-
mittee unanimously in all but one case
and with 26 votes in the other case? Are
you referring to that bill?
If the Senators are doing their job
and the Congressmen are doing their
job, they read that months ago when
they were passed out of the Appropria-
tions Committee. Most of this is not
new information. About 41 pages of it
relates to the compromise that ulti-
mately—because we couldn’t get a
compromise back in December—re-
sulted in the government shutdown.
It absolutely funds some of the Presi-
dent’s priorities for border security.
There are people that get caught up on
either end of the spectrum. It reminds
me of how my kids used to fight in the
back of the minivan when we used to
take them on vacations. It is a childish
argument: It is a wall.
No, it is not.
It is a wall.
No, it is not.
Look, it is steps taken forward in a
positive way for border security. It is a
structure that makes sense. It is tech-
nology. It is personnel. It is what we
need to ultimately secure the border.
Some people can call it a wall be-
cause you could argue that in total it
is. Other people could say it is not a
wall. I don’t care as long as you ulti-
mately recognize that voting for this
measure and sending the signal to the
President that we have his back, that
we understand his priorities, and that
we will continue to work on other
measures on a bipartisan basis makes
sense.
So I intend to support it today. It is
not a vote that I am going to enjoy,
but sometimes we have to do things
here to make progress, to compromise,
and to move on. We owe it to the
American people to keep the govern-
ment open. We owe it to border secu-
rity to listen to their recommendations
to fund people, technology, and infra-
structure. This is a step in the right di-
rection.
f
VALENTINE’S DAY
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, it was a
year ago today that I was presiding and
something occurred to me. One is that
in the 12 years that I have been in pub-
lic service, I have virtually spent none
of those Valentine’s Days at home.
Last year, I was thinking about how I
messed up. I didn’t even order flowers
or do the things that I would normally
do, although, I usually get flowers on
Valentine’s Day.
But then I started contemplating the
Senate rules, and I know that there are
a number of, well, things you just can’t
do on the floor.
I determined, for example, that you
can’t do an ad hoc prop and say some-
thing because it would be a violation of
the rules. So although I thought about
putting this heart up and presenting
this and saying, ‘‘I love my wife Susan
Tillis of 32 years,’’ I am not going to do
that because I think it would be a vio-
lation of the rules.
But in the event that someday we do
change the rules and we are able to
come to the floor and express our love
for our spouses and people who sac-
rifice as much as we do, I hope some-
day to be able to give that speech on
the Senate floor.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Georgia.
f
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, I rise
today to talk about an experience I had
this weekend that was extremely mem-
orable to me.
I used to live in Texas. I used to be
involved in businesses in the Valley, as
they call it there—from Brownsville to
Weslaco, to Edinburg, to McCowan.
This past weekend, a good colleague of
mine, Senator STEVE DAINES from
Montana, and I traveled to the south-
ern border to visit the Customs and
Border Patrol people, to visit with ICE
people, and to see firsthand what goes
on in a typical night. We were there
overnight on Sunday night. We had a
remarkable evening, and we saw first-
hand what these people are up against.
Before I make my comments, I want
to say that from Deputy Chief Ortiz all
the way down in the organization in
that sector—the McCowan sector that
we were in—the best of America is in
uniform right now, every day and
night, protecting our rights and privi-
leges here in the United States. I was
proud to meet these people and to be a
part of this trip.
What we saw this weekend is dis-
turbing on many levels. We spoke di-
rectly to Border Patrol agents. We
went to the retention center. We saw
firsthand that we have not just illegal
immigration there, but we have a na-
tional security crisis. We saw it first-
hand.
This is a situation that the border
agents face every day, and it is a grim
situation. It is shameful that we here
in Congress have not given Border Pa-
trol agents adequate resources to do
their jobs.
First, the real tragedy at the border
is the dramatic increase in illegal drug
trafficking. Even though the conversa-
tion in this room deals mainly with il-
legal immigration across that border,
in this sector, the drug traffic in-
creases are remarkable.
This year alone, fiscal year 2018—this
is from October 1 to today—we had a
22-percent increase of heroin seized at
the southern border, a 38-percent in-
crease of methamphetamine and a 73-
percent increase in fentanyl.
The amount of fentanyl seized by ICE
so far this year is enough to kill every
American citizen by overdose. Let me
say that again. The tonnage of
fentanyl seized is up 73 percent this
year across the entire southern border,
and that is not 100 percent of what is
crossing that border. That is a 73-per-
cent increase over the last year. The
tonnage that has been seized this year
is enough to kill every American cit-
izen by overdose.
What is so remarkable is the esti-
mate that only 7 to 10 percent of the
drugs that they are attempting to
bring across the border are actually
interdicted—less than 10 percent. That
is consistent with what our
SOUTHCOM combatant commander
tells us repeatedly year after year. By
the end of fiscal year 2019, CPB—Cus-
toms and Border Patrol—will have
seized 1.7 million pounds of narcotics
at the border.
The Border Patrol agents we spoke to
estimate that they are only able to
stop, again, about 10 percent, and that
is because they don’t have the re-
sources.
The movement of drugs from Mexico
to the United States at the southern
border is the greatest drug threat to
our country. These drugs pouring
across the border are destroying com-
munities across the Nation. Congress
has to act to give these Border Patrol
agents and our ICE agents the infra-
structure they need to address this dra-
matic spike in illegal drug trafficking.
I know that the illegal immigration
topic is a hot topic. I don’t disagree
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.028 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1357
February 14, 2019
with that, but we are not talking about
this at the level that we should.
We have had historic opioid legisla-
tion. I was a supporter of that. Now we
need to move on and make sure we se-
cure the southern border.
The second point I want to make is
that agents on the ground told us how
Mexican drug cartels just across the
border use migrants—illegal immi-
grants coming up out of Central Amer-
ica—to camouflage what they are doing
and to distract our border agents from
the real war that is going on, and that
is the intrusion of illegal drugs into
the country.
The cartels charge a toll for every in-
dividual who comes through their area
of control. It is amazing right now. The
charge is $8,000 per person. There are
some estimates that this toll business
on illegal immigrants coming across
the southern border is somewhere
around $2.1 billion in revenue for the
cartels. These are the illegal cartels
just south of the Rio Grande Valley in
Texas. This doesn’t account for the bil-
lions of dollars these cartels earn from
the drug trade every year, which is a
primary business.
There are some estimates that the $2
billion they get in tolls for illegal im-
migrants coming into the United
States is overshadowed by tenfold, rel-
ative to the drug trade. Some esti-
mates are $25 to $30 billion of first cost
value in revenue from the drugs that
are coming across that border.
Many of the illegal immigrants being
exploited by these cartels are unac-
companied children and family units.
We met some of these people. It breaks
your heart. The number of these to
claim asylum has surged at our south-
ern border since 2014. This massive
surge is due to loopholes in our asylum
and immigration laws.
These laws allow unaccompanied mi-
nors and family units to easily assert
broad asylum claims. Again, the num-
ber of family units, individuals with
children, and unaccompanied children
has skyrocketed over the last 5 years.
Due to certain provisions in the law
and court rulings currently enforced,
these children and individuals are re-
leased into the United States while
they are theoretically waiting for their
formal removal proceedings to begin
months or years down the road.
These loopholes, combined with pro-
grams like DACA, have led to a stag-
gering increase in the number of unac-
companied children and family units at
the border.
In fiscal year 2019 to date, there is a
280-percent increase in the number of
family units apprehended at the border
compared to the same point in fiscal
year 2018. From just 1 year ago, there is
a 280-percent increase.
The monthly apprehension numbers
we are currently seeing even surpass
those during the Obama administra-
tion. I think this chart shows it best.
We see what happened over here, in
blue, under the last administration.
This is a dramatic increase in the num-
ber of illegal apprehensions at the
southern border, primarily driven by
catch-and-release and the implementa-
tion of some of these loopholes we are
talking about right now. That was a
dramatic increase—more than a 21⁄2
times increase—250 percent in just 8
years.
The word got out that the new Presi-
dent, who was elected in November—
right here—said: Well, we are going to
enforce the law. They began to do that,
and we saw a dramatic decrease in ille-
gal immigrants coming across the bor-
der—a dramatic decrease.
Then there was a court case that
said: Well, you can’t really do that.
That court case is being appealed, and
what we have seen since then is that
the cartels are back in business. This is
one measure of the drug trade that we
don’t talk about. These are the poor
souls who are coming across our border
illegally right now.
By the way, we are at a point now
that is higher than at the peak during
the Obama administration. People say:
Well, you know, we don’t have a crisis
here. It is not a problem. Well, the
numbers are down.
I don’t know what numbers they are
looking at, but these are the numbers.
These are facts. I believe right now we
have a full-blown crisis at the southern
border.
I am not trying to define how we use
money to put up a border wall or any-
thing. That is not what I am trying to
do in this speech. What I am trying to
do is point out that we have a full-
blown crisis of illegal immigrants and
illegal drugs crossing the southern bor-
der. I saw it firsthand on patrol with
our border agents over the weekend. I
am contrasting that with years ago,
when I used to go across that same bor-
der, when this was not a crisis.
The last four Presidents have built
654 miles of barriers. We saw some of it
in this sector. They have built 654
miles of barriers. Now we have 2,000
miles of total southern border. The
four Presidents—from George H. W.
Bush all the way to President Obama—
have built border barriers because they
all agreed that this is a crisis. It was
intended to stop or slow down drug
trafficking and the illegal incursion of
illegal immigrants.
President Obama built 135 miles.
President Trump has 124 miles under
construction right now. What we have
been talking about here in the last few
weeks is just 55 miles; we heard today
it is an additional 55 miles.
The question is, Do these barriers
work? Well, we have three areas where,
over the last 30 years, border barriers
have been built—San Diego, Tucson, El
Paso—and we have actual numbers to
show that the illegal crossing of drugs
and illegal immigrants in those sectors
where those barriers were put up
dropped 95 percent. But what they have
done is, they have pushed this traffic
to areas that don’t have those barriers.
One of those was the McCowan district,
which we visited this weekend.
There are 250 miles of border across
19 counties. It is a crisis down there.
Right now, what we have there is 55
miles of barrier with 35 gaps in it. They
have 55 miles that were built in 2006 in
this sector. It is totally ineffective.
The quickest thing we could do in that
sector is close the 35 gaps. There were
supposed to be gates, but there are no
gates there. There is some litigation
regarding that, but we need to fix that
and make that barrier effective.
The U.S. Capitol Police—who do such
an outstanding job protecting Members
of Congress, our staffs, the Capitol
building, and several blocks around
every day—employs about 2,000 offi-
cers. The Metropolitan Police Depart-
ment here in Washington has over 4,000
employees to help protect an area of 68
square miles.
Let’s put that in perspective. There
are 55 miles of barrier with 35 miles of
gaps in it, and only 3,000 agents in that
entire sector. I think you can see
where the problem might be.
We have to give these men and
women the tools they need to be suc-
cessful and to protect our country. The
longer we wait to take action, the
more money cartels will make off drug
trafficking, the more people will die,
the more families will be destroyed,
and the longer our communities will be
in danger.
Some estimates show that my home
State of Georgia has over 70,000 gang
members in it—70,000. It is a destina-
tion for these people.
There were Hondurans who were ap-
prehended that night while we were on
patrol. We asked them where they were
going. One said New York; one said
Miami; and one said Woodstock, GA.
As we continue to debate this issue, I
want to say clearly and unequivocally
that Congress has to do better. We all
must do better. For the men and
women who put their lives on the line
every day to protect our Nation’s bor-
der, we must do better for our country.
We can start by passing disaster
funding for the people in Georgia and
other States who are hurting from his-
toric hurricanes and fires. It is out-
rageous that the funding package being
considered here today does nothing to
help these farmers and victims of these
wildfires out west and of the hurri-
canes in the southeast.
When President Trump came to Geor-
gia to tour the damage after the hurri-
cane, he said:
Farmers really got hurt, especially in
Georgia, but we’re going to get it taken care
of.
Vice President PENCE said:
We will rebuild these crops and these com-
munities. We will restore southwest Georgia.
We will restore the Sunbelt region bigger
and better than ever before.
We have a moment right now in time
where Congress needs to act. Today we
have to get this funding done and move
forward. We have to get this disaster
relief, I think, moved forward in a sup-
plemental, if that is what we are going
to do, but this has to happen imme-
diately. Disaster relief should be con-
sidered right now—no more excuses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.029 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1358 February 14, 2019
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President,
today I want my colleagues to listen to
some ideas that I have about tariffs,
generally, and where we are on tariffs
and where we might be on tariffs in a
couple of weeks, depending on what the
Secretary of Commerce says, because
in a few days, that Secretary is ex-
pected to provide the President a re-
port.
This report will detail his Depart-
ment’s findings in the investigation of
whether imports of automobiles and
auto parts pose a national threat to
the United States. Common sense tells
me it doesn’t. Let me repeat that be-
cause I think it is important for us to
understand whether the cars that ev-
eryday Americans rely on to get to
work, to drive their children to
schools, to visit their families—wheth-
er or not the importation of those
automobiles threatens national secu-
rity.
Now, having said that, you might
think that I disagree with the Presi-
dent—and I don’t—that we must have
fair and enforceable trade agreements
that benefit Americans. Sometimes we
have to make hard decisions in order to
get and have fair and enforceable
agreements. I do not agree that we
should alienate our allies or jeopardize
the health of our economy to achieve
the good outcomes of fair and enforce-
able agreements.
The Tax Foundation has found that a
25-percent tariff on auto imports would
amount to roughly a $73.1 billion tax
increase. According to the Center for
Automotive Research, a 25-percent tar-
iff on auto imports would also result in
the loss of 700,000 jobs and raise the
price of an average car by nearly $7,000.
Dealers would see a decline in annual
sales by as many as 2 million vehicles.
Consumers would face up to a 10-per-
cent increase in the cost of repairs and
replacement parts. In short, raising
tariffs on cars and parts would be a
huge tax on consumers who buy or
service their cars, whether those cars
are imported or domestically produced.
Make no mistake, Americans will be
paying those taxes.
Tariffs are a tax paid at the time of
import. Historically, they have been a
protectionist tool intended to prop up
domestically produced goods by mak-
ing foreign goods more expensive. Tar-
iffs are not a long-term solution, and
nobody wins with the producing of tar-
iffs.
While they may provide short-term
protection for domestic industries,
they do so at the expense of ordinary
consumers and industries increasingly
dependent on a complex global supply
chain. On the whole, I think this all
adds up to damaging the economy. For
an administration, including this Sen-
ator and most Republicans on this side
of the aisle, who have been crowing
about the benefits of the tax bill of late
2017 and the jobs it has created and the
good it has done for workers, why
would you want to put on a $73 billion
tax increase through tariffs that would
undo a lot of good that we say and the
President says the tax bill has done.
Let me repeat it again. On a whole,
this is going to be damaging to the
economy.
A 2018 study by the International
Monetary Fund reviewed tariff changes
across 151 countries between the dec-
ades of the 1960s to 2014. The Inter-
national Monetary Fund found that
tariff increases led to less output and
less productivity, and, then, you know
what happens. There is more unem-
ployment, and when you have more un-
employment, you get greater inequal-
ity.
The recent U.S. tariff increases have
invited tariff retaliation from our trad-
ing partners. I know because Iowans
are bearing the brunt of this retalia-
tion. Imposing tariffs on auto parts
will inevitably invite more retaliation,
and we simply can’t afford more of
that.
The United States must continue to
lead the world on trade and economic
issues, as we have for at least the pe-
riod of time since World War II. We
have benefitted from one of the most
open markets in the world, and we
must continue to lead the world by
providing a good example. We have led
to a better world since World War II,
and the results have been these. Sev-
eral decades ago, 50 percent of the
world’s population was in poverty.
Today, it is less than 10 percent. Re-
cently, in two or three references I
have seen, the fact is that right now or
next year, as for major middle class
status in the various countries around
the world and in different ways around
the world, half of the world is middle
class. President Trump is right to hold
our trading partners accountable. So I
don’t find fault with him there.
We can’t take benefits we have re-
ceived from international trade for
granted. International trade has been a
tremendous benefit to farmers and
businesses in my State of Iowa and
across the country. We are better off
because we can sell our products
around the world.
Our farmers say they don’t want aid
from the Federal Treasury. They want
markets. They want to trade. You de-
velop those markets and you keep
those markets. Tariffs and retaliation
send a signal to other countries that
you might not be a reliable supplier,
and they go elsewhere to create rela-
tionships that they can depend on.
America ought to be able to be de-
pended upon any place in the world
from the standpoint of trade.
When you talk about America and
Iowa exporting products, these are
some of the best products in the world.
In this vein, then, I hope the President
will heed my call to forego the auto
tariffs and instead focus on opening up
new markets.
The U.S. auto industry is a major
driver of our economy, supporting
nearly 10 million American jobs and ac-
counting for 3 percent of the gross do-
mestic product. Without question, any
tariffs that are imposed will have a
negative effect on the U.S. auto indus-
try and our economy.
Our focus, instead, should be on
strengthening our relationships with
our allies, while targeting China’s
harmful trade practices and policies.
Tariffs on autos and auto parts will not
help us achieve these critical prior-
ities.
f
TAX POLICY
Mr. GRASSLEY. On another subject,
I would like to, as I did yesterday, re-
mind my colleagues about some of the
benefits of tax policy. This is speaking
about tax policy that I thought would
be adopted as part of the upcoming ap-
propriation bill to make sure we don’t
shut down government.
For several months now, we have
been working to extend a set of tax
provisions that expired at the end of
2017. Around here we commonly refer
to these as ‘‘tax extenders.’’ We have
also been working to enact bipartisan
disaster tax relief to help families and
businesses that continue to recover
from the disasters that occurred across
the country in 2018, and I thought that,
too, would be in the bill we are going
to vote on later today.
The best and most timely option to
advance these provisions is with the
government funding deal being worked
on this week, but that isn’t going to
happen. There have been press reports
stating that if the extenders aren’t
part of the funding bill, they are dead,
and I reject that conclusion.
Regardless of what happens on the
bill to keep the government open, I
will continue to fight to get the ex-
tenders enacted and to work toward a
longer term resolution. Since the
House has failed to send us a govern-
ment funding bill that includes the tax
extenders and disaster tax relief provi-
sions, look for me to introduce a bill
addressing these tax matters here in
the Senate, and I would ask my col-
leagues on the Finance Committee to
join me in that effort.
When these provisions were extended
early last year, the tax extenders had
been expired for more than a year al-
ready. Now we are back in the very
same place, with these tax incentives
now expired for more than a year,
again.
It seems to me that the right thing
to do now is to extend these provisions
for 2018 and 2019. Some people are say-
ing you ought to do it longer. Why 2
years?
First, we need to provide clarity for
taxpayers trying to file their 2018 re-
turns, which are due in just over eight
weeks. Even though the year has obvi-
ously ended, a repeated extension of
many of these provisions has led indi-
viduals and businesses to assume that
we will do so again.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.031 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1359
February 14, 2019
These business people relied on last
year to make business decisions. In
other words, people did what we want-
ed them to do when these provisions
were created. We shouldn’t retro-
actively punish them now for making
those decisions that we wanted them to
make.
Second, we should provide certainty
for this year to give room to take a
long-term view on all of the tax ex-
tenders. I want to stress that I want to
find a long-term resolution of these
provisions so that we can stop repeated
extensions of temporary tax policy, but
while we work on that, these extenders
are intended to be incentives, and, to
be successful, they need to be in effect
when individuals and businesses are
considering whether to make the in-
vestments required to take advantage
of these particular tax extenders.
I want to go into more detail on what
the tax extenders are. The numbers
have changed over time, but there are
now currently around 26 temporary tax
provisions that expired at the end of
2017. At one time we were dealing with
50 to 55 such tax extenders, so we have
reduced the number considerably. What
we are dealing with now include provi-
sions incentivizing alternative fuels,
electric vehicles, and the construction
of energy-efficient homes. These are
provisions that incentivize the produc-
tion of coal on Indian lands, provide an
exclusion from income of the discharge
of indebtedness on a principal resi-
dence, and provide a deduction for tui-
tion and related expenses. Within these
26 provisions there is probably some-
thing that is very important to all 100
Senators, whether you are Republican
or Democrat.
I want to focus on two of them in
particular. The first is the railroad
track maintenance credit, otherwise
known as the short line credit. This
provision provides short line railroads
a credit equal to a percentage of the
capital they invest to maintain and im-
prove their tracks.
Short line railroads are small busi-
ness railroads that are vital to keeping
rural and small town America con-
nected to the national economy. They
are a particularly important part of
our transportation system for getting
agricultural and other products to
market across the country and, hope-
fully, abroad.
For example, the Iowa Interstate
Railroad, which operates between
Council Bluffs and Chicago, connects
Iowa companies such as the Elite Oc-
tane ethanol plant in Atlantic, IA, to
the world market.
According to the American Short
Line and Regional Rail Association,
short line railroads operate more than
47,500 miles of track and make up 29
percent of the freight rail network of
our Nation.
In a report prepared by PWC last
year, it was noted that the short line
industry directly provided more than
17,000 jobs in the United States in 2016
and supported more than 61,000 jobs
overall. This credit has been extended
many times since it was first enacted
on a temporary basis in 2004. Legisla-
tion introduced in the last Congress
would have made the short line credit
permanent, and the bill had 56 cospon-
sors in the Senate. The bill is led by
Senators CRAPO and WYDEN and has al-
ready been reintroduced for this Con-
gress.
Another tax extender that is very im-
portant, particularly for Iowa, is the
biodiesel tax credit. Generally, this
provision provides a tax credit of $1 per
gallon for biodiesel and renewable die-
sel. This credit helps provide for a
more sustainable future by reducing
our dependency on fossil fuels and pro-
moting a renewable domestic resource.
Plans for promoting environmental
efficiency have been in the news lately,
and an extension of the biodiesel tax
credit is needed to keep more people
working at their jobs in this industry.
For example, I have learned that West-
ern Iowa Energy in Wall Lake, IA, has
reduced runtime forecasts by 60 per-
cent, consequently running at 40 per-
cent capacity. They are also putting
capital improvement projects on hold.
In Wall Lake, this reduction in
runtimes means that there are 26
trucks per day that are not operating,
and potential layoffs are on the horizon
if the tax credit is not extended as soon
as possible.
According to the National Biodiesel
Board, the U.S. biodiesel industry sup-
ports more than 60,000 jobs and gen-
erates more than 11 billion in economic
impact.
A group of renewable energy stake-
holders wrote to congressional leaders
last week. Their letter reads in part:
‘‘Allowing these tax incentives to lapse
has created uncertainty for investors
and the industry—‘‘
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Will the Senator yield?
Mr. GRASSLEY. ‘‘jeopardizing the
long-term investments necessary for
the development of these biofuels.’’
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the RECORD let-
ters to Congress regarding tax extend-
ers from biofuel and biodiesel busi-
nesses and associations across the
United States.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
FEBRUARY 5, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House,
Washington, DC.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Senate Majority Leader,
Washington, DC.
Hon. RICHARD NEAL,
Chairman, House Committee on Ways & Means,
Washington, DC.
Hon. CHARLES GRASSLEY,
Chairman, Senate Finance Committee,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
House Republican Leader,
Washington, DC.
Hon. CHARLES SCHUMER,
Senate Democratic Leader,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN BRADY,
Ranking Member, House Committee on Ways &
Means, Washington, DC.
Hon. RON WYDEN,
Ranking Member, Senate Finance Committee,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI, REPUBLICAN LEADER
MCCARTHY, MAJORITY LEADER MCCONNELL,
DEMOCRATIC LEADER SCHUMER, CHAIRMAN
NEAL, RANKING MEMBER MCCARTHY, CHAIR-
MAN GRASSLEY, AND RANKING MEMBER
WYDEN: As you continue your negotiations
on the final Continuing Resolution Fiscal
Year 2019, the advanced and cellulosic
biofuels industry urges you to extend a suite
of critical advanced biofuels tax incentives—
the Second Generation Biofuel Producer Tax
Credit, the Special Depreciation Allowance
for Second Generation Biofuel Plant Prop-
erty, the Biodiesel and Renewable Diesel
Fuels Credit, and the Alternative Fuel Vehi-
cle Refueling Property.
These tax extenders expired at the end of
2017 after having been extended retroactively
in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018. Allow-
ing these tax incentives to lapse has created
uncertainty for investors and the industry
about the availability of these credits; jeop-
ardizing the long-term investments nec-
essary for the development of these biofuels.
Availability of these credits are critical as
our companies make significant investments
to create new agricultural supply chains,
build infrastructure for liquid biofuels, and
develop innovative new technologies. These
credits have enabled our industry to create
new jobs, contribute to rural prosperity, and
diversify our nation’s energy supply. How-
ever, the continued delays in extending these
credits puts these investments and benefits
at risk.
In the interest of job creation, infrastruc-
ture development, innovation, and energy se-
curity, we respectfully ask Congress to im-
mediately pass a seamless multi-year exten-
sion, which includes 2018 retroactively, to
ensure companies will be able to account for
these credits in this year’s tax filings.
We look forward to working with you to
achieve this important goal.
Sincerely,
ADVANCED BIOFUELS
BUSINESS COUNCIL,
ALGAE BIOMASS
ORGANIZATION,
BIOTECHNOLOGY
INNOVATION
ORGANIZATION,
GROWTH ENERGY,
NATIONAL BIODIESEL
BOARD,
RENEWABLE FUELS
ASSOCIATION.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.033 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1360 February 14, 2019
FEBRUARY 5, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Republican Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. Richard Neal,
Chairman, House Committee on Ways and
Means, Washington, DC.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. CHUCK SCHUMER,
Minority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. CHUCK GRASSLEY,
Chairman, Senate Committee on Finance,
Washington, DC.
DEAR LEADER MCCONNELL, SPEAKER
PELOSI, LEADER SCHUMER AND LEADER
MCCARTHY, AND CHAIRMEN GRASSLEY AND
NEAL: On behalf of the entire biodiesel sup-
ply chain—including biodiesel producers,
feedstock providers, blenders, fuel marketers
and consumers—we urge you to maintain
and extend the biodiesel blenders’ tax credit
as soon as possible. In light of Congress’s
past practice of retroactively extending the
tax credit after it lapses, our industry has
been compelled since January 1, 2018 to oper-
ate on the assumption that the credit would
be extended, effectively pricing the credit’s
value into our costs of doing business. It is
essential that the businesses that have
priced product artificially low are made
whole. In addition, we urge Congress to ex-
tend the credit prospectively, thereby aug-
menting consumer benefits and encouraging
additional investment in clean-burning
biofuels.
The blenders’ credit has worked success-
fully to build a robust biodiesel and renew-
able diesel industry in the United States. As
a result, the U.S. biodiesel and renewable
diesel market has grown from roughly 100
million gallons in 2005 to nearly 2.6 billion
gallons in 2017. The tax credit is an impor-
tant demand stimulus, which improves plant
efficiencies, encourages investment in U.S.
distribution infrastructure, and supports
high-paying jobs throughout the country, all
while incentivizing consumption of fuels
that significantly reduce greenhouse gas
emissions. The biodiesel tax credit lowers
the price that truck drivers pay for fuel, and
lowers the price that heating oil customers
pay to heat their homes.
Extending the biodiesel blenders credit
will allow us to continue to provide these
economic and environmental benefits.
Unfortunately, the uncertainty caused by
the ‘‘on-again, off-again’’ tempo of legisla-
tive extensions, including the Bipartisan
Budget Act of 2018 which retroactively ex-
tended the biodiesel tax incentives through
the end of 2017, has somewhat frustrated our
sector’s ability to anticipate the availability
of the incentives and make the necessary in-
vestments. This severely disrupts access to
capital, as well as the ability to hire and ex-
pand.
Since the credit’s inception, the market re-
sponded as Congress intended. The under-
signed trade associations are united in urg-
ing Congress to act on a multiyear extension
of this successful program and provide our
industry long-term certainty as expedi-
tiously as possible.
Sincerely,
Advanced Biofuels Association, Amer-
ican Farm Bureau Federation, Amer-
ican Trucking Associations, National
Association of Convenience Stores, Na-
tional Biodiesel Board, National Ren-
derers Association, NATSO, Rep-
resenting America’s Travel Centers and
Truckstops, New England Fuels Insti-
tute, Petroleum Marketers Association
of America, Society of Independent
Gasoline Marketers of America.
FEBRUARY 11, 2019.
Hon. CHARLES GRASSLEY,
Chairman, Committee on Finance,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. RICHARD NEAL,
Chairman, Committee on Ways & Means, House
of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. RON WYDEN,
Ranking Member, Committee on Finance,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN BRADY,
Ranking Member, Committee on Ways & Means,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMEN GRASSLEY AND NEAL, AND
RANKING MEMBERS WYDEN AND BRADY: The
undersigned organizations represent users,
retailers, customers, fleet managers, utili-
ties, and producers of clean alternative
transportation fuels.
We ask your support for including a rein-
statement of the $0.50/gallon alternative
fuels tax credit (AFTC) (26 USC 6426(d) and
6427(e)) in a fiscal year 2019 government
spending package. The AFTC is a credit of
$0.50 per gasoline gallon equivalent (GGE) of
certain transportation fuels, including nat-
ural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, P Series
Fuels, liquefied hydrogen and others. Ex-
tending the AFTC retroactively for 2018 and
prospectively for 2019 will allow businesses
and customers to continue to deploy cleaner
alternative fuel technologies. A full five-year
extension of the AFTC would provide busi-
ness certainty along with a significant con-
tribution to our nation’s economic growth.
Unfortunately, the credit has currently
lapsed as of December 31, 2017 and many
fleets, businesses, and manufacturers are un-
able to plan future investments as they man-
age current uncertainty. Immediately rein-
stating the AFTC for 2018 and 2019 is nec-
essary to encouraging further deployment of
new, clean transportation technology.
Extending the AFTC will bring significant
environmental benefits, improved air qual-
ity, and enhance our energy independence by
lowering our dependence on foreign oil. Re-
newal of the AFTC also promotes increased
private-sector investment in infrastructure
and equipment, which leads to more jobs and
economic output.
Thank you for your continued support for
the AFTC and for the use of cleaner-burning
alternative transportation fuels. We appre-
ciate your consideration of this request.
Sincerely,
NGVAmerica; National Propane Gas Asso-
ciation; American Public Gas Association;
Hydrogen Fuel Cell and Energy Association;
American Natural Gas; Clean Energy Fuels
Corp.; Schwan’s Company; Trillium; United
Parcel Service; VIA Metropolitan Transit
Authority; Waste Management; 1975; 1st
Class Real Estate; 21st Century Coop; 3G
CNG Corporation; 4th Generation Home
Builders, LLC; A&B Propane; A–1 Propane &
Services, Inc.; ACE Solid Waste.
Ace-Robbins, Inc.; Acme Propane Gas; Ad-
vanced Propane, Inc.; Advantage Propane;
Aero Propane Gas, Inc.; Agility Fuel Solu-
tions; AGL Welding Supply Co. Inc.;
AgVantage FS; AgWest Commodities LLC;
Air & Gas Technologies, Inc.; Airpark; Ala-
bama Propane Gas Association; Alameda
County Industries; Algas Inc.; Allaround
Propane Inc.; Allgas Inc. of Montgomery; Al-
lied Propane Service; Ameresco; American
Biogas Council; American Fueling.
American Natural Gas; American Public
Gas Association; AmeriGas; AmeriGas Pro-
pane; Amp Americas; Anderson BlueBird Bus
Sales of NE; AnywherEnergy L3C; Apadana
Inc.; Apex Gas and Appliance Co.; Apex
Trucking Inc.; Applebee Oil & Propane; Ap-
plied LNG; Aria Energy; Armory Advisors;
Arrick’s Bottle Gas INC; Arrick’s Propane;
ARRO Autogas; Arrow Disposal Service; Ar-
rowhead LP Gas; Associated Development.
Athens Services; Atlantic City Jitney As-
sociation; Atlas Disposal; Atlas Disposal of
Utah; Atlas Road Clean Fuels, LLC; ATZ,
Inc. dba Doug Fox Parking; Automatic Gas
Co.; Auxier Gas, Inc.; Aviation CNG; AVSG
LP; Bair Propane LLC; Bakers Propane; Bar-
rett Propane; BayRunner Shuttle; Beaudry
Oil & Propane; Bergquist, Inc.; Berico Fuels;
Black Hills Energy; Blackburn Propane
Service, Inc.; Blackhawk Propane.
Blossman Gas and Alliance Autogas;
Blossman Gas, Inc.; Blue Bird Bus Sales of
Pittsburgh, Inc.; Blue Diamond Disposal,
Inc.; Blue Energy Group; Blue Line Transfer,
Inc.; Blue Springs School District; Blue Star
Gas; Blue Star Gas SLC Co.; Bluhms Gas
Sales; Boehlke Bottled Gas Corp.; Bolinger’s
Propane Service; Bosselman Energy;
Boulden Brothers Propane; Boyertown Oil &
Propane; Boye’s Gas Service, Inc.; Brooks
Gas Co., Inc.; Buatane & Propane Gas Co.;
Budget Meter; Building Products Plus LLC.
Burke County BOE Transportation; Buster
Brown Propane; Butane Propane News
(BPN); C. Blackburn Inc.; C.A.T. Inc.; C3H8
Consulting LLC; Caglia Diversified Manage-
ment; Caglia Environmental; Calif Renew-
able Power; Callahan’s Gas Inc.; CalMet
Services; CalPortland Company; Cans Unlim-
ited (CUI); Cardinal Bus Sales & Service,
Inc.; Carlson Home & Auto; Carolina Whole-
sale Gas Company Inc.; Carson Gas Com-
pany; Catalina Composites; Cavagna North
America; Cedar Avenue Recycling & Transfer
Station.
Cedarburg Police Department; Centennial
SD; CenterPoint Energy; Central Butane Gas
Co.; Central Energy Co LLC; Central Gas
Service; Central Jersey Propane, Inc.; Cen-
tral Montana Propane; Central Oklahoma
Transportation and Parking Authority; Cen-
tral States Bus Sales, Inc.; Certified Con-
tracting; Champagne’s Energy, Inc.; Cherry
Energy; Chesapeake Utilities; Chilton Oil
Company; Chilton Propane Gas Company;
CHS Brandon; CHS Devils Lake; CHS Her-
man; CHS Inc.
CHS Rochester; Citizen; City of Albu-
querque, NM; City of Beverly Hills; City of
Columbia, MO; City of Commerce; City of
Edmonds; City of Montebello City of Port
Washington Police Department; City of
Redmond, Washington; Clean Communities
of CNY; Clean Energy Fuels Corp.; Clean
Fuels Consulting; Clearwater Gas System,
FL; Cleburne Propane, LLC; CNG Center;
CNG Services of Arizona; CNG Source, Inc.;
CNG-One, LLC; CoEnergy Propane.
Cokesbury Transportation; Colorado &
New Mexico Propane Gas Associations;
Comfurt Gas, Inc.; Community Transpor-
tation Association of America; Consolidated
Gas; Consolidated Utilities Corp.; Consulting
Solutions, LLC; Consumer Oil & Propane,
Inc.; Contract Transport Services LLC.;
Coombs Gas, Inc.; Core-Mark; Core-Mark
Carolina; Core-Mark International Tampa
Division; Core-Mark International, Inc.
Cornerstone Environmental Group—A
Tetra Tech Company; Corporate Green, LLC;
Council Rock School District; Country Pro-
pane Inc.; Coyne Oil & Propane; CR&R Incor-
porated; CS Gas Inc.; Cultural Care Au Pair;
Cummins Westport Inc.; Cycle World; Cyl-
inder Exchange Service LLC; D and D Gas;
D. Fox Consulting; D.F. Richard Energy; Da-
vidson-Macri Sweeping, Inc.; D-B Cartage,
Inc.; DCC Propane, LLC.
Dead River Company; Defter Bros. Heating
Cooling Energy; DeKalb County Fleet Man-
agement; Delco Foods; Delta Liquid Energy;
Delta Liquid Energy/ARRO Autogas; DFI
Transport LLC; Dick’s Sanitation Service,
Inc.; Dillon Logistics, Inc.; Dixie Gas & Oil
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.045 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1361
February 14, 2019
Corp.; Dixie Land Energy; Dominion Energy;
Doonan Truck & Equipment of Wichita, Inc;
E. G. Smith Inc.; E.J. Harrison & Sons, Inc.;
Early Dawn Refreshment Services, Inc.;
Eastern Propane Inc; ECI; Eco Friendly LLC;
Edco Disposal Corporation; EDGE Gathering
Virtual Pipelines 2, LLC; EDL.
Edmonston & Associates; Edward Zengel
and Son Express Inc.; Ehrhart Energy; EIV
Capital, LLC; Electric Motor Shop, Inc.; Em-
erald Alternative Energy Solutions, Inc.;
Enerdyne; Energy Distribution Partners; En-
ergy Technology Training; Energy Vision;
Energy’s USA Inc.; EnergyUnited Propane,
LLC; Enviro Express Inc; Estes Express
Lines; Evergreen FS Inc.; EVO CNG; EVO
Transportation and Energy; Services, Inc.
Expo Propane/Sal’s Propane/Energy Dis-
tribution Partners; Express Mondor; Farm-
ers Co-op Oil; Farmers Cooperative Assn;
Farmers Union Oil; FCA Transport LLC.;
Federal Signal.
Felker Truck and Equipment Inc.; Fend Oil
& LP Co., Inc.; Filter Supply; First Alt. Fuel,
Inc.; First Coop Association; Fisk Tank Car-
rier; Flinthills Environmental, LLC; Florida
Propane Gas Association; Florida Public
Utilties; Florida Transportation Systems,
Inc.; Foothill Transit; France Propane Serv-
ice, Inc.; Franger Gas Co, Inc.
Frank Lamparelli Oil Co., Inc.; Fred Garri-
son Oil Company; Freedom CNG; Freedom
Fuel Equipment, LLC; Freeway Propane;
Fresno Chamber of Commerce; Fuel Cell and
Hydrogen Energy; Association; Gala Gas Co.,
Inc.; Garrow Propane; Gateway FS; G-En-
ergy, LLC; Georgia Gas Distributors, Inc;
Gibson’s Heating & Plumbing Inc.;
Gladstein, Neandross & Associates; Gold
Coast Transit District; Golden Empire Tran-
sit District; Granite Propane Inc; Great
River CNG, LLC; Greens Propane Gas Co.
Inc; Greentree Consulting LLC.
Greenwood RRST, LLC; Growmark, Inc.;
GS Hydraulic Hose Corp; G’s Logistics, Inc.;
Guard Construction and Contracting; Cor-
poration; Guntown LP Gas Company; GW
Ehrhart Inc; H&M Gas Co.; H&S Bakery Inc.;
Hall Oil and Propane, Inc.; Hamilton Utili-
ties; Harris Feeding Company; Heetco Inc.;
Hempfield School District; Henry County
Schools Transportation; Heritage Propane;
Hexagon; High Plains Cooperative; Hisway
Partners Inc. DBA.
Hometown Comfort; Hocon Gas, Inc.; Hol-
land Bus Company; Homewood Disposal
Service, Inc.; Honeyville Propane Inc.; Hoo-
ver Truck & Bus Centers; Houston Distrib-
uting Company; Hudson Fire Protection Dis-
trict; Hunt Propane, Inc.; ICOM North Amer-
ica; IGS CNG Services; Illini FS;
I.dependence Fuel Systems, LLC; Inde-
pendent Propane Co; InduMar Products, Inc.;
Indy Propane LLC; Innovative Ag Service.
Iowa Propane Gas Association; J&J Com-
pression, LLC; J. Rayl Transport, Inc.; J.S.
West Propane; Jack’s Butane Service;
Jaycox Construction CNG; JaySan Gas Serv-
ice, Inc.; JBI; JEB Lease Service Inc.; JG En-
ergy Solutions; JM Reynolds Oil Co., Inc.;
Johnson Oil; JR Leonard Construction Co;
KALM Transport; Kamps Propane; Kansas
City Area Transportation Authority; KB
Johnson Oil & Gas Co.; Kentuckiana
Cleanfuel, LLC.
Kentucky Propane Gas Association; KI
BOIS Area Transit System; Kinetrex Energy;
Klemm Tank Lines; Knight Waste Services
Ltd; Koppy’s Propane, Inc.; L H Dickens &
Son Inc.; L&L Enterprises of Waupaca, Inc.;
L.G. Jordan Oil Co., Inc.; LA Gas Autogas
station; LaFerry’s LP Gas Co. Inc.; Lamers
Bus Lines, Inc.; Lampton Love Inc.; Landi
Renzo USA; Landmark Services Cooperative;
Leaf River Ag Service; Lee’s Propane Serv-
ice, Inc.; Lee’s Summit RVII Schools; Level
Lifestyle; Liberal CNG Coop; Liberty Pro-
pane.
Lincoln Liquefied Gas Company; Lindens
Propane; Livermore Sanitation Inc.; Locks
Mill Propane; Long’s Propane Gas LLC; Lou-
isiana Clean Fuels; Louisiana Propane Gas
Association; LP Gas Insurance Specialists of
America; LPG & NH3 Supply, Inc.; M & B
Products, Inc.; M&M Cartage Co Inc.; M. A.
Brightbill Body Works, Inc.; MacAllister
Transporation; Maschmeier fuels; Mascott
Equipment Co; Mbg enterprises; McAbee
Trucking, Inc.
McCraw Oil Company, Inc.; McMahan’s
Bottle Gas; McNeill Oil and Propane Inc;
Medstar transportation; MFA Oil Company;
Michigan Propane Gas Association; Mid
States Propane; Mid Valley Disposal; Mid-
west Energy Solutions, Inc.; Midwest Roof-
ing & Construction LLC; Mississippi Propane
Gas Associations; MN Propane Association;
Modern Disposal Services Inc.; Modern Gas
Company; Modern Welding Company; Mo-
mentum Fuel Technologies; MOR-GAS, INC;
Morongo Basin Transit Authority; Morrissey
Consulting, LLC.
Morrow Renewables; Mountain Gas;
Moyers Gas Service, Inc.; Mt. Diablo Re-
source Recovery; MTankCo; MTC Transpor-
tation; Municipal Gas Authority of Georgia;
Muskogee County Public Transit Authority;
Mutual Liquid Gas & Equipment Co., Inc.;
MVP Airport Parking; Napa County Recy-
cling & Waste Services, LLC; NASA Services
Inc; Nat G CNG Solutions; National Propane
Gas Association; National Waste & Recy-
cling Association; Natural Gas Supply LLC;
NC Propane Gas Assoc.
Neill Gas Inc.; Nel Hydrogen; Nevada Pro-
pane Dealers Association; New Century
Farm Service; New Frontier Holdings, LLC;
New Jersey Natural Gas; Newport News Pub-
lic Schools; Newport West LLC; Nexceris;
NGV Solutions; NGVAmerica; NICE Bus;
NiteHawk Sweepers; NJ Propane Gas Asso-
ciation; Normandy Distributing DBA; AAA
Advanced Chem-Dry; North Central Bus and
Equipment; North County Transit District.
North Kansas City #74 School District;
North Kansas City Schools; North Star En-
ergy LLC; Northern Recycling and Waste
Services; Northern Resources Cooperative;
Northwest Propane Gas Company; Northwest
Transport, Inc.; NOVUS Wood Group;
Nutrien Ag Solutions; NW Alliance for Clean
Transportation; NW Natural; O’Connor Bus
Sales; Ogden Polar; Ohio Fuel Cell Coalition;
Ohio Propane Gas Association; Oklahoma
Liquefied Gas, Inc.; Oklahoma Propane Gas
Association; Oklahoma State University
and; Stillwater Community Transit; Okla-
homa Transit Association.
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.; OLG Pro-
pane; OMetro, Inc.; Omnitek Engineering
Corporation; Omnitrans; Onboard Dynamics;
OnCue; O’Nealgas, Inc.; Orange Avenue Dis-
posal, Inc.; Owens Energy; Pacific Coast Pro-
pane; Paladin Propane Partners, LLC; Palm
Springs Disposal Services; Palmer Gas & Oil;
Palmetto Gas Corp.; Palmetto Propane; Pal-
metto Propane, Fuels & Ice; Paraco Gas Cor-
poration & Subsidiaries; Parden LP Gas &
service Co., Inc.; Pariso Logistics Inc.;
Parker Gas Co., Inc.; Paso Robles Country
Disposal, Inc; Paso Robles Roll Off; Paso
Robles Waste & Recycle; Payne Oil Com-
pany; Pecos Propane, Inc.
PELGAS; Penn Valley Gas; Pennsylvania
Propane Gas Association; PepsiCo; Phelps
Sungas, Inc.; Philadelphia Gas Works; Phil-
lips Energy; Phoenix Energy Corp; Piece of
Mind, LLC; Polk-Burnett Propane; Portage
Area Regional Transportation; Authority;
Porter Gas Service Inc.; Postal Fleet Serv-
ices; Prairieland FS, Inc.
Premier Cooperative; Prescott Transit and
Executive; Transportation; Presto Tap, LLC;
Pro Image Communicarions; Professional
Propane Services; ProGas Inc.; Progressive
Power, LLC; Propane Autogas LLC; Propane
Education and Research Council Member;
Propane Gas Association of New England;
Propane Marketers Association of Kansas;
Propane People Inc.; PS Logistics FL; PT
Risk Management Insurance Services L’;
Quantum Fuel Systems LLC; R.D. White and
Sons; R.E. Michel Co; Rand Wade OilCo; Ray
Murray Inc; RCLegacy Holdings LLC.
Recology CleanScapes; Red Baker Propane
Inc.; Reddaway; Redigas Inc.; Redmark Cng
Services L.L.C.; ReFuel Energy Partners;
Regional Transportation Commission of
Southern Nevada; Rego Products; Renergy,
Inc.; Renzenberger, Inc; Republic Services,
Inc.; Rhoads Energy; Riverside Transit Agen-
cy; RNGA Energy Group; Robert H. Hoover &
Sons Inc.; ROUSH; ROUSH CleanTech; Ruan
Transportation Management Systems; Rush
Enterprises; Rutherford Equipment.
Safety, Training, and More LLC; Salem
Area Mass Transit District; Salmon River
Propane; San Diego Metropolitan Transit
System; Sapp Bros Inc.; SchagrinGAS;
School Lines, Inc.; Schwan’s Company; Se-
lect Milk Producers, Inc.; Self Heating &
Cooling, Inc.; Sentara; Sequoia Gas Com-
pany; Sharp Energy; Shaw Propane LLC;
Sheehy Mail Contractors Inc.; Shifflett Safe-
ty and Support; Shuttle Park Two Inc.; Sim-
ple-Fill, Inc.; Slate Spring LP Gas Co., Inc.;
South Central FS.
South Central Oil and Propane; South
Florida Gas Co.; South Jersey Industries;
South San Francisco Scavenger Co Inc.;
South West Transit Association; Southwest
Transportation Agency; Southwestern En-
ergy Company; Sparq Natural Gas, LLC; Spe-
cialized Biogas Services; SporTran; Stan-
fords Propane Autogas Service Center; Stan-
fords Propane Gas Conversion Center; Stan-
fords Propane Gas Appliance Center; Stan-
ford’s Propane Gas LLC; Stark Area Re-
gional Transit Authority; Stirk Compressed
Natural Gas; Stuck Enterprises, Inc; Subur-
ban Disposal Corp.; Sullivan Propane; Sum-
ter County Board of Education.
Superior Energy Systems; Superior Gas
Inc., Notasulga; Superior Gas, Inc.; Superior
Plus; Superior Propane Incorporated; Supe-
rior Ready Mix; Supervalu/UNFI; Tankfarm
LLC; Tarantin Industries; Taylor Gas Com-
pany, Inc.; Tech Air dba Scully Propane
Service; Tech Air Mid-Atlantic; Ted Johnson
Propane Co.; Tennessee Propane Gas Asso-
ciation; Tesei Petroleum, Inc.; Texas Natural
Gas Vehicle Alliance; Texas Propane Gas As-
sociation; The American Trucking Associa-
tions; The Coalition for Renewable Natural
Gas (RNG Coalition); The Rural Gas Com-
pany.
ThompsonGas, LLC; Thornton’s Gas Serv-
ice; Three Rivers FS Company; Thunder
Ridge Transport Inc.; Time Transport, Inc.;
TN GAS, LLC; Tops Markets; Torrance Tran-
sit System; Town of Berthoud; Transfuels
LLC and Capital Fuels, LLC; Transportation
Energy Partners; Tri-Gas Company; Tril-
lium; TruStar Energy; Tucker Properties;
U.S. Gain; UBCR LLC; United Parcel Serv-
ice; United Propane Autogas Solutions
Group; United Rail Partners, Ltd.
United Truck Body Co, Inc.; Unitrans
(ASUCD/City of Davis); USA Hauling & Re-
cycling; USBiogas; USF Holland LLC.; Van
Unen Miersma Propane; Vegas Propane Inc.;
Veriha Trucking, Inc.; VIA Metropolitan
Transit Authority; Viafield; VT Accounting
Associates, LLP; Walters Gas Service, Inc.;
Warco Inc.; Warco Transportation; Ware Dis-
posal Inc.; Waste Connections Lone Star;
Waste Connections of California Inc.dba
Greenteam of San Jose; Waste Connections,
Inc.; Waste Industries.
Waste Management; Waste Pro; Waste Pro
of Florida; Waste Pro of Georgia; Waste Pro
USA; Waste Pro USA, Waste Pro of Florida;
Waukon Feed Ranch Inc.; WCA Waste Cor-
poration; Webbtown Propane Company; Web-
ster & Garner Inc.; Wells Propane Inc. dba:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.048 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1362 February 14, 2019
Baygas Propane; Wessels Oil Co. Inc.; West
Propane; West Virginia Propane Gas Asso-
ciation; Western Natural Gas Co.; Western
Propane Gas Association; Western Propane
Services, Inc.; Westhoff, Cone & Holmstedt;
WGL; Whidbey Seatac Shuttle; White River
Distributors.
Williams Energy Group; Wilson Oil & Pro-
pane; WIN Propane; Winnebago County Sher-
iff’s Office; Wisconsin Bus Sales;
Wittenberger Bus Service; WJDAYTECH
Inc.; WoodFuel.com LP; Woodruff Energy;
Worthington Industries; X3CNG; XPO Sales
INC.; Yavapai Bottle Gas; YRC Worldwide;
Zebulon Innovations.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
hope the next time I have a chance to
have the floor, I will not be inter-
rupted.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
just had an opportunity to speak to
President Trump, and I will state to all
of my colleagues, he is prepared to sign
the bill.
He will also be issuing a national
emergency declaration at the same
time, and I indicated to him that I am
going to support the national emer-
gency declaration.
So for all of my colleagues, the Presi-
dent will sign the bill we will be voting
on shortly.
f
MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE DE-
PARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECU-
RITY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019—
CONFERENCE REPORT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Chair
lay before the Senate the conference
report to accompany H.J. Res. 31.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the joint resolution
by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The committee of conference on the dis-
agreeing votes of the two Houses on the
amendment of the Senate to the joint resolu-
tion (H.J. Res. 31), having met, have agreed
that the House recede from its disagreement
to the amendment of the Senate and agree to
the same with an amendment and the Senate
agree to the same, signed by a majority of
the conferees on the part of both Houses.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the conference report.
(The conference report is printed in
the House proceedings of the RECORD of
February 13, 2019.)
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk for
the conference report.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the con-
ference report to accompany H.J. Res. 31,
making further continuing appropriations
for the Department of Homeland Security for
fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes.
Richard C. Shelby, Shelley Moore Capito,
John Cornyn, John Boozman, John
Thune, Johnny Isakson, Lindsey Gra-
ham, Mike Crapo, Thom Tillis, Kevin
Cramer, John Hoeven, Roger F.
Wicker, Steve Daines, James E. Risch,
Jerry Moran, Mike Rounds, Mitch
McConnell.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that notwithstanding rule
XXII, the cloture vote on the con-
ference report to accompany H.J. Res.
31 occur at 3:30 p.m. today; further,
that if cloture is invoked, all
postcloture time be yielded back and
the Senate vote on the adoption of the
conference report.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, as some-
one who has been here for some period
of time, I was glad to see Republicans
and Democrats, both in the House and
the Senate, come together in the past
few weeks, especially this week.
We ignored the distractions and
tweetstorms coming from the White
House. We reached an agreement to
fund our government and make respon-
sible investments for the American
people.
Not one of us—none of the final four
who did the negotiations, sitting in
that room, felt that this was an agree-
ment that any one of us would have in-
dividually written.
There are things in this bill that I
support and things I disagree with, but
that could be said by all four of us, Re-
publicans and Democrats. You try to
find as much common ground as you
can. Everybody had to give something,
but we ended up with a bipartisan com-
promise. We had to deal with facts that
are based on reality, not rhetoric based
on political fantasy.
Democrats have always supported
border security, but we support smart
border security, targeted strategies
that address the real problems facing
us at our southwest border. That is
what we tried to accomplish here. We
stood together. We rejected the toxic
and hate-filled immigration tweets
coming from the other end of Pennsyl-
vania Avenue.
The agreement does not fund Presi-
dent Trump’s wasteful wall. After all,
he gave his solemn promise to the
American public that Mexico would
pay for it, so let them work on that. It
does not fund President Trump’s re-
quested deportation force, and it re-
jects the unjustified and dramatic in-
crease in the detention bed levels the
President would have used to enforce
his extreme immigration policy.
But just as important as what this
agreement rejects is what we were able
to accomplish.
We invested hundreds of millions of
dollars in new technology to stop the
flow of illegal drugs through our ports
of entry. All Republicans and all Demo-
crats supported that. We provide funds
to hire more judges to address the im-
migration backlog in our country. We
provide more than half a billion dollars
to support Central American countries,
addressing the root causes of undocu-
mented migration. We included $400
million to improve medical care and
address the humanitarian concerns at
the border. Every one of us has seen
enough of what is going on there; we
are trying to show that America—the
greatest Nation on Earth, also the
wealthiest and the most humani-
tarian—will address it.
This is what a compromise looks
like. This is how the American people
expect our government to function—
not by tweets but by reasonable, re-
ality-based compromise.
Unfortunately, often lost in this de-
bate over border security were the
more than 800,000 public servants and
their families who were held hostage
by the Trump shutdown for weeks.
They once again lived in fear and un-
certainty that their next paycheck
may not come because the President
chose to use them as hostages. This
agreement ensures that these public
servants remain on the job doing the
important work of the American people
through the end of the fiscal year, and
also all those who are not on a govern-
ment payroll but support all our dif-
ferent Agencies that were involved in
this. They weren’t paid either.
This agreement funds nine Federal
Departments. Keep in mind—it is not
just the borders; it is nine Federal De-
partments and their related Agencies. I
will give a couple of examples. It in-
creases funding for the Environmental
Protection Agency. It supports our na-
tional parks. It rejects the anti-science
know-nothingism of the administration
by supporting research and our dedi-
cated scientists.
This is extremely important to me
because Senator CRAPO and I wrote the
last Violence Against Women author-
ization. We wrote the expansion of that
law. Our bill today provides the highest
funding level ever for the Office on Vio-
lence Against Women to support pro-
grams that prevent domestic violence.
It also provides more than half a bil-
lion dollars to combat the opioid crisis.
In my earlier career, I saw too many
deaths because of the violence against
women. I saw too many deaths of
young people from drug overdoses, and
the numbers have only dramatically
increased from the days when I was a
prosecutor. Supporting the Violence
Against Women Act brought Repub-
licans and Democrats together.
The agreement invests in rural
America, secures our interests abroad,
rebuilds our highways, and supports
public housing.
This week, four of us met—first in
Chairman SHELBY’s Appropriations
Committee office and then later into
the evening several times in my office
here in the Capitol. Senator SHELBY,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:06 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\S14FE9.REC S14FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1363
February 14, 2019
Representative LOWEY, Representative
GRANGER, and I proved that we can set
aside the political struggles in Wash-
ington to find a path to progress for
the American people—two Republicans
and two Democrats who are four of the
most senior Members of the House and
the Senate. I thank them for their ef-
fort.
If I can go to a personal matter for
just a moment, I want to thank Sen-
ator SHELBY for his friendship and his
partnership. Senator SHELBY and I
come from different parts of the coun-
try. We are much different politically,
but he is one of the closest friends I
have here. He and his wonderful wife,
Dr. Annette Shelby, my wife Marcelle,
and I have traveled to so many places
together. Some were very grim areas of
this world. But we understand how
grownups have to act in the Congress
and how they have to work together.
We worked together with our House
counterparts—the senior Democrat and
senior Republican in the House—on
this conference. We worked together.
We didn’t pass just Homeland Security;
we passed all 12 appropriations bills on
a bipartisan basis. I hope we do the
same thing for fiscal year 2020. I hope
that we can begin very soon, with Sen-
ator SHELBY and me working together,
to pass the fiscal year 2020 bills. We
passed the ones last year out of our
committee virtually unanimously. We
were able to get Members of both par-
ties to join us. I thank him.
I also thank the Appropriations Com-
mittee staff on both sides of the aisle
for their hard work. I joke that Sen-
ators are merely constitutional im-
pediments to their staff. Evening after
evening, sometimes into the wee hours
of the morning, weekend after week-
end, I saw dedicated men and women in
the Appropriations Committee staff
working line by line to try to get us
through this.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that a list of their names be print-
ed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
Charles E. Kieffer, Chanda Betourney, Jess
Berry, Jay Tilton, Hannah Chauvin, Dianne
Nellor, Adrienne Wojciechowski, Teri Curtin,
Jean Toal Eisen, Jennifer Eskra, Blaise
Sheridan, Jordan Stone, Ellen Murray,
Diana Gourlay Hamilton, Reeves Hart, Scott
Nance, Chip Walgren, Drenan E. Dudley,
Rachael Taylor, Ryan Hunt, Tim Rieser,
Alex Carnes, Kali Farahmand, Dabney Hegg,
Christina Monroe, Jordan Stone, Shannon H.
Hines, Jonathan Graffeo, David Adkins, Mar-
garet Pritchard, Carlisle Clark, Patrick Car-
roll, Elizabeth Dent, Hamilton Bloom,
Amber Beck, Allen Cutler, Matt Womble,
Sydney Crawford, Andrew Newton, Lauren
Nunnally, Brian Daner, Courtney Bradford,
Adam Telle, Peter Babb, Chris Cook, Thomp-
son Moore, Christian Lee, Leif Fonnesbeck,
Lucas Agnew, Emy Lesofski, Nona McCoy,
Clare Doherty, Gus Maples, Rajat Mathur,
Jason Woolwine, LaShawnda Smith, Robert
W. Putnam, Christy Greene, Blair Taylor,
Jenny Winkler, Hong Nguyen, Clint
Trocchio, George A. Castro, Elmer Barnes,
Penny Myles, Karin Thames, Shalanda
Young, Chris Bigelow, Anne Marie Chotvacs,
Johnnie Kaberle, Gerry Petrella, Meghan
Taira.
Mr. LEAHY. I conclude by saying it
takes a lot of long days and it takes a
lot of long nights to produce a bill of
this magnitude. I appreciate their hard
work.
I think we may have others who will
want to speak.
Mr. President, how much time do we
have before the vote?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Four
minutes remains.
Mr. LEAHY. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the
Senate will soon vote on the agreement
by the conference committee to keep
the government open. The agreement
was a product of a lot of hard work and
long nights and weekends by members
of the conference committee and their
staffs. I want to salute Senator LEAHY
and Senator SHELBY. I want to salute
all of the conferees.
When Leader MCCONNELL and I met—
as we moved to open up the govern-
ment for a short period of time—I sug-
gested that we do a conference com-
mittee because I had a great deal of
faith in the members of the conference
committees on both sides of the aisle,
and that faith has proved to be vindi-
cated. I thank Senator LEAHY, Senator
SHELBY, their staffs, and all the mem-
bers of the conference committee for
the great job they have done.
The agreement will provide smart
border security, increasing support for
technologies at our ports of entry. It
will not fund the President’s expensive,
ineffective wall. It will provide des-
perately needed humanitarian assist-
ance—medical support, transportation,
food, and clothing—for children and
families in detention. It will provide
funding to our neighbors in Central
America to fight the actual root causes
of migration—the violent gangs and
drug cartels.
In short, it represents a fair com-
promise that includes priorities from
both sides of the aisle. I expect the leg-
islation will pass this Chamber with a
significant bipartisan majority, pass
the House, and be sent to the President
with plenty of time to avoid a govern-
ment shutdown tomorrow at midnight.
There is word that the President will
declare a national emergency. I hope
he won’t. That would be a very wrong
thing to do. Leader PELOSI and I will be
responding to that in short order, but
before that, I just want to say that in
order to reach this point, in order to
attain this bipartisan compromise,
800,000 public servants were forced to
suffer without pay for over a month as
President Trump put the country
through a completely unnecessary
shutdown that snarled airports, de-
layed loans for farmers and small busi-
nesses, trashed our national parks, and
took billions of dollars out of our econ-
omy.
We still need to address the plight of
government contractors who still have
not been made whole. Regrettably, we
were unable to include that in the
agreement, but we are going to keep
working and fighting for Senator
SMITH’s proposal to ensure our contrac-
tors are made whole again.
The Senate was in the very same po-
sition just before Christmas, with a
deal in hand, when the President re-
versed himself and engineered the long-
est shutdown in American history.
After all of the pain of the shutdown
caused by President Trump, we are ba-
sically right back where we started,
with nearly the same parameters of a
bipartisan agreement we were ready to
pass around Christmas. Leader PELOSI
and I, for instance, offered the Presi-
dent $1.37 billion for border security
with the same language that would
have prohibited the wall then as is in
the agreement now.
Let this be a lesson. Government
shutdowns don’t work. I hope President
Trump has learned that lesson once
and for all. I hope we never go down
the road to shutdowns again. The
American people suffer and very little
is accomplished.
President Trump should sign this bill
ASAP.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I will be
brief.
First of all, I thank Senator LEAHY,
the vice chairman of the Appropria-
tions Committee, who worked dili-
gently for the past year to get to where
we are today in a bipartisan way and
also, recently, in the conference com-
mittee, which we thought last week
had broken down. I also thank MITCH
MCCONNELL, the majority leader, and
CHUCK SCHUMER, the Democratic lead-
er. I thank everybody else who has con-
tributed to get us to this point.
Nothing is perfect, but we think this
is a good bill for the American people.
It opens up all of the government—the
25 percent that we had not addressed.
The conference report includes a ro-
bust and comprehensive investment in
border security, providing funding for
personnel, technology, and infrastruc-
ture that is critical to keeping our na-
tion secure and our people safe. Criti-
cally, the bill provides nearly
$1,400,000,000 to further construction of
a barrier along the southwest border.
But that is only a down payment. More
resources are required. Fortunately,
the President has at his disposal both
constitutional and existing statutory
authorities that allow him to supple-
ment the congressional investment in
border security that was made today.
This bill preserves those authorities,
and I support action by the President
to use them to the fullest extent per-
missible to secure our border. In par-
ticular, this bill does not restrict the
President’s ability to declare a na-
tional emergency or to exercise emer-
gency authorities under such a declara-
tion. Nor does this bill further restrict
the Administration’s ability, pre-
viously granted by the Congress, to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.038 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1364 February 14, 2019
transfer funds in support of efforts to
gain operational control of our south-
west border and to cease the traf-
ficking of persons and drugs across it.
I am going to get on with the vote.
I want to say thank you to every-
body, including Shannon Hines on our
staff and everybody else who contrib-
uted to this.
At this point, I ask unanimous con-
sent to waive the mandatory quorum
call with respect to the cloture vote on
the conference report to accompany
H.J. Res. 31.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the con-
ference report to accompany H.J. Res. 31,
making further continuing appropriations
for the Department of Homeland Security for
fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes.
Richard C. Shelby, Shelley Moore Capito,
John Cornyn, John Boozman, John
Thune, Johnny Isakson, Lindsey Gra-
ham, Mike Crapo, Thom Tillis, Kevin
Cramer, John Hoeven, Roger F.
Wicker, Steve Daines, James E. Risch,
Jerry Moran, Mike Rounds, Mitch
McConnell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the conference
report to accompany H.J. Res. 31, an
act making further continuing appro-
priations for the Department of Home-
land Security for fiscal year 2019, and
for other purposes, shall be brought to
a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
North Carolina (Mr. BURR).
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 84,
nays 15, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 25 Leg.]
YEAS—84
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—15
Booker
Cotton
Cruz
Gillibrand
Harris
Hawley
Inhofe
Lee
Markey
Paul
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Toomey
Warren
NOT VOTING—1
Burr
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 84, the nays are 15.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, all postcloture time
has expired.
The question is, Will the Senate
adopt the Conference Report to accom-
pany H.J. Res. 31?
Mr. BARRASSO. I ask for the yeas
and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
North Carolina (Mr. BURR).
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 83,
nays 16, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 26 Leg.]
YEAS—83
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—16
Booker
Braun
Cotton
Cruz
Gillibrand
Harris
Hawley
Inhofe
Lee
Markey
Paul
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Toomey
Warren
NOT VOTING—1
Burr
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 83 and the nays are
16.
The conference report is adopted.
The majority leader.
PROVIDING FOR A CORRECTION IN
THE ENROLLMENT OF H.J. RES. 31
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Con. Res. 4.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 4)
providing for a correction in the enrollment
of H.J. Res. 31.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the concurrent resolution
be agreed to and the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (S. Con.
Res. 4) was agreed to.
(The concurrent resolution is printed
in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Submitted
Resolutions.’’)
f
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT—Mo-
tion to Proceed
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to Calendar No. 17, S.
311.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 17, S.
311, a bill to amend title 18, United States
Code, to prohibit a health care practitioner
from failing to exercise the proper degree of
care in the case of a child who survives an
abortion or attempted abortion.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Mr.
President, I send a cloture motion to
the desk for the motion to proceed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 17, S. 311, a
bill to amend title 18, United States Code, to
prohibit a health care practitioner from fail-
ing to exercise the proper degree of care in
the case of a child who survives an abortion
or attempted abortion.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Mike
Crapo, Pat Roberts, John Cornyn,
Johnny Isakson, James M. Inhofe,
Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker, Lindsey
Graham, Ben Sasse, Roy Blunt, John
Thune, John Boozman, John Barrasso,
Joni Ernst, James E. Risch.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:26 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\S14FE9.REC S14FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1365
February 14, 2019
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 16.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Eric D. Miller, of Washington, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Eric D. Miller, of Washington, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Mike
Crapo, Johnny Isakson, John Cornyn,
Pat Roberts, James M. Inhofe, Thom
Tillis, Roger F. Wicker, Lindsey Gra-
ham, Roy Blunt, John Thune, John
Boozman, John Barrasso, James E.
Risch, Richard Burr, John Hoeven.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 6.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Michael J. Desmond, of California, to
be Chief Counsel for the Internal Rev-
enue Service and an Assistant General
Counsel in the Department of the
Treasury.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Michael J. Desmond, of California,
to be Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue
Service and an Assistant General Counsel in
the Department of the Treasury.
James E. Risch, Johnny Isakson, Todd
Young, Mike Crapo, Pat Roberts, John
Thune, Rob Portman, Roy Blunt, Thom
Tillis, John Boozman, Roger F. Wicker,
James Lankford, Tim Scott, Steve
Daines, Michael B. Enzi, John Hoeven,
Mitch McConnell.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 10.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be
Administrator of the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency.
Mitch McConnell, Thom Tillis, John
Boozman, Johnny Isakson, Mike Crapo,
Pat Roberts, John Hoeven, Shelley
Moore Capito, Roger F. Wicker, John
Barrasso, Joni Ernst, Mike Rounds,
John Thune, John Cornyn, Jerry
Moran, Chuck Grassley, Richard Burr.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 12.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
John L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of
the Tennessee Valley Authority for a
term expiring May 18, 2021.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation John L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority for a term expiring
May 18, 2021.
Mitch McConnell, Steve Daines, John
Thune, John Cornyn, James M. Inhofe,
Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, Chuck Grass-
ley, Richard Burr, John Barrasso,
Jerry Moran, Roy Blunt, Shelley
Moore Capito, John Boozman, Johnny
Isakson, Thom Tillis, John Hoeven.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
calls for the cloture motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first,
let me congratulate the Chamber on
the overwhelming vote for the appro-
priations bill. It is good news that we
passed it by a lot of votes, and I hope
the House does it by a lot, too.
I need to comment on the news that
President Trump may declare a na-
tional emergency in an attempt to
build his border wall. If President
Trump decides to go forward with a
disaster declaration, he will be making
a tremendous mistake.
Declaring a national emergency
would be a lawless act, a gross abuse of
the power of the Presidency, and a des-
perate attempt to distract from the
fact that President Trump broke his
core promise to have Mexico pay for
the wall. It will be another demonstra-
tion of President Trump’s naked con-
tempt for the rule of law and congres-
sional authority.
Congress just debated this very issue.
There was not support for the Presi-
dent’s position. Congressional intent
on this issue is very clear. The Presi-
dent’s wall has been before Congress
several times and has never garnered
enough votes to even merit consider-
ation. For the President to declare an
emergency now would be an unprece-
dented subversion of Congress’s con-
stitutional prerogative.
The fact is, this is not an emergency,
and the President’s fearmongering
doesn’t make it one. A policy dispute
about our southern border does not
constitute a national emergency.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.047 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1366 February 14, 2019
Democrats support and have always
supported strong border security, but
the fact is, according to the CBP, ap-
prehensions at our southern border are
at historic lows.
President Trump couldn’t convince
Mexico, he couldn’t convince the
American people, and he couldn’t con-
vince their elected representatives to
pay for his ineffective and expensive
wall. Now he is trying an end run
around Congress in a desperate at-
tempt to put taxpayers on the hook for
it. Make no mistake—Congress will de-
fend our constitutional authorities in
every way that we can.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
RUSSIA
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, over
the last 2 years, many of us have grap-
pled with a very difficult question
about our President. It is a question
that never before could we even imag-
ine thinking about an American Presi-
dent, let alone saying it out loud on
the floor of the Senate. I am talking
about the entirely legitimate question
of whether Donald Trump could be
compromised by the Russian Govern-
ment. It is more than a legitimate
question; it is the natural question
that comes to mind every time we
learn more about the links between
President Trump, his associates, and
the Russian Government.
With the Mueller investigation pos-
sibly coming to a close in the near fu-
ture, we may be forced to deal with—
both Congress and the American pub-
lic—some very stark facts about the
President’s ties to Russia. Just think
about the reported revelations over the
last month or so.
We have learned that President
Trump took unprecedented steps to
conceal the contents of his conversa-
tions with Putin from his own advisers.
We have learned that following one of
the meetings with Putin, Trump
phoned a New York Times reporter to
argue that Russia did not interfere in
the 2016 election—once again carrying
the Kremlin’s water in direct conflict
with the entire U.S. intelligence com-
munity.
We have learned that over the past
year, President Trump repeatedly ar-
gued for pulling the United States out
of NATO—something that Putin de-
sires.
We continue to learn new details
about Paul Manafort’s—President
Trump’s campaign chairman—meet-
ings with Konstantin Kilimnik, a Rus-
sian national with suspected ties to
Russian intelligence and an associate
of Oleg Deripaska’s. We know that
Manafort met with Kilimnik repeat-
edly, provided him with polling data,
and discussed ending U.S. sanctions
and adopting a Russia-friendly peace
plan for Ukraine. This is perhaps the
most significant indication that
Trump’s inner circle was discussing
pro-Kremlin policies in the months be-
fore the election.
Tellingly, just last night, we learned
that Manafort has lied again and again
about the truth of his contacts and his
conversations. Did Manafort determine
that lying to prosecutors was a better
alternative to telling the truth?
Finally, let’s not forget the revela-
tion from just a few weeks ago that the
Nation’s top law enforcement agency
reportedly opened a counterintel-
ligence investigation into the Presi-
dent, in part for firing the FBI Director
because of ‘‘this Russia thing.’’
You can’t make this stuff up. Not
even in your wildest dreams, not even
on the TV set of ‘‘Homeland’’ could you
make this stuff up. The news of a pos-
sible counterintelligence investigation
against a sitting President should
shake us all to the core. Instead, we
are barely even surprised.
For the rightwing pundits who spoon-
feed a warped reality to President
Trump every hour of the day, it is just
one more excuse to paint him—the
most powerful man in the world—as a
victim, but for the rest of us, these rev-
elations only sharpen the dread that
gnaws at us as we search our minds for
any explanation for President Trump’s
perplexing posture toward Russia.
Look, I may have my differences
with the President on tax policy, on
immigration policy, on healthcare pol-
icy, and more, but let me assure you,
every time he was set to meet with
Putin, I, for one, hoped and prayed that
our President would prove our sus-
picions wrong.
I hoped that the President of the
United States would stand up to Putin
and demand accountability for Russia’s
interference in the 2016 elections—the
cyber attacks, the stolen data, the ma-
lign social influence campaigns de-
signed to stoke division and doubt in
the American people. I hoped President
Trump would make clear to Putin that
legal aggression against Ukraine and
the continual denial of Ukrainian sov-
ereignty is unacceptable and will result
in consequences. I hoped President
Trump would not congratulate Putin
on another sham election victory but
operate from a position of truth about
his grip on power—that it comes from
the oppression of the Russian people,
the seizure of their assets, the torture
and murder of dissenters, the building
of a chemical weapons arsenal, and the
denial of a free press and basic human
rights. And of course I hoped President
Trump would not budge an inch on
sanctions on the Kremlin.
But time and again, our President
has let us down. He has let our country
down. He has left Americans to lie
awake at night asking themselves:
What does Putin have on our Presi-
dent? Why won’t he hold Russia ac-
countable? Why won’t he champion the
values of democracy, freedom, and
human rights that transcend political
parties and define our greatest ideals
as a nation?
Instead, our President champions
talking points that could have only
come out of the Kremlin. Let me pro-
vide just a few examples.
He told the leaders of the G7 that
Crimea should be a part of Russia. He
told the President of France to leave
the EU. He said that Montenegro, a
NATO member, could start World War
III because they are ‘‘very aggressive
people.’’ He said that the Soviet Union
invaded Afghanistan because ‘‘terror-
ists were going into Russia’’ and Russia
was ‘‘right to be there.’’
The Wall Street Journal rightly said
that ‘‘we cannot recall a more absurd
misstatement of history by an Amer-
ican President.’’
I challenge anyone to find one per-
son—one person in the State Depart-
ment, the Defense Department, the Na-
tional Security Council—who believes
these statements and would have put
them in the President’s ear. So who
does he get these ideas from? I can
think of only one person—his good
friend Vladimir Putin.
Thus far, our greatest insights into
what may be driving President
Trump’s peculiar behavior toward Rus-
sia have come out of Special Counsel
Mueller’s investigation and the addi-
tional investigations spawned by it.
With every new court filing, we learn
that the tentacles of Russian influence
over the President and his associates
are wrapped tighter than we previously
thought.
Meanwhile, the President and his
cheerleaders on FOX News continue to
discredit the Mueller probe as some
kind of partisan witch hunt, when the
truth is that it has already resulted in
4 individual sentences, 7 guilty pleas,
and a total of more than 30 people and
3 Russian entities charged.
But all of this still begs the question
why. Why does President Trump be-
have as though he has been com-
promised by the Russian Government?
Why is he so deferential to Putin? We
saw that at the Helsinki summit. Why
have those around the President gone
to such great lengths to cover up and
lie about the extent of their inter-
actions with Russia and with Russians?
Of course, if we can consider the pos-
sibility that the President is an asset
of the Russian Government, we then
have to wonder whether he is a witting
or an unwitting asset.
On the one hand, it seems as though
most of what President Trump does is
unwitting. Perhaps his refusal to take
Russian interference in 2016 seriously
is merely an outgrowth of his nar-
cissism, a symptom of a fragile ego
that cannot accept that maybe, just
maybe the unprecedented malign influ-
ence campaign orchestrated by the
Kremlin did indeed sway some votes on
election day.
On the other hand, the more I learn
about President Trump’s strange be-
havior toward Russia, the more I won-
der if he knows exactly what is going
on; the more I wonder if he knows that
his campaign was making promises
about pro-Kremlin positions and roll-
ing back sanctions; the more I wonder
if Trump knows that he is indebted to
Russia and cannot allow the truth of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.059 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1367
February 14, 2019
his business dealings to come to light,
for the truth may tell us that Trump’s
overtures to Putin, his disparaging of
NATO, his refusal to fully apply con-
gressionally mandated sanctions, and
his mixed messages on Ukraine are ac-
tually instances of conspiracy with the
Kremlin in real time.
Perhaps it is because I am from New
Jersey and I have lived through dec-
ades of Donald Trump’s questionable
business dealings, but I cannot under-
stand why anyone would flat out reject
the proposition that he is indebted to
Russia. He is the first Presidential can-
didate in decades to refuse to disclose
his tax returns. He is the first Presi-
dent in modern history to refuse to di-
vest from his business interests, leav-
ing us wondering whether he and his
family are profiting from his position
in the Oval Office.
Beyond the myth of the man, Trump
is no business genius. He was a million-
aire by age 8, thanks to his father. He
ran the business into the ground. He
defaulted on debt, refused to pay work-
ers, and declared multiple corporate
bankruptcies. Eventually, American
banks saw through him and refused to
lend him money, so Trump had to look
elsewhere for cash. When you have
been essentially blacklisted from the
U.S. banking system, where do you
turn? You turn to less savory sources.
The fact that the Trump Organiza-
tion courted and sold real estate to
wealthy Russian buyers and financiers
is no secret, nor is the reality that to
be wealthy in Putin’s Russia means to
have close ties to the Kremlin. Much of
the stolen wealth amassed by Putin
and his cronies must be hidden from
the global financial system, so where
do you turn? Real estate.
After a string of bankruptcies and
racking up debt for years, the Trump
Organization suddenly began making a
spate of large, unexplainable cash pur-
chases, totaling $400 million over 9
years. Giant, mysterious, inexplicable
cash transactions are the hallmark of
money laundering. So where did they
get the cash? Well, if we are to believe
the words of the President and his sons,
much of it came from Russia. In fact, it
was Donald Junior who said in 2008
that ‘‘we see a lot of money pouring in
from Russia’’ and Eric Trump who re-
portedly said in 2014 that ‘‘we don’t
rely on American banks. We have all
the funding we need out of Russia.’’
We know that several Trump
projects, like Trump SoHo and Trump
Toronto, received significant funding
from Kremlin-linked financiers. In
fact, Trump Toronto was funded by an
asset sale by the Russian bank VTB—a
transaction that would have likely
needed approval from Putin himself.
We now know that the Trump Organi-
zation pursued the Trump Moscow
project for far longer than he led on,
including well into his campaign for
President.
The President has unequivocally said
that he has ‘‘zero investments in Rus-
sia.’’ Well, here is the problem: Donald
Trump may not have investments in
Russia, but it is quite possible that the
Kremlin has an investment in him.
That is what keeps me up at night.
That is why I believe the time is now
to pass legislation requiring all Presi-
dential candidates to disclose their tax
returns and why I am the sponsor of
such legislation.
So many of my colleagues decried
Trump’s shattering of this norm, but
since he arrived at White House, the
Republicans have done nothing to stop
it from becoming the new normal.
We still don’t know who is behind the
vast majority of the Trump organiza-
tion projects around the world, many
of which continue to this day. We have
to follow the money to get to the
truth. How else will we ever know why
our President is either unable or un-
willing to publicly stand up to Putin?
What too many of my Republican
colleagues seem to forget is that at the
end of the day, this is not about Donald
Trump; it is about the American peo-
ple. It is about whether an American
President may be beholden to foreign
interests and how those interests fare
against our own.
When the President embraces our
greatest adversaries and gives the back
of the hand to our closest allies; when
he continually denies Russia’s inter-
ference in 2016 and belittles the find-
ings of our entire intelligence commu-
nity; when, in spite of those findings,
he suggests lifting sanctions on the
Russians; when he backs down from
challenging Putin after Russia com-
mits an unacceptable act of aggression
against Ukraine in the Sea of Azov, an
international border, then we need a
Congress willing to live up to its role
as a coequal branch of government.
We cannot blindly follow a poten-
tially compromised President down
this dangerous path in which our alli-
ances are suffering, our leadership on
the global stage is waning, and our
competitors are seeking to fill the
void.
We need to know the facts—not the
latest spin dropped by Rudy Giuliani—
the facts. The American people deserve
to know whom they elected to be their
President. They deserve to know if he
is, in fact, putting America’s interests
first. They deserve to know if Donald
Trump is wittingly or unwittingly an
agent for the Russian Federation.
Congress must carry out its constitu-
tional duty to fully and thoroughly in-
vestigate where the facts lead. That is
why we must protect the integrity of
all oversight efforts including the ob-
jective, sober investigation still being
conducted by Robert Mueller, and that
is why we must push for his final re-
port to be made public to the American
people.
At the same time, this administra-
tion’s deference to the Kremlin de-
mands Congress be proactive in shap-
ing U.S. foreign policy toward Russia,
especially with respect to sanctions.
We saw that with the Countering
America’s Adversaries Through Sanc-
tions or CAATSA law passed in 2017
with the support of 98 Senators.
Given the circumstances we face
today, we need additional legislation to
protect American interests. That is
why Senator GRAHAM and I introduced
just yesterday the Defending America’s
Security from Kremlin Aggression Act
or DASKA, a bipartisan piece of legis-
lation that is joined by several of our
Republican colleagues.
This comprehensive legislation will
ensure our diplomats have the tools to
advance our interests and stand up to
the bully in the Kremlin. It includes
new sanctions, as well as provisions de-
signed to harden our democratic insti-
tutions and make us less vulnerable to
attack. Perhaps most urgently,
DASKA requires Senate consent,
should the President act on his desire
to pull the United States out of NATO.
To risk letting this President pull our
Nation out of a military alliance so
vital to America’s security would be a
tragedy fit for the ages.
The collapse of NATO is No. 1 on Mr.
Putin’s wish list, and with leaders like
Secretary Mattis no longer around to
babysit this President, Congress has a
responsibility to act. This bipartisan
bill is essential to giving the United
States a more solid footing against the
Kremlin moving forward.
We should treat DASKA with ur-
gency. The time to pass this legislation
is now. We need hearings, a vote on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
and swift consideration on the floor of
the Senate.
Likewise, we must finally pass legis-
lation to protect the Mueller investiga-
tion and to require that all Presi-
dential candidates release their tax re-
turns.
I know, deep down, that many of my
Republican colleagues share my con-
cerns. I have talked with them, a fair
number of them, yet they are afraid of
angering the Party of Trump. Well, I
believe that they would be seen as
American heroes.
Should the facts confirm our greatest
fears to be true, I ask my colleagues to
consider what the history books will
say about those who knew the Presi-
dent of the United States might very
well be compromised by a foreign
power, yet still did nothing. I am talk-
ing about my Republican colleagues
who seem to have numbed themselves
to the latest bombshell revelations
about the President’s posture on Rus-
sia. Apparently, they don’t want to
know why Russia interfered in 2016 to
help Trump win. They don’t want to
know why the Republican platform’s
strong language on Russia was watered
down by the Trump team. They don’t
want to know how someone deeply in-
debted to Russian oligarchs and later
caught giving polling data to Russian
intelligence contacts became chairman
of the campaign. They don’t want to
know why Russia began hacking Hil-
lary Clinton’s emails the same day
that Candidate Trump asked them to
do so.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.061 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1368 February 14, 2019
They don’t want to know why the
President undermines our intelligence
community and attacks law enforce-
ment for investigating Russian inter-
ference. They don’t want to know why
he seeks to dismantle NATO, a pillar of
security, prosperity, and the defense of
western democratic ideals. They don’t
want to know why he shares Putin’s
joy when discord unfolds in Europe.
They don’t want to know why Trump
forbade his interpreter from disclosing
the contents of his conversations with
Putin and took his notes. In short,
they don’t want to know the truth.
Well, now is not the time to ignore
the facts or avoid the truth. We are liv-
ing in a time of unthinkable questions,
and should the facts reveal the most
unthinkable of answers, we must do
what is necessary to protect the inter-
ests of the United States of America.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, first, let
me commend the Senator from New
Jersey for his very articulate, detailed,
and factually specific discussion of
Russian malign influence across the
globe but, particularly, here in the
United States.
RUSSIAN HYBRID WARFARE
Mr. President, today I rise to con-
tinue my series of speeches with regard
to Russian hybrid warfare and, specifi-
cally, to provide policy recommenda-
tions in response to the threat from
Russia, particularly the threat from in-
formation warfare, which was exhibited
so substantially in the 2016 election.
The first part of the speech I gave on
January 24 of this year, but let me
briefly recap. As I described in my pre-
vious speech, Russia is prosecuting an
ongoing, persistent campaign of infor-
mation warfare targeted at the United
States and Western democracies. These
information operations are conducted
along specific lines of effort and em-
ploy tactics, techniques, and proce-
dures that Russia has developed over
years of experimentation. Russia has
been particularly effective in adapting
its information warfare playbook to
the digital age, weaponizing social
media to magnify fear and mistrust,
create chaos, and undermine our abil-
ity to respond effectively.
There are four steps we must adopt
to more effectively counter Russian in-
formation warfare. First, we need the
President to fulfill the obligations of
his office and unite the American peo-
ple in confronting this national secu-
rity threat. Second, we need a coordi-
nated strategy across our government
and society to counter those threats.
Third, and flowing from the coordi-
nated strategy, we need to ensure our
government and society are organized
and have the right capabilities to man-
age this ongoing confrontation in the
information space. Finally, we need to
develop, in coordination with our allies
and partners, our own playbook to
fight back.
Let me address each of these pro-
posals in turn.
First of all, we need the President to
be straight with the American people.
The President’s own national security
officials and intelligence community
agree about the existence and serious-
ness of the attacks being conducted by
Russia against our democracy. The
President, as our Nation’s leader, must
embrace the same conclusion. By con-
veying to the American people the ur-
gency of this national security threat,
the President can ensure that as a na-
tion we are responding with the same
level of commitment as we would to a
military threat. This will elevate the
urgency and gravity of the matter and
help ensure we are committing the nec-
essary level of resources for both mili-
tary and nonmilitary measures to
counter the Russian threat and build
resilience against these malign activi-
ties.
Presidential leadership is necessary
to help us move past domestic paro-
chial politics. We have already seen
how the failure to put national secu-
rity over partisan politics all but deci-
mated our ability to counter Russian
information warfare during the 2016
election. The German Marshall Fund
concluded in their policy blueprint
from last year that ‘‘removing par-
tisanship from the calculus in respond-
ing to this threat is critical.’’ This is
not a Democratic or a Republican prob-
lem. This is a national security prob-
lem, and it is severe. If we are going to
overcome Russian efforts to magnify
fear and distrust, we need our Presi-
dent to put our national security first.
Presidential leadership is just as im-
perative beyond our borders. The Presi-
dent speaks to the American people.
His words must send a clear and con-
sistent message to the Kremlin that we
will not tolerate attacks against the
United States. A real opportunity was
missed when the President did not use
his platform during the State of the
Union to denounce Russian attacks on
our democracy and showcase to the
world the depth of his commitment in
countering this threat.
The world must understand that the
President is serious and committed to
protecting the United States, its allies,
and its partners against information
warfare and will do so for as long as re-
quired. As a recent report by the Treas-
ury Department on efforts by the
United States to combat illicit finance
noted: ‘‘Russia must . . . realize that
the United States and its allies will not
waver in our determination to prevent
it from undermining our democracies,
economies, institutions, and the values
on which these pillars of global sta-
bility—ensured by United States lead-
ership—will continue to stand.’’
The President should heed his own
administration’s guidance. He should
do so publicly and with the resolve ex-
pected of the Commander in Chief.
Unfortunately, the President’s his-
tory on this subject to date is far from
encouraging. His policy positions do
not follow dictums outlined by the
Treasury Department and others in his
administration but, instead, mirror
Russian strategic objectives. His for-
eign policy goals and those of Russia
seem to overlap. The President’s dev-
astating threats to withdraw from
NATO and his denigration of the Euro-
pean Union, our trading partners, and
those he considers his domestic polit-
ical adversaries create or exacerbate
internal divisions. The President must
be made to realize that Russia supports
his approach to foreign relations and
domestic politics.
The President is, of course, by no
means alone in demonizing those with
whom he disagrees, but his voice is far
more powerful as a result of the office
he holds, and it is his obligation and
duty to lead. Not only must the Presi-
dent distinguish his policy positions
from those that Russia promotes overt-
ly and through disinformation cam-
paigns to tear up the fabric of the
West, he must wholeheartedly reject
those tactics and defend our Nation
against them.
The President needs to get on the
same page with much of the rest of the
U.S. Government and Congress. The
heads of the Department of Justice, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
Department of Homeland Security, and
the Director of National Intelligence
all came together to send a tough mes-
sage to Russia ahead of the 2018 mid-
term elections. Congress has been
united, as well, as evidenced by the
overwhelmingly bipartisan passage of
the Russia sanctions bill as part of the
Countering America’s Adversaries
Through Sanctions Act or CAATSA.
Yet this tough messaging to Russia is
completely undermined when the
President fails to confront Putin over
Russian malign activities and, instead,
repeatedly downplays the significance
of Russian interference with our de-
mocracy and society.
It is further undermined when he
mirrors Putin’s talking points and dis-
misses the Russian nationals indicted
by the special counsel, including 12
Russian military intelligence or GRU
agents, as merely ‘‘bloggers from Mos-
cow.’’ It is further undermined when
the administration unwinds sanctions
against a business of Putin crony Oleg
Deripaska. I would note that this deal
went forward in spite of bipartisan ac-
tion in the Congress to try to block it.
The President’s mixed messages and
failure of leadership in mounting sus-
tained and credible deterrence must
end.
Despite the lack of Presidential lead-
ership, there is work underway to
counter Russian hybrid warfare—and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.062 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1369
February 14, 2019
specifically information warfare—at
the Departments of Homeland Secu-
rity, State, Treasury, Justice, the Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation, as well as
the National Security Agency, Cyber
Command, and broader elements of the
Department of Defense.
These efforts include standing up
task forces between DHS and the FBI
to target foreign influence within our
borders, reorganizing the internal
structures of DHS, and establishing the
Russia Influence Group across several
national security agencies. NSA and
Cyber Command also established a
working group called the Russia Small
Group to counter Kremlin information
warfare campaigns.
We must recognize the results these
efforts have yielded to date. As author-
ized by this year’s National Defense
Authorization Act, or the NDAA, Cyber
Command has undertaken offensive
cyber operations. Treasury has sanc-
tioned more than 270 Russian individ-
uals and related entities. The Depart-
ment of Justice has used our legal sys-
tem to expose GRU and the Kremlin-
linked troll organization activities.
These efforts signify that our capable
civil servants and military officials
have developed ways to mitigate as-
pects of the threat against us, but what
is lacking is a synchronized campaign,
prosecuted in a unified manner, to
counter Russian hybrid warfare against
the United States, our allies, and our
partners.
General Scaparrotti, the head of Eu-
ropean Command—who is on the
frontlines of this threat—testified to
the Armed Services Committee last
March: ‘‘[I] don’t believe there is effec-
tive unification across the interagency,
with the energy and the focus that we
could attain.’’
The Trump administration’s national
defense strategy emphasizes the ‘‘re-
emergence of long-term strategic com-
petition,’’ including with Russia. I
agree that this is an appropriate place
to focus attention, but I have yet to
see the changes needed to align with
those priorities.
We must develop wholesale, scalable
strategy to counter these threats below
the level of armed conflict, including
on the 21st-century battlefields of in-
formation and cyber space. It must be
noted that Congress, including in the
NDAA, has repeatedly urged the ad-
ministration in this direction.
Two years ago, I secured a provision,
along with my colleagues, to require
the Department of Defense, in conjunc-
tion with the Department of State and
other Agencies, to craft a Russian ma-
lign influence strategy. That strategy
was finally delivered a few months ago,
and it highlights the various efforts
U.S. Government Departments and
Agencies are undertaking. However, as
I have said before, the administration
must build on and implement that
strategy, and these efforts must be
conducted in a unified manner at the
direction of the President both oper-
ationally and also as the chief spokes-
person to the Nation and to the world.
This year’s NDAA authorized the ap-
pointment of a foreign influence coor-
dinator on the National Security Coun-
cil staff. This would be a good step to-
ward organizing a whole-of-government
approach to counter Russian informa-
tion warfare. However, it remains to be
seen whether the administration will
stand up such a position.
Once we have laid out a comprehen-
sive strategy, we must ensure that it
can be successfully executed. This will
require the support of the right organi-
zational structures across the govern-
ment and the whole of society.
The National Defense Strategy Com-
mission concluded in its report that
Russia ‘‘developed national strategies
for enhancing their influence and un-
dermining key U.S. interests that ex-
tend far beyond military competition
. . . [C]omprehensive solutions to these
comprehensive challenges will require
whole-of-government and even whole-
of-nation cooperation extending far be-
yond DOD.
As the Commission notes, we need to
be institutionally capable of antici-
pating Russian information warfare de-
velopments. As a nation, we have been
too slow, too late, and too divided in
acknowledging the severity of these at-
tacks on our governmental institutions
and society. We watched Kremlin-di-
rected information attacks in the
Ukraine, the United Kingdom, and else-
where, but we didn’t conceive that this
Russian playbook would be deployed
against us.
What is more, we are starting from a
deficit in terms of the way our govern-
ment is organized. After the Cold War,
we dismantled the apparatus in place
to recognize and counter threats from
the Soviet Union. More recently, we
found ourselves embroiled in two long
counterinsurgency wars, which reori-
ented our planning, our systems, and
our weapons to counter those threats
of insurgents in Iraq, Afghanistan, and
elsewhere. We took our eye off the
growing challenges to the inter-
national order in Europe, and frankly
we were late to realize that the Rus-
sians had either pushed past any reset
in U.S.-Russia relations or had never
actually stopped seeing us as their
enemy. So we need to rebuild our ca-
pacity to challenge this threat.
First, we must ensure that we have
the intelligence capabilities in place to
yield a more complete understanding
of the nature of the threat. One of the
reasons that the Kremlin caught us off
guard is because we significantly
downsized the office in the CIA unoffi-
cially called Russia House, which was
tasked with countering Russia during
the Cold War.
While the number of Russian ana-
lysts has grown in recent years, we
must make sure that we grow and re-
tain the expertise and the budget dedi-
cated to analyzing, attributing, antici-
pating, and exposing Russian informa-
tion warfare campaigns on a persistent
basis.
As I quoted in part 1 of this speech,
the senior vice president of the Center
for European Policy Analysis, Edward
Lucas, explained that we ‘‘are still
playing catch up from a long way be-
hind. We are looking in the rearview
mirror, getting less bad at working out
what Russia just did to us. We are still
not looking through the windshield to
find out what’s happening now and
what’s going to be happening next.’’
If we are ever going to get out from
looking at this problem through the
rearview mirror, we need to understand
the patterns of Russia’s aggressive be-
havior and be able to anticipate the
next attack.
In addition to ramping up Russia ex-
pertise, there needs to be a coordi-
nating body across the national secu-
rity apparatus to provide intelligence
and analysis sharing. This body would
work to provide a common operating
picture for our government and help
with strategic coordination across U.S.
Government Agencies involved in
countering hybrid warfare.
A proposal to stand up an inter-
agency fusion cell similar to what I am
describing was recommended in the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee
minority staff report from January
2018. That report envisioned that such
a center ‘‘should include representa-
tives from the FBI, CIA, the Depart-
ments of Homeland Security, State,
Defense, and Treasury, and it should
immediately produce a strategy, plan,
and robust budget that coordinates all
current and projected government pro-
gramming to counter Russian Govern-
ment interference and malign influ-
ence.’’
Similarly, the Defending American
Security from Kremlin Aggression Act,
or DASKA, a bill that Senator MENEN-
DEZ indicated was reintroduced yester-
day in a bipartisan fashion—Senator
MENENDEZ and Senator GRAHAM are
leading this effort—includes language
to establish such a fusion center. I urge
my colleagues to support this type of a
center. It will go a long way toward
further integrating a whole-of-govern-
ment approach.
In conjunction with standing up such
a center, Congress may need to exam-
ine the authorities of some intelligence
agencies, as it becomes harder to de-
tect and counter Russian operations
that look increasingly ‘‘American’’ in
nature.
Our military institutions also need
to be structured to counter Russian in-
formation operations—in particular
those conducted by the GRU. As laid
out in part 1 of this speech, these oper-
ations are persistent and ongoing, re-
flecting current Russian military doc-
trine, and follow discernable lines of ef-
fort. We must bring appropriate mili-
tary tools to counter this threat.
Last November, General Nakasone,
who serves as both the head of Cyber
Command and the Director of the NSA,
explained that America’s adversaries,
including Russia, ‘‘are looking to take
us on below the level of armed conflict.
Our military must be able to . . . com-
pete below the level of armed conflict.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.064 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1370 February 14, 2019
This is what great power competition
looks like today, and it’s what we will
look at as we look to the future.’’
Indeed, this type of conflict requires
new tools in cyber space, including of-
fensive cyber operations and updated
protocols for using them.
It should be noted that Cyber Com-
mand took important steps to safe-
guard the 2018 midterm elections. Sev-
eral days prior to the election, Na-
tional Security Advisor Ambassador
John Bolton acknowledged this role,
stating that the United States was
‘‘undertaking offensive cyber oper-
ations . . . aimed at defending the in-
tegrity of the electoral process.’’ Simi-
larly, the Department of Defense ex-
plained that it worked to ‘‘frustrate
and prevent adversary interference in
the 2018 election cycle.’’ It appears that
these cyber operations contributed to
more successful deterrence or a
blunting of the Russian information
warfare campaign than during the 2016
Presidential election.
That said, we also must acknowledge
that the Russians have not stopped
their operations against us, and they
don’t undertake information warfare
campaigns only at election time. As we
learn to counter their operations, they
learn better methods to attack us,
often with increased sophistication and
less detectability. In order to stay up
to speed, we must institutionalize the
temporary arrangements that the De-
partment of Defense assembled for ad-
dressing information warfare oper-
ations in the midterm elections and
make them permanent. Our efforts
must be persistent and scalable to en-
sure we have the operational capacity
to respond to these attacks against our
democracy.
Along those same lines, in last year’s
NDAA, we required the Secretary of
Defense to establish a process to inte-
grate strategic and cyber-enabled in-
formation operations across the De-
partment. While information oper-
ations were a feature of military oper-
ations during the Cold War, today they
are sometimes an afterthought. Having
better integrated procedures for these
types of operations would be a good
start for getting organized inside DOD
to effectively counter Russian informa-
tion warfare below the level of conven-
tional conflict.
Just as important as ensuring that
we have the right military and intel-
ligence tools, is ensuring that we have
the appropriate nonmilitary tools to
counter the threat. An additional cast-
off after the Cold War was the U.S. In-
formation Agency, which was devoted
to advancing public diplomacy, build-
ing narratives, and extolling American
virtues to foreign audiences. We should
consider carefully whether it makes
sense to revive some of these capabili-
ties for today’s information age.
One important step toward reestab-
lishing such a capability was enlarging
the mission of the State Department’s
Global Engagement Center in the fiscal
year 2017 NDAA to ‘‘lead, synchronize,
and coordinate efforts of the Federal
Government to recognize, understand,
expose, and counter’’ foreign state
propaganda and disinformation tar-
geting U.S. national security interests.
However, the Global Engagement Cen-
ter has been under resourced and slow
to execute its mission. We need to ac-
celerate this effort.
We also need to look at our tools and
tactics for informing our domestic au-
dience, including how best to address
concerns about the integrity of elec-
tions arising as a result of Russian
meddling.
As a recent report from CSIS on elec-
tion security stressed, ‘‘Credibility is
as important as accuracy.’’ We should
examine what approach would best
serve the American people in terms of
validating the integrity of election re-
sults, as well as mobilizing to respond
should our elections come under at-
tack.
This effort could be centered around
a dedicated office or assigned to a
group of current or former trusted gov-
ernment officials. Their mission would
be to rapidly communicate to the
American public regarding the integ-
rity of elections in response to Russian
efforts to undermine the public faith in
democracy, including through informa-
tion warfare attacks.
The administration has taken steps
in this direction, including the Presi-
dent’s Executive order regarding elec-
tion interference from last September,
which requires a 45-day report assess-
ing attacks from foreign adversaries.
But this won’t be fast enough to
counter information warfare cam-
paigns in real time. These attacks are
moving at the speed of the internet. We
don’t have 45 days to wait.
As we look to the 2020 Presidential
elections, it is imperative that we in-
vest more in election security. While
progress has been made since 2016, it
has paled in comparison to the mag-
nitude of the challenge.
Last Congress, I was disappointed
when an amendment to provide an ad-
ditional $250 million in election secu-
rity grant funding was blocked by my
colleagues on the other side. This fund-
ing would have built upon the $380 mil-
lion that was appropriated for election
security grants in the fiscal year 2018
Omnibus Appropriations Act. At the
time of the vote last summer, the ini-
tial funding was already committed to
the States, and 91 percent of those
funds had been disbursed. We will need
to provide the funding necessary if we
are to claim that we are committed to
improving election security. In addi-
tion, the Kremlin exploits the exist-
ence of insecure or outdated systems to
promote information warfare oper-
ations against us, furthering the nar-
rative that there are so-called cracks
in our democracy.
Our government is not the only actor
that must play a role in meeting these
threats. We must also look to our soci-
ety and the private sector. As I dis-
cussed, the government failed to have
the imagination to fully realize the ex-
tent of the coming threat. Unfortu-
nately, the ways in which the social
media companies responded to these
attacks mirrored the government’s
failure of imagination. Social media
companies were held up as beacons of
innovation with a view that technology
could bring people together in common
cause, but these companies failed to
conceive that these same tools could
also be used for malign purposes—to
misinform as well as to inform.
When originally confronted with the
notion that the Kremlin had had an
impact on the 2016 election, Facebook
founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg dis-
missed out of hand any role his com-
pany may have played. He said: ‘‘To
think . . . [Facebook] influenced the
election in any way is a pretty crazy
idea.’’ Yet we now know that the ma-
nipulation of social media is one of the
primary lines of effort used by the
Kremlin and Kremlin-linked actors to
mount their information warfare cam-
paigns against us.
Certain social media companies have
made some reforms and worked with
law enforcement and DHS to take down
fraudulent networks—or what the com-
panies deem as inauthentic accounts.
For instance, late last month, Twitter
announced that before the 2018 mid-
terms, it removed 418 Russian accounts
whose behavior mimicked that of the
Kremlin-linked troll organization.
However, we just can’t assume, going
forward, that these companies will act
in the best interest of U.S. national se-
curity and continue to cooperate with-
out some guidance or, perhaps, even
regulation. These are private, for-profit
companies, and like any company, they
are worried how reputational damage
will affect their bottom lines. If they
cannot organize themselves effectively
to combat warfare campaigns, Congress
will have to legislate solutions.
Such an effort is already underway in
the European Union, which has worked
on several fronts to protect users of so-
cial media. The EU has established
data privacy rules, known as the Gen-
eral Data Protection Regulation, or
GDPR, that seek to strengthen indi-
vidual rights for the protection of per-
sonal data. In addition, the EU has
worked with online platforms which
are developing voluntary standards to
fight disinformation, known as the
Code of Practice on Disinformation. As
well, EU member nations have also
made threats of regulation and fines if
social media companies do not do more
to address disinformation and fake ac-
counts. It would make sense to look
closely at what the EU is imple-
menting to see what might be appro-
priate for our purposes.
As I discussed in part 1 of this
speech, one of the main issues in the
2016 election was that social media
companies didn’t have the visibility
into what had occurred across plat-
forms, including Twitter, Facebook,
YouTube, and others, making it harder
to detect and combat Russian informa-
tion warfare operations. As mentioned
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.065 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1371
February 14, 2019
previously, two independent reports
commissioned by the Senate Intel-
ligence Committee examined a subset
of data provided by the social media
companies relating to the 2016 election,
and they identified significant Russian
activity across social media platforms
that was not discovered at the time.
As we look at how society must orga-
nize to counter this threat, we need
greater visibility across platforms so
that we can more effectively anticipate
these operations coming and defend
against future interference. One ap-
proach to further that goal could be
the establishment of a social media re-
pository to compile data relevant to
identifying and countering foreign in-
formation operations. This database
would be a tool for trusted independent
researchers and academics to gain in-
sight into cross-platform trends and
provide an analysis of attacks.
To this point, last month, Cyber
Commander General Nakasone testi-
fied before the Senate Intelligence
Committee that the analysis of the
independent reports, based on the lim-
ited data provided by a few social
media companies, was ‘‘very effective.’’
He added:
As we prepared for the 2018 midterms, we
took a very, very close look at the informa-
tion that was provided there. We understood
our adversary very well, and we understood
where their vulnerabilities also lie.
Imagine how helpful it would be if
this repository were ongoing and com-
prehensive.
America’s intelligence and defensive
capabilities are vast and adaptable. To
be sure, there is considerable work
ahead to restructure, realign, and focus
efforts across the government and soci-
ety, but America will only be best pos-
tured to prevent these attacks in the
future once we move from a defensive
posture to a strategy that plays to our
strengths.
We must come up with our own
American playbook to counter Russian
information warfare. The Kremlin has
resorted to these dirty tricks because
it knows it will not win in a fair fight.
We should not try to play by their
rules or be symmetric in our response.
We should counter Russia in the arenas
where we have strategic advantages.
We should counter Russia in ways that
uphold and enhance our democracy and
the rule of law. We should counter Rus-
sia in ways that show our strength and
credibility.
As President Reagan stated: ‘‘The ul-
timate determinate in the struggle now
going on for the world will not be
bombs and rockets but a test of wills
and ideas—a trial of spiritual resolve,
the values we hold, the beliefs we cher-
ish and the ideas to which we are dedi-
cated.’’
As I have explained, Kremlin and
Kremlin-linked propaganda and
disinformation seek to amplify fear
and mistrust and convince the Amer-
ican public that our democracy is no
better than the autocratic regime in
Moscow. To push back against this
moral equivalence promoted by Putin
and other authoritarian regimes, we
must promote and highlight our val-
ues. In doing so, we can showcase our
adherence to justice and the rule of law
by exposing Russian aggression against
us, our allies, and our partners.
We must assist and protect jour-
nalism, including in countries where
criticizing the Kremlin and exposing
the truth may put reporters in danger.
In concert with allies and partners, we
must encourage and support civil soci-
ety groups here and abroad to protect
human rights and enhance rule of law
protections. We can use sanctions as a
tool to expose Kremlin abuses and raise
reputational costs to Putin and his cro-
nies, such as the sanctions provided in
the Magnitsky Act.
Our American playbook must also in-
clude options for responding to Russian
malign activities in cyberspace. The
Russians are weaponizing information
stolen from our government officials
and candidates for public office. We
must define and harden our cyber doc-
trine and clearly understand how to
use our military in these new domains.
Our responses are likely to be asym-
metric rather than employing the same
dirty tricks from the Russian play-
book. Ultimately, the integrity of our
electoral campaigns should lead all
U.S. political parties and actors to
pledge not to use hacked or stolen ma-
terials to attack or smear each other.
The media, too, should contemplate
what its responsibilities are to the citi-
zens of this country when covering
elections. They should be wary of cov-
ering aspects of political campaigns in
ways that may aid or abet foreign in-
formation operations. While we must
always protect the constitutional right
of freedom of the press, the media may
come to conclude that covering hacked
materials without appropriately fram-
ing the source of those materials or in-
cluding comments from Kremlin-linked
trolls claiming to be American citizens
is no longer appropriate.
Further, as I discussed in part 1 of
this speech, a major line of effort for
Russia is Kremlin-directed deception
operations using social media to pene-
trate our political and social debates
and magnify feelings of fear and mis-
trust. Our American playbook must
also include ways to educate our citi-
zens with knowledge of these plots and
provide additional media literacy
tools, including teaching our young
people how to evaluate what they see
online and further make the case to
the public for the importance and value
of democratic institutions.
In addition, we must strengthen sup-
port for one of our greatest strategic
advantages—our alliances and partner-
ships globally. We must take steps to
educate the American public about the
central role alliances play for our na-
tional security. We must also look out-
ward, supporting our alliances and
stepping up our diplomatic outreach to
help resolve longstanding regional con-
flicts overseas so that Russia may no
longer use information warfare cam-
paigns to exploit those situations to
their advantage.
Our responses to Russian information
operations are most effective when we
act in concert with allies and partners.
The sanctions levied on Russia after
their illegal annexation of Crimea were
effective because they were imple-
mented together with the EU. We have
also witnessed the effects of the more
than 25 countries expelling Russian
diplomats in solidarity with the United
Kingdom in response to the Skripal
poisoning. The United States worked
closely with Greece to blunt Russia’s
attempts to undermine an agreement
between Greece and North Macedonia
that would open the door for North
Macedonia to join NATO. As these ex-
amples show, the cost to Russia is
greater when they aren’t simply dis-
missed as a unilateral shunning by the
United States.
As the former Estonian Foreign Min-
ister and Ambassador to Russia stated:
Joint initiatives are more likely to deter
hackers. If they don’t take seriously one
country, they will take seriously 30 coun-
tries when they will jointly blame a hacker
or foreign nation for an attack.
Last week, the Acting Attorney Gen-
eral and the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity certified that our government
‘‘concluded there is no evidence to date
that any identified activities of a for-
eign government or foreign agent had a
material impact on the integrity or se-
curity of election infrastructure or po-
litical/campaign infrastructure used in
the 2018 midterm elections.’’
However, we should not take that
certification as a reason to let down
our guard. We seem to be getting bet-
ter at responding to the types of at-
tacks perpetrated against the United
States in 2016, but that is no indicator
that we have become better at antici-
pating future attacks. The Director of
the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure
Security Agency warned last Novem-
ber:
The [2018] midterm is . . . just the warm-
up or the exhibition game. . . . The big game
for adversaries is probably 2020.
This statement was reinforced by
DNI Coats, who testified to the Senate
Intelligence Committee late last
month: ‘‘Our adversaries and strategic
competitors are probably already look-
ing to the 2020 U.S. elections as an op-
portunity to advance their interests,’’
and also ‘‘Moscow may employ addi-
tional influence toolkits—such as
spreading disinformation, conducting
hack-and-leak operations or manipu-
lating data—in a more targeted fashion
to influence U.S. policy, actions and
elections.’’
We must think creatively to ensure
that we are ahead of this curve. I am
confident that this is a challenge that
we can meet and conquer with Presi-
dential leadership, a whole of govern-
ment approach, and the energy and re-
sources necessary. We can and we must
do this.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.066 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1372 February 14, 2019
As President John F. Kennedy said:
‘‘We are not here to curse the darkness
but to light the candle that can guide
us through that darkness to a safe and
sane future.’’
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I had
planned to come to the floor this
evening to talk about our national
parks and to talk about the lands bill
that just passed, but I also want to
talk for a moment, if I could, about the
legislation we just voted on on this
floor. It had to do with border security,
and it had to do with six other appro-
priations bills that include many of our
Departments and Agencies. It also had
to do with keeping the government
from shutting down. If this legislation
is now passed by the House tonight,
which is expected, and is signed into
law by the President, which is ex-
pected, we will avoid a government
shutdown, which is really important.
We don’t need to go there again.
I also want to talk, for a second,
about the package itself and the most
controversial part of it, which has to
do with the border. I voted yes this
evening, and I did so because the legis-
lation we just signed takes really im-
portant steps towards strengthening
our southern border. Frankly, I am not
hearing much about that on either side
of the aisle.
First, let me just say that President
Trump had a proposal on the border.
His was a comprehensive proposal—
yes—of more barriers and fencing but
also of more cameras, more remote
sensing, more screening at ports of
entry, more judges, more Border Pa-
trol, and so on.
That legislation that he asked us to
take up included $22.8 billion—a lot of
money, right?
Now, some will say: But Congress
didn’t follow what President Trump
wanted to do because they gave him
less money.
The border security funding in this
package is actually about $300 million
less than the President asked for. It is
$22.5 billion.
But Congress decided—and I think
Congress is right about this—that our
southern border is in need of help right
now. Some call it a crisis. Some just
say it is a big problem. I don’t care
what you call it. We need more help on
the border. We need more barriers, but
we also need more cameras, more re-
mote sensing, and more ways to stop
the drugs from coming in, most of
which come through the ports of entry.
Yes, we need more people to be able to
respond. Yes, we need more judges to
be able to handle this backlog of immi-
gration cases that has built up. Yes, we
need more humanitarian assistance.
By the way, the Trump administra-
tion and the Democrats from Congress
supported both of those things. The
place where there was a difference was
the amount of funding to put into the
barriers. They gave him less money
than he asked for for new barriers and
new fencing.
The agreement includes nearly $1.4
billion for that—for the new barriers
and new fencing. By the way, it might
also surprise you to learn that that is
the most money Congress has ever ap-
propriated for fencing and new barriers
in any fiscal year.
Let me repeat that. This is the most
money Congress has ever voted for to
provide more barriers along the border.
And these are new barriers.
Now, again, if you listen to folks—
sometimes on both sides of the aisle—
on this issue, you might not hear that,
but this is the most ever in any one fis-
cal year. By the way, we are already
41⁄2 months into this fiscal year.
I am glad we provided the funding be-
cause I think it is needed. I believe we
do have a crisis on the border. I believe
it has to do with illegal immigration,
but also it has to do with drugs that
are devastating my home State of
Ohio.
Crystal meth is on the rise—pure
crystal meth from Mexico, almost all
of it. Ninety percent of the heroin com-
ing into my State comes across that
southern border.
We now have fentanyl coming in
from across the border in addition to
coming straight from China. We now
have, of course, cocaine coming across
the southern border. We have serious
drug problems that need to be ad-
dressed.
I have done a lot of work on the issue
of human trafficking, and I can just
tell you that what we have learned,
sadly, is that the amount of trafficking
going on along the southern border in-
creases as you have more and more
people who are trafficking human
beings for work—illegal immigration,
which I think is mostly for people com-
ing here to find a better life for work,
but they are bringing with them a lot
of people who are trafficking women
and children.
So the trafficking issue is real. That
is what the experts tell us, and that is
another reason for us to have a more
secure southern border. So I am glad
that we are providing the funding.
With regard to the new barriers,
what the President had asked for is
that his funding go to fund the top pri-
orities of the Border Patrol. Customs
and Border Protection has a border se-
curity improvement plan. You can
check it out online. The border secu-
rity improvement plan has a number of
priorities. The President wanted to
fund those priorities. This proposal
that we voted on tonight does fund
about 55 miles of new barriers—not just
fixing up old barriers, but new bar-
riers—which comprise the top two pri-
orities of that border security plan.
Would the President like to do more
in terms of barriers? Yes, he would, and
he is talking about ways to do that.
But my point tonight is very simple.
If you really care about the southern
border, then, this was the right vote to
take because, with regard to barriers,
this is the most Congress has ever pro-
vided for new barriers, new fencing.
I hope this will work to help stop this
flow of drugs into our country, to help
control the illegal immigration that is
happening, to help stop the trafficking
of women and children that goes on
along the border, but it is going to re-
quire more work. We all know that.
This is a start, and my hope is that by
passing this legislation we can help to
start those even more serious efforts to
deal with our broader issues here, in-
cluding our broader immigration issues
that have to be dealt with.
So I am hopeful that the House will
pass it. I am hopeful that the President
will sign it. I think he will. He says he
will.
I am also glad that we are not going
into a shutdown. Shutdowns make no
sense. We have legislation, as some of
you know, to try to stop government
shutdowns from happening in the fu-
ture. Why? Because they are bad for
taxpayers, who end up paying more,
not less, often because workers who are
furloughed actually get paid even when
they are not working, but also because
of the inefficiencies of government dur-
ing a shutdown. Taxpayer services are
reduced—everything from meat inspec-
tion to the security lines, to the IRS
information line to figure out how to
file your doggone taxes. I mean, all of
that gets affected.
So shutdowns don’t make sense. It
really doesn’t make sense for the men
and women who work for the Federal
Government and for their families.
During this last shutdown of 35 days,
workers who were told they were essen-
tial, therefore, had to report for work,
and they were not getting paid. So,
again, those who weren’t working got
paid after the fact, and those who were
working were not getting paid during
the shutdown. That doesn’t make a lot
of sense to me.
By the way, missing two pay periods
is a big deal for a lot of the government
workers I know because they live pay-
check to paycheck. They had rent pay-
ments. They had house payments, in
some cases. They had car payments.
They had real issues getting through
this. Let’s not put them through it
again. It is not their fault. They
shouldn’t be pawns in this.
So my hope is that we can pass the
‘‘end government shutdown’’ legisla-
tion. It has 33 cosponsors now, which is
a lot for around here, and it gets you
started. A third of the Senate has said:
Yes, let’s stop these things. That is a
big deal. My hope is that on both sides
of the aisle our leadership agrees to
take this to the floor. Let’s have a vote
on it. Let’s decide whether people
think shutdowns are a good idea or not.
I think they are a bad idea.
By the way, it is the fifth Congress in
which I have introduced this legisla-
tion, and I must say that we have never
had this many cosponsors. So I do
think more and more people are real-
izing that this is just not the way we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.067 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1373
February 14, 2019
ought to operate. It is no way to run a
railroad or a government.
NATIONAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT ACT
Earlier this week, as I was saying
earlier, the Senate passed other legis-
lation called the lands bill, but it is
really about land conservation. It is
about ensuring that we have the abil-
ity to protect treasures around our
great country.
There were two provisions that were
in this land bill that were very impor-
tant for Ohio. One had to do with some-
thing called the Ohio & Erie Canalway
National Heritage Area. You have
probably heard of the Erie Canal. It ran
through Ohio, New York, Pennsyl-
vania, and other States. The national
heritage area is a 110-mile route on
that canal from Cleveland to New
Philadelphia, OH. It follows the route
of the canals that went along the Cuya-
hoga River. It is a beautiful, beautiful
area. It is the 87-mile trail, which is
now enjoyed by 2.5 million visitors a
year, that we wanted to be sure to pro-
tect in this legislation.
I have been there, and my family has
been there. It is a great place to hike
and great place to bicycle. It is a great
place to go bird watching. It is a great
place just to enjoy time with your fam-
ily.
It is our history that we are pre-
serving. The canalway was established
as a national heritage area by Congress
in 1996, and although Congress has au-
thorized funding for the Ohio & Erie
Canalway National Heritage Area
through fiscal year 2021, we had
reached a funding cap this year, which
meant we were at risk of losing about
100,000 bucks. That may not sound like
much in the context of the Federal
budget, but $100,000 is a big deal to the
canalway. Why? Because we use the
Federal money to leverage private
money and State and local money, and
it is a critical part of making sure that
we continue to have this beautiful
treasure in our State that brings 2.5
million visitors a year. It adds a lot of
economic benefits to our area. So Sen-
ator BROWN from Ohio and I have pro-
moted this. We know that this limited
Federal funding is going to be critical
to leveraging those public-private part-
nerships, helping to create 4,200 jobs in
the region and generating $408 million
in economic benefits.
It is important to have that kind of
stable funding in our heritage areas so
they can continue to do what they do—
to tell our Nation’s rich history and to
provide the recreational opportunities
to the people I represent. So I am glad
that was included in the land package.
There was also another piece of legis-
lation that was passed. It was a bill
that Senator CARDIN from Maryland
and I had been promoting called the
Migratory Birds of the Americas Act,
and it reauthorizes the Fish and
Wildlife’s program that promotes long-
term conservation, research, and habi-
tat protection for more than 380 dif-
ferent species of migratory birds.
This is a big deal to our State of
Ohio. We are a big bird-watching State.
We have a lot of migratory species, in-
cluding our State bird, the cardinal.
George Voinovich, whose seat I hold,
was a big champion for this program in
his time in the Senate, and he used to
talk about the importance of this from
an economic point of view. It is true
that bird watching brings more than
75,000 visitors a year to just one single
birding event in Ohio. For the birders
who are listening, you probably know
it. It is in northwest Ohio at the
Maumee Bay State Park. It is called
the ‘‘Biggest Week in American
Birding,’’ and polls have ranked it as
the top birding event in the country.
We like to think it is.
There is a study out of Bowling
Green that indicates that bird watch-
ing around Lake Erie has contributed
more than $26 million annually to our
local economy—$26 million a year—and
it has created almost 300 jobs.
So passage of this legislation is great
news for us. It is about protecting that
habitat in Ohio but also the habitat
where these birds go in the wintertime.
They are snow birds. They go south. We
ensure they are going to come back
and ensure we can continue to have
that economic benefit and enjoy that
natural beauty.
So I commend Senators MURKOWSKI,
CANTWELL, and MANCHIN for working to
get this legislation through the Senate.
I look forward to the House’s taking it
up. It also has a good provision in there
for helping our sportsmen and ensuring
that we have public access to public
lands. So my hope is that can move for-
ward and we can ensure that we begin
to deal with the issues that were ad-
dressed in that lands package.
One thing that was not addressed in
the lands package that I want to be
sure we don’t lose sight of is the condi-
tion of our national parks.
Now, again, if you are going to talk
about the treasures of our country, you
have to put the national parks right at
the top. We have this amazing park
system that is the envy of some of the
other countries around the world and
the reason so many foreign visitors
come to our country. The national
parks now attract 330 million visitors
annually. By the way, that is more
visitors in the last few years than in
the previous few years. So it is actu-
ally going up some.
These 330 million visitors come to see
84 million acres of parks and historical
sites. Again, it is a huge economic boon
to our country because a lot of people
are coming from outside the country
but also from the local areas, where
people travel to get a beautiful vaca-
tion with their family, one they can af-
ford. So we need to do everything we
can do to hold our parks up.
Here is the problem. We have, over
time, funded the parks’ day-to-day op-
erations but not funded their longer
term maintenance problems. So think
of a building that has a roof that is
leaking. Now we are funding the pro-
gram within that building and the nat-
uralists, but what we are not funding is
the actual reconstruction of that build-
ing. It is called a maintenance backlog.
That backlog has grown and grown and
grown over the years to the point that
we now have a $12 billion maintenance
backlog in our parks, and the park
funding that we provide every year
can’t come close to providing that
funding. So what some of us have done
over the years is tried to bring atten-
tion to this and to figure out a way to
get funding that was specifically fo-
cused on how to ensure that our na-
tional parks don’t continue to deterio-
rate.
Again, they are such a beautiful part
of our country, our history, and our
culture. We have to preserve that leg-
acy.
In Ohio, we have eight national
parks, including Cuyahoga Valley Na-
tional Park. Cuyahoga Valley National
Park is one of the top 14 visited parks
in the country. We are very proud of
that. Whether it is biking, hiking, fish-
ing, or kayaking, 2.7 million visitors a
year go to Cuyahoga Valley. I am one
of them. I like to do all of that there.
So these parks need to be sure that
they can continue to be this treasure
for the future. The infrastructure—the
water infrastructure, the roads, the
buildings, the bridges—is all deterio-
rating to the point where actually
some of it can’t be used.
If you go to a national park today,
you may see that there is a trail closed
or there is a visitors center that can’t
be visited. You may see that some of
the campgrounds are closed or some of
the bathrooms are closed because those
facilities have not been able to keep up
with their deferred maintenance.
So I think we should be putting more
money into deferred maintenance and
bringing our parks up to speed and ad-
dressing this $12 billion backlog than
the idea of expanding parks. We ought
to be focused more on the stewardship
of the parks we have, and that $12 bil-
lion is impossible to find within the
parks’ budget that we have.
Think about your own house. If you
allow deferred maintenance to build up
and you don’t take care of the roof, as
an example, what happens? Well, you
get a leak in the roof and then pretty
soon your drywall is ruined, and I am
pretty sure you would find out that
your floor is ruined, and the costs
mount up. That is what is happening in
our parks. So we are not fixing the de-
ferred maintenance, and we are cre-
ating other costs and other problems,
and I have seen it. I have gone to four
of our larger parks in Ohio to see, spe-
cifically, what their priorities are in
terms of deferred maintenance.
One is a leaky roof. Another is a
bridge. Another is part of a railroad
track that runs through it, a tourism
railroad track. Another is a seawall on
Lake Erie. If that is not fixed, it then
causes other damage.
My hope is that we can, on a bipar-
tisan basis, deal with this because
these problems compound. They get
worse and worse if you don’t deal with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.068 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1374 February 14, 2019
them. We can’t wait any longer to ad-
dress these maintenance needs.
Even though we don’t have Yellow-
stone Grand Teton, or Yosemite in
Ohio—we don’t have huge parks like
those—we have a $100 million backlog
in deferred maintenance in our smaller
parks in Ohio—$100 million.
I toured Cuyahoga Valley National
Park with Superintendent Craig
Kenkel and Deb Yandala, who is CEO of
the Conservancy for Cuyahoga Valley
National Park. Deb is also president of
the national association of friends
groups for our parks. These friends
groups are fantastic. They provide a lot
of funding for the parks, private sector
funding. I think that is an incredibly
important part of our overall park
funding, but they can’t afford these
maintenance projects either.
Today, there is more than $45 million
at Cuyahoga Valley alone in unmet
maintenance needs—$875,000 for badly
needed renovations for their welcome
center. I have been there. I have seen
it. They need it. More than $3 million
is needed to renovate parking lots that
are crumbling, and more than $2 mil-
lion is needed for trail repair for the
extensive trail system throughout the
park.
I have also been to other parks in
Ohio and have seen what some of the
deferred maintenance is. At the Perry’s
Victory & International Peace Memo-
rial up on Lake Erie, $47.7 million is
needed in long-delayed maintenance,
which includes millions to repair the
cracks in the seawall there to enable
the rest of the monument to continue
to exist, and the visitor’s center has to
be made ADA compatible and needs re-
pairs.
Everything we talk about here in
terms of the parks is normally very
positive. Democrats and Republicans
alike love the parks. People in America
love our parks. But I think they are
surprised to learn that just underneath
the surface, our parks are crumbling.
We have to do more to ensure they are
going to be enjoyed for generations to
come.
From 2006 until 2017, annual visita-
tion increased by 58 million people. As
these needs are growing, more people
are coming, putting more and more
pressure on the parks. Keeping up with
this aging infrastructure and increased
visitation has really stretched the
Park Service and required them to
focus on just the very immediate main-
tenance needs and postpone or delay
these other projects. We can’t continue
to use these bandaids. We have to ad-
dress the underlying issue.
I feel this is a debt unpaid. This is de-
ferred maintenance that has built up
over the last couple of decades that we
should have addressed and we didn’t,
and now we need to go back and do it
to ensure that it doesn’t cause addi-
tional costs. So this week, I have re-
introduced legislation I have worked
on in the last three Congresses. I have
reintroduced it with three of my col-
leagues—Senator MARK WARNER from
Virginia, Senator LAMAR ALEXANDER
from Tennessee, and Senator ANGUS
KING from Maine. Two Republicans,
one Democrat, and one Independent—
that makes it tri-partisan. It is called
the Restore Our Parks Act—a common-
sense solution to deal with this $12 bil-
lion backlog of long-overdue mainte-
nance projects.
I thank my colleagues for stepping
up and working on this together, and
we have. We have had different pro-
posals out there. Senator WARNER
came up with the idea of using offshore
and onshore revenue from oil and gas
drilling. We combined with the bill
that Senator ALEXANDER and Senator
KING had put forward. There are others
who have great ideas. Senator STEVE
DAINES from Montana is one of our
strong supporters. He is chair of the
National Parks Subcommittee of the
Energy and Natural Resources Com-
mittee. As he said, he grew up in the
shadow of Yellowstone Park. We have
lots of colleagues on both sides of the
aisle who care about this and are in-
volved, and I thank them for their hard
work.
Senator ALEXANDER told me that in
the 100-year history of our national
parks, there has never been a single
bill more important than this one.
That is saying a lot. Since Teddy Roo-
sevelt decided to acquire this land for
our national parks, there have been
lots of ways we have tried to help the
parks, including, recently, legislation
that I drafted on the centennial of the
parks that helps us get more public and
private money into the parks. That is
good, but it is not enough to handle
these incredible—$12 billion—deferred
maintenance costs we have now.
The legislation creates what is called
a legacy restoration fund, which will
get half of all the annual energy reve-
nues over the next 5 years that are not
otherwise allocated, and it will be used
for priority deferred maintenance
projects. These are royalties from on-
shore and offshore energy development.
The Trump administration is doing
more of that development, so there is
more revenue coming in. The bill caps
the deposits into the fund at $1.3 bil-
lion annually, so no matter what, even
if there is a lot more money coming in,
we will have a cap of $1.23 billion annu-
ally, which will provide a total of $6.5
billion for deferred maintenance
projects over the next 5 years.
I said $12 billion earlier, and that is
the amount, but for the urgent prior-
ities, it is about $6.5 billion. That is
how we came up with that number. So
what we are trying to do is—at least
let’s address the urgent priorities in
the next 5 years using the revenues
coming into our government from
these offshore and onshore energy
projects, oil and gas projects. Again, if
it is allocated for something else, like
the Land and Water Conservation
Fund, we don’t touch it. It is just fund-
ing that is not already allocated some-
where else.
Last year, we had 37 cosponsors here
in the Senate for this legislation, Re-
publicans and Democrats alike—more
than one-third of this Chamber.
A similar House bill, our House com-
panion bill, had 234 Members cospon-
soring it—more than the 218 needed,
more than the majority.
The Senate Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee reported this bill
out on a bipartisan basis last fall. I was
on the committee. We had a good de-
bate on it. We reported it out with a 19-
to-4 vote. There is not a lot we do
around here that is that bipartisan.
We received overwhelming support
from conservation and outdoor recre-
ation groups. This includes the Na-
tional Parks Conservation Association,
the Outdoor Industry Alliance, the
Trust for Public Land, the Pew Chari-
table Trusts, and others. At our hear-
ing we had on the legislation last year,
the director of the Pew Charitable
Trusts said it well: ‘‘Supporting this
bipartisan bill is a wise investment for
our National Parks System and has
overwhelming support from the Amer-
ican public, generates hundreds of
thousands of jobs and billions of dollars
for the economy each year and provides
access to world class recreation oppor-
tunities and helps preserve our nation’s
history.’’
Yes, the parks do all of that. That is
why it is so important that we preserve
them and ensure that this long-term
problem gets addressed now.
I am proud to introduce legislation in
the Senate this week, and I am proud
that the House companion bill is being
introduced today by Representatives
BISHOP and KILMER. I look forward to
working with my colleagues to get this
bill across the finish line. I thank the
Senators who have already signed up as
cosponsors. I hope we can continue to
build support for this and get this com-
monsense bill done to help preserve our
national treasures.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
JOINT REFERRAL OF NOMINATION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that PN175,
the nomination of John Lowry III, of
Illinois, to be Assistant Secretary of
Labor for Veterans’ Employment and
Training, sent to the Senate by the
President, be referred jointly to the
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions and the Veterans’ Affairs Com-
mittees.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.070 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1375
February 14, 2019
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
REMEMBERING JOHN DINGELL
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I ar-
rived in the U.S. Congress in January
1983—a new Congressman from
downstate Illinois, the son of an immi-
grant mother—and I was in awe.
Just listen to this list of House Com-
mittee chairmen back then: chairman
of the Rules Committee: Claude Pep-
per; Judiciary chairman: Peter Rodino;
Veterans Affairs chairman: Sonny
Montgomery; Interior Committee
chairman: Mo Udall; Ways and Means
Committee chairman: Danny Rosten-
kowski.
Yet even among these legends, John
Dingell, chairman of the House Energy
and Commerce Committee, stood out.
He was a giant among giants, and not
just because he stood 6 foot 3. A 26-year
veteran of the House at the time, he
was revered as the architect of Medi-
care and a driving force behind some of
the most important civil rights and en-
vironmental laws in America’s history.
He went on to become the longest serv-
ing member of Congress in American
history. But it is the quality and cour-
age of John Dingell’s service, even
more than its length, that made John
Dingell one of the most influential leg-
islators of all time. He helped write
most of the Nation’s major environ-
mental and energy laws. He helped save
the American auto industry twice: in
1979 and again during the great reces-
sion.
His nickname—‘‘Big John’’—was a
reflection not only of his commanding
height but also of his moral stature. Of
the more than 25,000 votes he cast in
Congress, the one he as most proud of
was his vote in support of the 1964 Civil
Rights Act. That vote led to a brutal
reelection fight later that year. It was
the second time John Dingell ever had
a cross burned on his lawn and the
closest he ever come to losing a race.
But John Dingell was unbowed. He
went on to champion the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 and—many more major civil
rights laws.
John David Dingell, Jr, was born in
1926, the eldest of three children. His
family, he once said, was as ‘‘poor as
Job’s chicken.’’
In 1932, when John was 6 years old,
his father was elected to Congress,
where he became a leading champion of
the New Deal. He stood behind FDR as
he signed the law creating Social Secu-
rity.
In 1943, John Senior introduced
America’s first national health insur-
ance bill—to help seniors and children
from poor families. The bill never
passed.
In 1955, John Senior died in office
from tuberculosis. That same year, at
the age of 29, his son was chosen in a
special election to finish his father’s
term.
At the start of every new Congress,
John Dingell introduced a bill to create
a Medicare Program to provide health
insurance for older adults. He never
gave up on fulfilling his father’s dream.
When Medicare finally came up for a
vote in 1965, he was given honor of pre-
siding over the House, in memory of
his father. He lent the gavel he had
used that day to Speaker NANCY PELOSI
when the House voted to pass the Af-
fordable Care Act in 2010. John Dingell
sat by President Obama’s side when he
signed the Affordable Care Act into law
in 2010. Millions and millions of Ameri-
cans can afford to see a doctor today
and retire with a bit of security and
dignity because of John Dingell.
Chairman Dingell’s father taught
him that public service through poli-
tics can be a noble calling. He treated
everyone with dignity. He cared about
people who struggle, as his own family
struggled when he was young. The
priest who officiated at his funeral
mass in Dearborn yesterday told a
story about a woman who approached
him recently and told him, ‘‘If not for
John Dingell, I would not have been
able to put food on the table.’’
Last week, on the day he died, John
Dingell dictated some reflections to his
wife, Congresswoman DEBBIE DINGELL.
She was John’s partner and his rock for
40 years, and she now holds the seat
that John and his father once held.
John’s ‘‘parting thoughts,’’ as he called
them, were published in the Wash-
ington Post. They are profoundly mov-
ing and wise. One in particular stands
out for me. Chairman Dingell said that
it always grated on him to hear it said
that a person ‘‘has’’ power. ‘‘In demo-
cratic government,’’ he wrote, ‘‘elected
officials do not have power. They hold
power—in trust for the people who
elected them.’’
I’ll close with one last story—one
final more bit of wisdom—from my
friend John Dingell.
In 1944, when he turned 18, John en-
listed in the U.S. Army. The following
year, he was supposed to be among the
first wave of American soldiers to in-
vade mainland Japan. Only the sur-
render of Japan saved him from what
would have been near-certain death.
All of his life, he remained proud of his
service and deeply committed to other
veterans and to their families.
When President George H. W. Bush
died shortly after Thanksgiving, Chair-
man Dingell wrote a posthumous trib-
ute—the last World War II veteran to
serve in Congress, writing to honor the
last World War II veteran to occupy
the Oval Office. It was published in the
Detroit News. This is what John Din-
gell wrote:
Both of us understood how fragile this
American democracy was and the atrocities
that were occurring in the world. Both of us
signed up immediately when war was de-
clared and knew our moral responsibility to
defend America and fight for the freedom of
mankind.
He went on to say:
We were from a political generation that
understood delivering for the American peo-
ple was more important than political wins.
The success of government and good public
policy is the success of hard-working men
and women.
He closed with a plea, almost a pray-
er:
May the stories of my good friend help us
find our way back to a society that promotes
dialogues, not demagogues, and that it helps
us to remember we, the people, have the abil-
ity to restore this great nation to common
ground rather than letting it continue its
downward spiral into constant chaos.
In closing, Loretta and I send our
deepest condolences to John’s wife, the
love of his life, Congresswoman DEBBIE
DINGELL moreover, to John’s three sur-
viving children: Chip, Christopher, and
Jennifer; and their families, including
John’s three grandchildren; to his
brother and sister; his countless friends
and the countless more who thought of
him as a friend and mourn his passing.
f
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, in his
tortuous attempt to make a case for
billions of taxpayer dollars to wall off
our southern border, President Trump
claimed that a wall would stop human
trafficking, which has been touted as a
priority of this administration.
On several occasions, the President
has depicted human trafficking as
women and girls smuggled across the
border with their hands and legs tied
and duct tape across their mouths. No
doubt there are such cases, but the
overwhelming majority of trafficking
victims in this country are U.S. citi-
zens, and among non-citizen victims,
nearly 80 percent cross through legal
points of entry. As we have seen time
and again, President Trump makes
short shrift of the truth and relies on
scare tactics, rather than evidence, to
gamer support for his misguided poli-
cies.
Not only would the President’s bor-
der wall do next to nothing to combat
the most common instances of human
trafficking in the United States, his
administration’s policies have actually
harmed trafficking victims, especially
non-citizen victims.
Last year, the administration an-
nounced that applicants who are denied
a T visa—an immigrant visa that en-
ables certain victims of sex or labor
trafficking to temporarily remain in
the United States—may be required to
appear in immigration court, the first
step in deportation proceedings. This
policy has reportedly had a self-cen-
soring effect on victims and victims’
advocates who are hesitant to apply or
to encourage their clients to apply for
a visa that may ultimately land them
in immigration court.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.071 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1376 February 14, 2019
The administration also eliminated
grant funding for criminal record seal-
ing or expungement for survivors of
human trafficking, previously made
available by the Department of Jus-
tice’s Office for Victims of Crime. Sur-
vivors may have a criminal record as-
sociated with their trafficking, such as
an arrest for prostitution or for a
charge tangential to their trafficking
such as loitering or theft. Helping sur-
vivors clear their criminal record is a
critical step in their recovery, one that
gives survivors a greater chance at se-
curing stable employment, affordable
housing, higher education, visas and
green cards, and more.
So once again, we are forced to try to
reconcile the President’s rhetoric with
the actions of his administration. They
don’t align. If this White House were
serious about combating human traf-
ficking, it would focus less on creating
a false narrative about trafficking
across our southern border and instead
devote the resources to ensure that
trafficking victims can come forward
knowing they will be protected and as-
sisted on their path to recovery.
f
THE FREEDOM TO EXPORT TO
CUBA ACT
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I
want to commend Senator KLOBUCHAR
for introducing the Freedom to Export
to Cuba Act, of which I and Senator
ENZI are cosponsors. I urge other Sen-
ators to join us.
This bill is about ending the anachro-
nistic prohibitions in U.S. law that for
decades have limited U.S. engagement
with Cuba, including preventing Amer-
ican companies from exporting their
products to Cuba. The fact that legisla-
tion to do so is even necessary is illus-
trative of the absurdity of the situa-
tion in which we find ourselves. Com-
panies from Europe, Russia, China,
Mexico, and every other country can
sell their products to Cuba, which is
just 90 miles from our coast, but Amer-
ican manufacturers and retailers are
largely shut out of the Cuban market.
For example, Cuba buys rice from
Vietnam and powdered milk from New
Zealand, half a world away, not from
Alabama, Vermont, or Michigan. That
makes no sense. This bill would enable
American companies to compete,
which every believer in a free market
should support.
It is also important for Senators to
know that punitive actions by the
Trump administration last year to fur-
ther restrict the right of Americans to
travel to Cuba have had devastating
consequences for Cuba’s fledgling pri-
vate sector, the very people the White
House and supporters of the restric-
tions profess to want to help. The fact
that they have said nothing about the
harm they are causing Cuba’s strug-
gling entrepreneurs demonstrates that
they care more about continuing their
failed policy of sanctions, regardless of
who they hurt, than about helping the
Cuban people or about protecting the
right of Americans to travel freely.
The latest ill-conceived attempt by
the White House to punish Cuba would
permit Title III of the Helms-Burton
Act to go into effect. This would allow,
among others, individuals who were
Cuban citizens when their property in
Cuba was expropriated half a century
ago to sue in U.S. courts any Cuban,
foreign, and even American company
whose business in Cuba today uses that
property. That could be an airport,
port, warehouse, hotel, restaurant, you
name it. Virtually every American and
foreign company investing in Cuba
would suddenly be liable for treble
damages.
The purpose, as the law’s authors
made clear when it was enacted 23
years ago, is to harm Cuba’s economy
by making it completely inhospitable
for foreign investment.
As my friend in the House, Rep-
resentative JIM MCGOVERN, has pointed
out;
‘‘It’s no mystery why Presidents Clinton,
Bush, Obama, and Trump blocked Title III
from going into effect every six months for
the past 23 years.
It is hypocritical—it penalizes companies
for doing what American companies do all
over the world.
It is contrary to international law, which
recognizes the right of expropriation and re-
quires compensation.
It is an extraterritorial sanction that guar-
antees a response from our trading partners,
like Canada, Spain and the EU, including
complaints at the World Trade Organization.
And if you care about agriculture, be
warned: It will open a new front in the trade
war, with all the repercussions that can
bring.
It will allow Cuba to claim victim status
and rally international support.
It will clog our courts with lawsuits.
It will make it impossible to negotiate
compensation for U.S. claims in Cuba, and,
in the end, hurt the very Americans who
seek compensation for the property they
lost.
It will divide us from friends and allies who
are now working for a peaceful solution in
Venezuela.
And it will guarantee that new investment
in Cuba will come from the Russians, Chi-
nese and others who are hostile to the United
States, and whose state-owned companies
can’t be sued in U.S. courts.’’
I agree with my friend in the other
body. What the White House is consid-
ering would trigger an avalanche of un-
intended consequences that would
bring U.S. commerce with Cuba to a
halt, harm relations with our allies in
this hemisphere and beyond, and make
resolving property claims more dif-
ficult. I ask unanimous consent that a
piece by William Leogrande on Title III
of the Helms-Burton Act published in
the February 13, 2019 issue of
OnCubaNews be printed in the RECORD
following my remarks.
Like many issues, Members of Con-
gress have strong feelings pro and con
about U.S. relations with Cuba. It is no
secret that, after more than half a cen-
tury of a policy of isolation that has
achieved none of its objectives and pri-
marily hurt the Cuban people, I, like
Senators KLOBUCHAR and ENZI and
many others in this body, favor closer
relations.
Conversely, there are those in Con-
gress and the Trump administration
who believe strongly that we should
ratchet up the pressure on the Cuban
Government in an attempt to achieve
those elusive goals.
I have often spoken publicly about
the lack of political freedom and civil
liberties in Cuba, but I also think it is
important to try to be objective: to
criticize when called for and to ac-
knowledge positive changes when they
occur.
I recognize that those who favor
maintaining the failed economic em-
bargo have a longstanding, visceral an-
tagonism and resentment toward the
Cuban Government. While they rarely,
if ever, mention the corrupt and brutal
Batista regime that enjoyed unquali-
fied U.S. support until it was over-
thrown in 1959, they have legitimate
reasons to criticize the mistreatment
of the Cuban people by the current gov-
ernment and its support for the corrupt
and repressive Maduro regime in Ven-
ezuela.
But they too should acknowledge
that threatening and bullying Cuba has
not worked. In fact, it has made the
situation worse and provided an excuse
for the Cuban Government to blame its
own failures on us. They should also
acknowledge positive changes in Cuba,
but they never do—not ever. It is al-
most as if they are psychologically,
ideologically, or emotionally incapable
of saying one positive thing about the
Cuban Government, no matter what
positive things it does.
Perhaps they are afraid that, if they
did, they would alienate their donors in
the Cuban-American community. Of
course, we know that Cuban-Americans
are divided about the U.S. embargo.
Some are hardcore believers in the em-
bargo, and they always will be. But at
least as many—and increasing num-
bers—oppose the embargo, especially
those who were born after the Cuban
revolution.
I wonder what the pro-embargo isola-
tionists would say if the Cuban Govern-
ment were to stop harassing and abus-
ing dissidents who favor a more demo-
cratic system. Would those who oppose
the embargo say anything positive?
What if the Cuban Government de-
cided to embrace a free market econ-
omy and let private businesses flour-
ish? Would those who oppose the em-
bargo say anything positive?
I doubt it. I doubt it because no mat-
ter what positive reforms occur in
Cuba, they will continue to defend the
embargo until Cuba is a full-fledged de-
mocracy and those who currently hold
power either die or are voted out of of-
fice.
We all want Cuba to become a democ-
racy, where civil and political rights
are respected, and the sooner the bet-
ter, but those same defenders of the
embargo support billions of dollars in
U.S. aid—and weapons sales—to coun-
tries that are led by authoritarian,
brutal, and corrupt dictatorships and
monarchies, some of which have held
power for decades or generations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.067 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1377
February 14, 2019
How do the pro-embargo diehards
reconcile that? They don’t, and they
can’t.
The fact is, Cuba is changing—not
nearly as fast as we and the Cuban peo-
ple would like, but it is changing in
ways that few would have predicted not
very long ago.
Last year, Raul Castro’s hand-picked
successor, Miguel Diaz-Canel, became
President, and he promised a govern-
ment more accessible and responsive to
the people’s needs. How he delivers on
that promise remains to be seen.
Since 2010, after the Cuban Govern-
ment recognized that the internet is
essential if Cuba wants to be part of
the modern world, internet access has
exploded. The government has opened
hundreds of public Wi-Fi hot spots and
cyber cafes in the past 5 years, and
home internet access became legal and
available in 2017. Today, almost half of
the Cuban people have personal
cellphones that were illegal just a dec-
ade ago.
As others have pointed out, these
changes have encouraged new forms of
communication, networking, and orga-
nizing via social media.
But change does not come easily in
Cuba, as it does not in many countries.
Last July, the government announced
onerous new regulations on the private
sector, covering a wide range of issues:
food safety, labor contracts, procure-
ment, taxation, limits on the size of
private businesses. The new rules were
an attempt by hardliners to crack
down on the private sector, which was
criticized for black marketeering.
But private entrepreneurs resisted,
and they challenged the regulations as
contradictory to the government’s own
plans that recognizes the private sector
as important to economic growth and
employment. They appealed to govern-
ment officials and spoke publicly about
the harm the new rules would have on
their businesses.
When the final regulations were
issued, several that had caused the
most resentment were dropped. Accord-
ing to the Minister of Labor and Social
Security, the decision to revise the
rules was due to ‘‘the opinion and expe-
riences of those directly involved.’’
The government also retreated on a
new law—Decree 349—requiring artists,
musicians, and performers to register
with the state and pay a large commis-
sion on their earnings from private en-
gagements, and it banned work with
objectionable content and empowered
inspectors to shut down any offensive
exhibition or performance. Clearly, an
attempt to further limit free expres-
sion.
Since the 1980s, Cuban artists have
had more freedom to be critical of the
government than other social sectors,
and so it was not surprising that De-
cree 349 ignited widespread protests.
After social media was used to mobilize
opposition within the Cuban arts com-
munity and among artists abroad, the
government agreed not to enforce the
law until implementing regulations are
drafted in consultation with the arts
community.
According to one observer, ‘‘during
[the latter half of last year], nearly 8.9
million Cubans debated the draft of a
new constitution in their workplaces,
neighborhoods and schools. Communist
Party members were told not to argue
with even the most radical proposals
for amendments, and the ensuing de-
bates were freewheeling, often lasting
past their scheduled time. Among the
main topics: whether the president and
state governors should be directly
elected by voters; whether the con-
centration of wealth and property
should be allowed; whether term limits
and age limits for leaders were a good
idea; and whether the Communist
Party should be subordinated to the
constitution and hence the law.’’ Not
long ago it would have been unthink-
able to openly debate these issues, es-
pecially as part of a constitutional re-
form process.
One article that attracted intense de-
bate recognized same-sex marriage and
was promoted by Raul Castro’s daugh-
ter, a long-time activist for LGBTQ
rights. The proposal sparked strong op-
position from evangelical churches
supported by the Catholic Church. Gay
rights advocates countered with cam-
paigns of their own. The chance of a
significant ‘‘no’’ vote on the entire
constitutional reform led the govern-
ment to drop the provision from the
final draft of the constitution with a
pledge to consider it later.
This surge in mobilization by well-or-
ganized constituencies utilizing social
media to resist government policy,
from burdensome private sector regula-
tions to gay marriage, is unprece-
dented in Cuba. The government’s will-
ingness to not only tolerate these orga-
nized challenges but to change policies
in response to them is significant.
As has been noted, none of these
issues dealt with the rigid structure of
the Cuban system. Cuba remains a one-
party state, in which those who chal-
lenge the system are treated as crimi-
nals, but the precedent of organized in-
terest groups mounting successful cam-
paigns to challenge and change govern-
ment policy is now established, which
is positive.
None of the longstanding critics of
the Cuban Government in the U.S. Con-
gress or the Cuban-American commu-
nity have acknowledged any of this,
nor are they likely to. For them, any-
thing less than a wholesale change of
government in Cuba is unworthy of
mention, even though they apply a
very different standard—a double
standard—to other authoritarian gov-
ernments. In fact, they would ridicule
anyone who regards such changes as
positive or worthy of recognition.
As we know from our own experience,
political reform is difficult. Our own
Electoral College, an anachronism de-
signed to protect a slave-holding mi-
nority, remains in effect more than
two centuries later. Five times, in the
world’s oldest democracy, it has pre-
vented the winner of the most popular
votes from being elected President.
The Cuban people want to live better
and they want a lot less government
control over their lives. Armed with
cellphones and the internet, they are
going to make increasing demands of
their government. This is happening at
a time when Venezuela’s economy is
collapsing and the survival of the
Maduro regime, Cuba’s closest ally in
the hemisphere, is in question. Not sur-
prisingly, the Cuban Government is
trying to limit the pace of change and
to secure other benefactors. It is turn-
ing increasingly to Russia, Algeria,
Iran, and other countries that welcome
the chance to challenge U.S. influence
in this hemisphere.
This is a time for the United States
to be actively and visibly engaged in
Cuba, for Americans to be traveling to
Cuba, for expanding educational, cul-
tural, and professional exchanges be-
tween the U.S. and Cuba, and for Amer-
ican companies to be competing in
Cuba. It is not a time to return to a
failed policy of threats and ulti-
matums, driven by domestic politics
rather than by what is in our national
interests.
That is why I am cosponsoring the
Freedom to Export to Cuba Act, and it
is why I intend to support other bipar-
tisan legislation to replace our failed
Cuba policy with one that serves Amer-
ica’s interests, not the interests of a
shrinking minority, and not the inter-
ests of Russia and other countries that
are reaping the economic benefits of
our self-defeating policy of isolation.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From OnCubaNews, Feb. 13, 2019]
PRESIDENT TRUMP RISKS ALIENATING ALLIES
OVER CUBAN AMERICAN PROPERTY CLAIMS
(By William M. LeoGrande)
The Trump administration is seriously
considering whether to allow Title III of the
Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity
Act (Helms-Burton) to go into effect in
March, according to National Security Ad-
viser John Bolton. On January 16, Secretary
of State Mike Pompeo announced that he
was suspending Title III for just 45 days in-
stead of the usual six months while the ad-
ministration reviews whether its implemen-
tation would promote democracy in Cuba. He
warned foreign companies doing business on
the island that they had better ‘‘reconsider
whether they are trafficking in confiscated
property and abetting this dictatorship.’’
Title III allows U.S. nationals to file suit
in U.S. courts against anyone ‘‘trafficking’’
in their confiscated property in Cuba—that
is, anyone profiting from it. If President
Trump allows Title III to go fully into effect,
he will open the door to as many as 200,000
law suits by U.S. nationals, most of them
Cuban Americans, whose property was taken
by the Cuban government after 1959. U.S.
courts would be swamped, the ability of U.S.
companies to do business on the island would
be crippled, and allies abroad might retaliate
for U.S. suits brought against their compa-
nies in Cuba. Once the suits have been filed,
there will be no way to undo the resulting
legal chaos and the tangle of resulting litiga-
tion could take years to unwind.
The U.S. Foreign Claims Settlement Com-
mission has certified 5,913 claims of U.S. na-
tionals whose property was seized. These are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.050 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1378 February 14, 2019
the claims that Cuba recognizes and that the
United States and Cuba had begun to discuss
during the Obama administration. But Title
III takes the unusual position of allowing
naturalized Cuban Americans who lost prop-
erty to also file suit against alleged traf-
fickers. Normally, international law recog-
nizes the sovereign right of governments to
dispose of the property of their own citizens.
According to the Department of State, by in-
cluding Cuban Americans who were not U.S.
citizens when their property was taken, Title
III creates the potential for an estimated
75,000–200,000 claims worth ‘‘tens of billions
of dollars.’’
Back in 1996, when the law was being de-
bated in Congress, angry opposition from
U.S. allies Canada, Mexico, and the European
Union, whose companies doing business in
Cuba would be the targets of Title III law
suits, led President Bill Clinton to insist on
a presidential waiver provision in Title III.
As a result, the president has the authority
to suspend for six months the right to file
Title III law suits, and he can renew that
suspension indefinitely. Every six months
since the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Sol-
idarity Act was passed, successive presi-
dents, Democrat and Republican alike, have
continued the suspension of Title III.
U.S. allies have denounced Title III’s
extraterritorial reach. Mexico, Canada, the
United Kingdom, and the European Union all
passed laws prohibiting compliance with it.
The European Union also filed a complaint
with the World Trade Organization, which it
did not pursue after President Clinton sus-
pended Title III. In fact, the principal jus-
tification both President Clinton and Presi-
dent George W. Bush offered for continuing
the suspension was the need to maintain co-
operation with European allies.
If President Trump does not renew the sus-
pension, all these old wounds with allies will
be reopened as U.S. claimants try to haul
foreign companies into U.S. courts for doing
business in Cuba. We already have enough
tough issues on our agenda with Mexico,
Canada, and Europe without adding another
one. At this very moment, Washington is
trying to muster their support in dealing
with the Venezuelan crisis, support that
could be endangered if the administration
picks a fight with them over Title III.
U.S. businesses would not be exempt from
potential liability. A Cuban American family
in Miami claims to have owned the land on
which José Martı́ International Airport was
built, so any U.S. carrier using the air field
could conceivably be sued under Title III.
Another family that owned the Port of
Santiago could file suit against U.S. cruise
ships docking there.
Moreover, it would be almost impossible
for a U.S. or foreign company to know in ad-
vance whether a proposed business oppor-
tunity in Cuba might become the subject of
Title III litigation. ‘‘This will effectively end
for decades any attempt to restore trade be-
tween the U.S. and Cuba,’’ attorney Robert
Muse told the Tampa Bay Times.
When President Trump announced new
sanctions on Cuba back in June 2017, senior
administration officials said they were de-
signed ‘‘to not disrupt existing business’’
that U.S. companies were doing in Cuba. If
the president fails to continue the suspen-
sion of Title III, business relations will be
disrupted far more severely and irreparably
than they would be by any regulatory
change.
f
BUDGET ENFORCEMENT LEVELS
Mr. ENZI. Madam President, section
251 of the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985,
BBEDCA, establishes statutory limits
on discretionary spending and allows
for various adjustments to those lim-
its. In addition, sections 302 and 314(a)
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974
allow the chairman of the Budget Com-
mittee to establish and make revisions
to allocations, aggregates, and levels
consistent with those adjustments.
The Senate will soon consider the
conference report for H.J. Res. 31, the
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019
This measure provides full-year appro-
priations for Federal Government
agencies and contains spending that
qualifies for cap adjustments under
current statute.
This measure includes $8,165 million
in budget authority that is designated
as being for Overseas Contingency Op-
erations/Global War on Terrorism pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of
BBEDCA. Of that amount, $165 million
is for spending in the security category
and $8,000 million is for nonsecurity
spending. CBO estimates that this
budget authority will result in $2,980
million in outlays in Fiscal Year 2019.
This measure also includes $12,000
million in nonsecurity discretionary
budget authority designated for dis-
aster relief pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(D) of BBEDCA. This designa-
tion makes the spending associated
with this provision and its associated
outlays of $600 million eligible for an
adjustment.
This legislation repurposes nonsecu-
rity discretionary budget authority for
emergency efforts. This funding is des-
ignated pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of BBEDCA. CBO esti-
mates that this repurposing of funds
will result in $10 million in outlays this
fiscal year.
As a result of the aforementioned
designations, I am revising the budget
authority and outlay allocations to the
Committee on Appropriations by in-
creasing revised security budget au-
thority by $165 million, revised non-
security budget authority by $20,000
million, and outlays by $3,590 million
in Fiscal Year 2019. Further, I am in-
creasing the budgetary aggregate for
Fiscal Year 2019 by $20,165 million in
budget authority and $3,590 million in
outlays.
I ask unanimous consent that the ac-
companying tables, which provide de-
tails about the adjustment, be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
REVISION TO BUDGETARY AGGREGATES
(Pursuant to Sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974)
$s in millions 2019
Current Spending Aggregates:
Budget Authority ............................................................... 3,619,159
Outlays .............................................................................. 3,546,419
Adjustments:
Budget Authority ............................................................... 20,165
Outlays .............................................................................. 3,590
Revised Spending Aggregates:
Budget Authority ............................................................... 3,639,324
Outlays .............................................................................. 3,550,009
REVISION TO SPENDING ALLOCATION TO THE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019
(Pursuant to Sections 302 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974)
$s in millions 2019
Current Allocation:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 715,835
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 600,577
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,352,810
Adjustments:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 165
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 20,000
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3,590
Revised Allocation:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 716,000
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 620,577
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,356,400
Memorandum: Detail of Adjustments Made Above Regular OCO
Program
Integrity
Disaster
Relief
Emergency Total
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority .................................................................................................................................................................... 0 165 0 0 0 165
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority ............................................................................................................................................... 0 8,000 0 12,000 0 20,000
General Purpose Outlays ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 2,980 0 600 10 3,590
RECOGNIZING IDAHO NATIONAL
LABORATORY
Mr. RISCH. Madam President, along
with my colleagues Senator MIKE
CRAPO and Representative MIKE SIMP-
SON, I recognize an important anniver-
sary being celebrated at the U.S. De-
partment of Energy’s, DOE, 890–square-
mile site in eastern Idaho.
On February 18, 1949, the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission decided to build
the National Reactor Testing Station
in Idaho.
For 70 years, work done by the sci-
entists, engineers, technicians, and
support staff at Idaho’s lab has helped
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.052 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1379
February 14, 2019
promote American prosperity and con-
tributed to our national security.
Since 1967, research conducted at
Idaho National Laboratory’s, INL, Ad-
vanced Test Reactor has powered and
modernized the U.S. Nuclear Navy.
Fifty years ago, the Navy had to re-
fuel its nuclear fleet frequently, an ex-
pensive and time-consuming process.
Today, as a result of experiments
conducted at the Advanced Test Reac-
tor, ATR, the Navy’s nuclear fleet can
run the lifetime of the ship—more than
three decades—without refueling. That
saves American taxpayers millions of
dollars and ensures that our fleet is ac-
tively defending U.S. national security
instead of sitting in port waiting to be
refueled.
Roughly a decade and a half ago,
Congress designated INL as the Na-
tion’s lead nuclear energy research and
development laboratory. This is fitting
because on December 20, 1951, INL first
demonstrated nuclear fission could be
used to generate power to light our
homes and cities. Throughout its his-
tory, INL has built and operated 52
original nuclear reactors and helped es-
tablish an American industry that
today produces approximately 19 per-
cent of our Nation’s electricity and
more than half of our carbon-free elec-
tricity. INL has become a world leader
in cyber security research and works
actively with government and industry
to protect and make the Nation’s most
critical infrastructure more resilient.
INL has advanced broader clean energy
research, informing electric vehicle de-
ployment and developing bioenergy so-
lutions that benefit the environment
and our Nation’s farmers. Even as we
celebrate INL’s 70 years, the lab’s lead-
ership and staff are looking ahead.
Those seven decades of service provide
a foundation upon which today’s INL
will help this Nation build a brighter
future. INL leads the effort to main-
tain and extend the lives of America’s
nuclear reactor fleet, while helping in-
dustry develop advanced reactor de-
signs, including small modular reactors
and microreactors. INL’s vital national
and homeland security work grows
more important every day as our sys-
tems become increasingly automated
and interdependent.
As we eye the energy systems that
will power U.S. prosperity into the fu-
ture, INL’s clean energy research is de-
veloping breakthroughs that will help
integrate renewables into the power
grid and allow our manufacturing and
transportation systems to operate
more efficiently and with less environ-
mental impact.
It is our great honor to congratulate
INL and DOE on this important anni-
versary, and to wish its employees well
as they work to resolve our nation’s
pressing clean energy and national se-
curity challenges.
f
TRIBUTE TO BRENDAN MACKIE
Mr. COONS, Madam President, I rise
to recognize with gratitude the dedi-
cated service of Jeffrey Brendan
Mackie to Delawareans as a member of
my constituent services staff. Brendan
is smart, funny, kind, and creative,
with a deep respect for our Nation’s
history and institution and a genuine,
intense passion for public service.
Over the past 51⁄2 years, Brendan has
put the needs and challenges of people
from across Delaware first. Brendan
worked on my constituent outreach
and communication teams, serving as
veterans advocate, staff photographer,
and press assistant. In total, Brendan
resolved more than 1,500 cases for con-
stituents and in his last year alone pro-
duced more than 350 documents and
postings for our communications team.
Brendan has also served with distinc-
tion in the U.S. Army, Delaware Na-
tional Guard, Hawaii National Guard,
twice overseas in support of Operation
Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring
Freedom, as a first responder following
Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane
Maria, and served as an AmeriCorps
volunteer with the Corporation for Na-
tional and Community Service.
Brendan’s ability to balance his
workload while focusing on his own
professional development was equally
admirable. While on my team, he grad-
uated from Wilmington University in
2014, Officer Candidate Schoo1 in 2015,
Military Intelligence School in 2016,
and Air Assault School in 2017. These
milestones have strengthened
Brendan’s capacity as a leader and
have increased his knowledge of de-
fense and intelligence matters.
Tomorrow, Brendan will finish his
service with my Senate office and soon
after will join the staff of the U.S. De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, where I
know he will be a zealous advocate for
members of the military and veteran
community. His colleagues—now
friends—who enjoy his wit and wisdom
will miss him. While we will miss his
regular anecdotes laced with historical
references, we know we will continue
to enjoy his ‘‘on this day’’ Facebook
posts and updates as he continues to
read biographies on every American
president.
In sum, Brendan stood out amongst
my staff and demonstrated a level of
intelligence, analytical ability, char-
acter, and a devotion that will serve
him well in the future. I will miss his
insights and his constant focus on
making things better for the constitu-
ents we serve, and I look forward to
hearing about his successes to come.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO BLONDELL
REYNOLDS BROWN
∑ Mr. CASEY, Madam President, today
I wish to honor Councilwoman Blondell
Reynolds Brown, a notable public serv-
ant in Pennsylvania, as she concludes
20 years of service within the Philadel-
phia City Council. Throughout her ca-
reer, Councilwoman Reynolds Brown
has worked to improve the lives of
Philadelphians as an educator, commu-
nity activist, and political leader.
The oldest of seven children, Blondell
Reynolds Brown was born in Sumter,
SC, to Sadie Reynolds, a schoolteacher,
and the late Whittimore Reynolds, who
worked in construction. At the age 5,
Reynolds Brown and her family moved
to Philadelphia, where she would go on
to graduate from the Philadelphia High
School for Girls.
Councilwoman Reynolds Brown dem-
onstrated an early proclivity for public
service. Following her graduation from
Pennsylvania State University, she
was on track to join the Peace Corps,
but instead decided to start her service
in Philadelphia and teach in the city’s
public schools.
In 1999, Reynolds Brown was elected
to one of seven at-large city council
seats. It was her time as a legislative
aide for a State senator that inspired
her initial decision to run for city
council. During this time, Reynolds
Brown noticed a lack of Black women
in leadership roles and led her own ef-
forts to promote equity and diversity
in public office.
During her time in office, Reynolds
Brown has championed meaningful leg-
islation in service of children, women,
arts and culture, education, small busi-
ness development, and the environment
and sustainability. Councilwoman Rey-
nolds Brown’s major legislative accom-
plishments include the creation of the
Fund for Children, the establishment of
requirements for menu labeling within
Philadelphia, the implementation of
sexual harassment training for city of
Philadelphia employees, the overhaul
of the parks and recreation system,
and the expansion of domestic partner
benefits within city contractors. She
also did a great deal to advocate for
the appointment of woman to board po-
sitions and helped leverage funding for
mentorship, early childhood education,
the arts, and Philadelphia tourism.
Beyond her work on city council,
Reynolds Brown is an active member of
the Philadelphia community. She is a
board member of the Philadelphia Con-
vention and Visitor’s Bureau, the Mar-
ian Anderson Award, Philadelphia
Young Playwrights, the Greater Phila-
delphia Cultural Alliance, and
Wynnefield Residents Association.
Reynolds Brown is also an ex-officio
member of the board of the Philadel-
phia Dance Company, and a general
member of the Philadelphia Alumnae
Chapter of the Delta Sigma Theta So-
rority, Incorporated.
I wish to thank Councilwoman
Blondell Reynolds Brown for her long
service to Philadelphia on its city
council. I wish her success in all her fu-
ture endeavors to serve the people of
Pennsylvania.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO SETH BEAL
∑ Mr. CRAPO. Madam President, along
with my colleague Senator JAMES E.
RISCH, I congratulate Seth Beal, who is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.054 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1380 February 14, 2019
retiring after more than 30 years of
serving as a commissioner for Butte
County, ID.
Seth Beal has dedicated so much of
his time and talents to serving others
throughout his communities. He was
appointed to the Butte County Com-
mission on June 6, 1988. Seth has said
that efforts that established far-reach-
ing benefits for his communities have
been the most satisfying parts about
his job. This includes the establish-
ment of the rural addressing of Butte
and South Custer Counties. He also as-
sisted with Federal legislation pro-
viding for small community and arid
landfill design. He was involved with
ensuring that local counties could ac-
cess Payment in Lieu of Taxes, PILT,
payments because of the local presence
of U.S. Department of Energy facili-
ties. Another highlight of his work on
the Butte County Commission is the
commission’s establishment of the
Butte County Elected Scholarship,
which awards three scholarships per
year to Butte County High School sen-
iors.
Through his work and public service,
Seth has helped improve his local com-
munities and supported area youth. In
addition to his service on the county
commission, Seth has served as an as-
sistant football coach for 8 years at
Butte County High School. He has
served as bishop and stake president in
the Idaho Falls Temple Presidency. He
has also been involved with the pur-
chase and renovation of buildings that
provide improved facilities for the
county.
In addition to his extensive service
on the Butte County Commission, he
has served in numerous other leader-
ship positions that include service on
several boards, including the Idaho
County Risk Management Program for
20 years; GEM PLAN, the county’s in-
surance plan, for 14 years; East Central
Idaho Development Association for 12
years; founding member of the Re-
gional Development Alliance and 21
years of service; 7th Judicial District
Commissioner for 24 years; District 6
elected officials chairman for 5 years;
Idaho National Lab Citizens Advisory
Board member for 7 years; founding
member of the 3–B Juvenile Detention
Center; and founding member of the
Energy Communities Alliance.
Seth Beal, congratulations on your
retirement after more than three dec-
ades of serving on the Butte County
Commission and in many other leader-
ship positions. Your thoughtful and
committed leadership all these years is
a prime example of what makes our
communities so great. Thank you for
your dedication and extensive service
on behalf of our fellow Idahoans.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO RUSSELL JAMES
∑ Mr. DAINES. Madam President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Russell James of Missoula County for
his impact on the Whitewater commu-
nity.
A third generation Montanan, Rus-
sell was born and raised in Ovando,
MT. Mr. James graduated high school
from Thompson Falls, where he went
to the University of Montana. Directly
after graduation in 1980, Russell dove
into the workforce, taking a job as a
professional truck driver.
Russell has been a professional truck
driver for 38 years and has accumulated
over 1 million accident-free miles. He
has won numerous awards during his
tenure as a driver, including the 2008
YRC employee of the Year Award and
the 2018 YRC Road to Excellence
Award. He has represented YRC every
year at the Montana Truck Driving
Championships since 2005, as well as
the National Truck Driving Champion-
ships in 2011 and 2014. Russell is active
in the community, volunteering with
the Blackfoot River Preservation
Group and environmental quality im-
provement and wildlife habitat. He is
also an avid outdoorsman and enjoys
tending to his small family farm.
I congratulate Russell on his lifetime
of outstanding achievements and will-
ingness to give back to his community.
A tried and true Montanan, I look for-
ward to seeing his success in his future
endeavors.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO OFFICER MILOS
GRUBNIC
∑ Ms. DUCKWORTH. Madam President,
today I wish to honor supervisory
Transportation Security Officer Milos
Grubnic for going above and beyond his
duties while serving with the U.S. De-
partment of Homeland Security’s
Transportation Security Administra-
tion, TSA, at O’Hare International Air-
port in Chicago, IL.
On November 26, 2018, Officer Grubnic
was featured in TSA Today after he
and a fellow Transportation Security
officer, John Kozcur, helped a pas-
senger recover his stolen cell phone.
Not only did they handle the situation
in a thorough and professional manner
by reviewing security footage, tracking
the individual down and returning the
item, but they were able to do so before
the passenger boarded his flight. Many
times, the hard work of our Transpor-
tation Security officers goes unnoticed
and unreported, and I am thankful for
all they do to keep us safe.
Officer Grubnic’s actions in Novem-
ber displayed his steadfast dedication
and passion for public service.
Throughout his time at O’Hare Inter-
national Airport, Officer Grubnic has
worked to support all aspects of TSA’s
mission, including assisting my family
and me at security checkpoints as we
travel.
I commend Officer Grubnic’s hard
work, passion, and commitment to
safeguarding the public and achieving
TSA’s mission to protect our Nation’s
transportation systems. May his con-
tinued dedication serve as an inspira-
tion to us all.∑
REMEMBERING BISHOP MCKINLEY
YOUNG
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Madam President, our
Nation mourns the loss of one of the
country’s greatest servant-leaders, The
Right Reverend, Senior Bishop McKin-
ley Young, whose life work ministering
to countless individuals and whole
communities in search of both hope
and democracy exemplifies faith in ac-
tion.
Senior Bishop McKinley Young was
born on November 10, 1944, in Atlanta,
GA; the eldest son of Reverend Lonnie
C. Young and Mrs. Nellie Cummings
Young. He attended Morris Brown Col-
lege, where he earned his bachelor’s de-
gree and later received two master’s
degrees from Andover Newton Theo-
logical School and the University of
Chicago Divinity School respectively.
Early in his ministry, Bishop Young
pastored churches in the first, fourth,
and sixth Episcopal Districts, including
the historic Big Bethel A.M.E Church
in Atlanta, GA. After being elected and
consecrated the 109th Bishop of the Af-
rican Methodist Episcopal Church in
1992, his first episcopal assignment was
to the 15th District of Angola, South
Africa, and Namibia where he led the
Centennial Celebration of African
Methodism. Bishop Young would later
serve as presiding prelate in Texas,
Florida, and the Bahamas. His final
episcopal assignment was with the
third District, which includes Ohio,
West Virginia, and Western Pennsyl-
vania, where he served until his transi-
tion to the church triumphant on
Wednesday, January 16, 2019.
Bishop Young’s commitment to the
church community was as strong as his
commitment to voter education, voter
registration, and getting people from
the pews to the polls. This passion
came from his lifelong belief that ‘‘a
vote-less people is a hopeless people.’’
For decades, Bishop Young organized
voter registration drives across the
United States, empowering those who
were historically voiceless in the vot-
ing process. His commitment to demo-
cratic values led him to South Africa,
where he worked on voter registration
efforts during the first free democratic
election of the President of South Afri-
ca.
Throughout his journey and in addi-
tion to his ministerial and civic work,
Bishop Young worked diligently to in-
crease educational opportunities for
African-American students, especially
those attending historically black col-
leges and universities. He served on the
board of trustees for Payne Theological
Seminary, led the church in financially
stabilizing Paul Quinn College, helped
raise $2 million to secure Edward Wal-
ters College’s accreditation, and would
later serve as chancellor of Wilberforce
University.
Bishop Young has served the ecu-
menical community faithfully for over
40 years. He was a devoted leader of the
African Methodist Episcopal Church
Service and Development Agency, Inc.,
SADA for over 20 years and served as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.056 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1381
February 14, 2019
chair of the board. Bishop Young’s
leadership among other faith councils
only amplified the effectiveness of his
advocacy across the faith community,
including as a member of the Central
Committee of the World Council of
Churches, the National Council of
Churches, the World Methodist Coun-
cil, and the Conference of National
Black Churches.
Bishop Young was a courageous serv-
ant leader, activist, and champion for
civil and human rights whose service
and dedication to countless commu-
nities will continue to inspire others
for generations to come.
We wish every member of the African
Methodist Episcopal Church that he
served and those whose lives were
touched by Bishop Young peace during
this difficult time, especially his wife
Dr. Dorothy Jackson Young, his chil-
dren, Karyn, Deana, Andrea, and
Stephanie, and eight grandchildren:∑
f
TRIBUTE TO HEATHER
MCGLAUFLIN
∑ Ms. HASSAN. Madam President, I
am proud to recognize Heather
McGlauflin of New Boston, NH as the
February Granite Stater of the Month
for her remarkable work to help pre-
vent substance misuse. Now a high
school senior, Heather has worked with
a number of organizations since her
sophomore year to help prevent sub-
stance misuse among her peers and to
fight for young people to have a seat at
the table in efforts to combat this dev-
astating epidemic.
Heather’s advocacy on this issue
began after a guidance counselor en-
couraged her to attend a weekend
training with CADCA, Community
Anti-Drug Coalitions of America. At
the end of the weekend, Heather par-
ticipated on a panel of students pro-
posing solutions to government offi-
cials and advocates on how to strength-
en the response to this crisis that was
broadcast live on New Hampshire’s
WMUR.
The CADCA training inspired Heath-
er’s continued activism, and in the
years since, she has gotten involved in
a variety of initiatives such as training
younger students on over-the-counter
medication safety, presenting on the
importance of youth advocacy to DEA
agents from across New England and
the country, and participating in a
public service announcement training
with the Mark Wahlberg Youth Foun-
dation. As a result of her work with the
Mark Wahlberg foundation, Heather
created several PSA’s which were se-
lected for further production and par-
ticipated in an Emmy-winning PSA
with WMUR. Heather also helped found
Empower Youth 603—a youth coalition
focused on substance misuse in New
Hampshire—and she recently presented
at CADCA’s national conference in
Washington, DC, where I met Heather
and heard more about her work.
Heather says she is driven by the sto-
ries of her friends and peers, too many
of whom have been impacted by New
Hampshire’s devastating opioid crisis.
She believes that it is critical to stop
substance misuse before it happens and
that the best messenger for young peo-
ple is often someone their own age.
For her continued efforts in pre-
venting substance misuse, I am proud
to recognize Heather McGlauflin as
February’s Granite Stater of the
Month.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JENNIE CYRAN
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, today
I recognize Jennie Cyran, the Polk
County Teacher of the Year from Hori-
zons Elementary School in Davenport,
FL.
In receiving this award, Jennie cred-
ited her colleagues and students for her
success, believing she would not be in
this position if it were not for them.
She considers successful teachers to be
those that devote their time to build-
ing trust and relationships with their
students and their families.
Jennie considers the classroom to be
a student’s second home, free from
judgement and a place where they can
embrace their mistakes as learning op-
portunities. She tutors her students on
weekends at school or at their homes
and offers parents the resources to help
their children succeed in school and
later in life.
Jennie has been a teacher for 13 years
and enjoys working with new teachers
so that they are not overwhelmed with
their new jobs. She also mentors fe-
male students through the Girls of In-
tegrity program and volunteers as a
Special Olympics coach and unified
partner for several sports.
I would like to thank Jennie for all
her hard work to provide students with
a successful learning environment. I
extend my best wishes to her and look
forward to hearing of her continued
success in the coming years.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO HOLLY MICKLER
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, today
I honor Holly Mickler, the Pasco Coun-
ty Teacher of the Year from Pasco Mid-
dle School in Dade City, FL.
Holly is an Advancement Via Indi-
vidual Determination teacher. She fo-
cuses on preparing her students for col-
lege level writing, reading, and critical
thinking skills. She also teaches them
the non-academic skills, such as perse-
verance, time management, curiosity,
manners, and character building, that
are so important for students success
in the classroom and in life.
While she develops a general lesson
plan for her students, she also individ-
ualizes these plans and shifts her end
goals based on their needs. Holly be-
lieves having an intentionally flexible
lesson plan is what turns good teachers
into great teachers because it allows
them to adapt their student’s needs.
Holly has taught at Pasco Middle
School for 14 years. She earned her
bachelor’s degree in special education
from Appalachian State University.
Outside of the classroom, she works
with her husband in their prison min-
istry, Hostage of Hope Ministries. They
provide inmates with personal items
and transcribe sermons from the
Tampa Bay Presbyterian Church.
I extend my sincere thanks and grati-
tude to Holly for her dedication to her
students and look forward to hearing of
her continued success in the years to
come.∑
f
RECOGNIZING THE CHURCH OF ST.
MICHAEL THE ARCHANGEL
∑ Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, this year marks the 160th year
that the Church of St. Michael the
Archangel has served the people of
South Providence and the larger Rhode
Island community. Rhode Island’s ear-
liest values are of inclusion, accept-
ance, and respect for difference. The
founder of our State, Roger Williams,
went off into an unknown wilderness
and established a land in which toler-
ance and religious openness were the
new standard. In keeping with these
founding principles, the community of
St. Michael’s has been a place of wel-
come since its inception.
Generations of immigrants built this
country; yet too often, those who come
seeking the American dream are met
with discrimination. Originally serving
Irish and Western European immigrant
populations often pushed to the mar-
gins of society, St. Michael’s has ex-
panded to incorporate the Providence
of today, a multicultural, multilingual
community.
Faith compels work toward fairness
and justice for all living beings, regard-
less of nationality or social status. St.
Michael’s has fostered a vibrant com-
munity of people who are answering
that call. The people of St. Michael’s
have partnered with nonprofit groups
and other faith organizations to carry
out meaningful advocacy work and pro-
vide direct services to those in need. It
has been a privilege to know and work
alongside church leaders like Sister
Mary Reilly, Father Ray Malm, and
the late Sister Ann Keefe. Their tire-
less advocacy and spirit of service have
been manifested through the good
works of numerous community organi-
zations including Sophia Academy,
Providence CityArts, AIDS Care Ocean
State, and the Institute for the Study
and Practice of Nonviolence. These
groups have made rich and diverse con-
tributions to the character of Rhode Is-
land.
The immigrant spirit of perseverance
is shared in the moral fiber of this
country. In Rhode Island, St. Michael’s
church has been a symbol of refuge and
hope for 160 years. They have made our
State and the city of Providence better
through their dedication to public life.
I applaud the work of St. Michael’s and
its pastor, Father Robert Perron, and I
congratulate the venerated parish on
160 years of service.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.060 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1382 February 14, 2019
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 12:31 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill and joint resolution,
in which it requests the concurrence of
the Senate:
H.R. 995. An act to amend chapter 3 of title
5, United States Code, to require the publica-
tion of settlement agreements, and for other
purposes.
H.J. Res. 37. Joint resolution directing the
removal of United States Armed Forces from
hostilities in the Republic of Yemen that
have not been authorized by Congress.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bill and joint resolu-
tion were read the first and the second
times by unanimous consent, and re-
ferred as indicated:
H.R. 995. An act to amend chapter 3 of title
5, United States Code, to require the publica-
tion of settlement agreements, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
H.J. Res. 37. Joint resolution directing the
removal of United States Armed Forces from
hostilities in the Republic of Yemen that
have not been authorized by Congress; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill and joint resolu-
tion were read the second time, and
placed on the calendar:
S. 483. A bill to enact into law a bill by ref-
erence.
S.J. Res. 8. Joint resolution recognizing
the duty of the Federal Government to cre-
ate a Green New Deal.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. SHELBY, from the Committee on
Appropriations:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Further Revised
Allocation to Subcommittees of Budget To-
tals for Fiscal Year 2019’’ (Rept. No. 116–1).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, Mr. LEAHY, and Ms. COLLINS):
S. 485. A bill to amend the Age Discrimina-
tion in Employment Act of 1967 and other
laws to clarify appropriate standards for
Federal employment discrimination and re-
taliation claims, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr.
WARNER):
S. 486. A bill to waive the penalty for with-
drawals from retirement plans for certain
Federal employees and contractors affected
by a lapse in appropriations, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and
Mr. KING):
S. 487. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish a natural gas demand re-
sponse pilot program, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr. BOOK-
ER, Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
JONES, Mr. REED, Ms. WARREN, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. KING, Mr. MARKEY, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
COONS, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. KAINE, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. WARNER, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. SHAHEEN,
Mr. WYDEN, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. TILLIS,
Mr. RUBIO, Ms. SMITH, Mr. CARDIN,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. BENNET, Ms.
COLLINS, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. INHOFE,
Mr. ISAKSON, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. PORTMAN, and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S. 488. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to specify lynching as a depri-
vation of civil rights, and for other purposes;
considered and passed.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MURPHY,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. MARKEY, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. UDALL, Ms. SMITH,
Ms. WARREN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. BROWN,
Mr. REED, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, and Mr. DURBIN):
S. 489. A bill to establish a State public op-
tion through Medicaid to provide Americans
with the choice of a high-quality, low-cost
health insurance plan; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr.
TESTER):
S. 490. A bill to designate a mountain ridge
in the State of Montana as ‘‘B–47 Ridge’’; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. UDALL, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr.
MERKLEY, and Mr. TESTER):
S. 491. A bill to reaffirm the policy of the
United States with respect to management
authority over public land, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
CORNYN):
S. 492. A bill to amend the FAST Act to
improve contracting opportunities for serv-
ice-connected disabled veteran-owned small
business concerns, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. YOUNG:
S. 493. A bill to require Federal agencies
not performing security functions to relo-
cate throughout the United States by the be-
ginning of fiscal year 2030; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Ms. WARREN, Ms. CANT-
WELL, and Mr. MARKEY):
S. 494. A bill to establish the American
Fisheries Advisory Committee to assist in
the awarding of fisheries research and devel-
opment grants, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. JONES, Mr. SCOTT of Flor-
ida, Mr. MANCHIN, and Mr. GARDNER):
S. 495. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to reauthorize and expand the
National Threat Assessment Center of the
Department of Homeland Security; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Ms. CANTWELL, and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 496. A bill to preserve United States
fishing heritage through a national program
dedicated to training and assisting the next
generation of commercial fishermen, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. BOOK-
ER, Mr. COONS, Mr. SCHATZ, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, and Mr. REED):
S. 497. A bill to improve diversity and in-
clusion in the workforce of national security
agencies, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. ROUNDS:
S. 498. A bill to provide for an independent
outside audit of the Indian Health Service;
to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
By Mr. CASSIDY:
S. 499. A bill to amend the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf Lands Act to apply to terri-
tories of the United States, to establish off-
shore wind lease sale requirements, to pro-
vide dedicated funding for coral reef con-
servation, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr.
WARNER, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. KING,
Mr. TILLIS, Ms. COLLINS, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. GARDNER, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. BLUNT, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr. HEINRICH,
Mr. BENNET, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. DAINES,
and Mr. BROWN):
S. 500. A bill to amend title 54, United
States Code, to establish, fund, and provide
for the use of amounts in a National Park
Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address
the maintenance backlog of the National
Park Service, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. BROWN:
S. 501. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the increase in
unrelated business taxable income by
amount of certain fringe benefit expenses; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. ROBERTS,
and Mr. RISCH):
S. 502. A bill to amend the Endangered Spe-
cies Act of 1973 to require disclosure to
States of the basis of determinations under
such Act, to ensure use of information pro-
vided by State, Tribal, and county govern-
ments in decision-making under such Act,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 503. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide the opportunity
for responsible health savings to all Amer-
ican families; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Mr.
TILLIS):
S. 504. A bill to amend title 36, United
States Code, to authorize The American Le-
gion to determine the requirements for
membership in The American Legion, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary .
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
HIRONO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mrs. MURRAY, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
SCHATZ, Ms. SMITH, and Ms. WARREN):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.025 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1383
February 14, 2019
S. 505. A bill to ensure due process protec-
tions of individuals in the United States
against unlawful detention based solely on a
protected characteristic; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Mr. SANDERS, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. KING, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. SCHATZ,
Ms. WARREN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. CARDIN, and
Ms. CANTWELL):
S. 506. A bill to support State, Tribal, and
local efforts to remove access to firearms
from individuals who are a danger to them-
selves or others pursuant to court orders for
this purpose; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Ms. SMITH, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. JONES, and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 507. A bill to amend the National Voter
Registration Act of 1993 to clarify that a
State may not use an individual’s failure to
vote as the basis for initiating the proce-
dures provided under such Act for the re-
moval of the individual from the official list
of registered voters in the State on the
grounds that the individual has changed resi-
dence, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Ms.
WARREN):
S. 508. A bill to extend the authorization
for the Cape Cod National Seashore Advisory
Commission; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 509. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in commemora-
tion of the United States Coast Guard; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
CARDIN, Ms. WARREN, Mr. WYDEN, and
Ms. SMITH):
S. 510. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to provide for certain re-
quirements relating to charges for internet,
television, and voice services, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and
Mr. COTTON):
S. 511. A bill to promote and protect from
discrimination living organ donors; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Ms. COLLINS):
S. 512. A bill to establish an advisory office
within the Bureau of Consumer Protection of
the Federal Trade Commission to prevent
fraud targeting seniors, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 513. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, with respect to civil forfeitures
relating to certain seized animals, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, Mrs. CAPITO, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
Ms. STABENOW, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms.
SINEMA, Ms. WARREN, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. REED, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mrs.
MURRAY, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Ms. HARRIS, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. BROWN, Mr. PETERS,
and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 514. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the benefits and
services provided by the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs to women veterans, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. CANTWELL,
Mr. REED, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. MURPHY,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. CASEY, Mr. CARPER,
Ms. SMITH, Mr. KAINE, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Mr. COONS, Mr. KING, Ms. BALDWIN,
Ms. WARREN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. HIRONO, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. MURRAY,
Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. PETERS, Mr. JONES,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. TESTER, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. UDALL, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. WARNER, Mr.
CARDIN, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms.
SINEMA, and Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 515. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to clarify that all provi-
sions shall apply to legally married same-sex
couples in the same manner as other married
couples, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. KING, and Mr.
MANCHIN):
S. 516. A bill to require the use of prescrip-
tion drug monitoring programs; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr.
TESTER):
S. 517. A bill to establish a tiered hiring
preference for members of the reserve com-
ponents of the Armed Forces; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. WICKER, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. BLUNT,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
KING, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr. COONS, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. REED, Mr. COTTON, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. INHOFE, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. SINEMA, Mr.
DAINES, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. JONES,
Mr. CARDIN, and Mr. HOEVEN):
S. 518. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for Medicare
coverage of certain lymphedema compres-
sion treatment items as items of durable
medical equipment; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. MURPHY, Mr. SCHUMER, and Mrs.
GILLIBRAND):
S. 519. A bill to amend certain appropria-
tions Acts to repeal the requirement direct-
ing the Administrator of General Services to
sell Federal property and assets that support
the operations of the Plum Island Animal
Disease Center in Plum Island, New York; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. HOEVEN):
S. 520. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish an energy efficiency ma-
terials pilot program; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Ms. BALDWIN, and Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI):
S. 521. A bill to amend title II of the Social
Security Act to repeal the Government pen-
sion offset and windfall elimination provi-
sions; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and
Mr. SCHUMER):
S. 522. A bill to establish the African Bur-
ial Ground International Memorial Museum
and Educational Center in New York, New
York, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
SCHATZ, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. MERKLEY, and Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR):
S. 523. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to develop a na-
tional strategic action plan and program to
assist health professionals and systems in
preparing for and responding to the public
health effects of climate change, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, Mr. UDALL, and Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI):
S. 524. A bill to establish the Department
of Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee on
Tribal and Indian Affairs, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. RISCH,
Mr. WICKER, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
CRUZ, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. COTTON,
Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. ROB-
ERTS, Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina,
Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. ENZI,
Mr. GARDNER, Mr. CORNYN, and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 525. A bill to preserve and protect the
free choice of individual employees to form,
join, or assist labor organizations, or to re-
frain from such activities; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr.
UDALL):
S. 526. A bill to withdraw certain Bureau of
Land Management land from mineral devel-
opment; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources .
By Mr. BROWN:
S. 527. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the earned in-
come tax credit to account for the amount
by which economic growth has outpaced in-
come growth, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
MERKLEY, and Ms. WARREN):
S. 528. A bill to amend title 40, United
States Code, to provide a lactation room in
public buildings, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
WYDEN, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 529. A bill to establish a national pro-
gram to identify and reduce losses from land-
slide hazards, to establish a national 3D Ele-
vation Program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, and Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 530. A bill to establish the Federal
Labor-Management Partnership Council; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 531. A bill to permit disabled law en-
forcement officers, customs and border pro-
tection officers, firefighters, air traffic con-
trollers, nuclear materials couriers, mem-
bers of the Capitol Police, members of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.020 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1384 February 14, 2019
Supreme Court Police, employees of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency performing intel-
ligence activities abroad or having special-
ized security requirements, and diplomatic
security special agents of the Department of
State to receive retirement benefits in the
same manner as if they had not been dis-
abled; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. COR-
NYN, and Mr. JONES):
S. 532. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide that an indi-
vidual may remain eligible to participate in
the teacher loan forgiveness program under
title IV of such Act if the individual’s period
of consecutive years of employment as a full-
time teacher is interrupted because the indi-
vidual is the spouse of a member of the
Armed Forces who is relocated during the
school year pursuant to military orders for a
permanent change of duty station, or the in-
dividual works in a school of the defense de-
pendents’ education system under the De-
fense Dependents’ Education Act of 1978 due
to such a relocation, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. TILLIS,
and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 533. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to consider certain trans-
actions related to precious metals for pur-
poses of identifying jurisdictions of primary
money laundering concern, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. SANDERS,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. MENENDEZ, and
Ms. HARRIS):
S. 534. A bill to prohibit certain funds from
being transferred or reprogrammed to plan,
develop, or construct a new physical barrier
along the southwest border, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. WAR-
NER, and Mr. KENNEDY):
S. 535. A bill to enable Federal employees
and contractors to correct their credit re-
ports to remove adverse items of information
reported as a result of a shutdown, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida):
S. Res. 71. A resolution honoring the mem-
ory of the victims of the senseless attack at
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School 1
year ago; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. PERDUE (for himself, Mr.
JONES, and Mr. ISAKSON):
S. Res. 72. A resolution honoring the 100th
anniversary of Fort Benning in Columbus,
Georgia; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. MORAN, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
SASSE, Mr. KAINE, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
COONS, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. MURPHY, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Mr.
MARKEY):
S. Res. 73. A resolution calling on the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to immediately re-
lease Saudi Women’s Rights activists and re-
spect the fundamental rights of all Saudi
citizens; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
MURPHY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. CASEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Ms. ERNST, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. COLLINS,
Mr. BROWN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, and Mr. JONES):
S. Res. 74. A resolution marking the fifth
anniversary of Ukraine’s Revolution of Dig-
nity by honoring the bravery, determination,
and sacrifice of the people of Ukraine during
and since the Revolution, and condemning
continued Russian aggression against
Ukraine; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. BLUNT, Mr. SCHUMER,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. CASEY, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. CARPER,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. LEAHY, Ms. HARRIS, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. REED,
Mrs. BLACKBURN, and Mr. BURR):
S. Res. 75. A resolution honoring the life,
achievements, and distinguished public serv-
ice of John David Dingell, Jr., and expressing
condolences to his family on his passing;
considered and agreed to.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Ms. WARREN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. DURBIN, and Ms. ERNST):
S. Res. 76. A resolution designating March
1, 2019, as ‘‘National Speech and Debate Edu-
cation Day’’; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. YOUNG,
Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
KING, Mr. CARPER, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr.
JONES, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HASSAN,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. STABENOW, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. RISCH, Mr.
MORAN, Mr. BRAUN, Ms. COLLINS, Mrs.
CAPITO, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. CORNYN,
Mr. CRUZ, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. CRAMER,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. CRAPO,
Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. GARD-
NER, Mr. BLUNT, Mr. WICKER, Mr.
ENZI, Ms. ERNST, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. ALEXANDER,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. DAINES, and Mr. ROM-
NEY):
S. Res. 77. A resolution designating the
week of February 16 through 23, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional FFA Week,’’ recognizing the impor-
tant role of the National FFA Organization
in developing young leaders, and celebrating
50 years of female membership in the Na-
tional FFA Organization; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. SHELBY:
S. Con. Res. 4. A concurrent resolution pro-
viding for a correction in the enrollment of
H.J. Res. 31; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. BOOZMAN, Ms. COLLINS,
and Mr. UDALL):
S. Con. Res. 5. A concurrent resolution sup-
porting the Local Radio Freedom Act; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 80
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 80, a bill to repeal the annual fee on
health insurance providers enacted by
the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act.
S. 130
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. SHELBY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 130, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to prohibit a
health care practitioner from failing to
exercise the proper degree of care in
the case of a child who survives an
abortion or attempted abortion.
S. 208
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 208, a bill to amend title 10,
United States Code, to permit certain
retired members of the uniformed serv-
ices who have a service-connected dis-
ability to receive both disability com-
pensation from the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs for their disability and ei-
ther retired pay by reason of their
years of military service or Combat-
Related Special Compensation, and for
other purposes.
S. 283
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 283, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to improve
access to, and utilization of, bone mass
measurement benefits under part B of
the Medicare program by establishing a
minimum payment amount under such
part for bone mass measurement.
S. 285
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 285,
a bill to require U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement to take into cus-
tody certain aliens who have been
charged in the United States with a
crime that resulted in the death or se-
rious bodily injury of another person,
and for other purposes.
S. 286
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 286, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for the coverage of marriage
and family therapist services and men-
tal health counselor services under
part B of the Medicare program, and
for other purposes.
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 286, supra.
S. 311
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. SHELBY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 311, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to prohibit a
health care practitioner from failing to
exercise the proper degree of care in
the case of a child who survives an
abortion or attempted abortion.
S. 317
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 317, a bill to amend title
XIX of the Social Security Act to pro-
vide States with the option of pro-
viding coordinated care for children
with complex medical conditions
through a health home.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.023 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1385
February 14, 2019
S. 336
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 336, a bill to direct the Comp-
troller General of the United States to
submit a report on the response of law
enforcement agencies to reports of
missing or murdered Indians.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Iowa
(Ms. ERNST) were added as cosponsors
of S. 362, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to reform tax-
ation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 380
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 380, a bill to increase access to
agency guidance documents.
S. 426
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from
Virginia (Mr. WARNER) and the Senator
from Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY) were added
as cosponsors of S. 426, a bill to in-
crease the rates of pay under the Gen-
eral Schedule and other statutory pay
systems and for prevailing rate em-
ployees by 3.6 percent, and for other
purposes.
S. 455
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 455, a bill to amend the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act to provide for Federal Exchange
outreach and educational activities.
S. 465
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 465, a bill to amend the
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act of 1968 to make reforms to
the benefits for Public Service Officers,
and for other purposes.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 479, a bill to revise section 48
of title 18, United States Code, and for
other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. JONES, Mr.
REED, Ms. WARREN, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. KING, Mr. MARKEY,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. COONS, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. KAINE, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
WARNER, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
WYDEN, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. RUBIO, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. CARDIN, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr.
SANDERS, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
PERDUE, Mr. BENNET, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. ISAKSON, Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
CASSIDY, Mr. PORTMAN, and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S. 488. A bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to specify lynching
as a deprivation of civil rights, and for
other purposes; considered and passed.
S. 488
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Justice for
Victims of Lynching Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The crime of lynching succeeded slav-
ery as the ultimate expression of racism in
the United States following Reconstruction.
(2) Lynching was a widely acknowledged
practice in the United States until the mid-
dle of the 20th century.
(3) Lynching was a crime that occurred
throughout the United States, with docu-
mented incidents in all but 4 States.
(4) At least 4,742 people, predominantly Af-
rican Americans, were reported lynched in
the United States between 1882 and 1968.
(5) Ninety-nine percent of all perpetrators
of lynching escaped from punishment by
State or local officials.
(6) Lynching prompted African Americans
to form the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People (referred to in
this section as the ‘‘NAACP’’) and prompted
members of B’nai B’rith to found the Anti-
Defamation League.
(7) Mr. Walter White, as a member of the
NAACP and later as the executive secretary
of the NAACP from 1931 to 1955, meticulously
investigated lynchings in the United States
and worked tirelessly to end segregation and
racialized terror.
(8) Nearly 200 anti-lynching bills were in-
troduced in Congress during the first half of
the 20th century.
(9) Between 1890 and 1952, 7 Presidents peti-
tioned Congress to end lynching.
(10) Between 1920 and 1940, the House of
Representatives passed 3 strong anti-lynch-
ing measures.
(11) Protection against lynching was the
minimum and most basic of Federal respon-
sibilities, and the Senate considered but
failed to enact anti-lynching legislation de-
spite repeated requests by civil rights
groups, Presidents, and the House of Rep-
resentatives to do so.
(12) The publication of ‘‘Without Sanc-
tuary: Lynching Photography in America’’
helped bring greater awareness and proper
recognition of the victims of lynching.
(13) Only by coming to terms with history
can the United States effectively champion
human rights abroad.
(14) An apology offered in the spirit of true
repentance moves the United States toward
reconciliation and may become central to a
new understanding, on which improved ra-
cial relations can be forged.
(15) Having concluded that a reckoning
with our own history is the only way the
country can effectively champion human
rights abroad, 90 Members of the United
States Senate agreed to Senate Resolution
39, 109th Congress, on June 13, 2005, to apolo-
gize to the victims of lynching and the de-
scendants of those victims for the failure of
the Senate to enact anti-lynching legisla-
tion.
(16) The National Memorial for Peace and
Justice, which opened to the public in Mont-
gomery, Alabama, on April 26, 2018, is the
Nation’s first memorial dedicated to the leg-
acy of enslaved Black people, people terror-
ized by lynching, African Americans humili-
ated by racial segregation and Jim Crow, and
people of color burdened with contemporary
presumptions of guilt and police violence.
(17) Notwithstanding the Senate’s apology
and the heightened awareness and education
about the Nation’s legacy with lynching, it
is wholly necessary and appropriate for the
Congress to enact legislation, after 100 years
of unsuccessful legislative efforts, finally to
make lynching a Federal crime.
(18) Further, it is the sense of Congress
that criminal action by a group increases the
likelihood that the criminal object of that
group will be successfully attained and de-
creases the probability that the individuals
involved will depart from their path of crim-
inality. Therefore, it is appropriate to speci-
fy criminal penalties for the crime of lynch-
ing, or any attempt or conspiracy to commit
lynching.
(19) The United States Senate agreed to
unanimously Senate Resolution 118, 115th
Congress, on April 5, 2017, ‘‘[c]ondemning
hate crime and any other form of racism, re-
ligious or ethnic bias, discrimination, incite-
ment to violence, or animus targeting a mi-
nority in the United States’’ and taking no-
tice specifically of Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation statistics demonstrating that
‘‘among single-bias hate crime incidents in
the United States, 59.2 percent of victims
were targeted due to racial, ethnic, or ances-
tral bias, and among those victims, 52.2 per-
cent were victims of crimes motivated by
the offenders’ anti-Black or anti-African
American bias’’.
(20) On September 14, 2017, President Don-
ald J. Trump signed into law Senate Joint
Resolution 49 (Public Law 115–58; 131 Stat.
1149), wherein Congress ‘‘condemn[ed] the
racist violence and domestic terrorist attack
that took place between August 11 and Au-
gust 12, 2017, in Charlottesville, Virginia’’
and ‘‘urg[ed] the President and his adminis-
tration to speak out against hate groups
that espouse racism, extremism, xenophobia,
anti-Semitism, and White supremacy; and
use all resources available to the President
and the President’s Cabinet to address the
growing prevalence of those hate groups in
the United States’’.
(21) Senate Joint Resolution 49 (Public
Law 115–58; 131 Stat. 1149) specifically took
notice of ‘‘hundreds of torch-bearing White
nationalists, White supremacists, Klansmen,
and neo-Nazis [who] chanted racist, anti-Se-
mitic, and anti-immigrant slogans and vio-
lently engaged with counter-demonstrators
on and around the grounds of the University
of Virginia in Charlottesville’’ and that
these groups ‘‘reportedly are organizing
similar events in other cities in the United
States and communities everywhere are con-
cerned about the growing and open display of
hate and violence being perpetrated by those
groups’’.
(22) Lynching was a pernicious and perva-
sive tool that was used to interfere with
multiple aspects of life—including the exer-
cise of Federally protected rights, as enu-
merated in section 245 of title 18, United
States Code, housing rights, as enumerated
in section 901 of the Civil Rights Act of 1968
(42 U.S.C. 3631), and the free exercise of reli-
gion, as enumerated in section 247 of title 18,
United States Code. Interference with these
rights was often effectuated by multiple of-
fenders and groups, rather than isolated indi-
viduals. Therefore, prohibiting conspiracies
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.018 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1386 February 14, 2019
to violate each of these rights recognizes the
history of lynching in the United States and
serves to prohibit its use in the future.
SEC. 3. LYNCHING.
(a) OFFENSE.—Chapter 13 of title 18, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘§ 250. Lynching
‘‘Whoever conspires with another person to
violate section 245, 247, or 249 of this title or
section 901 of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 3631) shall be punished in the same
manner as a completed violation of such sec-
tion, except that if the maximum term of
imprisonment for such completed violation
is less than 10 years, the person may be im-
prisoned for not more than 10 years.’’.
(b) TABLE OF SECTIONS AMENDMENT.—The
table of sections for chapter 13 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 249 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘250. Lynching.’’.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself,
Mr. RUBIO, Mr. JONES, Mr.
SCOTT of Florida, Mr. MANCHIN,
and Mr. GARDNER):
S. 495. A bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to reauthorize and
expand the National Threat Assess-
ment Center of the Department of
Homeland Security; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
EAGLES ACT
Mr. President, I come to the floor
today to take a moment and remember
the tragedy that occurred a year ago at
the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High
School in Parkland, Florida.
One year ago today, on Valentine’s
Day, 17 innocent lives were lost at the
hands of a troubled, evil young man
who entered a high school and opened
fire.
The tragedy in Parkland cannot be
forgotten.
We in the Senate cannot afford to
forget such senseless acts of violence,
and instead must continue to fight to
prevent dangerous attacks in our coun-
try and our schools.
I remain dedicated to keeping weap-
ons out of the hands of those who seek
to harm others.
That is why I am proud to reintro-
duce the EAGLES Act of 2019.
Along with Senators RUBIO, SCOTT
from Florida, JONES, MANCHIN, and
GARDNER, I am reintroducing a piece of
legislation today that proactively
works to mitigate threats of violence
on school campuses.
The EAGLES Act is named after the
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High
School Mascot, the Eagles.
It reauthorizes and expands the U.S.
Secret Service’s National Threat As-
sessment Center which is used to study
targeted violence and develop best
practices and training to identify and
manage threats before they result in
violence.
This legislation also allows the Se-
cret Service to focus a significant por-
tion of its efforts directly on school
safety by equipping communities and
schools with training and best prac-
tices on recognizing and preventing
school violence.
In the wake of the Parkland shoot-
ing, there has been a flurry of activism,
opinions, and action on the issue of gun
safety, gun violence, and rights guar-
anteed to law abiding citizens under
the Second Amendment of the U.S.
Constitution.
It’s our obligation as members of
Congress to discuss issues, short-
comings, and room for advancement.
The EAGLES Act is part of the solu-
tion to prevent future violence in our
communities.
This past year in the Senate, we took
important steps to address gun vio-
lence and solutions to prevent future
attacks.
Through investigations, hearings,
oversight of federal agencies, and legis-
lation, I worked with my colleagues to
shed light on the issue and seek solu-
tions.
For example, last Congress, two in-
strumental pieces of legislation to help
protect Americans from future acts of
violence were signed into law.
The first was the Students, Teachers,
and Officers Preventing School Vio-
lence Act, which provides funding to
schools to strengthen their infrastruc-
ture to make it more difficult for
shooters to enter schools.
The other bill signed into law was
the Fix NICS Act.
This law penalizes Federal agencies
who fail to comply with the require-
ments in current law to report dan-
gerous individuals and violent crimi-
nals to the National Instant Criminal
Background Check System.
These laws enjoyed bipartisan sup-
port and will help keep our commu-
nities safe.
As former Chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, I also held a number of
hearings on gun violence, one which
specifically addressed the govern-
ment’s role and failures in preventing
the Parkland shooting.
It was because of the lack of govern-
ment coordination, successful identi-
fication of threats, and mitigation of
dangers that I introduced the EAGLES
Act last Congress.
As we learned in the hearing fol-
lowing the Parkland shooting and
through subsequent investigations,
there was much more that should have
been done to prevent the Parkland
shooting from happening.
There’s still more to do to address
the issue of targeted violence.
I expect my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle will continue to propose so-
lutions.
It’s a conversation worth having. We
should find more ways to keep weapons
out of the hands of dangerous individ-
uals while still protecting important
constitutional rights.
It’s in that spirit that I am reintro-
ducing the EAGLES Act.
By passing this Act, we can do more
to assess threats, train communities
and schools, and prevent violence.
We cannot undo the tragedies of the
past, but together we can do a better
job to prevent future tragedies.
I look forward to working with my
colleagues on this important priority.
I yield the floor.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
CORNYN, and Mr. JONES):
S. 532. A bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to provide that
an individual may remain eligible to
participate in the teacher loan forgive-
ness program under title IV of such Act
if the individual’s period of consecutive
years of employment as a full-time
teacher is interrupted because the indi-
vidual is the spouse of a member of the
Armed Forces who is relocated during
the school year pursuant to military
orders for a permanent change of duty
station, or the individual works in a
school of the defense dependents’ edu-
cation system under the Defense De-
pendents’ Education Act of 1978 due to
such a relocation, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I would
like to bring the Senate’s attention to
the bipartisan Preserving Teacher
Loan Forgiveness for Military Spouses
Act of 2018, which I am introducing
today with Senators CORNYN and
JONES. This legislation eliminates a
barrier for teachers in military fami-
lies to earn federal student loan for-
giveness for their years of public serv-
ice.
The Department of Education’s
Teacher Loan Forgiveness program
rightfully incentivizes teachers to
commit to students in our lowest in-
come school districts in exchange for
up to $17,500 in Federal student loan
forgiveness. Teachers qualify for the
Federal student loan forgiveness once
they have taught full-time for at least
five consecutive years at a low income
school or educational service agency.
Teachers who are forced to move in the
middle of the school year to follow
their spouse’s relocation or reassign-
ment to another installation in the
United States or abroad lose their ac-
crued eligibility for the program and
must restart their five years of service
under current law.
Last Congress, a Maryland con-
stituent brought to my attention the
barriers her daughter faced when seek-
ing Federal student loan forgiveness
despite her commitment to public serv-
ice. Her daughter, a teacher married to
a member of the military, was in the
middle of her fifth consecutive year
teaching at one of Maryland’s lower in-
come schools. As any military spouse
knows, relocation or reassignment or-
ders can come at any time, upending
the lives of the service member and
their family. Rather than being able to
complete a fifth year of teaching in a
Maryland school, this family had to re-
locate with three months left in the
school year. Despite this family’s dou-
ble commitment to service for our
military and our schoolchildren, this
military spouse missed the opportunity
to have a portion of her Federal stu-
dent loans forgiven. No military spouse
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.026 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1387
February 14, 2019
should be punished for following his or
her spouse’s relocation or reassign-
ment.
The legislation that Senators COR-
NYN, JONES and I have introduced is a
common sense proposal to allow mili-
tary spouses to earn the benefits that
they have dutifully worked towards
and continue to incentivize individuals
to teach our hardest to educate chil-
dren. Our legislation provides a waiver
from the Department of Education’s
Teacher Loan Forgiveness program’s
five consecutive years of service re-
quirement for qualified military
spouses if their spouse is relocated dur-
ing the school year pursuant to mili-
tary orders from the Armed Forces.
This waiver will allow individuals to
remain eligible for the Teacher Loan
Forgiveness program should they re-
sume teaching full-time at a qualifying
low-income school district within one
year of their relocation. In addition,
this legislation requires the Depart-
ment of Education to provide a report
to Congress every two years on the
number of military spouses who re-
mained eligible for Teacher Loan For-
giveness due to this legislation. In ad-
dition, it would allow military spouses
that follow their service member over-
seas to accrue periods of service to-
wards the Teacher Loan Forgiveness
program if they teach in one of the De-
partment of Defense Education Activi-
ties operated schools.
I urge my colleagues to join in this
effort to help families who are wholly
committed to public service by sup-
porting the Preserving Teacher Loan
Forgiveness for Military Spouses Act.
No family committed to service of our
country should lose out on earned ben-
efits due to a technicality.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 71—HON-
ORING THE MEMORY OF THE
VICTIMS OF THE SENSELESS AT-
TACK AT MARJORY STONEMAN
DOUGLAS HIGH SCHOOL 1 YEAR
AGO
Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 71
Whereas, on February 14, 2018, a mass
shooting that took the lives of 17 teachers
and students took place at Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland,
Florida;
Whereas the people of the United States
continue to pray for those who were affected
by this tragedy;
Whereas President Donald Trump stated:
‘‘No child, no teacher, should ever be in dan-
ger in an American school. No parent should
ever have to fear for their sons and daugh-
ters when they kiss them goodbye in the
morning.’’;
Whereas the Parkland community has
shown strength, compassion, and unity in
the past year; and
Whereas February 14, 2019, marks 1 year
since the horrific attack: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commemorates the victims killed in the
attack and offers heartfelt condolences and
deepest sympathies to the families, loved
ones, and friends of the victims;
(2) honors the survivors and pledges con-
tinued support for their recovery;
(3) recognizes the strength and resilience of
the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School
community; and
(4) expresses gratitude to the emergency
medical and health care professionals of the
Parkland community for their efforts in re-
sponding to the attack and caring for the
victims and survivors.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 72—HON-
ORING THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY
OF FORT BENNING IN COLUM-
BUS, GEORGIA
Mr. PERDUE (for himself, Mr. JONES,
and Mr. ISAKSON) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Armed Services:
S. RES. 72
Whereas 2018 was the 100th anniversary of
Fort Benning, a military installation oper-
ating in Columbus, Georgia;
Whereas Fort Benning is named after Brig-
adier General Henry Lewis Benning, a resi-
dent of Columbus, Georgia;
Whereas Fort Benning resides on land
originally belonging to the Creek Tribe of
the Muskogee Nation;
Whereas, on April 4, 1917, the day after
President Woodrow Wilson asked Congress
for a declaration of war against Germany,
the citizens of Columbus began advocating
for an Army camp to be constructed near Co-
lumbus, Georgia;
Whereas the War Department decided to
move the Infantry School of Arms at Fort
Sill, Oklahoma, to a more spacious site to
train soldiers on infantry skills and tactics;
Whereas, on August 27, 1918, with the help
of the Columbus Chamber of Commerce, an
84-acre farm on Macon Road in Columbus,
Georgia, was selected as the site for the in-
fantry camp;
Whereas, on September 18, 1918, the Adju-
tant General ordered troops from Fort Sill to
report to the newly selected site by October
1, 1918;
Whereas, on October 19, 1918, Columbus na-
tive Anna Caroline Benning, daughter of the
brigadier general, raised the United States
flag over the United States Infantry School
of Arms and the site was formally christened
Camp Benning;
Whereas, after the end of World War I, the
Committee on Military Affairs of the Senate
ordered construction on Camp Benning to be
halted on January 9, 1919;
Whereas Senator Hoke Smith of Georgia
strongly advocated for congressional hear-
ings to receive testimony on resuming con-
struction of the post, allowing for Columbus-
area supporters, as well as infantry com-
manders who fought in World War I, to tes-
tify about the need for the post;
Whereas, on March 8, 1919, the Committee
on Military Affairs of the Senate voted to re-
sume building Camp Benning;
Whereas the post quickly outgrew the
Macon Road location and, on June 17, 1919,
Camp Benning was moved to its present site,
which included the 1,800-acre plantation of
local businessman Arthur Bussey;
Whereas, on January 9, 1922, the War De-
partment issued General Order No. 1, making
Camp Benning a permanent military instal-
lation and appropriating more than $1,000,000
of additional building funds for the Infantry
School of Arms, which later became the In-
fantry School;
Whereas, on May 12, 1920, 10 Army aircraft
were assigned to Camp Benning as the air de-
tachment of the post, marking the first use
of aviation at Camp Benning;
Whereas, on February 8, 1922, Camp
Benning was redesignated as Fort Benning;
Whereas, on June 17, 1932, the tank school
of the United States Army officially moved
from Fort Meade, Maryland, to Fort
Benning;
Whereas Fort Benning played a critical
role in World War II, training thousands of
soldiers for the European, African, and Pa-
cific theaters of war;
Whereas, on June 25, 1940, the commandant
of the Infantry School was directed by the
Adjutant General to provide a platoon of vol-
unteers for parachute test duty, leading to
the formation of the Parachute Test Pla-
toon;
Whereas, on September 16, 1940, the War
Department approved the formation of the
first Parachute Battalion at Fort Benning;
Whereas, on October 1, 1940, the 501st Para-
chute Battalion was activated;
Whereas, in July 1941, the modern Officer
Candidate School for Infantry was estab-
lished at Fort Benning to provide a rigorous
training venue for new officers;
Whereas, in December 1943, the 555th Para-
chute Infantry Company, later redesignated
as Company A, 555th Parachute Infantry
Battalion, the first African-American para-
chute unit, which was known as ‘‘Triple
Nickles’’, was activated at Fort Benning;
Whereas, after World War II, Fort Benning
continued to play a vital role in training sol-
diers for every conflict involving the United
States;
Whereas the Ranger Training Center was
established on October 12, 1950, which trained
personnel for the Korean War;
Whereas, during the Korean War, Fort
Benning opened the Officer Candidate School
on February 18, 1951, which has trained—
(1) thousands of infantry officers to serve
as leaders in the Army; and
(2) since 1973, officers of all branches to
serve as leaders in the Armed Forces;
Whereas the 11th Air Assault Division was
activated at Fort Benning on February 7,
1963, to test and develop the air mobile con-
cept;
Whereas the 11th Air Assault Division was
inactivated on July 1, 1965, and replaced by
the 1st Cavalry Division (Airmobile) and de-
ployed to Vietnam on September 11, 1965,
specializing in flying troops in and out of
combat zones via helicopter;
Whereas Fort Benning served as a major
staging ground for troops sent to the Middle
East during Operation Desert Shield and Op-
eration Desert Storm, and later during Oper-
ation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi
Freedom;
Whereas, in 2009, tanks from the Armor
School at Fort Knox arrived at Fort
Benning, combining infantry and armor at 1
post and forming the Maneuver Center of Ex-
cellence;
Whereas, on August 16, 2017, the 1st Secu-
rity Force Assistance Brigade was activated
at Fort Benning and subsequently deployed
to Afghanistan to assist forces of the Gov-
ernment of Afghanistan;
Whereas the Maneuver Center of Excel-
lence consists of—
(1) the Capabilities Development and Inte-
gration Directorate;
(2) the United States Army Infantry
School;
(3) the United States Army Armor School;
(4) the 194th Armored Brigade, 316th Cav-
alry Brigade, and 198th and 199th Infantry
Brigades;
(5) the Directorate of Training and Doc-
trine; and
(6) additional tenant units;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.032 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1388 February 14, 2019
Whereas some of the most respected United
States military leaders in the 20th century
were stationed at Fort Benning, including—
(1) General Omar Bradley;
(2) General Dwight Eisenhower;
(3) General George Marshall;
(4) General George Patton;
(5) General William Livsey; and
(6) General Colin Powell;
Whereas Fort Benning has helped foster
changes in the role of women in the military;
Whereas, on December, 14, 1973, Privates
Joyce Kutsch and Rita Johnson became the
first women to graduate the Basic Airborne
Course, and later, the United States Army
Quartermaster School Parachute Rigger
Course;
Whereas, on August 21, 2015, Captain
Kristen Griest and 1st Lieutenant Shaye
Haver became the first 2 women to graduate
from the Army Ranger School at Fort
Benning;
Whereas, on December 1, 2016, 13 women be-
came the first ever to graduate from the
Army Armor Basic Officer Leader Course at
Fort Benning;
Whereas, on May 19, 2017, Company A, 1st
Battalion, 19th Infantry Regiment, 198th In-
fantry Brigade, graduated 137 new Infantry
soldiers, including 18 women who completed
the first inter-gender Infantry One Station
Unit Training at Fort Benning;
Whereas, on June 22, 2017, 4 women became
the first ever to graduate from the Cavalry
School of the Army at Fort Benning;
Whereas Fort Benning is the sixth largest
military installation in the United States
covering approximately 182,000 acres, with a
$5,500,000,000 economic impact to the ‘‘Tri-
Community’’ and approximately 120,000 mili-
tary and civilian personnel;
Whereas the Columbus Chamber of Com-
merce, the Rotary Club of Columbus, Colum-
bus 2025, and other partnering groups fought
to establish and have continued to support
Fort Benning from its inception;
Whereas the people of the Tri-Community
fought to establish and have continued to
support Fort Benning from its inception; and
Whereas the following visionary citizens
displayed the foresight, vision, and leader-
ship to fight to establish Camp Benning near
Columbus, Georgia:
(1) Mr. John Betjeman.
(2) Mr. Rhodes Browne.
(3) Mr. John Ralston Cargill.
(4) Mr. Lucius H. Chappell.
(5) Mr. Henry B. Crawford.
(6) Mr. J. Homer Dimon.
(7) Mr. Robert Ernest Dismukes.
(8) Mr. W.J. Fielder.
(9) Mr. Reynolds Flournoy.
(10) Mr. Frank U. Garrard.
(11) Mr. Ralph Curtis Jordan.
(12) Mr. Albert Kirven.
(13) Mr. A.F. Kunze.
(14) Mr. Frank G. Lumpkin.
(15) Mr. Leighton W. MacPherson.
(16) Mr. H.R. Mcclatchey.
(17) Mr. T.T. Miller.
(18) Mr. Marshall Morton.
(19) Mr. Roger M. Page.
(20) Mr. T.G. Reeves.
(21) Mr. Walter A. Richards.
(22) Mr. H.C. Smith: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) honors Fort Benning in Columbus,
Georgia, on its 100th anniversary;
(2) commends the thousands of men and
women who have worked and trained at Fort
Benning;
(3) honors the people of the ‘‘Tri-Commu-
nity’’ including those in Columbus, Georgia,
and Phenix City, Alabama, for their contin-
ued support of Fort Benning; and
(4) encourages Fort Benning to continue
its instrumental role in preparing the brave
men and women of the United States for the
battlefield.
SENATE RESOLUTION 73—CALLING
ON THE KINGDOM OF SAUDI
ARABIA TO IMMEDIATELY RE-
LEASE SAUDI WOMEN’S RIGHTS
ACTIVISTS AND RESPECT THE
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS OF ALL
SAUDI CITIZENS
Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. MORAN, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. SASSE, Mr.
KAINE, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. COONS, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MURPHY,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Mr. MARKEY) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on For-
eign Relations:
S. RES. 73
Whereas the United States Government
and the Government of Saudi Arabia share
an important security partnership;
Whereas Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed
bin Salman said during an April 2018 inter-
view with The Atlantic magazine, ‘‘I support
women . . . In our religion there is no dif-
ference between men and women . . . We
don’t want divided treatment for different
people’’;
Whereas Saudi authorities, since Moham-
med bin Salman became Crown Prince, have
relaxed some repressive restrictions on
women, including by allowing women to
drive, attend certain sporting events, and
enter some professions which were pre-
viously closed to them;
Whereas, in May 2018, Saudi authorities
began arresting women’s rights activists and
their supporters, including those who had
campaigned for the right to drive ahead of
the government’s announcement granting
women the right to drive effective June 24,
2018;
Whereas those detained included—
(1) Samar Badawi, who petitioned Saudi
authorities to allow women the right to
drive, vote, and run in municipal elections;
(2) Nouf Abdelaziz, who expressed soli-
darity with arrested women’s rights activ-
ists;
(3) Mayaa al-Zahrani, an activist and
friend of Abdelaziz;
(4) Nassima al-Sadah, who campaigned for
the right to drive and against the govern-
ment’s male guardianship laws;
(5) Hatoon al-Fassi, a professor of women’s
history who was one of the first Saudi
women to acquire a driver’s license; and
(6) Loujain al-Hathloul who spent 73 days
in detention for defying the driving ban in
2014–15;
Whereas one of the detained women, Aziza
al-Youssef, is a United States permanent
resident who maintains a residence in Vir-
ginia;
Whereas Saudi authorities, on June 2, 2018,
announced that they would provisionally re-
lease eight individuals and refer nine indi-
viduals to trial, where they could face the
following serious charges that carry pen-
alties of up to 20 years in prison ‘‘cooper-
ating with entities hostile to the kingdom,’’
‘‘recruiting persons in a sensitive govern-
ment agency to obtain confidential informa-
tion to harm the interests of the kingdom,’’
and ‘‘providing financial and moral support
to hostile elements abroad’’;
Whereas, in 2012, Samar Badawi, one of the
activists detained by the Saudi authorities,
received the International Women of Cour-
age Award from the United States Depart-
ment of State;
Whereas Samar Badawi’s brother, Raif
Badawi, has remained imprisoned in Saudi
Arabia since 2012 and was publically flogged
for his work calling for free speech on his
website ‘‘Free Saudi Liberals’’ and his law-
yer, Waleed Abu al-Khair, is serving a 15-
year sentence for his work defending human
rights;
Whereas, according to a 2018 Human Rights
Watch report, ‘‘Saudi interrogators tortured
at least three of the Saudi women activists’
detained beginning in May 2018’’;
Whereas the reports of torture include
electric shocks, whippings, beatings, and sex-
ual harassment and assault;
Whereas, according to news reports, a top
adviser of Crown Prince Mohammed bin
Salman, Saud al-Qahtani, has been present
during interrogation sessions with the wom-
en’s rights activists;
Whereas, on January 16, 2019, more than
200 academics from around the world sent a
letter to the Saudi King calling on the Gov-
ernment of Saudi Arabia to release ‘‘Dr
Hatoon Aiwad-al-Fassi and other women’s
rights advocates who remain in detention’’;
Whereas the United States Senate resolved
on International Women’s Day on March 8,
2018, that the empowerment of women is in-
extricably linked to the potential of a coun-
try to generate economic growth, sustain-
able democracy, and inclusive security;
Whereas the Department of State’s 2017 re-
port on human rights practices in Saudi Ara-
bia stated that the Government of Saudi
Arabia’s review of guardianship laws had not
yet been completed, that the Government of
Saudi Arabia restricts the foreign travel of
women, and that the Government of Saudi
Arabia continues to discriminate against
women;
Whereas the arrests of women’s rights ac-
tivists and their supporters since May 2018
are contrary to the Government of Saudi
Arabia’s stated reform goals; and
Whereas the detention and reported abuse
of women’s rights activists and the murder
of Jamal Khashoggi, a Washington Post jour-
nalist and United States resident, dem-
onstrate a blatant disregard for human
rights and the freedom of expression: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) calls on the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to
immediately release and drop any politically
motivated charges against the detained
Saudi women’s rights activists related to
peaceful activities to advance human rights
in Saudi Arabia, which are protected under
international law;
(2) expresses concern over the reported use
of torture by the Government of Saudi Ara-
bia against the women’s activists, and urges
investigation into such allegations and the
holding accountable of perpetrators;
(3) recognizes that the strategic relation-
ship with Saudi Arabia is in the national in-
terest of the United States;
(4) reaffirms that the global recognition
and protection of basic human rights, includ-
ing women’s rights, is in the national secu-
rity interest of the United States;
(5) urges the Government of Saudi Arabia
to reform its laws that restrict basic human
rights, including women’s rights, such as by
abolishing the male guardianship system;
(6) urges the President and the Secretary
of State to affirm the support of the United
States for the right of activists to peacefully
advocate for the protection of universal
human rights;
(7) calls on the President to press the Gov-
ernment of Saudi Arabia to immediately re-
lease all political prisoners, human rights
defenders, journalists, and bloggers, includ-
ing Raif Badawi, Waleed Abu al-Khair, and
others who support religious freedom, and
the women’s rights activists detained after
May 2018; and
(8) calls on the President to comply with
the request submitted under subsection (d) of
section 1263 of the Global Magnitsky Human
Rights Accountability Act (subtitle F of
title XII of Public Law 114-328; 22 U.S.C. 2656
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.030 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1389
February 14, 2019
note) for a determination under subsection
(a) of that section with respect to the per-
sons responsible for the murder of Saudi
journalist Jamal Khashoggi.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 74—MARKING
THE FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF
UKRAINE’S REVOLUTION OF DIG-
NITY BY HONORING THE BRAV-
ERY, DETERMINATION, AND SAC-
RIFICE OF THE PEOPLE OF
UKRAINE DURING AND SINCE
THE REVOLUTION, AND CON-
DEMNING CONTINUED RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION AGAINST UKRAINE
Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. CARDIN, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. ERNST,
Mr. WYDEN, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. BROWN,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Mr.
JONES) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 74
Whereas, on November 21, 2013, peaceful
protests began on Independence Square
(Maidan) in Kyiv against the decision by the
government of then-President Viktor
Yanukovych to suspend signing the Ukraine-
European Union (EU) Association Agreement
and instead pursue closer ties with the Rus-
sian Federation;
Whereas the Maidan protests, initially re-
ferred to as the Euromaidan, quickly drew
thousands of people and broadened to become
a general demonstration in support of
Ukraine’s integration with the European
Union and against the corrupt Yanukovych
regime;
Whereas, on the night of November 30, 2013,
Ukrainian police forces surrounded and vio-
lently dispersed peaceful protestors on the
Maidan;
Whereas the next day, thousands of
Euromaidan demonstrators regrouped and
resumed the protests for three months, de-
spite facing continuing and increasing vio-
lence from the police;
Whereas, on January 16, 2014, anti-protest
laws, known as the ‘‘dictatorship laws’’, were
adopted by the Government of Ukraine,
which sought to restrict the actions of the
Euromaidan protestors;
Whereas these laws were condemned by
Euromaidan protestors as well as Western of-
ficials, including then-Secretary of State
John Kerry, who called them ‘‘anti-demo-
cratic’’;
Whereas many of these laws were repealed
just 11 days after being signed into law;
Whereas, on the night of February 18, 2014,
police assaulted and burned down the Trade
Union Building in Kyiv, which had been used
as a headquarters for the Euromaidan move-
ment;
Whereas Yanukovych’s government forces
began using live ammunition against the
Euromaidan movement, leading to the
deaths of more than a hundred protestors
who are now remembered in Ukraine as the
‘‘Heavenly Hundred’’;
Whereas, on February 21, 2014, in the face
of the ongoing Euromaidan protests demand-
ing his resignation, then-President Viktor
Yanukovych fled Kyiv, and then fled Ukraine
the next day;
Whereas, on February 22, 2014, the
Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine recognized that
Yanukovych had ceased his functions as
president, voted him from office, and sched-
uled early presidential elections for May 25,
2014;
Whereas, on February 25, 2014, fulfilling de-
mands of the Maidan, Ukraine’s special po-
lice force known as the Berkut was dis-
solved, as it had been heavily involved in the
violence against the Euromaidan protestors;
Whereas the Ukrainian government’s use
of force against activists throughout the
Euromaidan protests, including the use of
live bullets, was widely condemned by West-
ern governments, including the United
States, and ultimately failed to discourage
the Euromaidan movement;
Whereas, on September 1, 2017, the
Ukraine–EU Association Agreement came
into force after its signing by the Govern-
ment of Ukraine and the EU;
Whereas, in response to Ukraine’s Revolu-
tion of Dignity, the Russian Federation
launched military aggression against
Ukraine, illegally occupied Ukraine’s Cri-
mean Peninsula, and instigated a war in
eastern Ukraine, which is still ongoing and
has killed more than 10,000 Ukrainians;
Whereas the Russian Federation’s at-
tempted invasion and annexation of Crimea
has been widely seen as an effort to stifle
pro-democracy developments across Ukraine
in 2014 in the wake of the Revolution of Dig-
nity;
Whereas 2019 marks the 25th anniversary of
the signing of the Budapest Memorandum,
which committed the United States, the
United Kingdom, and the Russian Federation
to refrain from the threat or use of force
against Ukraine’s territorial integrity in ex-
change for Ukraine giving up its nuclear
weapons;
Whereas the Russian Federation is a signa-
tory to the 1994 Budapest Memorandum and
thus committed to respect the independence,
sovereignty, and territorial integrity of
Ukraine;
Whereas the Government of the Russian
Federation is further obligated to respect
the sovereignty of Ukraine pursuant to its
commitments as a signatory to the Helsinki
Final Act and the Charter of the United Na-
tions;
Whereas, on March 27, 2014, the United Na-
tions General Assembly adopted Resolution
68/262 calling on states and international or-
ganizations not to recognize any change in
Crimea’s status and affirmed the commit-
ment of the United Nations to recognize Cri-
mea as part of Ukraine;
Whereas the United States and European
Union have imposed sanctions on individuals
and entities who have enabled the attempted
invasion, annexation, and occupation of Cri-
mea;
Whereas, pursuant to the Revolution of
Dignity’s goal of fighting corruption in
Ukraine, the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine
adopted the Law On the National Anti-Cor-
ruption Bureau (NABU) of Ukraine on Octo-
ber 14, 2014;
Whereas, on June 26, 2017, the Law of
Ukraine On the Establishment of the High
Anti-Corruption Court was signed into law;
Whereas, on July 5, 2018, the Law on Na-
tional Security was adopted, which has
strengthened civilian control over the
Ukrainian military, increased transparency
in the security sector, and more clearly de-
lineated the powers of law enforcement agen-
cies;
Whereas, on January 6, 2019, the Ecumeni-
cal Patriarch of Constantinople granted
autocephaly to the Ukrainian Orthodox
Church, thus establishing the first inde-
pendent Ukrainian Orthodox Church in over
300 years;
Whereas despite requests by the Govern-
ment of Ukraine, the Government of the
Russian Federation has repeatedly refused to
extradite former President of Ukraine
Viktor Yanukovych to stand trial in
Ukraine;
Whereas, on January 24, 2019, a Ukrainian
court found Yanukovych guilty in absentia
of high treason and complicity in conducting
an aggressive war against Ukraine, and sen-
tenced him to 13 years in prison;
Whereas, in order to help Ukraine preserve
its sovereignty in the face of Russian aggres-
sion, the United States Government has pro-
vided Ukraine with over $1,000,000,000 in se-
curity assistance, including critical defen-
sive items such as Javelin anti-tank missiles
and Island-class cutters; and
Whereas, in the 115th Congress, both the
United States Senate and the United States
House of Representatives passed resolutions
commemorating the 85th anniversary of the
Holodomor, the Soviet Union’s manmade
famine that it committed against the people
of Ukraine in 1932 and 1933: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) remembers the courage and resolve
shown by the Ukrainian people in the Revo-
lution of Dignity;
(2) solemnly honors the ‘‘Heavenly Hun-
dred’’ who were killed during the Revolution
of Dignity while fighting for the causes of
freedom and democracy in Ukraine;
(3) applauds the progress that the Govern-
ment of Ukraine has made since the Revolu-
tion of Dignity in strengthening the rule of
law, aligning itself with Euro-Atlantic
norms and standards, and improving mili-
tary combat readiness and interoperability
with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO);
(4) encourages the Government of Ukraine
to continue implementing crucial reforms to
fight corruption, build strong and free mar-
kets, and strengthen democracy and the rule
of law;
(5) affirms the United States Government’s
unwavering commitment to supporting the
continuing efforts of the Government of
Ukraine to implement democratic and free
market reforms, restoring Ukraine’s terri-
torial integrity, as well as providing addi-
tional lethal and non-lethal security assist-
ance to strengthen Ukraine’s defense capa-
bilities on land, sea, and in the air in order
to improve deterrence against Russian ag-
gression;
(6) condemns the Russian Federation’s on-
going malign activities against Ukraine and
renews its call on the Government of the
Russian Federation to immediately cease all
activity that seeks to undermine Ukraine
and destabilize the European continent;
(7) reiterates its strong condemnation of
the provocative actions and unjustified use
of military force by the Government of the
Russian Federation in the Kerch Strait
against the Ukrainian Navy on November 25,
2018, as a blatant violation of the Russian
Federation’s commitments under inter-
national law and the 2003 Treaty Between
the Russian Federation and Ukraine on Co-
operation in the Use of the Sea of Azov and
the Kerch Strait;
(8) expresses its support to all Ukrainian
political prisoners convicted on fabricated
charges and incarcerated by Russian or Rus-
sian-controlled authorities, including the
Ukrainian sailors seized in the November 25,
2018, attack near the Kerch Strait who are
due treatment under the 1949 Geneva Con-
ventions and have been illegally kept in de-
tention in the territory of the Russian Fed-
eration, while renewing its strong call on the
Kremlin to immediately release these
Ukrainian citizens;
(9) affirms the Department of State’s Cri-
mea Declaration, announced on July 25, 2018,
that rejects Russia’s attempted annexation
of Crimea and pledges to maintain this pol-
icy until Ukraine’s territorial integrity is re-
stored;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.031 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1390 February 14, 2019
(10) believes that the Nord Stream 2 pipe-
line poses a major threat to European secu-
rity, seeks to further undermine Ukraine’s
economic stability, and threatens to increase
the country’s vulnerability to further Rus-
sian military incursions;
(11) calls upon the United States Govern-
ment, as well as its international allies and
partners, to maintain a strong sanctions re-
gime against the Russian Federation until it
upholds its international obligations towards
Ukraine, including the Budapest Memo-
randum on Security Assurances and the
Minsk Agreements; and
(12) congratulates the people of Ukraine on
the announcement on January 6, 2019, of
autocephaly for an independent Orthodox
Church of Ukraine, which has marked an im-
portant milestone in Ukraine’s pursuit of its
own future free from Russian influence.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 75—HON-
ORING THE LIFE, ACHIEVE-
MENTS, AND DISTINGUISHED
PUBLIC SERVICE OF JOHN DAVID
DINGELL, JR., AND EXPRESSING
CONDOLENCES TO HIS FAMILY
ON HIS PASSING
Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. BLUNT, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. CASEY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. CARPER, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
LEAHY, Ms. HARRIS, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. REED, Mrs. BLACK-
BURN, and Mr. BURR) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 75
Whereas, on February 8, 2019, the death of
Representative John David Dingell, Jr. (re-
ferred to in this preamble as ‘‘John Din-
gell’’), former Chairman of the Committee
on Energy and Commerce of the House of
Representatives, brought a sense of deep per-
sonal loss—
(1) to his family, including his wife, Rep-
resentative Deborah ‘‘Debbie’’ Dingell of the
12th congressional district of Michigan, and
his children and grandchildren;
(2) to his many former colleagues and
friends;
(3) to Members of Congress; and
(4) to the people of the United States;
Whereas John Dingell represented the peo-
ple of southeastern Michigan with distinc-
tion in the House of Representatives for 59
years, from December 13, 1955, to January 3,
2015, making John Dingell the longest serv-
ing Member of either chamber of Congress in
the history of the United States;
Whereas the father of John Dingell, the
late John David Dingell, Sr., preceded John
Dingell in service as a Member of the House
of Representatives from March 4, 1933, to
September 19, 1955;
Whereas the wife of John Dingell, Deborah
Dingell, succeeded John Dingell on January
3, 2015, and continues to serve as a Member
of the House of Representatives;
Whereas the people of southeastern Michi-
gan have entrusted John David Dingell, Sr.,
John Dingell, and Deborah Dingell together
to serve as their voice in Congress for the
past 86 years;
Whereas John Dingell was raised from the
age of 6 in southeast Michigan, the home
State of the parents of John Dingell, and the
State that John David Dingell, Sr., was
elected to serve in the 73rd Congress;
Whereas John Dingell was fiercely proud of
his Polish-American roots and throughout
his life shared the joys of his heritage with
others, including by delivering paczki pas-
tries to colleagues, staff of the House of Rep-
resentatives, and visitors to the Capitol;
Whereas John Dingell had his first taste of
public service and participation in govern-
ment as a page for the House of Representa-
tives;
Whereas John Dingell, while serving as a
page for the House of Representatives, in the
Hall of the House of Representatives on De-
cember 8, 1941, witnessed President Franklin
Roosevelt deliver the iconic address asking
for a declaration of war against Japan fol-
lowing the bombing of Pearl Harbor;
Whereas John Dingell was drafted into the
United States Army at the age of 18 and
served honorably;
Whereas John Dingell received a Bachelor
of Science degree and a Juris Doctor degree
from Georgetown University;
Whereas, prior to being elected to the
House of Representatives, John Dingell
worked—
(1) in private law practice;
(2) as a park ranger with the National Park
Service; and
(3) as an assistant prosecutor;
Whereas John Dingell was elected to the
House of Representatives following the death
of John David Dingell, Sr., in 1955 and was
reelected 29 times;
Whereas John Dingell—
(1) advocated for affordable health insur-
ance coverage for seniors in the United
States, a cause championed by John David
Dingell, Sr.; and
(2) worked to secure the enactment of the
Medicare program under title XVIII of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) in
1965, presiding over the passage of the Social
Security Amendments of 1965 (Public Law
89–97; 79 Stat. 286) in the House of Represent-
atives;
Whereas John Dingell witnessed President
Lyndon B. Johnson sign into law the Social
Security Amendments of 1965 (Public Law
89–97; 79 Stat. 286), which enacted the Medi-
care program under title XVIII of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.);
Whereas John Dingell was a crusader for
the environment, helping to author and
shepherd to passage—
(1) the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et
seq.);
(2) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
(3) the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972 (Public Law 92–500;
86 Stat. 816), which formed the basis of the
modern Federal Water Pollution Control Act
(33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
(4) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
(5) the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C.
300f et seq.);
Whereas John Dingell fought to make civil
rights a part of the platform of the Demo-
cratic Party in 1960, standing up to people
who believed it would alienate certain voters
and declaring that making civil rights a
platform issue was the right thing to do;
Whereas John Dingell was a strong sup-
porter in the House of Representatives of—
(1) the Civil Rights Act of 1957 (Public Law
85–315; 71 Stat. 634);
(2) the Civil Rights Act of 1960 (Public Law
86–449; 74 Stat. 86);
(3) the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C.
2000a et seq.); and
(4) the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C.
10301 et seq.);
Whereas John Dingell served as chairman
of the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives from Janu-
ary 3, 1981, to January 3, 1995, and again from
January 3, 2007, to January 3, 2009, and
served as the ranking minority member dur-
ing the years in between, making John Din-
gell the senior Democratic member on that
Committee for 26 years;
Whereas, during every Congress in which
he served, John Dingell introduced legisla-
tion to provide universal access to health
care;
Whereas, in 2010, John Dingell invited
Speaker Nancy Pelosi to use the gavel with
which he presided over passage of the Social
Security Amendments of 1965 (Public Law
89–97; 79 Stat. 286), which included the Medi-
care program under title XVIII of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.), to pre-
side over passage of the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18001 et
seq.) in the House of Representatives;
Whereas John Dingell, over the course of
his tenure in the House of Representatives,
served with the following 11 Presidents:
Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy,
Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard Nixon, Gerald
Ford, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George
H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, and
Barack Obama;
Whereas John Dingell served as Dean of
the House of Representatives from January
3, 1995, to January 3, 2015;
Whereas John Dingell retired from the
House of Representatives in 2015 and was
succeeded by his beloved wife, Deborah,
whom he referred to as his ‘‘lovely Deborah’’;
Whereas Deborah Dingell carries on the
legacy of John Dingell and now serves as co-
chair of the Democratic Policy and Commu-
nications Committee in the Democratic Cau-
cus;
Whereas, in 2014, President Barack Obama
awarded John Dingell the Presidential Medal
of Freedom, the highest civilian honor of the
United States;
Whereas John Dingell, both before and
after retirement, gathered a large following
on Twitter, where he demonstrated wit, wis-
dom, and clever commentary on politics in
the United States while promoting greater
civility, patriotism, tolerance, justice, and
inclusion; and
Whereas John Dingell was held in the high-
est esteem by Members of Congress from
both parties because of his record tenure in
office, sharp intellect, good humor, congeni-
ality, and belief in working together to
achieve consensus through trust and camara-
derie: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) honors the life, achievements, and dis-
tinguished public service of John David Din-
gell, Jr.; and
(2) expresses condolences to the family of
John David Dingell, Jr., on his passing.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 76—DESIG-
NATING MARCH 1, 2019, AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL SPEECH AND DEBATE
EDUCATION DAY’’
Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Ms. WARREN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. DURBIN, and Ms. ERNST) submitted
the following resolution; which was
considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 76
Whereas it is essential for youth to learn
and practice the art of communicating with
and without technology;
Whereas speech and debate education of-
fers students myriad forms of public speak-
ing through which students may develop tal-
ent and exercise unique voice and character;
Whereas speech and debate education gives
students the 21st-century skills of commu-
nication, critical thinking, creativity, and
collaboration;
Whereas critical analysis and effective
communication allow important ideas, texts,
and philosophies the opportunity to flourish;
Whereas personal, professional, and civic
interactions are enhanced by the ability of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.035 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1391
February 14, 2019
the participants in those interactions to lis-
ten, concur, question, and dissent with rea-
son and compassion;
Whereas students who participate in
speech and debate have chosen a challenging
activity that requires regular practice, dedi-
cation, and hard work;
Whereas teachers and coaches of speech
and debate devote in-school, afterschool, and
weekend hours to equip students with life-
changing skills and opportunities;
Whereas National Speech and Debate Edu-
cation Day emphasizes the lifelong impact of
providing people of the United States with
the confidence and preparation to both dis-
cern and share views;
Whereas National Speech and Debate Edu-
cation Day acknowledges that most achieve-
ments, celebrations, commemorations, and
pivotal moments in modern history begin,
end, or are crystallized with public address;
Whereas National Speech and Debate Edu-
cation Day recognizes that learning to re-
search, construct, and present an argument
is integral to personal advocacy, social
movements, and the making of public policy;
Whereas the National Speech & Debate As-
sociation, in conjunction with national and
local partners, honors and celebrates the im-
portance of speech and debate through Na-
tional Speech and Debate Education Day;
and
Whereas National Speech and Debate Edu-
cation Day emphasizes the importance of
speech and debate education and the integra-
tion of speech and debate education across
grade levels and disciplines: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates March 1, 2019, as ‘‘National
Speech and Debate Education Day’’;
(2) strongly affirms the purposes of Na-
tional Speech and Debate Education Day;
and
(3) encourages educational institutions,
businesses, community and civic associa-
tions, and all people of the United States to
celebrate and promote National Speech and
Debate Education Day.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 77—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK OF FEB-
RUARY 16 THROUGH 23, 2019, AS
‘‘NATIONAL FFA WEEK,’’ RECOG-
NIZING THE IMPORTANT ROLE
OF THE NATIONAL FFA ORGANI-
ZATION IN DEVELOPING YOUNG
LEADERS, AND CELEBRATING 50
YEARS OF FEMALE MEMBER-
SHIP IN THE NATIONAL FFA OR-
GANIZATION
Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. YOUNG,
Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
KING, Mr. CARPER, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr.
JONES, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HASSAN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. RISCH, Mr. MORAN,
Mr. BRAUN, Ms. COLLINS, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. CRUZ,
Mr. TILLIS, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. INHOFE, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. ROUNDS,
Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. BLUNT,
Mr. WICKER, Mr. ENZI, Ms. ERNST, Mrs.
FISCHER, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr.
ALEXANDER, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. DAINES,
and Mr. ROMNEY) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 77
Whereas Future Farmers of America (FFA)
was established in 1928 and is now known as
the National FFA Organization;
Whereas the National FFA Organization is
comprised of more than 8,500 chapters in all
50 States, Puerto Rico, the United States
Virgin Islands, and Washington, D.C.;
Whereas more than 650,000 students in sec-
ondary schools, community and technical
colleges, and universities are members of the
National FFA Organization;
Whereas 2019 marks 50 years of female
membership in the National FFA Organiza-
tion;
Whereas the National FFA Organization
welcomes students with diverse back-
grounds;
Whereas the mission of the National FFA
Organization is to develop the potential of
students for premier leadership, personal
growth, and career success through agricul-
tural education;
Whereas, through classroom education and
hands-on work experience, the National FFA
Organization prepares students for college
and a broad range of careers, including more
than 255 careers in agriculture;
Whereas members of the National FFA Or-
ganization strengthen their communities
through service and by preparing the next
generation of leaders to meet agricultural
challenges; and
Whereas members of the National FFA Or-
ganization will celebrate National FFA
Week during the week of February 16
through 23, 2019: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates February 16 through 23, 2019,
as ‘‘National FFA Week’’;
(2) recognizes the important role of the Na-
tional FFA Organization in developing
young leaders and providing educational and
career opportunities to students; and
(3) celebrates 50 years of female member-
ship in the National FFA Organization.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 4—PROVIDING FOR A COR-
RECTION IN THE ENROLLMENT
OF H.J. RES. 31
Mr. SHELBY submitted the following
concurrent resolution; which was con-
sidered and agreed to:
S. CON. RES. 4
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That, in the enroll-
ment of the joint resolution H.J. Res. 31, the
Clerk of the House of Representatives shall
amend the long title so as to read: ‘‘Making
consolidated appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes.’’.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 5—SUPPORTING THE LOCAL
RADIO FREEDOM ACT
Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. BOOZMAN, Ms. COLLINS,
and Mr. UDALL) submitted the fol-
lowing concurrent resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation:
S. CON. RES. 5
Whereas the United States enjoys broad-
casting and sound recording industries that
are the envy of the world due to the sym-
biotic relationship that has existed among
these industries for many decades;
Whereas, for nearly a century, Congress
has rejected repeated calls by the recording
industry to impose a performance fee on
local radio stations for simply playing music
on the radio, as such a fee would upset the
mutually beneficial relationship between
local radio and the recording industry;
Whereas local radio stations provide free
publicity and promotion to the recording in-
dustry and performers of music in the form
of radio airplay, interviews with performers,
introduction of new performers, concert pro-
motions, and publicity that promotes the
sale of music, concert tickets, ring tones,
music videos, and associated merchandise;
Whereas committees in the Senate and the
House of Representatives have previously re-
ported that ‘‘the sale of many sound record-
ings and the careers of many performers
have benefitted considerably from airplay
and other promotional activities provided by
both noncommercial and advertiser-sup-
ported, free over-the-air broadcasting’’;
Whereas local radio broadcasters provide
tens of thousands of hours of essential local
news and weather information during times
of national emergencies and natural disas-
ters, as well as public affairs programming,
sports, and hundreds of millions of dollars
worth of time for public service announce-
ments and local fund raising efforts for wor-
thy charitable causes, all of which are jeop-
ardized if local radio stations are forced to
divert revenues to pay for a new performance
fee;
Whereas there are many thousands of local
radio stations that will suffer severe eco-
nomic hardship if any new performance fee is
imposed, as will many other small businesses
that play music, including bars, restaurants,
retail establishments, sports and other en-
tertainment venues, shopping centers, and
transportation facilities; and
Whereas the hardship that would result
from a new performance fee would hurt busi-
nesses in the United States and ultimately
the consumers in the United States who rely
on local radio for news, weather, and enter-
tainment, and such a performance fee is not
justified when the current system has pro-
duced the most prolific and innovative
broadcasting, music, and sound recording in-
dustries in the world: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That Congress should
not impose any new performance fee, tax,
royalty, or other charge—
(1) relating to the public performance of
sound recordings on a local radio station for
broadcasting sound recordings over the air;
or
(2) on any business for the public perform-
ance of sound recordings on a local radio sta-
tion broadcast over the air.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 190. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. MENEN-
DEZ (for himself and Mr. RISCH)) proposed an
amendment to the concurrent resolution S.
Con. Res. 1, calling for credible, transparent,
and safe elections in Nigeria, and for other
purposes.
SA 191. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. MENEN-
DEZ (for himself and Mr. RISCH)) proposed an
amendment to the concurrent resolution S.
Con. Res. 1, supra.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 190. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
MENENDEZ (for himself and Mr. RISCH))
proposed an amendment to the concur-
rent resolution S. Con. Res. 1, calling
for credible, transparent, and safe elec-
tions in Nigeria, and for other pur-
poses; as follows:
Strike all after the resolving clause and in-
sert the following: ‘‘That Congress—
(1) reaffirms the commitment of the
United States to supporting peace and de-
mocracy in Nigeria;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.038 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1392 February 14, 2019
(2) calls on the Government of Nigeria and
all Nigerian political parties and actors to—
(A) take actions to facilitate credible,
transparent , and peaceful elections that re-
flect the will of the people and advance the
consolidation of democracy and the stability
of the broader region;
(B) condemn in the strongest terms the use
of speech that incites violence, and refrain
from efforts to demonize or delegitimize op-
ponents, sow division among Nigerians, or
otherwise inflame tensions;
(C) seek to resolve any disputes over re-
sults peacefully, including through judicial
processes as necessary;
(D) respect the impartiality of the Inde-
pendent National Electoral Commission; and
(E) take measures to combat vote buying;
(3) calls on the Government of Nigeria to—
(A) refrain from deploying security forces
in a partisan manner;
(B) ensure that security services maintain
the highest level of professionalism and im-
partiality in facilitating the electoral proc-
ess, enable accredited observers and journal-
ists to perform their work, and protect the
right of citizens to exercise their votes free-
ly; and
(C) enforce laws against election malfea-
sance, including vote buying, and ensure
equal and robust application of such laws
through appropriate mechanisms, including
through the establishment of an Electoral
Offenses Commission and Tribunal;
(4) urges all Nigerians to fully and peace-
fully engage in the electoral process, insist
on full enfranchisement, reject inflam-
matory or divisive rhetoric or actions, and
seek to resolve any disputes over results
through the legal system;
(5) calls upon the Independent National
Electoral Commission to sustain confidence
and trust in its management of the electoral
process by taking effective measures to—
(A) combat vote buying through voter edu-
cation campaigns;
(B) institute a nationwide ban on cell
phones in the voting cubicle;
(C) ensure the participation in the election
of internally displaced persons (IDPs); and
(D) clean the voter rolls and ensure timely
production and distribution of the Perma-
nent Voter Card to new voters;
(6) encourages political parties in Nigeria
to adhere to and enforce existing codes of
conduct that commit parties to democratic
electoral standards regarding campaign use
of resources, engagement of voters, peaceful
resolution of disputes, and acceptance of
verified and credible results;
(7) condemns any efforts on the part of any
politicians or political parties in Nigeria to
politicize the security and law enforcement
agencies;
(8) encourages civil society organizations
in Nigeria to—
(A) promote the peaceful participation of
citizens in the electoral process and draw on
existing inter-religious and peacebuilding
bodies to enhance their efforts;
(B) disseminate information about citizen-
based observation findings and analysis to
increase public knowledge and under-
standing about the conduct of the elections;
and
(C) continue leading important early warn-
ing and response activities to mitigate elec-
tion-related violence, including monitoring
efforts to incite violence or further inflame
tensions;
(9) supports efforts by the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) to assist
elections preparations in Nigeria, including
through programs focused on conflict miti-
gation; and
(10) calls on the United States Government
and other international partners, especially
election-focused nongovernmental organiza-
tions, to—
(A) continue to support efforts by the Gov-
ernment of Nigeria to address the remaining
electoral preparation challenges and identify
gaps in which additional resources or diplo-
matic engagement could make important
contributions to the conduct of credible,
transparent elections; and
(B) support civil society organizations and
media organizations working to enhance
transparency and accountability in the use
of state resources around the election period.
SA 191. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
MENENDEZ (for himself and Mr. RISCH))
proposed an amendment to the concur-
rent resolution S. Con. Res. 1, calling
for credible, transparent, and safe elec-
tions in Nigeria, and for other pur-
poses; as follows:
Strike the preamble and insert the fol-
lowing:
Whereas it is in the national interest of
the United States to maintain a strong bilat-
eral relationship with a politically stable,
democratic, and economically sound Nigeria
that can play a leadership role in the region
and the continent more broadly;
Whereas Nigeria has presidential and Na-
tional Assembly elections scheduled for Feb-
ruary 16, 2019, and gubernatorial and state-
level elections scheduled for March 2, 2019;
Whereas credible, transparent, and peace-
ful elections could further consolidate demo-
cratic gains achieved in Nigeria since the
transition from military to civilian demo-
cratic rule;
Whereas a 2017 survey conducted by
Afrobarometer found that the overwhelming
majority of Nigerians agreed that demo-
cratic elections are the best means of choos-
ing their country’s leaders, thus indicating
that the country’s citizens are deeply com-
mitted to democracy;
Whereas collaboration between civil soci-
ety actors and the international community
was a key factor that contributed to success-
ful elections in 2015;
Whereas successive elections in Nigeria
have featured varying degrees of violence;
Whereas both the ruling coalition and op-
position parties have incited ethnic violence
in an apparent effort to gain electoral advan-
tage, intimidate electoral rivals, and sup-
press voter turnout;
Whereas, during the Ekiti and Osun guber-
natorial elections in July 2018 and Sep-
tember 2018, respectively, there were con-
cerning incidents in which some elements of
Nigeria’s security agencies displayed par-
tisanship and a lack of objectivity, which
risks escalating tensions within the country;
Whereas Nigeria’s Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC) has taken im-
portant steps to improve electoral processes,
notably through the introduction of contin-
uous voter registration, the adoption of si-
multaneous accreditation and voting, im-
provements to the secrecy of the ballot, and
the advancement of smart card reader tech-
nology;
Whereas remaining challenges to the con-
duct of credible, transparent, and peaceful
elections in Nigeria include the failure to
enact additional, critical reforms to the
legal framework for elections, instances of
vote buying, reported security threats in the
Middle Belt and North East, incitement, and
disinformation; and
Whereas ensuring transparency in elec-
toral preparations and building public con-
fidence in the electoral process is vital to
the success of the upcoming elections in Ni-
geria: Now, therefore, be it
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I have
4 requests for committees to meet dur-
ing today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, February
14, 2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Thursday, February 14, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing on the fol-
lowing nominations: Bimal Patel, of
Georgia, to be an Assistant Secretary
of the Treasury, Todd M. Harper, of
Virginia, and Rodney Hood, of North
Carolina, both to be a Member of the
National Credit Union Administration
Board, and Mark Anthony Calabria, of
Virginia, to be Director of the Federal
Housing Finance Agency.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, February 14, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Thursday,
February 14, 2019, at 2 p.m., to conduct
a closed briefing.
f
SIGNING AUTHORITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the sen-
ior Senator from Nebraska and the sen-
ior Senator from Arkansas be author-
ized to sign duly enrolled bills or joint
resolutions on February 15.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RESOLUTIONS SUBMITTED TODAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate now proceed to the en bloc consid-
eration of the following Senate resolu-
tions, which were submitted earlier
today: S. Res. 75, S. Res. 76, and S. Res.
77.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ures en bloc?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolutions
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolutions be agreed
to, the preambles be agreed to, and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.043 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1393
February 14, 2019
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table, all en
bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preambles were agreed to.
(The resolutions, with their pre-
ambles, are printed in today’s RECORD
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
CALLING FOR CREDIBLE, TRANS-
PARENT, AND SAFE ELECTIONS
IN NIGERIA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. Con. Res. 1, and the Senate proceed
to its immediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the concurrent
resolution by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 1)
calling for credible, transparent, and safe
elections in Nigeria, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I further ask
unanimous consent that the Menendez-
Risch substitute amendment at the
desk be considered and agreed to; that
the concurrent resolution, as amended,
be agreed to; that the Menendez-Risch
amendment to the preamble, at the
desk, be considered and agreed to; that
the preamble, as amended, be agreed
to; and that the motions to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 190) in the na-
ture of a substitute was agreed to as
follows:
(Purpose: To provide a complete substitute)
Strike all after the resolving clause and in-
sert the following: ‘‘That Congress—
(1) reaffirms the commitment of the
United States to supporting peace and de-
mocracy in Nigeria;
(2) calls on the Government of Nigeria and
all Nigerian political parties and actors to—
(A) take actions to facilitate credible,
transparent , and peaceful elections that re-
flect the will of the people and advance the
consolidation of democracy and the stability
of the broader region;
(B) condemn in the strongest terms the use
of speech that incites violence, and refrain
from efforts to demonize or delegitimize op-
ponents, sow division among Nigerians, or
otherwise inflame tensions;
(C) seek to resolve any disputes over re-
sults peacefully, including through judicial
processes as necessary;
(D) respect the impartiality of the Inde-
pendent National Electoral Commission; and
(E) take measures to combat vote buying;
(3) calls on the Government of Nigeria to—
(A) refrain from deploying security forces
in a partisan manner;
(B) ensure that security services maintain
the highest level of professionalism and im-
partiality in facilitating the electoral proc-
ess, enable accredited observers and journal-
ists to perform their work, and protect the
right of citizens to exercise their votes free-
ly; and
(C) enforce laws against election malfea-
sance, including vote buying, and ensure
equal and robust application of such laws
through appropriate mechanisms, including
through the establishment of an Electoral
Offenses Commission and Tribunal;
(4) urges all Nigerians to fully and peace-
fully engage in the electoral process, insist
on full enfranchisement, reject inflam-
matory or divisive rhetoric or actions, and
seek to resolve any disputes over results
through the legal system;
(5) calls upon the Independent National
Electoral Commission to sustain confidence
and trust in its management of the electoral
process by taking effective measures to—
(A) combat vote buying through voter edu-
cation campaigns;
(B) institute a nationwide ban on cell
phones in the voting cubicle;
(C) ensure the participation in the election
of internally displaced persons (IDPs); and
(D) clean the voter rolls and ensure timely
production and distribution of the Perma-
nent Voter Card to new voters;
(6) encourages political parties in Nigeria
to adhere to and enforce existing codes of
conduct that commit parties to democratic
electoral standards regarding campaign use
of resources, engagement of voters, peaceful
resolution of disputes, and acceptance of
verified and credible results;
(7) condemns any efforts on the part of any
politicians or political parties in Nigeria to
politicize the security and law enforcement
agencies;
(8) encourages civil society organizations
in Nigeria to—
(A) promote the peaceful participation of
citizens in the electoral process and draw on
existing inter-religious and peacebuilding
bodies to enhance their efforts;
(B) disseminate information about citizen-
based observation findings and analysis to
increase public knowledge and under-
standing about the conduct of the elections;
and
(C) continue leading important early warn-
ing and response activities to mitigate elec-
tion-related violence, including monitoring
efforts to incite violence or further inflame
tensions;
(9) supports efforts by the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) to assist
elections preparations in Nigeria, including
through programs focused on conflict miti-
gation; and
(10) calls on the United States Government
and other international partners, especially
election-focused nongovernmental organiza-
tions, to—
(A) continue to support efforts by the Gov-
ernment of Nigeria to address the remaining
electoral preparation challenges and identify
gaps in which additional resources or diplo-
matic engagement could make important
contributions to the conduct of credible,
transparent elections; and
(B) support civil society organizations and
media organizations working to enhance
transparency and accountability in the use
of state resources around the election period.
The concurrent resolution, as amend-
ed, was agreed to.
The amendment (No. 191) in the na-
ture of a substitute, was agreed to as
follows:
(Purpose: To amend the preamble)
Strike the preamble and insert the fol-
lowing:
Whereas it is in the national interest of
the United States to maintain a strong bilat-
eral relationship with a politically stable,
democratic, and economically sound Nigeria
that can play a leadership role in the region
and the continent more broadly;
Whereas Nigeria has presidential and Na-
tional Assembly elections scheduled for Feb-
ruary 16, 2019, and gubernatorial and state-
level elections scheduled for March 2, 2019;
Whereas credible, transparent, and peace-
ful elections could further consolidate demo-
cratic gains achieved in Nigeria since the
transition from military to civilian demo-
cratic rule;
Whereas a 2017 survey conducted by
Afrobarometer found that the overwhelming
majority of Nigerians agreed that demo-
cratic elections are the best means of choos-
ing their country’s leaders, thus indicating
that the country’s citizens are deeply com-
mitted to democracy;
Whereas collaboration between civil soci-
ety actors and the international community
was a key factor that contributed to success-
ful elections in 2015;
Whereas successive elections in Nigeria
have featured varying degrees of violence;
Whereas both the ruling coalition and op-
position parties have incited ethnic violence
in an apparent effort to gain electoral advan-
tage, intimidate electoral rivals, and sup-
press voter turnout;
Whereas, during the Ekiti and Osun guber-
natorial elections in July 2018 and Sep-
tember 2018, respectively, there were con-
cerning incidents in which some elements of
Nigeria’s security agencies displayed par-
tisanship and a lack of objectivity, which
risks escalating tensions within the country;
Whereas Nigeria’s Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC) has taken im-
portant steps to improve electoral processes,
notably through the introduction of contin-
uous voter registration, the adoption of si-
multaneous accreditation and voting, im-
provements to the secrecy of the ballot, and
the advancement of smart card reader tech-
nology;
Whereas remaining challenges to the con-
duct of credible, transparent, and peaceful
elections in Nigeria include the failure to
enact additional, critical reforms to the
legal framework for elections, instances of
vote buying, reported security threats in the
Middle Belt and North East, incitement, and
disinformation; and
Whereas ensuring transparency in elec-
toral preparations and building public con-
fidence in the electoral process is vital to
the success of the upcoming elections in Ni-
geria: Now, therefore, be it
The preamble, as amended, was
agreed to.
The concurrent resolution, as amend-
ed, with its preamble, as amended,
reads as follows:
S. CON. RES. 1
Whereas it is in the national interest of
the United States to maintain a strong bilat-
eral relationship with a politically stable,
democratic, and economically sound Nigeria
that can play a leadership role in the region
and the continent more broadly;
Whereas Nigeria has presidential and Na-
tional Assembly elections scheduled for Feb-
ruary 16, 2019, and gubernatorial and state-
level elections scheduled for March 2, 2019;
Whereas credible, transparent, and peace-
ful elections could further consolidate demo-
cratic gains achieved in Nigeria since the
transition from military to civilian demo-
cratic rule;
Whereas a 2017 survey conducted by
Afrobarometer found that the overwhelming
majority of Nigerians agreed that demo-
cratic elections are the best means of choos-
ing their country’s leaders, thus indicating
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.072 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1394 February 14, 2019
that the country’s citizens are deeply com-
mitted to democracy;
Whereas collaboration between civil soci-
ety actors and the international community
was a key factor that contributed to success-
ful elections in 2015;
Whereas successive elections in Nigeria
have featured varying degrees of violence;
Whereas both the ruling coalition and op-
position parties have incited ethnic violence
in an apparent effort to gain electoral advan-
tage, intimidate electoral rivals, and sup-
press voter turnout;
Whereas, during the Ekiti and Osun guber-
natorial elections in July 2018 and Sep-
tember 2018, respectively, there were con-
cerning incidents in which some elements of
Nigeria’s security agencies displayed par-
tisanship and a lack of objectivity, which
risks escalating tensions within the country;
Whereas Nigeria’s Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC) has taken im-
portant steps to improve electoral processes,
notably through the introduction of contin-
uous voter registration, the adoption of si-
multaneous accreditation and voting, im-
provements to the secrecy of the ballot, and
the advancement of smart card reader tech-
nology;
Whereas remaining challenges to the con-
duct of credible, transparent, and peaceful
elections in Nigeria include the failure to
enact additional, critical reforms to the
legal framework for elections, instances of
vote buying, reported security threats in the
Middle Belt and North East, incitement, and
disinformation; and
Whereas ensuring transparency in elec-
toral preparations and building public con-
fidence in the electoral process is vital to
the success of the upcoming elections in Ni-
geria: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That Congress—
(1) reaffirms the commitment of the
United States to supporting peace and de-
mocracy in Nigeria;
(2) calls on the Government of Nigeria and
all Nigerian political parties and actors to—
(A) take actions to facilitate credible,
transparent , and peaceful elections that re-
flect the will of the people and advance the
consolidation of democracy and the stability
of the broader region;
(B) condemn in the strongest terms the use
of speech that incites violence, and refrain
from efforts to demonize or delegitimize op-
ponents, sow division among Nigerians, or
otherwise inflame tensions;
(C) seek to resolve any disputes over re-
sults peacefully, including through judicial
processes as necessary;
(D) respect the impartiality of the Inde-
pendent National Electoral Commission; and
(E) take measures to combat vote buying;
(3) calls on the Government of Nigeria to—
(A) refrain from deploying security forces
in a partisan manner;
(B) ensure that security services maintain
the highest level of professionalism and im-
partiality in facilitating the electoral proc-
ess, enable accredited observers and journal-
ists to perform their work, and protect the
right of citizens to exercise their votes free-
ly; and
(C) enforce laws against election malfea-
sance, including vote buying, and ensure
equal and robust application of such laws
through appropriate mechanisms, including
through the establishment of an Electoral
Offenses Commission and Tribunal;
(4) urges all Nigerians to fully and peace-
fully engage in the electoral process, insist
on full enfranchisement, reject inflam-
matory or divisive rhetoric or actions, and
seek to resolve any disputes over results
through the legal system;
(5) calls upon the Independent National
Electoral Commission to sustain confidence
and trust in its management of the electoral
process by taking effective measures to—
(A) combat vote buying through voter edu-
cation campaigns;
(B) institute a nationwide ban on cell
phones in the voting cubicle;
(C) ensure the participation in the election
of internally displaced persons (IDPs); and
(D) clean the voter rolls and ensure timely
production and distribution of the Perma-
nent Voter Card to new voters;
(6) encourages political parties in Nigeria
to adhere to and enforce existing codes of
conduct that commit parties to democratic
electoral standards regarding campaign use
of resources, engagement of voters, peaceful
resolution of disputes, and acceptance of
verified and credible results;
(7) condemns any efforts on the part of any
politicians or political parties in Nigeria to
politicize the security and law enforcement
agencies;
(8) encourages civil society organizations
in Nigeria to—
(A) promote the peaceful participation of
citizens in the electoral process and draw on
existing inter-religious and peacebuilding
bodies to enhance their efforts;
(B) disseminate information about citizen-
based observation findings and analysis to
increase public knowledge and under-
standing about the conduct of the elections;
and
(C) continue leading important early warn-
ing and response activities to mitigate elec-
tion-related violence, including monitoring
efforts to incite violence or further inflame
tensions;
(9) supports efforts by the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) to assist
elections preparations in Nigeria, including
through programs focused on conflict miti-
gation; and
(10) calls on the United States Government
and other international partners, especially
election-focused nongovernmental organiza-
tions, to—
(A) continue to support efforts by the Gov-
ernment of Nigeria to address the remaining
electoral preparation challenges and identify
gaps in which additional resources or diplo-
matic engagement could make important
contributions to the conduct of credible,
transparent elections; and
(B) support civil society organizations and
media organizations working to enhance
transparency and accountability in the use
of state resources around the election period.
f
ENACTING INTO LAW A BILL BY
REFERENCE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 26, S. 483.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 483) to enact into law a bill by
reference.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
If not, the question is, Shall the bill
pass?
The bill (S. 483) passed, as follows:
S. 483
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SEC. ll. (a) H.R. 1029 of the 115th Con-
gress, as passed by the Senate on June 28,
2018, is enacted into law.
(b) In publishing this Act in slip form and
in the United States Statutes at Large pur-
suant to section 112 of title 1, United States
Code, the Archivist of the United States
shall include after the date of approval at
the end an appendix setting forth the text of
the bill referred to in subsection (a).
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR FRIDAY, FEBRUARY
15, 2019, THROUGH MONDAY, FEB-
RUARY 25, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn to then convene for pro forma
sessions only, with no business being
conducted, on the following dates and
times, and that following each pro
forma session, the Senate adjourn until
the next pro forma session: Friday,
February 15, at 7 a.m.; Tuesday, Feb-
ruary 19, at 10 a.m.; and Thursday, Feb-
ruary 21, at 10 a.m.
I further ask unanimous consent that
when the Senate adjourns on Thursday,
February 21, it next convene at 3 p.m.,
Monday, February 25; and that fol-
lowing the prayer and pledge, the
morning hour be deemed expired, the
Journal of proceedings be approved to
date, the time for the two leaders be
reserved for their use later in the day,
and morning business be closed; fur-
ther, that following the closing of
morning business, Senator FISCHER be
recognized to deliver Washington’s
Farewell Address; further, that fol-
lowing the address, the Senate resume
consideration of the motion to proceed
to S. 311; finally, that notwithstanding
the provisions of rule XXII, the cloture
motions filed during today’s session
ripen at 5:30 p.m., Monday, February
25.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
if there is no further business to come
before the Senate, I ask unanimous
consent that it stand adjourned under
the previous order, following the re-
marks of Senator CARPER.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Delaware.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.065 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1395
February 14, 2019
HAPPY VALENTINE’S DAY
Mr. CARPER. Madam President, I
just want to start off with this. This is
Valentine’s Day, and there are dif-
ferent days of the year that are more
special to us than others—other than
Thanksgiving and Christmas. I even
like Halloween. But I think Valentine’s
Day is very special.
For our loved ones, our spouses or
significant others, and our children, we
love them, and I hope they know that.
But to the people who work here day in
and day out, the folks who are here
when it is a weekend, when other folks
are maybe heading out for the holidays
to visit their families across the coun-
try, we don’t say thanks enough. So to
all of them, from my heart and from
my staff, and, I think, from all of us—
Democrats and Republicans in the Sen-
ate—we want to say thank you and
happy Valentine’s Day.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. CARPER. Madam President, I
want to talk a little bit about John
Dingell this evening, but before I do
that, I just want to comment on the
fact that we passed spending bills to
fund our government for the balance of
this fiscal year. That is a good thing—
a good, good thing. I wish we had done
it last year. In fact, we did—months
ago. Democrats and Republicans joined
together here almost unanimously to
pass a spending plan for the balance of
the fiscal year—all 13 appropriations
bills, and they looked a whole lot like
what we passed here today. Yet we
went through a shutdown which cre-
ated a lot of havoc and turmoil, not
just for Federal employees but for the
people whom they serve and we serve.
I have apologized for that, and I
know other colleagues have as well.
Hopefully, in the months ahead, we can
make it up to the people who were in-
convenienced. In many cases they were
not just disadvantaged but treated
very badly.
The President apparently is going to
sign the spending bills we passed with
broad bipartisan support, and I under-
stand he is going to declare a state of
emergency to be able to do additional
things down at the border with Mexico.
Tomorrow morning at 6 a.m., I will
lead a bipartisan delegation, with
House and Senate Members, and we
will not be going to the border. I have
been there any number of times as
chairman of the Homeland Security
Committee. We are not going to go to
the border this time.
The President was down there a cou-
ple of weeks ago, and standing at the
border he said: There is a human catas-
trophe or tragedy going on at the bor-
der.
I thought to myself: Well, what is
going on at the border is very unfortu-
nate, but the real human tragedy is
what is going on in three countries:
Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador.
The illegal immigration, to my sur-
prise a couple of years ago, is not just
coming from Mexico. In fact, today
there are more Mexicans going back
into Mexico from the United States
than there are going the other way. I
was surprised to learn that, but that is
the case today.
Illegal immigration in our country is
down about 80 percent from the year
2000, and the folks coming across the
border illegally are coming from three
countries—Honduras, Guatemala, and
El Salvador. Each year in the last dec-
ade or so, they have vied for the title
‘‘Murder Capital of the World.’’
Their lives are made miserable be-
cause of our addiction to drugs. So hav-
ing been complicit in their misery, the
thought occurred to a number of us, in-
cluding the last administration’s Presi-
dent and Vice President and some of us
in the House and the Senate, that
maybe we should see why all of those
people are coming out of Honduras,
Guatemala, and El Salvador and trying
to come into the United States.
I will tell a true story. Some of them
come to Delaware. We have three coun-
ties in my State. The southernmost
county, Sussex County, is a big county
that raises a lot of corn, soybeans, and
raise a lot of chickens. We process a lot
of chickens. Over the years, a lot of
folks come up from Guatemala to work
in the agriculture and poultry indus-
try.
About 2 or 3 years ago, we had an in-
crease—a blip in migration—especially
from Guatemala. I was in Sussex Coun-
ty, in Georgetown, the county seat,
right in the middle of all of this poul-
try business. There are three chickens
for every person in Delaware, to give
you some idea of the extent of it.
I met with the folks at La Esperanza.
That is Spanish for hope. It is a non-
profit. Their job is to try to help people
who do make it across the border into
our country and who have families, and
they try to do some reconnection with
their families.
But, anyway, I heard this story.
There was a young man in Guatemala,
a teenager, who was recruited by a
gang there. He said he had to talk to
his parents. He went to talk to his par-
ents, and they said: We don’t want you
to join any gangs.
He went back, and the gang found
him and approached him a couple of
days later and said: Well, what do you
think? Do you want to join our gang?
He said: I talked to my parents, and
they don’t think it is the right thing
for me to do now.
They said: Well, think about it some
more.
A week or so later, they found him
again and said: Well, what do you
think? Are you ready to join our gang?
He said: No, I don’t think I am going
to do that now.
They said: If you don’t join our gang,
somebody in your family is going to
die. Somebody in your family is going
to die.
He went home, and he told his par-
ents. They talked it over, and he joined
the gang.
One of the things they do in these
gangs—they have to go through an ini-
tiation. Part of his initiation was a re-
quirement that he rape his 13-year-old
sister. The son was like 15 years old,
and one of the rites of passage is he had
to rape his 13-year-old sister. He went
home and told his parents what was ex-
pected of him. Within a week or two,
the sister and the brother were on their
way out of their country to try to be
reunited with other relatives in the
United States, and they ended up in
Delaware. That is a human tragedy. I
think if they had stayed there, it would
have been probably an even greater
human tragedy.
I am a big believer in root causes.
Don’t just address the symptoms of the
problem. The symptom of the problem
is people trying to get into our country
and cross our borders illegally. That is
a problem. That is a challenge. We need
secure borders, but the root cause is
what is going on in the countries that
they are fleeing from—lack of rule of
law, impunity, police who don’t police,
prosecutors who don’t prosecute,
judges who don’t really administer the
law, prisons that don’t—correctional
institutions that don’t really correct
behavior. Instead of turning out better
people, they turn out better criminals.
That has been a problem, and it has
been a problem for some time.
Whenever we face a situation like
this where an issue is really hard to
deal with, what I like to say is, let’s
find out what works.
I am an old Governor. I used to be
chairman of the National Governors
Association. My last year as Governor,
I chaired something in the NGA. In ad-
dition to being the Governor of Dela-
ware, I chaired something called the
Center for Best Practices. The idea
was, how do we share solutions among
Governors and among States for all the
problems we face—some of the prob-
lems we face?
In trying to figure out how we help
Guatemala and El Salvador sort of be-
come less violent places, places with
hope and opportunity—how can we help
in that? So we looked around the
world. We don’t have to look too far,
but if we look south of Central Amer-
ica, we find Colombia.
Colombia is a place where about 20
years ago, there were leftist guerillas
trying to bring down the government,
and there were drug lords trying to
bring down the government. One day 20
years or so ago, a bunch of thugs
rounded up the supreme court of the
country—rounded them up, took them
into a room, shot them all to death,
killed them all.
Colombia was teetering, and it was
not clear whether it was going to real-
ly make it as a nation. Some very
brave people stood up and some of the
leaders of Columbia stood up and said:
We are not going to let these guys—
whether it is the FARC, the leftist gue-
rillas, or the drug lords—take over our
country and take it down. We are going
to fight back.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.077 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1396 February 14, 2019
The United States, led by then-Presi-
dent Bill Clinton and by a guy who was
serving as the chairman, I think, of the
Foreign Relations Committee, Joe
Biden, sort of made common calls with
the President of Colombia, who was a
very brave person, and said to the Co-
lombians: You can do this. Stabilize
your country. Make it a more livable,
decent place to live. We can help be-
cause we are complicit in their misery,
too, given our addiction to drugs.
Well, guess what. They started some-
thing called Plan Colombia, and for 20
years it has worked slowly. Slowly. An
example of what we did is we provided
Apache helicopters. Why did we do
that? So that the Colombian police and
the Colombian military would have the
mobility they need to go across the
country and go after the bad guys and
take them on. That was just one of the
many things that was happening in
Plan Colombia.
But again, it is like Home Depot. You
have Home Depot, Madam President, in
your State, and we have them in mine.
What is their saying? ‘‘You can do it,
and we can help.’’ So we said: Colom-
bia, you can do it, and we can help. We
are complicit in your misery, and we
can help. And we have.
About a year or so ago, the President
of Colombia won a Nobel Peace Prize.
The leftist guerillas are—it is not per-
fect, but they are part of the govern-
ment. Are drugs still a problem there?
Yes, they are, but not like before. It is
a country with a relatively bright fu-
ture and one that we can be proud to
call our friend and ally.
When we looked for a way to help in
Central America—the Honduras, Gua-
temala, and El Salvador—we went to
Colombia, and we said: Maybe it is pos-
sible to have a Central American
version of Plan Colombia. And now we
have that.
What we have done over the last 3,
maybe 4 years, we funded those three
countries in efforts to address some of
the deficiencies that I just described—
police who don’t police, prosecutors
who don’t prosecute, judges who don’t
administer justice, and correctional in-
stitutions that don’t really correct be-
havior. We have been doing this now
for about 3 years, and our congres-
sional delegation is going to go down
there tomorrow and do a little bit of
oversight and find out what is working
in those three countries and what is
not, whether they are meeting their re-
sponsibilities, and whether we are
meeting our responsibilities.
You know, we can build a wall from
sea to shining sea and from the Pacific
Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico. It can be
30 feet tall. But unless somehow the
root causes of that migration—and it
ain’t coming from Mexico—some but
not much. Again, more Mexicans are
going back into Mexico than are com-
ing the other way.
We really want to help the people of
the Honduras, Guatemala, and El Sal-
vador address those root causes. You
know, they are going to keep coming
up here, and if we lived there, we would
want to come too.
You know, for what it is worth, we
have had about 80 Presidential declara-
tions of emergencies, I guess, in maybe
the last century, and they were for
Pearl Harbor, Katrina, 9/11, other disas-
ters, some of them natural disasters,
others. Since 2000, there has been an 80
percent reduction in illegal migration
at the borders. Most of it is coming
from these three countries, not Mexico.
So we will see what happens with the
declaration of emergency that the
President is going to declare.
I think you have to be careful. To my
Republican friends, I say this lovingly
to you on Valentine’s Day: The idea of
a President invoking his powers, using
his powers in this way, I am frankly
not convinced that—while there cer-
tainly are challenges at the border, I
have explained where I think the real
challenges are, the real causes.
Someday, we will have a Democratic
President, and he or she will be consid-
ering a range of options of what to do,
and somebody is going to suggest: Well,
in the earlier administration, the
Trump administration, they declared
it. So they will say: Well, I will just de-
clare a national emergency and do
what I want to do. That is a slippery
slope, and I think that is one we need
to be very careful about going on.
f
REMEMBERING JOHN DINGELL
Mr. CARPER. The last thing I would
like to do, if I could, is I want to talk
a little bit about John Dingell. I don’t
know if our Presiding Officer ever had
a chance to meet him or know him.
She says no—nods no.
I had the pleasure of knowing him I
guess since 1982, 1983, when I was elect-
ed to the House. I was a Representa-
tive, and he was already there. I was
the new guy, and I had been a treasurer
of Delaware and a naval flight officer
before that, and I finally retired from
the Navy as a captain a few years ago.
He was so nice to me. He was a big
guy, a giant of a man and kind of gruff.
He was kind of gruff, and I can’t imag-
ine how the pages would have reacted
to him if he yelled at them or frowned
at them or growled at them. But for
reasons that aren’t all clear, he was
really kind to me. I think in his heart
that is what he was.
I like to work out. I like to run. I
like to work out in gyms. They have a
gym over at the House in the basement
of the Rayburn Building. It is a pretty
nice gym. We have one here. It is small
by comparison. It is modest. I usually
go home at night, but occasionally I
would spend the night in DC when I
was in the House, and the next morning
I would go to the gym, and I would ei-
ther go run out on the Mall, or I would
lift weights or ride the bike or some-
thing in the gym. When I finished up,
before I took a shower and got dressed,
I would go in the steam room—the gym
had a steam room in it—and a lot of
times, John Dingell was in there.
I remember sitting there with him
repeatedly over the years—not hun-
dreds of times but many times. Some-
times there were several people there.
We talked. Sometimes it was just the
two of us. He gave me really good ad-
vice. He was like a mentor.
The day I was sworn in as a Congress-
man from Delaware, I was the dean of
our delegation because we only had
one, so I didn’t really have like a big
brother or a big sister in my delegation
to look up to in the House. There was
nobody else but me. I was brand new.
John Dingell was nice, along with a
bunch of other folks too. They kind of
stepped up and gave me some of the
guidance that I needed.
He was an interesting fellow because
he chaired the Energy and Commerce
Committee the whole time I was in the
House and a long time after that, and
he always looked out for his bread and
butter. In Michigan, that is auto-
mobiles. This was a big deal. It was
then, and it still is. So he always want-
ed to make sure that they had the pre-
dictability that they wanted and need-
ed and that they could be successful. If
I were the Senator or Representative
from Michigan, I would want that too.
But he also was really good on clean
air issues, clean water issues, natural
resource issues, open space issues, and
agricultural issues.
I remember once on one of those
mornings, we were talking about
whether it is possible to be a good
steward of the environment, mindful of
air, water, open space, public health—
is it possible to do all those things and
also look out for job creation and job
preservation, whether it is in Michigan
or some other place?
My staff has heard me say this, I am
tempted to say, a million times. Folks
on the Environment and Public Works
Committee, where I am a senior Demo-
crat now, have heard me say this more
often than they want to. I have always
said it is possible to have clean air,
clean water, better public health, do
good things for our planet, and create
jobs. They go hand-in-glove.
One of the first people who reminded
me of that a long time ago was John
Dingell. He supported the Clean Air
Act and the Clean Water Act. He sup-
ported the Clean Air Amendments in
1990, on which he was nice enough to
let me offer a provision that was incor-
porated into the law. He did a lot to
help preserve the auto industry not
just in his State but in this country.
He was an amazing guy.
Either the day he passed away or be-
fore he passed away, with his wife
Debbie by his side—she is now a Con-
gresswoman in his old seat—he shared
with her some thoughts that he wanted
to leave as part of his legacy at 92, and
those words—I am not going to read
them here today. I think they probably
have already been read on the floor or
introduced into the RECORD.
I ask unanimous consent that those
words be printed in the RECORD.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G14FE6.079 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1397
February 14, 2019
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Washington Post, Feb. 8, 2019]
JOHN DINGELL: MY LAST WORDS FOR AMERICA
(By John D. Dingell)
John D. Dingell, a Michigan Democrat who
served in the U.S. House from 1955 to 2015,
was the longest-serving member of Congress
in American history. He dictated these re-
flections to his wife, Rep. Debbie Dingell (D–
Mich.), at their home in Dearborn, on Feb. 7,
the day he died.
One of the advantages to knowing that
your demise is imminent, and that reports of
it will not be greatly exaggerated, is that
you have a few moments to compose some
parting thoughts.
In our modern political age, the presi-
dential bully pulpit seems dedicated to sow-
ing division and denigrating, often in the
most irrelevant and infantile personal terms,
the political opposition.
And much as I have found Twitter to be a
useful means of expression, some occasions
merit more than 280 characters.
My personal and political character was
formed in a different era that was kinder, if
not necessarily gentler. We observed
modicums of respect even as we fought, often
bitterly and savagely, over issues that were
literally life and death to a degree that—for-
tunately—we see much less of today.
Think about it:
Impoverishment of the elderly because of
medical expenses was a common and often
accepted occurrence. Opponents of the Medi-
care program that saved the elderly from
that cruel fate called it ‘‘socialized medi-
cine.’’ Remember that slander if there’s a
sustained revival of silly red-baiting today.
Not five decades ago, much of the largest
group of freshwater lakes on Earth—our own
Great Lakes—were closed to swimming and
fishing and other recreational pursuits be-
cause of chemical and bacteriological con-
tamination from untreated industrial and
wastewater disposal. Today, the Great Lakes
are so hospitable to marine life that one of
our biggest challenges is controlling the
invasive species that have made them their
new home.
We regularly used and consumed foods,
drugs, chemicals and other things (ciga-
rettes) that were legal, promoted and ac-
tively harmful. Hazardous wastes were
dumped on empty plots in the dead of night.
There were few if any restrictions on indus-
trial emissions. We had only the barest sci-
entific knowledge of the long-term con-
sequences of any of this.
And there was a great stain on America, in
the form of our legacy of racial discrimina-
tion. There were good people of all colors
who banded together, risking and even losing
their lives to erase the legal and other bar-
riers that held Americans down. In their
time, they were often demonized and tar-
geted, much like other vulnerable men and
women today.
Please note: All of these challenges were
addressed by Congress. Maybe not as fast as
we wanted, or as perfectly as hoped. The
work is certainly not finished. But we’ve
made progress—and in every case, from the
passage of Medicare through the passage of
civil rights, we did it with the support of
Democrats and Republicans who considered
themselves first and foremost to be Ameri-
cans.
I’m immensely proud, and eternally grate-
ful, for having had the opportunity to play a
part in all of these efforts during my service
in Congress. And it’s simply not possible for
me to adequately repay the love that my
friends, neighbors and family have given me
and shown me during my public service and
retirement.
But I would be remiss in not acknowl-
edging the forgiveness and sweetness of the
woman who has essentially supported me for
almost 40 years: my wife, Deborah. And it is
a source of great satisfaction to know that
she is among the largest group of women to
have ever served in the Congress (as she bus-
ily recruits more).
In my life and career, I have often heard it
said that so-and-so has real power—as in,
‘‘the powerful Wile E. Coyote, chairman of
the Capture the Road Runner Committee.’’
It’s an expression that has always grated
on me. In democratic government, elected
officials do not have power. They hold
power—in trust for the people who elected
them. If they misuse or abuse that public
trust, it is quite properly revoked (the
quicker the better).
I never forgot the people who gave me the
privilege of representing them. It was a les-
son learned at home from my father and
mother, and one I have tried to impart to the
people I’ve served with and employed over
the years.
As I prepare to leave this all behind, I now
leave you in control of the greatest nation of
mankind and pray God gives you the wisdom
to understand the responsibility you hold in
your hands.
May God bless you all, and may God bless
America.
Mr. CARPER. I will close with this. I
went to the funeral. I couldn’t stay the
whole time. It was here in DC. I missed
STENY HOYER, the Democratic majority
leader, and his comments. I was told he
was terrific, as were others, as well.
But I did get to hear just about every-
thing Bill Clinton said. I was inspired
and amused by that. He was funny. He
really caught the character of John
and his foibles, his strengths, and bril-
liance.
Before I went to the funeral, I went
to a breakfast. A friend at the break-
fast was kind enough to share his
words with the rest of us. He actually
worked for John Dingell at one time.
In an off-the-cuff riff about John Din-
gell, he shared some of the things he
worked on. Later on, I said: Would you
share that with me? He was kind
enough to do that.
I wish I could say these are my
words, but that would be plagiarism. I
give him the credit, at least in a left-
handed sort of way. This is what my
friend gave to me. I just want to close
with these words from my friend about
John Dingell:
This morning as I was reading the obitu-
aries detailing Congressman DINGELL’s life
and accomplishments, I started thinking of
all the aspects of daily life that he had a di-
rect and meaningful impact on for almost 60
years.
He went on to say what some of them
were.
The air we breathe, the water we drink.
The health of rivers and lakes. The wildlife
that exists and depends upon those spaces.
The food we eat. The pills we take. The prod-
ucts we use. The electricity that powers our
economy. The efficiency of almost every
product that uses electricity. The phones we
use. The health insurance we count on in a
medical crisis. The regulation and cleanup of
hazardous waste. The cars we drive, of
course! And a host of other things.
On this Valentine’s Day—when we
give thanks for our loved ones, our
families, and those who are special in
our lives—I also give thanks for John
and the many blessings that he has left
us and this country.
With that, I will say I appreciate the
opportunity to share these words.
God bless.
Thank you.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 7 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 7 a.m. tomorrow morn-
ing.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:29 p.m.,
adjourned until Friday, February 15,
2019, at 7 a.m.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate February 14, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
WILLIAM PELHAM BARR, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ATTOR-
NEY GENERAL.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A14FE6.069 S14FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E177
February 14, 2019
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF ROBERT CROSSK
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with
deep sadness but with fond memories that I
take this time to remember one of Northwest
Indiana’s finest citizens, Mr. Robert Crossk,
former Hobart City and Lake County Council-
man. Bob’s service to the people of Northwest
Indiana is worthy of our deepest admiration.
Mr. Crossk passed away at the age of 86 on
Sunday, January 27, 2019, but the impact he
has had on his community will live on for gen-
erations to come.
Robert Crossk epitomized what it means to
be a civil servant, working tirelessly and with-
out self-interest for all the residents of Lake
County, Indiana. Mr. Crossk served on the Ho-
bart City Council from 1979 to 1983 before his
election to the Lake County Council. Council-
man Crossk went on to represent the sixth
district of Lake County from 1983 to 1998.
Bob was a remarkable civic leader who was
known for his hard work, dedication, and in-
tegrity. A union man by trade, Bob was a
member of the International Union of Oper-
ating Engineers Local 150 for much of his life.
Mr. Crossk also devoted much of his energy
to charitable organizations such as the Knights
of Columbus and Veterans of Foreign Wars.
For his passionate dedication to helping others
throughout his lifetime, Bob Crossk is truly
worthy of the highest praise.
Robert Crossk leaves to cherish his memory
a loving family. He is survived by his wonder-
ful wife, Gladys, and their four beloved daugh-
ters, two sons, six grandchildren, and two
great-grandchildren, not to mention many
other dear friends and family members whose
lives have been enriched by having known
him. Bob will also be forever remembered by
a grateful community of Lake County residents
who he selflessly served with distinction for so
many years.
I especially want to note that I have known
Bob for my entire life. For every one of those
days, I have only known Mr. Crossk to be a
gentleman, possessed an expansive and
warm personality, and an unflagging gen-
erosity of spirit. My life has been enriched be-
cause Robert Crossk assisted me along the
path of life.
Madam Speaker, I respectfully ask that you
and my other distinguished colleagues join me
in honoring Robert Crossk for his outstanding
devotion to the community of Northwest Indi-
ana and beyond. Bob’s life of service is to be
commended, and his unwavering commitment
to making the region a better place will serve
as an inspiration to us all.
RECOGNIZING JOHN W. ROGERS,
JR. FOR EXCEPTIONAL CON-
TRIBUTIONS TO CIVIC LIFE
HON. RAJA KRISHNAMOORTHI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Madam Speaker,
today I rise to recognize John W. Rogers, Jr.
for his lifetime of service to the people of the
City of Chicago, the State of Illinois, and to
our nation. As a business leader, philan-
thropist, and tireless advocate for opening new
opportunities for people of color, John has a
history of exceptional contributions to our civic
life that continue to the present day.
Born and raised in the City of Chicago, John
Rogers, Jr. is the product of parents notable
for their own achievements: his father was a
judge and former Tuskegee Airman, and his
mother was the first African-American woman
to graduate from the University of Chicago
Law School and to argue a case before the
United States Supreme Court. After com-
pleting his secondary education at the Univer-
sity of Chicago Laboratory Schools, John at-
tended Princeton University where he earned
a degree in Economics and co-captained the
school’s Ivy League championship varsity bas-
ketball team. His interest in finance can be
traced to a gift of stock for his 12th birthday,
a present that ignited a lifelong fascination
with investment and the complexities of finan-
cial valuation.
After two years working as a stockbroker at
a Chicago investment banking firm, John
launched an investment fund informed by his
understanding that the highest returns are
generated by patience and a research-driven
approach to uncovering hidden value. That
methodology has built Ariel Investments, LLC
into a highly respected firm employing more
than 100 analysts and staff and managing
more than $11 billion in assets. John’s finan-
cial acumen is valued by the boards of direc-
tors of some of our nation’s largest and most
consequential enterprises, including the New
York Times Company, Exelon and Nike.
The achievements of John Rogers, Jr. are
not limited to the world of finance—his civic
engagement extends to cultural institutions (he
is a life trustee of the Chicago Symphony Or-
chestra), and he has been a bold champion
committed to strengthening underserved com-
munities and addressing inequities experi-
enced by people of color. He is the first Afri-
can-American recipient of Princeton Univer-
sity’s Woodrow Wilson award, recognizing his
service to the Princeton University alumni
community and to organizations including the
Chicago Urban League (where he is a life di-
rector), the Rainbow PUSH Coalition Wall
Street Project, and Project Vote (an organiza-
tion dedicated to enfranchising underserved
communities and empowering individuals to
exercise their constitutional right to vote). He
has served as Chairman of the Board of Di-
rectors of the University of Chicago Laboratory
Schools, is a trustee of the University of Chi-
cago, and, either personally or through Ariel
Investments, generously endowed scholar-
ships for under-resourced students at the Lab-
oratory Schools, provided seed money to un-
derwrite an investment fund that introduces fi-
nancial management to students at Ariel Com-
munity Academy (a K–8 school in the Chicago
Public School system), and funded a finance
internship program for University of Chicago
students of color interested in careers in finan-
cial services. John also serves on the Board
of Directors for the Obama Foundation, where
he works to help build the next generation of
civic leaders.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of the grateful
citizens of Illinois, I want to thank John W.
Rogers, Jr. for all that he has done and all
that he continues to do to improve our nation
and to open opportunities historically inacces-
sible to communities of color.
f
RECOGNIZING JACK STENSWICK
OF MALTA
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Jack Stenswick of Malta who
serves as his town’s goodwill ambassador.
A lifelong Malta resident, Jack is one of the
town’s most known and loved figures. He
warmly greets and talks with everyone he
sees, whether he’s walking around town or
riding his three-wheel cycle, a gift from the
people of Malta.
‘‘Jack definitely embodies the spirit of Mon-
tana,’’ says Dina Sainato-Meneely, Executive
Director at Malta Opportunities, Inc. (MOI).
‘‘He’s so well-known, and well-liked that it
might take him all afternoon to go to the store
and back. He is undoubtedly our town’s good-
will ambassador, and certainly a good ambas-
sador for people with developmental disabil-
ities.’’
Though developmental disabilities may
present challenges, Jack Stenswick over-
comes them and has never allowed them to
limit his natural ability to make others feel wel-
come and loved.
A member of the Knights of Columbus, Jack
volunteers for local service projects through
the organization and his local church. Sup-
porting almost every civic event, celebration,
or activity in town, he greets everyone by
name and shares the joy of their friendship.
‘‘Anybody who has been to Malta will know
Jack, and you can’t help but like him,’’ says
Dave Rummel, who helps supervise Jack as a
groundskeeper for the cemetery, one of the
many places Jack has worked in Malta
through MOI.
‘‘He’s Malta’s unofficial town greeter,’’
Rummel said. ‘‘Everyone likes to spend time
with him. Even folks from miles away remem-
ber Jack and are always glad to see him.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K14FE8.001 E14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E178 February 14, 2019
Madam Speaker, for overcoming the chal-
lenges he has faced to serve as a beloved pil-
lar of Malta and the town’s goodwill ambas-
sador, I recognize Jack Stenswick for his spirit
of Montana.
f
CELEBRATING THE 101ST ANNI-
VERSARY OF LITHUANIAN INDE-
PENDENCE
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in celebration of the 101st anniversary of Lith-
uanian independence. It is an honor to recog-
nize a nation with such rich and vibrant history
and whose immigrants and descendants have
enriched the cultural landscape of our nation.
Chicagoland is fortunate to be home to the
largest Lithuanian diaspora population in the
world. With Little Lithuania on the Southwest
Side of Chicago and a significant part of the
community in Lemont and Cicero, I am proud
to represent a part of this heritage. The cele-
bration of Lithuania’s 101st anniversary pays
due respect to the signing of Lithuania’s Act of
Independence on February 16, 1918, an act
that sought to restore an independent state.
Although true independence was not achieved
until after World War I and the fall of the Ger-
man Empire, this single rebellious act paved
the way for what has become a free and
democratically governed state. Lithuanian-
Americans have reason to celebrate their her-
itage proudly.
One such place where Chicagoan Lithua-
nians have found a home is in Marquette Park
at the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary Par-
ish, founded by Lithuanian immigrants in 1927.
A beautiful new church was constructed in
1957 incorporating influences from the Lithua-
nian folk baroque style and Lithuanian folk art.
This includes a gold-plated reproduction of the
Virgin Mary from a shrine in Šiluva, Lithuania.
Now led by Pastor Juanius Kelpšas and Fa-
ther Gediminas Keršys, this beautiful church
continues to receive numerous parishioners
and visitors, each bearing witness to a rich
component of Lithuanian-American history.
In 2015 I had the opportunity to visit Lith-
uania with a congressional delegation led by
then-Speaker Boehner to celebrate and
strengthen the bonds between our countries. I
had a wonderful experience meeting Lithua-
nians and enjoying the beauty of the country
in Vilnius and on the Baltic Coast. One of my
most cherished memories was my visit to Our
Lady of the Gate of Dawn.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
honoring Lithuanian Independence Day. At
home, I have witnessed firsthand the positive
contributions Lithuanian-Americans bring to
our local community, and I trust that the bonds
between our two nations will remain strong.
f
PAWEL ADAMOWICZ DEMOCRATIC
LEADERSHIP EXCHANGE PROGRAM
HON. MARCY KAPTUR
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the legacy of Mayor Pawel Adamowicz
of Gdansk, Poland, who was tragically mur-
dered just a few weeks ago.
Mayor Adamowicz was a powerful voice for
liberty in Poland, and always acted with the
best interests of his people at heart.
A resurgent Russia seeks to undermine
transatlantic solidarity and Western resolve. In
the face of transatlantic challenges, we must
strengthen U.S.-Polish relations.
That is why we must extend a hand of
friendship to the next generation of demo-
cratic, transatlantic leaders. These shared
democratic values go back to our nations’
founding, and are critical to liberty in Europe
today.
I am honored to introduce legislation to es-
tablish the ‘‘Pawel Adamowicz Democratic
Leadership Exchange Act.’’ This program
would equip the next generation of leaders
with the skills and networks needed to
strengthen transatlantic relationships.
In honor of Mayor Adamowicz’s legacy, I
urge my colleagues to support this important
legislation. I ask that it be brought to the floor
for a vote without delay.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF TEXAS
SENATOR JANE NELSON
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in tribute to my friend Texas State Sen-
ator Jane Nelson. On Tuesday, January 8,
2018, Senator Nelson gaveled in the first day
of the Texas Senate, becoming the first
woman to usher in the opening session.
Senator Nelson is a true trailblazer. First
elected in 1993, she is the highest-ranking Re-
publican in the Texas Senate. During her ten-
ure, Senator Nelson has led efforts to promote
fiscal responsibility, strengthen education, and
care for Texas veterans. She made history in
2013 when she was appointed as the first
woman to chair the Texas Senate Committee
on Finance, and in this role continues to over-
see the creation of the Texas budget.
Senator Nelson lives in Flower Mound and
represents portions of Denton and Tarrant
Counties. A former teacher and fellow Univer-
sity of North Texas alum, she previously
served two terms on the State Board of Edu-
cation. As a public servant and longtime North
Texas fixture, Senator Nelson is deeply com-
mitted to our community. I am grateful for her
many years of service, and I congratulate her
on this groundbreaking achievement.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KAY GRANGER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I missed
votes due to circumstances beyond my con-
trol. Had I been present, I would have voted
yea on Roll Call No. 78; nay on Roll Call No.
79; and yea on Roll Call No. 80.
DEER TRAIL RODEO’S 150TH
ANNIVERSARY
HON. KEN BUCK
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. BUCK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the Town of Deer Trail, Colorado for
commemorating its 150th year of rodeo com-
petition.
The first rodeo in the world was held in
Deer Trail, Colorado on July 4, 1869. Multiple
organizations, including the Pro Rodeo Hall of
Fame, History Channel, and Guinness Book of
World Records have recognized this mile-
stone. Deer Trail should be appropriately rec-
ognized for fostering and promoting rodeo,
and thereby helping to preserve our Western
culture.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of the Fourth
Congressional District of Colorado, I extend
my congratulations and best wishes to the
Deer Trail Rodeo. We look forward to their
continued success.
f
VETERAN OF THE MONTH—DR.
CLARENCE G. OLIVER, JR.
HON. KEVIN HERN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Madam
Speaker, I rise to honor Dr. Clarence G. Oli-
ver, Jr. of Broken Arrow, Oklahoma.
Dr. Oliver has worn many hats. He’s been
a teacher, journalist, school administrator,
Army officer, newspaper editor and publisher,
community leader, university professor, author,
and the Dean of Education at Oral Roberts
University.
In all of these roles, Dr. Oliver has proven
himself to be a service-minded leader and a
role model for many.
An American hero, Dr. Oliver served our
country as an Infantry master sergeant during
the Korean War. He received a direct appoint-
ment as a second lieutenant, Infantry, in 1952
and served in command and staff assignments
for two decades, plus another 10 years in the
U.S. Army Reserves.
Dr. Oliver’s career of service extends far be-
yond his military accomplishments.
He was superintendent of one of Okla-
homa’s fastest-growing schools and served as
an administrator for 30 years. After serving as
the Dean of Education at ORU, he continues
to volunteer as an adjunct professor and guest
lecturer and serves on doctoral degree dis-
sertation committees.
Dr. Oliver was twice chosen as the Okla-
homa Superintendent of the Year.
The Broken Arrow Chamber of Commerce
recognized him as the ‘‘Outstanding Citizen of
the Year’’ in 1975 and again in 1992 and
awarded with the Chamber’s ‘‘Legacy’’ award
in 2011. In 2015, the Chamber created the
‘‘Dr. Clarence G. Oliver, Jr. Lifetime Achieve-
ment Award’’, further testament to the impact
Dr. Oliver continues to have on his commu-
nity.
I am honored to recognize Dr. Oliver today
for his service both in our military and as a cit-
izen and educator, and I am honored to call
him my friend.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K14FE8.003 E14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E179
February 14, 2019
IN CELEBRATION OF THE LIFE OF
MRS. TERESA GARCIA MEDINA
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the memory of Mrs. Teresa
Garcia Medina, a beloved community leader
and public servant of Missouri’s Fifth Congres-
sional District. In life, Mrs. Medina embodied a
selfless dedication to her family, her innumer-
able friends, and the larger community of Kan-
sas City, Missouri. Throughout her ninety-five
years of life, Mrs. Medina served the people
around her with a generous spirit and a warm
heart.
Mrs. Medina was born to Cristobal Garcia
and Carlota Hernandez in 1923. Throughout
her life, Mrs. Medina always put her faith and
her family first, both as a loving wife to
Agustin ‘‘Chino’’ Medina and as a mother to
their four children. She is survived by her chil-
dren and their spouses; Enrique and Maria
Chaurand, Cris and Mary Medina, Mike and
Yolanda Casey, and Sandy Medina; as well as
nine grandchildren and eleven great grand-
children.
Teresa Garcia Medina grew up in the His-
toric Westside of Kansas City, Missouri, a pre-
dominantly Latino community, and attended
Our Lady of Guadalupe School. During this
time, Teresa and her sister, Jessie Nieto,
would make friends and community ties that
would last a lifetime. Mrs. Medina and her sis-
ter would later use the skills they learned at
Our Lady of Guadalupe to work as tailors at
Jack Henry on the Plaza. Far from forgetting
the community from which she came, Mrs.
Medina continued to give back through her
work as a member of La Union Cultural
Mexicana Femenina and Las Guadalupanas.
The legacy of her impact on the community
continues through her children and grand-
children, as they remain active in the Latino
community of the Greater Kansas City Metro-
politan Area.
Throughout her life, Mrs. Medina’s personal
faith was the central focus. She served stead-
fastly as a member of the Sacred Heart/Gua-
dalupe Catholic Parish for many decades. In
the 1990s she worked alongside other Mexi-
can-American women of her congregation to
preserve Las Guadalupanas when the Bishop
and other leadership threatened to close their
chapel. Traveling from door-to-door, gathering
support and financial resources, these devout
women successfully fought to keep the institu-
tion open as a pillar of the community. Actions
like this demonstrate the fervent faith that Mrs.
Medina carried with her and why she was
cherished by all who knew her.
Those who knew her said they would al-
ways remember her warm smile and her
gentle ways, her kindness to the neighborhood
children, and her love for her community. Mrs.
Medina personified the full and overflowing life
of a Catholic and lived each day to the fullest.
She was beloved by those who knew her and
will be missed by all.
Please join me and all of Missouri’s Fifth
Congressional District in honoring Mrs. Teresa
Garcia Medina for her commitment to social
justice and her contributions to the Latino
community in Kansas City. It is with great re-
spect that I urge all my fellow citizens across
the city and the country to join me in showing
our appreciation to Mrs. Medina, and send our
deepest condolences to her family and the in-
numerable people touched by her life.
f
HIGHLIGHTING THE NEED TO RE-
PLACE ENBRIDGE’S LINE 3 PIPE-
LINE
HON. PETE STAUBER
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. STAUBER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to highlight the critical need to replace
Enbridge’s Line 3, an aging pipeline dan-
gerously corroding and operating at only 51
percent.
Line 3 pipeline replacement project is on its
fourth year of review and has met or exceed-
ed every single required environmental stand-
ard. The Minnesota Public Utilities Commis-
sion unanimously voted to issue its Certificate
of Need last year.
The project will create more than 4,000 con-
struction jobs and enjoys the support of con-
struction trade unions throughout the state.
The project is supported by dozens of elected
officials and thousands of Minnesotans. It will
also generate an additional 19 million dollars
in property tax revenue, providing a significant
funding increase to rural schools.
With all this benefit, it was greatly dis-
appointing to hear we would have further
delays.
Unfortunately, certain state officials in Min-
nesota feel beholden to, in the words of our
operating engineers, ‘‘environmental extre-
mism.’’ These environmental extremists are
the same folks that vandalized the current
pipeline just last week, ironically creating a
dangerous situation for themselves and the
environment they claim to protect.
The voters of northeastern Minnesota sent
me to Congress to advocate for their jobs and
safe use and protection of our natural re-
sources. Therefore, I will continue to champion
commonsense projects like the replacement of
the Line 3 pipeline.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
ROBERT J. TUCCI
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Robert J. Tucci, who passed
away peacefully on Monday, January 14, 2019
at the age of ninety-two years old.
Bob Tucci, of Fairlawn and formerly of Can-
ton, was born to the late Paul and Rose
(Marino) Tucci on August 31, 1926. Robert
graduated from Canton McKinley High School
where he was a three-sport letterman in foot-
ball, basketball and baseball. Bob played on
two McKinley Bulldog state championship foot-
ball teams and served as captain his senior
year. He played in the first North-South All-
Star football game and was later inducted into
the Canton McKinley Football Hall of Fame.
After high school, Bob went to the University
of Cincinnati to play football , however, his ca-
reer there was cut short while he served our
country in the U.S. Army during the Korean
War. After the war, Robert became a Brick-
layer for Local No. 6, from which he retired at
the age of 59. He and his wife, Jo, enjoyed
their retirement by traveling to all 50 states
and numerous countries.
In addition to his parents; Robert was pre-
ceded in death by his loving wife of 65 years,
Josephine on November 5, 2018; brother, Au-
gust Tucci; sister, Antoinette Caster; and
granddaughter, Andrea Rose Teodosio. He is
survived by his children, Linda (Thomas)
Teodosio of Munroe Falls, Paul (Laura) Tucci
of Canal Fulton, and Robert, Jr. (Elizabeth)
Tucci of Akron. He is also survived by grand-
children, Christopher (Katherine) Teodosio,
and Bradford, Angela, Nicholas, and Alex-
ander Tucci; and two great-grandchildren,
Charlotte and Ava Teodosio.
The family extends their gratitude to the
staff at the Village of St. Edward’s, Cleveland
Clinic Hospice and Senior Helpers for their
loving care of Robert and Josephine over the
last year.
I am very proud to be a friend of his daugh-
ter, Judge Linda Tucci Teodosio, and his son-
in-law, Judge Thomas Teodosio. I extend my
deepest sympathies to all the family and
friends whose lives were blessed by Robert
Tucci.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE MCMATH
MIDDLE SCHOOL TIGER JAZZ
BAND
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the notable achievements
of Denton ISD’s Carroll McMath Middle School
Tiger Jazz Band.
This past year, the McMath Jazz Band was
named the top middle school jazz ensemble in
the state by the Texas Music Educators Asso-
ciation. Recently, they had the honor of play-
ing at the University of North Texas’s Kenton
Hall, home of the Grammy-nominated One
O’Clock Lab Band. The McMath Tigers are the
first middle school jazz ensemble to perform in
this famed music venue alongside UNT’s ac-
claimed faculty.
In recognition of the students’ music pro-
ficiency, the McMath Jazz Band will perform at
the Texas Music Educators Association’s an-
nual convention in San Antonio on February
14, 2019.
The ensemble musicians include: Eli
Adams, Tajalli Baugher, Aaron Borges, Vahid
Baugher, Jaydan Chavez, Evan Chuah, Nicole
Cygan, Isaac Dean, Ethan Desjardins, Rowan
Eshbaugh-Soha, Alexander Evangelopoulos,
Lily Fosmire, Caleb Harold, Travis Harris III,
Nicholas Iaia, Gerald Jones, Elliot Kensinger,
Jake Meyering, Jesse Mumford, Kaien Oliver,
Josiah Panter, Nicholas Salas, Amari Toney,
Jonathan Weaver, Daniel Wen, Jeremiah Wil-
liams.
These young student musicians, under the
leadership of Band Director Mr. Travis Harris
and Assistant Band Director Mrs. Kelsey
Gaskill, have worked as a team to reach their
goals. I congratulate these North Texas stu-
dents on their success, and wish each of them
the best in their future endeavors.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A14FE8.006 E14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E180 February 14, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. MIKE BOST
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, on February
12, 2019, I was unavailable to vote in the
House. Had I been present, I would have
voted yea on Roll Call No. 76 and yea on Roll
Call No. 77.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BRENDA L. LAWRENCE
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Madam Speaker, unfortu-
nately, on February 11, 2019, I was not able
to cast my votes during the vote series due to
prior obligation in my District. Had I been in at-
tendance, I would have voted: Yes on H.R.
1065—Social Media Use in Clearance Inves-
tigations Act of 2019 (Sponsored by Rep. STE-
PHEN LYNCH/Oversight and Reform Com-
mittee); and Yes on H.R. 1079—CASES Act
(Sponsored by Rep. GARRET GRAVES/Over-
sight and Reform Committee).
f
USPS INTERPRETATION OF RSIA
HON. DON YOUNG
OF ALASKA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. YOUNG. Madam Speaker, it was my
pleasure as Dean of the House of Represent-
atives to swear you in at the beginning of this
Congressional Session. I pledge to work with
you on all matters affecting our Nation and my
home State of Alaska.
I want to bring to the attention of my col-
leagues, and the United States Postal Service
(USPS), which receives a certain level of fed-
eral funding for forgone revenue due to free
and reduced rate mail under the Financial
Services and General Government (FSGG)
Title of the appropriations package, an issue
that is critical to safe and stable passenger air
service in Alaska.
Alaska is unique in comparison to other
States within our Union in that we have spe-
cial mail service to provide roughly the equiva-
lent of universal postal service, on par with the
rest of the country, to remote Alaskan commu-
nities throughout my State which are not con-
nected to the U.S. road system. By way of
aviation, vital ‘‘bypass’’ mail service is pro-
vided via air carriers to towns and villages all
over Alaska. This service is critical to the
State of Alaska and to my constituents. USPS
has jurisdiction over this program and, from
time to time, has implemented its interpreta-
tions that diverge from Congressional intent of
the Rural Services Improvement Act (RSIA)—
a law that I helped develop with my former
Senate colleague Ted Stevens, and which
governs the USPS mail-delivery system for
Alaska.
The intent of RSIA is very similar to the in-
tent of the USPS funding included in the Fi-
nancial Services appropriations bill—to ensure
that rural postal delivery is maintained at prior
year levels and to prevent the closure of im-
portant rural post offices.
There is only one airline in Alaska that now
delivers mail and passengers ‘‘from the first to
the last mile’’ to the far reaches of the State—
to Native communities, to communities on the
Aleutian chain, and the northern-most towns
and villages in the State. This airline, Ravn
Air, has been disadvantaged by the USPS’s
interpretation of RSIA that does not grant the
air carrier the status as an ‘‘existing mainline
carrier’’ under the statute. This status will help
further ensure that viable passenger service
and mail delivery is maintained throughout the
State.
From time to time, it is fair and appropriate
for USPS to objectively reevaluate its interpre-
tation of RSIA to provide an updated applica-
tion of the law and to consider Ravn for this
status.
I intend to follow up with USPS and its new
Commissioners regarding this request. The
entire Alaska Congressional Delegation has
previously written USPS on this matter and I
will continue to reach out to my Senate Col-
leagues for review of this with USPS in light
of changes within USPS itself, and changes in
the airline industry and marketplace in Alaska.
I thank my colleagues and with that I will
vote for passage of the Financial Services bill
as part of the final FY ’19 Appropriations pack-
age.
f
IN HONOR OF THE OUTSTANDING
CAREER OF GRAHAM T. ‘‘BUBBA’’
MOORE, JR.
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Graham T. ‘‘Bubba’’ Moore, Jr.
on his nearly fifty years of outstanding service
to our community as he retires from Barnhill
Contracting Company, located in North Caro-
lina’s Eighth Congressional District.
Graham—or Bubba as he’s known to his
friends—started his career in 1973 and retires
today as the Vice President of Barnhill Con-
tracting Company after 46 years of service in
Fayetteville, North Carolina. He graduated
from North Carolina State University in 1973
with a degree in engineering, and in that same
year he married his lovely wife, Betty Gail. To-
gether they’ve raised two children, Landis and
Gray, and one grandchild, Evelyn.
Over the years, Bubba has become a pillar
of the community. While the list of his commu-
nity involvements is quite extensive, Bubba
has time and again stepped up to help our
soldiers, veterans and their families—no small
feat considering Fayetteville is home to Fort
Bragg, the largest military installation in the
world. Bubba has served as the Vice-Chair of
the Ft Bragg Special Activities Committee,
Chairman of the Military Affairs Council of the
Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce, and on
the Board of Directors for the Sandhills Military
Council.
On top of these public positions, Bubba has
always been known as someone who wanted
to help our troops behind the scenes. Bubba
went to visit soldiers in Afghanistan at Bagram
Air Field in Kandahar and delivered Christmas
gifts and Holiday Cheer to our deployed sol-
diers. He also helped organized family trips for
Gold Star family members and was instru-
mental in supporting children of deployed sol-
diers attend exclusive productions of ‘‘Disney
on Ice’’ at the Crown Center. These were
things that may not have received public at-
tention, but that didn’t matter to Bubba; he just
cared about giving back to the place he’s
called home for so long.
I wish Bubba a long and happy retirement,
and I know I speak for countless people in the
community when I say he will be missed at
Barnhill Contracting Company.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating Bubba for his incredible career and
service to our community.
f
IN HONOR OF JOHNNIE MAE
BROOKS-DALE THOMPSON
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, today, I rise
in recognition of an inspiring member of our
community and graduate of Texas’ first African
American Women’s College, Johnnie Mae
Brooks-Dale Thompson.
This Texas trailblazer was born in Houston
on September 17, 1925, and graduated high
school at the young age of 14. Johnnie Mae
then enrolled in Mary Allen Jr. College—the
first black women’s college in the state of
Texas. During her time at Mary Allen, Johnnie
Mae was a strong academic student and her
skills in mathematics allowed her to become a
member of the prestigious Kappa Epsilon
Honor Society. Outside of the classroom,
Johnnie Mae was able to foster her love of
music—which was developed early on in her
childhood—by taking advantage of Mary Al-
len’s music program and singing in the college
choir. While working in the school library,
Johnnie Mae discovered a deep passion for
education that propelled her to earn her mas-
ter’s degree from Texas Southern University in
1951.
Johnnie Mae was able to combine her pas-
sions of education and music as a fifth-grade
music teacher in Navasota, Texas—a job that
gave her ample opportunity to spread her love
of music to new generations.
It comes as no surprise to those who know
her best that Johnnie Mae’s professional ca-
reer was defined by her commitment to living
a service-oriented life. No matter what she
was doing, be it teaching music to children,
volunteering in her local church, or educating
the future generations of Texans—Johnnie
Mae did it with an infectious attitude of posi-
tivity and joy. Whether it’s through her involve-
ment in the church or her rigorous social
schedule, Johnnie Mae continues to be a
prominent figure in her community, even now
at the age of 93.
Johnnie Mae Brooks-Dale Thompson has
led a life of selfless service and spiritual devo-
tion—always embodying her adage: ‘‘Before
you do something that is nice or negative,
think how you would feel if someone did this
to you.’’ Let us celebrate not only institutions
like Mary Allen College, but also individuals
like Johnnie Mae. I know I join her family,
friends, and the entire Eighth District of Texas
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14FE8.010 E14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E181
February 14, 2019
in honoring all she has accomplished thus far
in her extraordinary life.
f
HONORING CHARLES BALDINGER
HON. JIM COOPER
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. COOPER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the late Charles Baldinger of Nash-
ville, Tennessee.
While attending the U.S. Military Academy
at West Point, Charlie was diagnosed with
anaplastic astrocytoma—a rare Stage 3 malig-
nant brain tumor. He found the bad news after
a near-fatal accident. As a cadet, Charlie fell
20 feet during a rope-free bouldering set. The
fall resulted in a trip to the hospital where it
was discovered that he had a brain tumor.
Nevertheless, Charlie graduated from West
Point, was commissioned as an Infantry Offi-
cer, but then was forced to medically retire.
Yet he kept learning and kept excelling. Char-
lie earned his master’s degree from Lipscomb
University. Charlie began treatments while at
Lipscomb and allowed its College of Phar-
macy and Health Sciences to use his body for
research. He underwent test treatments that
allowed data to be gathered for the purpose of
better understanding how to treat cancer.
Even during his illness, Charlie continued his
service to others.
Charlie passed away peacefully on January
6, 2019. He was a brother, son, grandson,
husband, and friend, who will always be re-
membered by his loved ones.
f
CONGRATULATING CAL OZAKI
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, I rise to
call your attention to a notable retirement tak-
ing place at the nation’s lead nuclear energy
research and development laboratory.
For the last thirty-one years, Cal Ozaki has
served in leadership roles at the Argonne-
West/Idaho National Laboratory facilities in
Eastern Idaho.
As director of INL’s Campus Development
office, Cal played a principal role in developing
the laboratory’s campus in Idaho Falls.
As laboratory liaison to the DOE Office of
Nuclear Energy in Washington, D.C., Cal was
a one-stop office for the agency to access INL
Facilities and capabilities.
As director of INL’s Facility Operations and
Maintenance office, Cal was responsible for 2
million square feet of laboratory space, sup-
port facilities and infrastructure.
Finally, in his current position, manager of
Public Affairs & Strategic Initiatives, Cal has
helped educate his fellow citizens about INL’s
important clean energy and national security
work.
But today’s recognition cannot just focus on
Cal’s professional accomplishments. I also
would like to mention his decades of remark-
able public service.
Cal currently serves as an inaugural trustee
at the new College of Eastern Idaho. He is a
past chairman for the Idaho Falls Chamber of
Commerce and served on the board of direc-
tors for the United Way and Eastern Idaho
Economic Development Council. And, for the
last 25 years, Cal has participated in commu-
nity delegation exchanges with the Idaho
Falls-Tokai Mura, Japan, Sister City program.
With a smile on his face and a hearty laugh
in the air, Cal has made a significant contribu-
tion to the quality of life for all of us in Eastern
Idaho. Cal and his wife Cindy are pillars in the
Idaho Falls community and their legacy of
service and giving back is greatly appreciated.
It is my great honor to congratulate Cal on
a notable career, thank him for his public serv-
ice, and wish him and his wife, Cindy, all the
best in retirement.
f
RECOGNIZING THOMAS C.
BALLARD AS THE OKALOOSA
COUNTY EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT
PROFESSIONAL OF THE YEAR
HON. MATT GAETZ
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. GAETZ. Madam Speaker, I rise to rec-
ognize Thomas Ballard as the Educational
Support Professional of the Year for Okaloosa
County, Florida.
Mr. Ballard is a P.E. Classroom Assistant at
Mary Esther Elementary School. For many
years, Mr. Ballard has served the Okaloosa
County School District with exceptional pas-
sion and an unwavering commitment to excel-
lence.
Prior to his service with the school district,
he served as a full-time firefighter with the City
of Mary Esther from 1981 to 2009. Mr.
Ballard’s exemplary contributions earned him
numerous awards; such as the ‘‘City of Mary
Esther Life Saving Medal’’ and the ‘‘Military
Order of World Wars Award of Appreciation’’.
Sharing his invaluable experience gained as
a firefighter, Mr. Ballard graciously assisted in
the creation of his school’s Crisis Plan.
He continually demonstrates his dedication
to his school and community by participating
in additional duties such as acting as a mem-
ber of the school safety committee and serv-
ing as a volunteer firefighter at Florosa Fire
Department.
Mr. Ballard displays incredible devotion to
helping students and children in his commu-
nity feel safe and happy. He generously do-
nates his time to proactively address needs
identified in the community as evidenced by
his organization of the first official Volunteer
Umpires for the Mary Esther Little League.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of the United
States Congress, I am privileged to recognize
Thomas C. Ballard for his many contributions
and for his profound impact in the Okaloosa
County School District. I offer my gratitude for
his service and wish him all the best for con-
tinued success.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I mistak-
enly voted AYE, when I meant to vote NO on
Roll No. 81 (Buck of Colorado Amendment
No. 2) to H.J. Res. 37—Directing the removal
of United States Armed Forces from hostilities
in the Republic of Yemen that have not been
authorized by Congress.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 100TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF THE BETA LAMB-
DA CHAPTER OF ALPHA PHI
ALPHA FRATERNITY, INC.
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I proudly
rise today to recognize a significant milestone
in one of the pre-eminent organizations, not
only in the Fifth Congressional District of Mis-
souri, which I proudly represent, but through-
out the region—the Beta Lambda Chapter of
Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Incorporated. As a
member of the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity my-
self, I am especially proud to recognize this
great accomplishment. It is truly an honor to
celebrate the Beta Lambda Chapter’s Centen-
nial observance on February 17, 2019 in Kan-
sas City, Missouri.
The Beta Lambda Chapter was chartered in
January 1919 with ten charter members who
laid a strong foundation of fraternal fellowship
in the Greater Kansas City Metropolitan Area.
The effort to organize the Beta Lambda Chap-
ter in Kansas City, Missouri began in April
1918, upon the request of graduate members
of the fraternity who resided in Kansas City.
An application for the Chapter was made dur-
ing the 1918 convention held in Cleveland,
Ohio by Brothers T.C. Brown, W.H. Bruce,
L.H. Norwood, Thomas Taylor, J. Oliver Morri-
son and Guy Booker. Favorable action was
taken by the convention and the Chapter was
established in January 1919 making it the sec-
ond oldest graduate chapter and first graduate
chapter west of the Mississippi River. The
charter members of the Beta Lambda Chapter
were all outstanding members of the Kansas
City community and of their respective profes-
sions. Faced with cultural realities of the early
Twentieth Century, these charter members
found in each other a source of mutual sup-
port, enlightenment and a retreat of friendship
and fraternity. Each sensed a significant void
created by the pervasive permanence of
American institutional racism and exclusionary
practices that were predominant during that
era. Throughout its history, the Beta Lambda
Chapter has proudly upheld the high stand-
ards of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity.
Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Incorporated
was founded in 1906 at Cornell University in
Ithaca, New York. Our founding Jewels are
Henry Arthur Callis, Charles Henry Chapman,
Eugene Kinckle Jones, George Biddle Kelley,
Nathanial Allison Murray, Robert Harold Ogle,
and Vertner Woodson Tandy.
Beta Lambda has been privileged to host
the Thirteenth Annual Convention in 1920,
Twenty-Eighth Annual Convention in 1940,
Thirty-Sixth Annual Convention in 1950, Sev-
enty-Fourth Annual Convention in 1988 and
Eighty-Eighth Annual Convention in 2008.
Beta Lambda won the ‘‘McGee Memorial Cup’’
as Outstanding National Chapter from 1945 to
1947. Additionally, the Beta Lambda Chapter
won National Alumni Chapter of the Year in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14FE8.014 E14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E182 February 14, 2019
1997 for its leadership and service in social
justice, education and development for man-
kind.
Beta Lambda is led today by Hon. Ardie A.
Bland, Damon E. Roath as Vice President,
and William A. Griffin as Recording Secretary.
Additional officers include: Johnathan Bernard,
Terence M. Goree, Joseph C. Lewis, Rev.
Kevin L. Nelson, Howard A. Berry, Eric J. Hal-
liburton and Thomas A. Phillips.
One hundred years in the life of any person,
organization or institution is a significant mile-
stone and serves as a testament of fidelity to
principles, seriousness of purpose and devo-
tion to goals and objectives. Thus, the reason
for intentional recognition to such an amazing
local treasure.
Madam Speaker, please join me and our
colleagues in expressing our collective con-
gratulations to the Beta Lambda Chapter of
Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity and extending our
heartfelt wishes for even greater success as it
begins its second century.
f
HONORING FORMER SILVIS MAYOR
JOE TERRONEZ ON HIS 90TH
BIRTHDAY
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Mr. Joe Terronez on his 90th
birthday. Mr. Terronez is the first Hispanic
mayor in the state of Illinois and is the former
mayor of Silvis, Illinois.
Joe Terronez began a long career of public
service when he was first elected alderman in
1963 before later going on to serve the City of
Silvis as its mayor. He was one of the first
Hispanic city council members in the state and
his dedication to his community is admirable.
One of the best examples of Mayor Terronez’s
service to others, although there are many,
was when he renamed 2nd Street in Silvis to
‘‘Hero Street.’’ Although this street is only one
and a half blocks long, over 100 of its resi-
dents were members of the military, including
six who gave the ultimate sacrifice defending
our freedoms. As a result, Mayor Terronez
dedicated this street to honor their sacrifices.
Actions such as this embody Mayor
Terronez’s spirit of giving back to others. As
he celebrates this milestone, I would like to
extend my sincere gratitude for his many
years of service to others.
It is because of dedicated leaders such as
Mayor Terronez that I am especially proud to
serve Illinois’ 17th Congressional District.
Madam Speaker, I would like to again formally
honor Mr. Joe Terronez on his 90th birthday.
f
RECOGNIZING JAMES M. BOSWELL
ON THE OCCASION OF HIS 100TH
BIRTHDAY
HON. G. K. BUTTERFIELD
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the 100th birthday of a vet-
eran, neighbor, father, dedicated man of faith,
and friend to many, Mr. James Boswell. Mr.
Boswell is a lifelong resident of Wilson, North
Carolina.
James Marshall Boswell was born on Feb-
ruary 2, 1919 in Wilson, North Carolina. His
parents taught him and his three brothers to
work hard, although neither his mother nor fa-
ther had more than a fifth grade education.
His father supported the family as a factory
worker. Mr. Boswell recalls him sharing two
double beds with his three brothers in their
rented home. He would later go to work with
his father at the wagon factory where he
would perform hard manual labor for 40 hours
a week, earning $12 per week. He worked at
the factory until a friend offered him a job at
a drive-in making $15 a week. In 1938, James
wed his beloved wife, Alma ‘‘Mozelle’’ Woodall
Boswell. They were married for 76 years until
her passing in 2014.
Mr. Boswell was working for the FBI in
Washington, D.C. when Japan attacked the
United States in 1941. Mr. Boswell felt it was
his duty to serve his country, so he joined the
U.S. Army Air Corps at the start of World War
II. He qualified to fly the new B–17 Flying For-
tress. He flew 51 combat missions throughout
Italy, France, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia,
Hungary, Greece, Germany, and Austria dur-
ing his three years of service. Mr. Boswell
credits the Tuskegee Airmen for his crews’
safe returns, and says he remained in contact
with many of them for several years after re-
turning home.
James Boswell’s three brothers also served
our country with honor. The youngest, Harvey,
served as a Merchant Marine. George Boswell
served with the 8th and 9th Air Forces in Eu-
rope during World War II. Delmar was a para-
trooper in the 82nd Airborne.
Having worked most of his life, James Bos-
well returned home to Wilson where he
opened a grocery store, the Super Food Cen-
ter, located on Herring Avenue.
In addition to his service to our country, Mr.
Boswell has selflessly given of his time and ef-
forts to work in his community, serving as a
Mason and Shriner for nearly 65 years. He is
also a faithful member of First Christian
Church in Wilson, where he has held several
positions in leadership including chairman,
elder, and deacon. Today, James Boswell
continues to drive himself to Faith Christian
Church every Sunday.
The most important thing to James Boswell
has always been his family. He has one
daughter, Debby Boswell Keller of North Caro-
lina, and one son, James Boswell, Jr. of Illi-
nois. In describing her father, Debby stated,
‘‘he is the most caring and giving person I
know.’’
James Boswell has lived an incredible life
that, by the grace of God, has spanned an en-
tire century. His selfless and lifelong dedica-
tion to his country and community are beyond
remarkable, and he is truly an inspiration and
role model for us all. His love for his family,
friends, church, and community knows no
bounds.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to pay trib-
ute to such a dedicated and honorable vet-
eran. I am immensely proud to have Mr.
James Marshall Boswell as a constituent, and
I wish him a very Happy 100th birthday. May
God continue to bless him and his family.
INTRODUCTION OF THE PUBLIC
BUILDINGS RENEWAL ACT
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, today
I introduced the Public Buildings Renewal Act
(PBRA) of 2019. This bipartisan legislation will
spur private investment in public building infra-
structure throughout the United States by cre-
ating $5 billion in Private Activity Bonds for the
development of government-owned public
buildings.
In every American community, there are se-
rious concerns about the condition of our
schools, public hospitals, justice facilities, uni-
versities, police and fire stations. With state
and local budgets becoming increasingly
strained, officials have chosen to save money
by steadily reducing capital investment in pub-
lic buildings. But years of underinvestment
have led to facilities that are inadequately
maintained, fail to comply with current codes
or disability requirements, and do not have
adequate security—endangering the general
public. Throughout the country, the average
public-school building is at least 40 years old,
and the current backlog of maintenance and
repair projects adds up to more than $45 bil-
lion annually in unmet funding needs. The
Public Buildings Renewal Act will reverse this
trend by unlocking private sector capital for
the public’s benefit. It is past time that we up-
grade our public buildings to provide a safe,
modern, and efficient experience from coast to
coast.
While this legislation is not a panacea to
solve all of our infrastructure needs, it is an
important aspect of our strategy to rebuild and
renew America. I look forward to working with
my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
pass it into law.
f
HONORING THE MEN AND WOMEN
OF THE U.S. COAST GUARD IN
KODIAK, ALASKA
HON. DON YOUNG
OF ALASKA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. YOUNG. Madam Speaker, I am hon-
ored to express my deepest gratitude to all of
the Coast Guard members stationed in Kodiak
that do so much for Alaska and this country.
Our Coast Guard base in Kodiak is the larg-
est in the nation and truly vital to protecting
our shores and coastal waters. Home to Air
Station Kodiak, the Kodiak Naval Operating
Base, and three cutters, Kodiak is a lynchpin
of coastal security in the North Pacific.
I am sure I do not need to teach anyone
about the vital role the Coast Guard serves in
Alaska. The area of responsibility assigned to
Coast Guard units within Alaskan waters is the
largest in the nation, spanning a massive
3,853,500 square miles and more than 33,000
miles of coastline. This enormous geographic
responsibility includes the patrol of the North
Pacific Ocean to protect those traversing the
often-rough waters and to stop large-scale
high seas drift netting as well as other illegal
fishing practices that rob Alaskans of our liveli-
hood and one of our most valuable natural re-
sources.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14FE8.019 E14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E183
February 14, 2019
From a national perspective, the Coast
Guard is responsible for protecting our coastal
borders and keeping those in our waterways
safe through port, waterway and coastal secu-
rity, drug and migrant interdiction, maintaining
maritime aids to navigation, search and rescue
missions, living marine resources and marine
safety, ensuring defense readiness, marine
environmental protection, ice operations, and
other law enforcement operations. Through
these important missions, the Service saves
thousands of American lives every year.
I was glad to speak with Coast Guard lead-
ership recently about the great work per-
formed already this year, even during the polit-
ical divide in Washington, D.C. Every man and
woman in the service is a testament to the
spirit and drive that makes America so great
and I want to assure all of our Coast Guard
men and women that I am working to support
and represent their interests in Congress just
as I have done my whole career. I would like
to thank everyone in the Coast Guard for the
outstanding work they do, day in and day out
to protect Alaska and our country. America is
truly better off thanks to the Coast Guard.
f
RECOGNIZING THE VANDALIA
HISTORICAL SOCIETY
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the Vandalia Historical Society for
being awarded the Historic Preservation
Award. This is a rare and prestigious award
made possible through the hard work and
dedication of the members of the Vandalia
Historical Society.
This society sponsors a variety of fund-
raisers to help maintain the historic Vandalia
Old National Capitol, the second capitol for the
state of Illinois. The major project underway is
the raising of funds for the replacement of all
windows in the building. All upgrades and con-
struction are historically accurate. Due to the
efforts of this group, the building has been
maintained for the public to enjoy, for school
and tour groups to learn the history of this
grand old building and to learn its importance
to our state and national history.
Madam Speaker, due to their efforts, the
Old State Capitol will be standing open to wel-
come future generations. It is my pleasure and
honor to recognize the Vandalia Historical So-
ciety upon receiving the prestigious Historic
Preservation Recognition Award, and I wish
the society the best in all of its future endeav-
ors.
f
BAHRAIN MUST CHANGE
DIRECTION
HON. JAMES P. McGOVERN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, today
marks the 8th anniversary of the beginning of
the Pearl Uprising in Bahrain.
On this day eight years ago, thousands of
Bahrainis gathered in peaceful protests to de-
mand greater political freedom, and political
and constitutional reform.
Their demands were not new—the roots
went back to the 1970s.
They were not radical: Bahrainis wanted
greater popular participation in governance,
equal access to socio-economic opportunities
and development, action against corruption
and an end to the practice of political natu-
ralization.
And they were not sectarian—even though
Bahrain is a majority Shi’a country ruled by a
minority Sunni monarchy.
But by the end of March 2011, what started
as a moment of hope had been met with mas-
sive repression by the Bahraini government
and security forces sent by Saudi Arabia and
the United Arab Emirates. As protests grew
and spread, at least 35 people died, some
3,000 people were injured, thousands were
detained or lost their jobs, and many were
brutally tortured, including medical doctors.
King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa of Bahrain did
take some steps to address the people’s de-
mands. His appointment of the 5-member
Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry
BICI) to examine the government’s response
to the protests was an important gesture. And
the 26 recommendations contained in the BICI
report, which the monarch promised to imple-
ment, did inspire some new hope that change
was possible.
Many of us in Congress urged the govern-
ment to fully implement the BICI recommenda-
tions and to cease the repression of human
rights defenders and peaceful opposition lead-
ers.
But in the years since, hope has been com-
pletely dashed. Some initial important reforms
have been rolled back, opposition political so-
cieties are banned, peaceful human rights de-
fenders and popular opposition leaders are
spending their lives in jail, sectarian divisions
have hardened, hundreds have been stripped
of their citizenship, no independent press re-
mains, the most recent elections were a
sham—and to top it all off, the Bahraini gov-
ernment has supported the Saudis in the bru-
tal war in Yemen and the senseless embargo
of Qatar.
Madam Speaker, some observers turn a
blind eye to Bahrain’s increasingly authori-
tarian rule because they accept Bahrain’s ar-
gument that Iran is to blame for encouraging
the Shi’a population to rebel.
These days, any mention of Iran is often
enough to silence legitimate criticism.
But what I see is a Bahraini government
whose own policies deepen sectarian divisions
and create the conditions for unrest.
In spite of their majority status, Bahraini Shi-
ites are less likely to hold jobs in the all-impor-
tant public sector. They are almost entirely
disqualified from serving in the police or mili-
tary. They live in highly segregated neighbor-
hoods with inferior public services compared
to Sunni areas. They are systematically under-
represented in the lower house of parliament.
No one should be surprised that this stark
political and economic inequality causes griev-
ance. Add to that Bahrain’s crushing of polit-
ical expression and channels of participation,
and you have a recipe for fostering extremism.
No government that does this can be con-
sidered a true United States ally in the war
against terrorism. You cannot claim to be
fighting extremism when your own policies fos-
ter it.
On this anniversary, I renew my call to the
government of Bahrain to free Nabeel Rajab,
Sheikh Ali Salman, Abdulhadi al-Khawaja,
Abduljalil Al-Singace, Ahmed Humaidan, Naji
Fateel and all other prisoners of conscience
jailed for exercising their most fundamental
human rights.
And I call on the government to end the pro-
hibition on political societies, decriminalize all
speech, allow national and international press
to operate without state intervention, stop ren-
dering its citizens stateless, strip the National
Security Agency of its power to arrest, bring
its anti-terrorism legislation into line with inter-
national human rights standards, integrate its
security forces and end discrimination against
the Shi’a population everywhere it exists.
Only if these steps are taken will the rights
of all the Bahraini people, the country’s long-
term stability and America’s national interests
be assured.
f
HONORING VICTOR GONELLA
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today along with my colleagues, Representa-
tive JACKIE SPEIER and Representative MIKE
THOMPSON, to honor Victor Gonella for his en-
during commitment to the protection and res-
toration of California’s salmon fisheries, and
his exemplary service as the founder and
president of the Golden Gate Salmon Associa-
tion.
Born in San Francisco, Victor developed a
childhood passion for fishing that has greatly
informed his public service throughout his life.
His focus on salmon began after his family
moved to Mill Valley: he fished off the waters
of Sausalito on his first boat when he was still
in high school.
Following high school, Victor began to race
motorcycles and started his own repair and
custom engine fabrication facility. He rented a
workspace from a local auto dealership, and
eventually ran the dealership’s parts and serv-
ice center. Victor would go on to buy the deal-
ership and move it to Petaluma, adding a sec-
ond dealership soon thereafter.
As Victor built up his dealership and custom
racing business, he never lost sight of his pas-
sion for salmon fishing. In 2008, when Cali-
fornia experienced the first closure of ocean
salmon fishing, Victor took action and founded
the Golden Gate Salmon Association to re-
store California’s largest salmon runs. In doing
so, Victor would make California history by
bringing together disparate stakeholders, in-
cluding leaders from the commercial and sport
fishing industries, conservation groups, and
businesses connected to fishing, for a com-
mon cause. Over the next few years, Victor
developed the financial and logistical back-
bone of the organization, coordinated fund-
raisers throughout Northern California, and as-
sembled community leaders to support the or-
ganization’s mission.
After establishing Golden Gate Salmon As-
sociation, Victor spearheaded its development
of a plan to restore Central Valley salmon
runs, utilizing available science and research
funded by the organization. This process
would be the beginning of a number of critical
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14FE8.023 E14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E184 February 14, 2019
restoration projects that the organization spon-
sored and successfully completed, with many
still underway.
Madam Speaker, as ocean life continues to
decline all over the world, organizations like
Golden Gate Salmon Association are critical in
protecting the natural habitat, wildlife, and fish-
eries that we all rely on and cherish. We
therefore ask our colleagues to join us in
thanking Victor Gonella for his tireless efforts
to not only protect valuable natural resources
but the communities that rely on them.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, due to family
illness on Wednesday, February 13th, I was
not present to cast my vote on the Motion to
Recommit on H.J. Res. 37 which contained a
provision denouncing anti-Semitism in all its
forms. I strongly agree with the motion’s de-
nunciation of anti-Semitism, and had I been
present my vote would have been ‘‘YEA’’ on
Roll Call No. 82. I also would have voted
‘‘YEA’’ on Roll Call No. 83.
f
HONORING PASTOR PIERCE’S
SIXTH ANNIVERSARY AT MOUNT
ZION BAPTIST CHURCH OF
GREENSBORO
HON. MARK WALKER
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. WALKER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Bishop Bryan J. Pierce’s sixth an-
niversary as the Senior Pastor and Chief Ex-
ecutive Officer of Mount Zion Baptist Church
of Greensboro. Beginning to preach at the age
of six and ordained by nineteen, Bishop Pierce
is a man after God’s own heart. It was in June
of 2011 that Bishop Pierce became the Chief
Administrative Officer at Mount Zion and
worked diligently until his elevation to Senior
Pastor on January 1, 2013. He strongly be-
lieves that he who serves the city, wins the
city, which is expressed through a Church-
wide campaign called No Greater Love, where
members of Mount Zion come together to
serve the Greensboro community. Also serv-
ing as 1st Assistant to 2nd Presiding Bishop,
Bishop Pierce is a noted songwriter, arranger
and producer. He successfully released his
first solo debut album, which reached No. 3 on
Billboard’s Top Gospel Albums Chart by cap-
turing an amazing sound that has facilitated
openings for the Glory of God to be mani-
fested in the lives of His people. With 20 years
of Senior Pastoral Leadership, we honor an-
other anniversary of service and the faithful fu-
ture he is sure to bring our community.
IN RECOGNITION OF PAMELA C.
ROBERTSON’S RETIREMENT
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I ask for the House’s attention to recognize
Pamela C. Robertson as she retires after
years of civil service.
A native of Anniston, Alabama, Robertson
graduated high school in 1976 and attended
Ayers State Technical College with a certifi-
cate of completion in Business and imme-
diately entered the workforce at AOD Federal
Credit Union in 1978.
She began her civilian government service
at Fort McClellan, Alabama, in 1979 as GSO4
Secretary-Steno. She served as Administrative
Assistant in the Foreign Student Allied Liaison
Office, Budget Assistant and Budget Analyst in
the U.S. Army Chemical School and Account-
ing Technician with the Federal Bureau of
Prisons in Talladega, Alabama. From 1988
until 1999, she worked as a Budget Analyst at
Fort McClellan. After Fort McClellan closed
due to BRAC, she transferred to the Anniston
Army Depot in the same capacity and become
the Budget Officer in 2007. She will retire as
Director of Resource Management, a position
she’s held since 2013.
Robertson has won several awards includ-
ing: The Superior Civilian Service Award
(Louis Dellamonica AMC outstanding person
of the year), AMC Commander’s coin, Army
Achievement Medal, several special acts and
performance awards.
She is involved in the Supervisory Com-
mittee of a local federal credit union and a vol-
unteer in the pre-school department of her
church. She’s also an active member of the
Chemical Corps Regimental Association,
Order of the Dragon.
In August 2019, Pamela Robertson will re-
tire with 40 years of primarily Army service.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating Pamela on her retirement and
thanking her for her service to our country.
f
TRIBUTE TO THEODORE JOSEPH
‘‘TED’’ STATON
HON. STEVE STIVERS
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Mr. STIVERS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
on behalf of the people of Ohio’s 15th Con-
gressional District to celebrate the life and leg-
acy of one of Upper Arlington, Ohio’s most
distinguished citizens, a man who devoted his
life to the service of others, Mr. Theodore Jo-
seph ‘‘Ted’’ Staton. His commitment to good,
ethical governance cannot be understated,
and he made a lasting impact on my city,
Upper Arlington.
An incredibly passionate and hardworking
man, Mr. Staton valiantly offered his skills to
Ohio serving as a City Manager for the City of
Upper Arlington since 2011. He displayed
strength and tenacity throughout his leader-
ship positions on the Executive Board of the
League of Women in Government, the Upper
Arlington Community Foundation Board of
Trustees, as the Chair of the Central Ohio
Mayors and Managers Association, and the
Mid-Ohio Regional Planning Commission. Mr.
Staton successfully led these organizations
gracefully though both prosperous and chal-
lenging times. He continuously propelled
Upper Arlington’s community towards a bright
and successful future.
To attempt to quantify the impact Mr. Staton
made is impossible. He was a firm believer in
the value of good, ethical governance. Due to
his proven track record of these values, Mr.
Staton was awarded the 2019 Outstanding
Mentor Award from the International City/
County Management Association; 2018 Upper
Arlington Stewardship Award, and 2018 Ohio
City Manager’s Association Award for Career
Achievement. His legacy will live on in the
memories of those who knew him and loved
him: his wife Carol; two sons, Paul and Ben-
net; and his extended family and friends.
As a dedicated public servant, community
leader, family man, friend, and mentor Mr.
Staton consistently seized upon new opportu-
nities to enrich the lives of others. He en-
hanced the teamwork and collaboration with
every organization he joined. Upper Arlington,
Ohio is undeniably a better place because of
Mr. Staton and the tremendous life of public
service he lived, and I am honored to cele-
brate his legacy.
f
HOMELESSNESS AND HOUSING
INSECURITY
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, today
I rise to join my colleagues in discussing the
disparaging effects of homelessness and
housing insecurity in our communities.
In 2018, communities across the country
faced a continuing housing affordability crisis
that left thousands of Americans homeless
and without any stable place to live.
For the second year in a row, the number
of people experiencing homelessness in the
United States increased.
In 2018, 552,830 people lived in emergency
shelters, transitional housing, or were not shel-
tered at all.
This is nearly 2,000 more people than in
2017.
This is an ongoing problem that demands
our immediate attention.
The state of Texas claims just under 9 per-
cent of the population of the United States.
Sadly, 23,548 people are homeless in
Texas.
This is 4 percent of the country’s entire
homeless population.
More than 10,000 men and women can be
found on the streets of Houston, homeless, on
any given night.
Of these, 3,000 are considered chronically
homeless.
Those who are categorized as chronically
homeless are people who have been continu-
ously homeless for a year or more or those
who have been homeless four or more times
in the past three years.
Many of the chronically homeless suffer
from a mental illness and/or a substance
abuse problem.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14FE8.026 E14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E185
February 14, 2019
Percy Lyons is one of these people whose
home does not come with an address.
Mr. Lyons has made his home under a
bridge.
He has all the comforts of home: a military
cot, tucked behind a cement barrier, for a bed;
a propane stove, hidden in a drainpipe, for
cooking and heat; and hollow cement blocks
function as shelves to hold his few articles of
clothing and an extra pair of shoes.
Mr. Lyons is just one of those 3,000 people
who are surviving on the streets of Houston.
Thankfully, Houston Police Department
(HPD) is trying to help meet the needs of the
city’s homeless population.
HPD has created the Homeless Outreach
Team.
This team is staffed with four officers, who
instead of responding to complaints or ordi-
nance violations, work on building relation-
ships with those who live on the streets.
These heroes work with Houston’s home-
less residents to navigate the social services
available and have helped hundreds of people
move off the streets and into permanent hous-
ing.
These officers can discuss success stories,
like that of Randall.
Randall spent over 30 years living on the
streets.
The Homeless Outreach Team was able to
help Randall get into a treatment program.
Unfortunately, there are not more stories
like Randall.
Instead, the majority of those who are
chronically homeless slip through the cracks,
unable to find their way through the complex
system of social services.
Each night in the United States of America
an estimated 553,000 men, women, and chil-
dren spend the night on the streets.
This is a national emergency.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:07 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A14FE8.031 E14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D161
Thursday, February 14, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate confirmed the nomination of William Pelham Barr, of Virginia,
to be Attorney General.
Senate agreed to the conference report to accompany H.J. Res. 31, Fur-
ther Continuing Appropriations.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1337–S1397
Measures Introduced: Fifty-one bills and nine reso-
lutions were introduced, as follows: S. 485–535, S.
Res. 71–77, and S. Con. Res. 4–5. Pages S1382–84
Measures Reported:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Further Revised Alloca-
tion to Subcommittees of Budget Totals for Fiscal
Year 2019’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–1) Page S1382
Measures Passed:
Honoring the Memory of the Victims of the
Senseless Attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas
High School: Senate agreed to S. Res. 71, honoring
the memory of the victims of the senseless attack at
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School 1 year ago.
Pages S1338–41
Justice for Victims of Lynching Act: Senate
passed S. 488, to amend title 18, United States
Code, to specify lynching as a deprivation of civil
rights. Pages S1345–47
Enrollment Correction: Senate agreed to S. Con.
Res. 4, providing for a correction in the enrollment
of H.J. Res. 31. Page S1364
Honoring the life, achievements, and distin-
guished public service of John David Dingell, Jr.
Senate agreed to S. Res. 75, honoring the life,
achievements, and distinguished public service of
John David Dingell, Jr., and expressing condolences
to his family on his passing. Pages S1392–93
National Speech and Debate Education Day:
Senate agreed to S. Res. 76, designating March 1,
2019, as ‘‘National Speech and Debate Education
Day’’. Pages S1392–93
National FFA Week: Senate agreed to S. Res. 77,
designating the week of February 16 through 23,
2019, as ‘‘National FFA Week,’’ recognizing the im-
portant role of the National FFA Organization in de-
veloping young leaders, and celebrating 50 years of
female membership in the National FFA Organiza-
tion. Pages S1392–93
Calling for credible, transparent, and safe elec-
tions in Nigeria: Committee on Foreign Relations
was discharged from further consideration of S. Con.
Res. 1, calling for credible, transparent, and safe
elections in Nigeria, and the resolution was then
agreed to, after agreeing to the following amend-
ments proposed thereto: Pages S1393–94
McConnell (for Menendez/Risch) Amendment No.
190, in the nature of a substitute. Page S1393
McConnell (for Menendez/Risch) Amendment No.
191, to amend the preamble. Page S1393
Enact into law a bill by reference: Senate passed
S. 483, to enact into law a bill by reference.
Page S1394
Measures Considered:
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act—
Agreement: Senate began consideration of the mo-
tion to proceed to consideration of S. 311, to amend
title 18, United States Code, to prohibit a health
care practitioner from failing to exercise the proper
degree of care in the case of a child who survives an
abortion or attempted abortion. Page S1364
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed, and, in accordance with the
provisions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of
the Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Thursday, February 14, 2019, a vote
on cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m. on Monday, Feb-
ruary 25, 2019. Page S1364
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14FE9.REC D14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D162 February 14, 2019
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that following the closing of morning busi-
ness on Monday, February 25, 2019, Senator Fischer
be recognized to deliver Washington’s Farewell Ad-
dress; that following the address, Senate resume con-
sideration of the motion to proceed to consideration
of the bill; and that notwithstanding the provisions
of Rule XXII, the cloture motions filed during the
session of Thursday, February 14, 2019 ripen at 5:30
p.m. on Monday, February 25, 2019. Page S1394
Conference Reports:
Further Continuing Appropriations: By 83 yeas
to 16 nays (Vote No. 26), Senate agreed to the con-
ference report to accompany H.J. Res. 31, making
further continuing appropriations for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2019.
Pages S1362–64
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 84 yeas to 15 nays (Vote No. 25), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on the conference report to
accompany the joint resolution. Page S1364
Department of Homeland Security Further Con-
tinuing Appropriations—Agreement: A unani-
mous-consent agreement was reached providing that
notwithstanding Rule XXII, the vote on the motion
to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to con-
sideration of H.J. Res. 1, making further continuing
appropriations for the Department of Homeland Se-
curity for fiscal year 2019, occur at a time to be de-
termined by the Majority Leader, in consultation
with the Democratic Leader. Page S1338
Signing Authority—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that Sen-
ators Fischer and Boozman be authorized to sign
duly enrolled bills or joint resolutions on Friday,
February 15, 2019. Page S1392
Pro Forma Sessions—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
Senate adjourn, to then convene for pro forma ses-
sions only, with no business being conducted on the
following dates and times, and that following each
pro forma session, the Senate adjourn until the next
pro forma session:
Friday, February 15, 2019, at 7 a.m.; Tuesday,
February 19, at 10 a.m.; Thursday, February 21,
2019, at 10 a.m.; and that when the Senate adjourns
on Thursday, February 21, 2019, it next convene at
3 p.m., on Monday, February 25, 2019. Page S1394
Miller Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Eric D. Miller, of
Washington, to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Ninth Circuit. Page S1365
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of S. 311, to amend title 18, United States Code, to
prohibit a health care practitioner from failing to ex-
ercise the proper degree of care in the case of a child
who survives an abortion or attempted abortion.
Page S1365
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S1365
Desmond Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of Michael J.
Desmond, of California, to be Chief Counsel for the
Internal Revenue Service and an Assistant General
Counsel in the Department of the Treasury.
Page S1365
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Eric D. Miller, of Washington,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit. Page S1365
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S1365
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S1365
Wheeler Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Andrew Wheeler, of
Virginia, to be Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency. Page S1365
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Michael J. Desmond, of Cali-
fornia, to be Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue
Service and an Assistant General Counsel in the De-
partment of the Treasury. Page S1365
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S1365
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S1365
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14FE9.REC D14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D163
February 14, 2019
Ryder Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of John L. Ryder, of Ten-
nessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of
the Tennessee Valley Authority. Page S1365
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia,
to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency. Page S1365
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S1365
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S1365
Lowry Nomination—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
nomination of John Lowry III, of Illinois, to be As-
sistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment
and Training, be referred jointly to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. Page S1374
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 54 yeas to 45 nays (Vote No. EX. 24), Wil-
liam Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be Attorney Gen-
eral. Pages S1338, S1353, S1397
Messages from the House: Page S1382
Measures Referred: Page S1382
Measures Placed on the Calendar:
Pages S1337, S1382
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S1384–85
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S1385–91
Additional Statements: Pages S1379–81
Amendments Submitted: Pages S1391–92
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S1392
Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today.
(Total—26) Pages S1353, S1364
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:29 p.m., until 7 a.m. on Friday, Feb-
ruary 15, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S1394.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION REQUEST AND
FUTURE YEARS DEFENSE PROGRAM
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine United States Special Operations
Command and United States Cyber Command in re-
view of the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal
year 2020 and the Future Years Defense Program,
after receiving testimony from Owen O. West, As-
sistant Secretary, Special Operations and Low-Inten-
sity Conflict, General Raymond A. Thomas, III,
USA, Commander, United States Special Operations
Command, and General Paul M. Nakasone, USA,
Commander, United States Cyber Command, Direc-
tor, National Security Agency, and Chief, Central Se-
curity Service, all of the Department of Defense.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the
nominations of Bimal Patel, of Georgia, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of the Treasury, Todd M. Harper,
of Virginia, and Rodney Hood, of North Carolina,
both to be a Member of the National Credit Union
Administration Board, and Mark Anthony Calabria,
of Virginia, to be Director of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, after the nominees testified and an-
swered questions in their own behalf.
ENERGY INDUSTRY CYBERSECURITY
EFFORTS
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the status and out-
look for cybersecurity efforts in the energy industry,
after receiving testimony from Neil Chatterjee,
Chairman, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
and Karen S. Evans, Assistant Secretary, Office of
Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Re-
sponse, both of the Department of Energy; Major
William J. Keber, West Virginia National Guard’s
Critical Infrastructure Protection Battalion,
Kingwood; James B. Robb, North American Electric
Reliability Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia; and David
Edward Whitehead, Schweitzer Engineering Labora-
tories, Inc., Pullman, Washington.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee announced the following subcommittee as-
signments for the 116th Congress:
Subcommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure:
Senators Capito (Chair), Inhofe, Cramer, Braun,
Rounds, Sullivan, Boozman, Wicker, Shelby, Cardin,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14FE9.REC D14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D164 February 14, 2019
Sanders, Whitehouse, Merkley, Gillibrand, Booker,
Markey, and Van Hollen.
Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife: Sen-
ators Cramer (Chair), Capito, Braun, Sullivan, Booz-
man, Wicker, Shelby, Duckworth, Cardin, Sanders,
Whitehouse, Merkley, and Van Hollen.
Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety: Sen-
ators Braun (Chair), Inhofe, Capito, Cramer, Rounds,
Sullivan, Boozman, Wicker, Ernst, Whitehouse,
Cardin, Sanders, Merkley, Gillibrand, Booker, Mar-
key, and Duckworth.
Subcommittee on Superfund, Waste Management, and
Regulatory Oversight: Senators Rounds (Chair), Inhofe,
Shelby, Ernst, Booker, Gillibrand, and Markey.
Senators Barrasso and Carper serve as ex-officio mem-
bers of each subcommittee.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee met in
closed session to receive a briefing on certain intel-
ligence matters from officials of the intelligence
community.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 77 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1219–1295; and 6 resolutions, H.
Con. Res. 19 and H. Res. 132–136 were introduced.
Pages H2028–33
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H2035–36
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 131, providing for consideration of the
conference report to accompany the joint resolution
(H.J. Res. 31) making further continuing appropria-
tions for the Department of Homeland Security for
fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes, and pro-
viding for proceedings during the period from Feb-
ruary 15, 2019, through February 22, 2019 (H.
Rept. 116–10). Page H2028
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Peters to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H1997
Recess: The House recessed at 10:54 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H2003
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, Chaplain,
United States Senate, Washington, DC. Page H2003
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Page H2003
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion—Appointment: The Chair announced the
Speaker’s appointment of the following Members on
the part of the House to the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution: Representatives Matsui and
Roybal-Allard. Page H2007
United States Group of the NATO Parliamen-
tary Assembly—Appointment: The Chair an-
nounced the Speaker’s appointment of the following
Member on the part of the House to the United
States Group of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly:
Representative Vela. Page H2007
Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Cen-
ter for Performing Arts—Appointment: The
Chair announced the Speaker’s appointment of the
following Members on the part of the House to the
Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for
Performing Arts: Representatives Kennedy and
Beatty. Page H2007
Joint Economic Committee—Appointment: The
Chair announced the Speaker’s appointment of the
following Members on the part of the House to the
Joint Economic Committee: Representatives Beyer,
Heck, Trone, Beatty, and Frankel. Page H2007
United States Holocaust Memorial Council—Ap-
pointment: The Chair announced the Speaker’s ap-
pointment of the following Members on the part of
the House to the United States Holocaust Memorial
Council: Representatives Deutch, Schneider, and
Lewis. Page H2007
Recess: The House recessed at 12:35 p.m. and re-
convened at 6:27 p.m. Page H2007
Making further continuing appropriations for
the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal
year 2019: The House agreed to the conference re-
port to accompany the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 31)
making further continuing appropriations for the
Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year
2019, by a yea-and-nay vote of 300 yeas to 128
nays, Roll No. 87. Pages H2016–25
H. Res. 131, the rule providing for consideration
of the conference report to accompany the joint reso-
lution (H.J. Res. 31) was agreed to by a yea-and-nay
vote of 230 yeas to 196 nays, Roll No. 86, after the
previous question was ordered by a yea-and-nay vote
of 229 yeas to 195 nays, Roll No. 85. Pages H2008–16
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14FE9.REC D14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D165
February 14, 2019
Providing for a correction in the enrollment of
H.J. Res. 31: The House agreed to take from the
Speaker’s table and agree to S. Con. Res. 4, pro-
viding for a correction in the enrollment of H.J. Res.
31. Page H2024
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 10 a.m. tomorrow, February 15th. Page H2024
Senate Referrals: S. Con. Res. 4 was held at the
desk. S. 488 was referred to the Committee on the
Judiciary. Page H2026
Senate Messages: Messages received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appear on pages H2007–08.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H2015, H2016, and H2023–24. There
were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 9:21 p.m.
Committee Meetings
FOR THE PEOPLE: OUR AMERICAN
DEMOCRACY
Committee on House Administration: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘For the People: Our Amer-
ican Democracy’’. Testimony was heard from Kim
Wyman, Secretary of State, Washington; and public
witnesses.
CONFERENCE REPORT TO ACCOMPANY
MAKING FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE DEPARTMENT
OF HOMELAND SECURITY FOR FISCAL
YEAR 2019, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
the Conference Report to accompany H.J. Res. 31,
making further continuing appropriations for the
Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year
2019, and for other purposes. [Consolidated Appro-
priations Act, 2019]. The Committee granted, by
record vote of 8–4, a rule providing for consideration
of the Conference Report to accompany H.J. Res.
31, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019. The
rule waives all points of order against the conference
report and against its consideration. The rule pro-
vides that the conference report shall be considered
as read. The rule provides that the previous question
shall be considered as ordered without intervention
of any motion except one hour of debate and one
motion to recommit if applicable. Debate on the
conference report is divided pursuant to clause 8(d)
of rule XXII. Section 2 of the rule provides that on
any legislative day during the period from February
15, 2019, through February 22, 2019: the Journal
of the proceedings of the previous day shall be con-
sidered as approved; and the Chair may at any time
declare the House adjourned to meet at a date and
time to be announced by the Chair in declaring the
adjournment. Section 3 of the rule provides that the
Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties
of the Chair for the duration of the period addressed
by section 2. Testimony was heard from Representa-
tives Biggs, Cloud, Roy, and Davidson of Ohio.
Joint Meetings
DHS FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS
On Wednesday, February 13, 2019, Conferees
agreed to file a conference report on the differences
between the Senate and House passed versions of
H.J. Res. 31, making further continuing appropria-
tions for the Department of Homeland Security for
fiscal year 2019.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
FEBRUARY 15, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D14FE9.REC D14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D166 February 14, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
7 a.m., Friday, February 15
Senate Chamber
Program for Friday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Friday, February 15
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 10 a.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E182
Bost, Mike, Ill., E180
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E180
Buck, Ken, Colo., E178
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E178, E179
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E182
Butterfield, G.K., N.C., E182
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E179, E181
Cooper, Jim, Tenn., E181
Gaetz, Matt, Fla., E181
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E177
Granger, Kay, Tex., E178
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E181
Hern, Kevin, Okla., E178
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E180
Huffman, Jared, Calif., E183
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E184
Kaptur, Marcy, Ohio, E178
Lawrence, Brenda L., Mich., E180
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E178
McGovern, James P., Mass., E183
Raja, Krishnamoorthi, Ill., E177
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E184
Ryan, Tim, Ohio, E179, E184
Shimkus, John, Ill., E183
Simpson, Michael K., Idaho, E181
Stauber, Pete, Minn., E179
Stivers, Steve, Ohio, E184
Visclosky, Peter J., Ind., E177
Walker, Mark, N.C., E184
Young, Don, Alaska, E180, E182
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D14FE9.REC D14FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
