Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H7247
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JULY 24, 2019 No. 125
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. CUELLAR).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
July 24, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable HENRY
CUELLAR to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
RECOGNIZING RALPH AND
CHRISTINE BROWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX) for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, we all have been privileged to
know people in our communities who
have led remarkable lives but are un-
sung heroes. Today, I want to highlight
one such couple whom I have come to
know and admire.
I rise to recognize Ralph and Chris-
tine Brown, a remarkable couple and
role models for all the rest of us.
They grew up in families of very
modest means. While working full
time, Ralph began a one-man security
business in 1963. What started as Lake
Norman Security Patrol, Inc., ex-
panded into two of the most successful
businesses in North Carolina and the
country: Security Central and
AlarmSouth.
Ralph learned the importance of se-
curity while serving as a U.S. Army po-
liceman and turned his knowledge into
security and patrol services for homes
and commercial entities.
At his side was Christine, his bril-
liant helpmate. They have a wonderful
and philanthropic family that is car-
rying on the family tradition and busi-
ness into the third generation.
Ralph and Christine’s success has not
only become a family legacy but has
benefited numerous good causes in the
community through their generosity,
including the American Heart Associa-
tion, the United Way, and Grandfather
Home for Children.
Having inspiration and determina-
tion combined with hard work was
their recipe for remarkable success.
The Browns are proof that the Amer-
ican Dream is alive and well.
RECOGNIZING DKG IN REGION IX OF NORTH
CAROLINA
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to congratulate Region
IX of the North Carolina State Organi-
zation of the Delta Kappa Gamma Soci-
ety on their achievements at the State
convention in Hickory, North Carolina.
Region IX makes up eight chapters
across North Carolina’s Fifth District
and took home five achievement
awards, three communications excel-
lence awards, and two newsletter and
website awards.
These recognitions speak to the
chapter’s success in its mission to pro-
mote the professional and personal
growth of women educators and excel-
lence in education.
As an educator myself, I know the in-
credible difference it makes to have op-
portunities for mentorship, profes-
sional development, and scholarships.
The society invites members who are
dedicated to education in different
fields, both active and retired, to build
up future leaders at the local level. As
we all know, the local level is where
the best practices and policies in edu-
cation come from.
Knowing that young educators in the
Fifth District have such talented and
locally engaged women behind them
makes me very proud. These women
are shining examples of the powerful
impact that organizing within our
communities has on future genera-
tions.
f
NAACP AGAIN MAKES HISTORY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
and still I rise, proud to be an Amer-
ican and, today, I would also say, proud
to be a member of the Nation’s oldest
civil rights organization, the NAACP.
I am especially proud to be a member
of the NAACP today because, yester-
day, the NAACP became the first of the
civil rights and human rights organiza-
tions to take a stand against bigotry,
xenophobia, homophobia,
Islamophobia, hatred, and racism by
passing a resolution at its national
convention calling for the impeach-
ment of the President.
And still I rise, proud, Mr. Speaker,
to be associated with this organization.
This is not its first time taking a stand
on behalf of the American people.
It was the NAACP that filed Shelley
v. Kraemer and Barrows v. Jackson,
outlawing restrictive covenants that
prevented people of color from living in
certain neighborhoods.
It was the NAACP that filed and won
Brown v. Board of Education, which,
literally, took on and eviscerated seg-
regation—lawful segregation, I might
add—in this country.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.000 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7248 July 24, 2019
It was the NAACP that guided the
Supreme Court of the United States of
America for almost a quarter of a cen-
tury under the leadership of Associate
Justice Thurgood Marshall. He was the
lawyer who took Brown v. Board of
Education before the Supreme Court.
He was the lawyer who was the chief
legal counsel for the NAACP. He sat on
the Supreme Court. He guided the Su-
preme Court.
The NAACP, again, makes history,
and I am proud to be associated with
this great organization.
Mr. Speaker, I would also add that
we are now some 98 days since the
Mueller report was called to the atten-
tion of the public, 98 days since it was
made public, 98 days since the Chief
Executive has been above the law.
Mr. Mueller is testifying today. To-
morrow, I will start another acid test
wherein I will show the number of days
that the President has been above the
law since Mr. Mueller himself testified
in Congress.
Mr. Speaker, we are living in some
very challenging times—very chal-
lenging times—but Dr. King reminded
us that the truest measure of a person
in times such as this is not where you
stand in those times of comfort and
convenience but where you stand in
these times of challenge and con-
troversy.
I am proud to know that the NAACP
stands for liberty and justice for all,
stands for the people of the United
States of America, as it has histori-
cally. And I shall continue to stand and
be a member of the NAACP.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
KANSANS WANT CONGRESS TO
SOLVE PROBLEMS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, the
circus is back in town. I can hear the
music all the way over here in the Cap-
itol, the music of that merry-go-round
going on in the Judiciary Committee
right now, as we speak.
Yes, Mr. Mueller is here now for the
fifth congressional hearing on this
same issue, on this witch hunt. This is
a cheap, made-for-TV television movie
that is now going back and reviewing
everything, allowing Mr. Mueller to sit
there and read the report that he sub-
mitted days and weeks ago.
Mr. Speaker, the frustration is that,
back home, we have done over 63 town
halls, and I can count on one hand the
number of times somebody has ever
asked me about the Mueller report or
Russiamania.
What Kansans want is for Congress to
stand up and solve the problems in
front of us.
The USMCA agreement, the NAFTA–
2.0 agreement, is sitting on the Speak-
er of the House’s desk. Nothing would
do more for Kansas right now, both
Kansas agriculture and Kansas manu-
facturing, than to get that agreement
passed. It would mean thousands of
jobs for Kansans. It would mean hun-
dreds of millions of dollars more in-
come for Kansans as well.
We are tired of this witch hunt. We
want to move on. We want to move on
and fix problems. The problem is the
Democrats don’t want to challenge us
on issues and on policy. Instead, they
want to attack the President because
their policies won’t stand the test of
the American public or the test of
time.
BRING IRAN TO THE TABLE
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, we
don’t want war in Iran. We don’t want
war in the Middle East. We don’t want
war anywhere.
Mr. Speaker, I try to talk to my par-
ents every week—every Sunday, typi-
cally. My parents seldom offer me ad-
vice, but the last thing my dad re-
cently said to me was, ‘‘Roger, don’t
send our troops into battle.’’
Mr. Speaker, we must, however,
make every effort to ensure Tehran
does not have access to nuclear weap-
ons. We must stop them from fueling
global terror and endangering Ameri-
cans and our allies around the world.
Like many other Kansans, I have
served our country in uniform. None of
us want war in Iran. That is not my
goal, and it is not the President’s goal.
We must, however, guarantee Iran
never has access to nuclear weapons
and that they stop funding and arming
terror around the world.
They are very evil actors. They are
not a normal country. They seek the
destruction of the United States and
our closest ally in the Middle East,
Israel.
I support any effort to bring Iran to
the table for a deal that addresses both
of these important goals. The best way
to do this is to continue to apply max-
imum pressure on Iran.
Mr. Speaker, Iran has been respon-
sible for the death of hundreds, perhaps
thousands, of American soldiers during
the Iraq war through their supply of
IEDs. They chant ‘‘death to America,’’
and as I said, they threaten our allies.
This is an issue of great importance to
the safety and security of this Nation.
Mr. Speaker, if I haven’t said it be-
fore, we don’t want war. We just want
Iran to act like a normal country. Nor-
mal countries don’t take other coun-
try’s ships hostage. Normal countries
don’t shoot down American drones.
Normal countries don’t ship IEDs to
terrorists to kill Americans. Normal
countries don’t fund terrorism.
We cannot sit idly by on our hands as
we watch Iran seize ships and continue
to hold the Nation hostage. Instead, I
believe, like President Reagan and, be-
fore him, President Eisenhower, that
we best have peace through strength.
We need to keep the maximum pres-
sure, keep the faith, work with our al-
lies, and get Iran to the table.
My fellow Americans, please join me
in prayer as our Nation’s officials
make this effort to ensure peace and
increase stability in the region.
f
USDA RULE CHANGE WILL KICK
MILLIONS OFF SNAP
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. COSTA) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to call attention to the administra-
tion’s proposal, its recent attack on
some of the most vulnerable Ameri-
cans, the 38 million people who rely on
the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program, otherwise known as SNAP.
The USDA, United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture, announced yester-
day a rule change to the eligibility for
the program. This change would kick
millions of Americans—seniors, chil-
dren, and their families—off a program
that provides critical assistance. It is a
safety net.
This change would weaken our abil-
ity to provide support for working peo-
ple who are struggling to get by month
to month.
It would have a huge impact in my
district. Unfortunately, 25 percent of
my constituents depend upon the Sup-
plemental Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram monthly to provide nutrition for
themselves and their families.
As a member of the conference com-
mittee that negotiated the 2018 farm
bill, these suggestions were a part of
the discussion. We opposed them. We
fought successfully to include ex-
panded SNAP eligibility requirements,
and Congress agreed.
That is why I fought to expand the
employment and training programs
that we do in SNAP in the Fresno
Bridge Academy, to equip recipients
with the necessary tools to get back on
their feet, to make them self-suffi-
cient. That is what we should be doing.
Guess what: The President supported
it when he signed the farm bill into law
last December. He needs to remain con-
sistent.
I will fight for families, for seniors,
and for children. The bottom line is
this: SNAP is a helpful program to sup-
port people in their time of need with
achieving self-sufficiency. It is part of
America’s safety net.
We must block this egregious at-
tempt to administratively do what
Congress did not do last December.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
stand with me and oppose this attack
on some of our Nation’s most vulner-
able populations.
HIGHLIGHTING THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE
HOUSE IN THE LAST 6 MONTHS
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I call to
the attention of the House of Rep-
resentatives what we have achieved in
the last 6 months, many of these pieces
of legislation on a bipartisan basis.
We have passed 10 bills to reduce the
price of healthcare; lower prescription
drugs costs, which our communities
want us to do; and strengthen protec-
tions for people with preexisting condi-
tions—reducing the cost of drugs and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.003 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7249
July 24, 2019
strengthening protections for pre-
existing conditions to protect those in-
dividuals.
We passed the Equality Act to ensure
that every American enjoys the same
rights and is protected equally under
the law. The Equality Act is so impor-
tant.
I fought to improve our water infra-
structure, to address the strain on this
precious resource brought by drought
and climate change to ensure that we
have clean, safe drinking water for all
of our communities.
In the San Joaquin Valley, sadly, we
have many communities that don’t
enjoy clean, safe drinking water stand-
ards.
b 1015
I have worked hard to implement the
farm bill, to lead education and out-
reach programs for farm programs to
help farmers improve not only their
water sustainability, but their ability
to market their crops.
In immigration, we have passed the
funding bills to help alleviate the hu-
manitarian crisis at our border and ad-
vanced legislation to secure a pathway
to citizenship for millions of undocu-
mented immigrants currently living in
the United States; our Dreamers, over
800,000, who came here through no
choice of their own, and for them
America is the only country they have
ever known. They need and deserve
legal status.
I am proud that, in the last 6 months
of work, this week we will consider
H.R. 3239, the Humanitarian Standards
for Individuals in Customs and Border
Protection Custody Act.
Many of us have been to the borders,
and we do have a humanitarian crisis
there, and we need to do what is right.
We need to ensure that those individ-
uals receive good standards of water,
beds, and access to healthcare, and
that they are treated humanely. That
is the American way. These are basic
living standards.
Finally, the budget deal that was
agreed to on a bipartisan basis over the
weekend is important, not only as it
relates to our discretionary and non-
discretionary spending for the next 2
years lifting the budget cap, but in ad-
dition to that, to ensuring that we
produce a budget on time; that we
avoid a government shutdown; that we
ensure that our men and women serv-
ing in American Armed Forces have
the adequate funding that they need;
that our veterans get the support and
our VA hospitals that we have prom-
ised them.
These are the things that are part of
an overall budget deal. It avoids the
kind of circus that we had over the last
year where we had a government shut-
down, a government shutdown we
should never have. We should never
have that impact on our economy; our
Federal workers to be expected—
whether they be in air traffic control
or food safety—to go to work and not
to receive a check. That is irrespon-
sible.
So the budget deal is good. It is a bi-
partisan effort. It, frankly, gives the
sort of discretion that Congress needs
to make budget decisions to prioritize
our needs in America.
So, for that, I thank the Congress.
f
CONGRATULATING SAINT FRANCIS
UNIVERSITY ON THEIR APPA-
LACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION
GRANT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratu-
late Saint Francis University on a
well-deserved grant from the Appa-
lachian Regional Commission, other-
wise known as ARC.
ARC recently announced Saint
Francis University as the recipient of a
$150,000 grant to support advanced pa-
tient simulation training equipment
for the university’s new Health Science
Experiential Learning Commons that
will open this October.
The Commons will include much-
needed space for classroom, laboratory,
and clinical education, including five
state-of-the-art simulation suites
where students can practice real life
clinical scenarios on computer-con-
trolled mannequins with the assistance
of their instructors through two-way
audio-video conferencing.
The grant will be used to invest in
this cutting-edge technology to provide
students with the technology needed to
close the skills gap and better prepare
them for situations they will likely en-
counter in their professional careers.
Saint Francis University has com-
mitted itself to career and technical
education in the health science field,
and this grant will help provide hun-
dreds of students with the training nec-
essary to prepare for rewarding careers
and, quite frankly, service to their
community.
Investments like these are playing a
critical role in developing the 21st cen-
tury American workforce, in devel-
oping a workforce full of talented indi-
viduals who can help meet today’s
ever-growing demand for healthcare
professionals.
Pennsylvania’s 15th Congressional
District, in particular, is in need of
healthcare professionals, and Saint
Francis students are rising to the occa-
sion. The grant will not only support
current Saint Francis students; ARC
rightfully noted, ‘‘local employers will
have access to a pipeline of highly-
skilled healthcare professionals to
meet labor demands, help create jobs
and expand the local economy, and pro-
vide quality healthcare to citizens in
Appalachian Pennsylvania.’’
Reverend Malachi Van Tassell, Presi-
dent of Saint Francis University, noted
the value that this grant adds for the
students who are seeking an education
in health science. He said, ‘‘This equip-
ment will allow our students to prac-
tice hands-on patient care procedures
in a simulated environment and to
learn how to work in an interprofes-
sional, team-based setting. Beyond the
benefit to our students, it will also en-
able us to provide advanced training
opportunities to area emergency med-
ical services personnel and first re-
sponders.’’
Mr. Speaker, this grant is not just an
investment in Saint Francis, it is an
investment in Pennsylvania’s 15th Con-
gressional District. It is an investment
in the lifeblood of our local commu-
nities.
When we empower learners and pro-
vide them with the necessary resources
for a conducive, innovative learning
environment, our students will thrive
personally and professionally, and will
provide the best possible care to Penn-
sylvanians in need.
f
COMMEMORATING ASSYRIAN
GENOCIDE MEMORIAL DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. HARDER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HARDER of California. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to commemorate
August 7, Assyrian Genocide Memorial
Day.
Many Americans are already familiar
with the horrors of the Armenian geno-
cide. But not nearly as many know
about the genocide of innocent Assyr-
ian civilians by the Ottoman Empire;
which is why I am leading a resolution
to finally recognize the genocide of As-
syrians in the Middle East.
Many of my Assyrian friends and
neighbors in California’s Central Val-
ley still carry the weight of this hor-
rific event.
Beginning in 1914, the Ottoman Em-
pire is estimated to have slaughtered
300,000 innocent Assyrians; but some
experts believe the true death toll is
much higher. On August 7, Shovah
b’tabakh, we remember those who were
lost, and we say never again.
My resolution would take simple
steps to do both. It would assert that
Turkey, the inheritor of the Ottoman
tradition, must recognize the genocide;
and it would condemn any efforts to as-
sociate the U.S. with genocide denial.
My resolution would recognize the
resilience of the Assyrian people who
endured the genocide, the Simele mas-
sacre, and are now threatened once
again by holdouts in ISIS. And they
have survived all of this without a
homeland to call their own.
Today, we remember the Sadih, the
martyrs. We think of their families. We
recommit ourselves to upholding the
rights of all people to live freely and in
safety.
f
AMERICA IS AN AMAZING PLACE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. MITCHELL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, Amer-
ica is an amazing place, and we too
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7250 July 24, 2019
often, as Americans, take that for
granted. Opportunities exist in this
country that simply aren’t available in
much of the world. And my life is an
example of the extraordinary possibili-
ties in the United States of America.
I ask you, where else can a kid, born
in poverty, beginning life in a sub-
sidized housing project, become a na-
tional legislator? Yet, here I stand as a
Member of Congress.
In how many countries can the oldest
of seven children with parents that are
an hourly auto worker and an office
worker for the Salvation Army, be-
come the first in their extended family
to graduate from college, build a ca-
reer, become the CEO of a major work-
force development company and, after
retiring, be elected to Congress?
America is a truly unique and special
place that we must love and respect
with all our heart and soul.
My mother raised me to believe that
those with talents and resources were
expected by God to make a difference
in the world. I tried to do that in my
career throughout my life.
My mission for 35 years was to assist
people in identifying and securing ca-
reer opportunities. My professional ca-
reer allowed me to support my family,
while assisting adults of all ages and
backgrounds to develop the skills to
support their families and build ca-
reers.
I assisted individuals ranging from
laid-off steel workers and auto work-
ers, to long-term public assistant re-
cipients, develop the skills they needed
to build a career and support their fam-
ilies.
I worked with individuals requiring
literacy education, English as a second
language, and adults that had worked
their same job their entire lives, and
suddenly found their jobs and indus-
tries had evaporated, and their lives
turned upside down.
I worked, in some way or another,
with tens of thousands of people
searching for assistance in securing a
job and a career path. I believed then,
and I continue to believe, that most
Americans find value and opportunity
in working. Sometimes they just need
a hand and assistance to overcome ad-
versity.
I brought that passion and commit-
ment to Washington. My mission was
to make a difference in the world. I lit-
erally approached being a Member of
Congress like my career, full tilt, leav-
ing no stone unturned to have a mean-
ingful impact and to make a difference.
It is an honor to stand on this floor,
debate issues, and represent the people
of Michigan’s 10th District. I am proud
to be among the 12,500 or so that have
had the privilege to serve in Congress.
But I have also begun to ask myself
about making a difference in my fam-
ily. My children of all ages, the young-
est just 9, have accepted their dad trav-
eling the country, working a demand-
ing schedule, frequently interrupted by
text messages, emails, and phone calls.
My spouse, Sherry, has been so sup-
portive and more patient than probably
warranted.
A career in Washington was never my
objective. My mission has always been
to simply address significant chal-
lenges this Nation faces: Trade,
healthcare, immigration, and infra-
structure, to name just a few.
However, it appears to me that rhet-
oric overwhelms policy, and politics
consumes much of the oxygen in this
city.
The time has come to make a dif-
ference for my family, to focus my
time and energy upon them, their
needs, their goals.
George Washington is quoted as say-
ing: ‘‘I would rather be on my farm
than emperor of the world.’’
As a result, I have decided I will not
seek to represent Michigan’s 10th Con-
gressional District next term. After
serving out the remainder of the 116th
Congress, I will return to my family
and to our small farm.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF LARRY N. OLINGER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. RUIZ) for 5 minutes.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to honor Larry N. Olinger, Vice Chair-
man of the Agua Caliente Band of
Cahuilla Indians, a dedicated, inspiring
leader who passed away July 15, 2019, at
the age of 80.
Vice Chairman Olinger grew up in
Palm Springs and, later, in Orange
County, where he spent many years
breeding and racing horses.
From a young age, Vice Chairman
Olinger was drawn to enacting positive
change in his community through pub-
lic service.
Vice Chairman Olinger was first
elected to Tribal Council in 1961, where
he began his 60-year career. He went on
to serve in every position on Tribal
Council, including secretary, treasurer,
chairman, and eventually vice chair-
man in 2012.
As the first chairman of the Agua
Caliente Development Authority,
Olinger championed gaming as a Tribal
business enterprise, stimulating eco-
nomic growth and strengthening Tribal
sovereignty.
His leadership also spanned from the
Native American Rights Fund to the
State of California and the Coachella
Valley Mountains Conservancy, where
he advocated for the protection of our
communities’ natural and cultural re-
sources.
Our communities have lost a great
man and generational leader in Vice
Chairman Olinger’s passing. His pas-
sion, class, and concern for the well-
being of others, including his Tribe and
our surrounding communities, was ad-
mirable.
I have always admired Chairman
Olinger’s strong character and lifelong
commitment to learning; and I will
deeply miss his caring nature and dry
sense of humor.
Vice Chairman Olinger often called
his ‘‘proudest achievement’’ his mar-
riage to his wife, Susan.
Susan, my heart goes out to you and
the entire Olinger family.
I also send my heartfelt condolences
to the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla
Indians.
We will miss Vice Chairman Olinger
deeply; but we can honor his legacy by
loving our neighbors, caring for the
Earth, and protecting and respecting
the rich culture and sovereignty of
Tribal communities.
b 1030
HONORING JESUS RIVERA OSUNA
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to honor Jesus Rivera Osuna, a soft-
spoken, true family man, who passed
away on June 28, 2019, at the age of 74.
Mr. Osuna is the father of my child-
hood best friend, Oscar Osuna. I spent
so much time at the Osuna home that
they became my second family, and
Mr. Osuna always made me feel wel-
come and part of the family.
I remember his patience, humility,
and loving and calming nature. He was
also a kind, stable, and secure male
role model in our rough-and-tumble
impoverished community.
Mr. Osuna was a hardworking man
and ran his own business for 50 years,
toiling in the hot desert Sun to repair
air-conditioning units in the Coachella
Valley community.
He was also a great guitar player. I
would listen in amazement to Mr.
Osuna play classical guitar alone in his
room after a long day at work. He was
always so humble. He would stop play-
ing if he noticed anybody nearby, so I
would quietly listen from Oscar’s room
in awe of his talent.
Mr. Osuna married his high school
sweetheart, Mary Lou, at 24 years old,
and together they raised four children,
my second family brothers and sis-
ters—Elvia, Sergio, Oscar, and Lila—
three nephews, and supported Mr.
Osuna’s mother. Mr. and Mrs. Osuna’s
family has grown to include four
grandchildren.
Even in his final days, Mr. Osuna re-
fused to be a burden to his family as he
battled the illness that ultimately
took his life.
To the Osuna family, I love you, and
your dad’s story is engraved in my
heart and now recorded in our Nation’s
history.
f
HONORING SERGEANT MIKE
STEPHEN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. CRAWFORD) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor one of our Nation’s fall-
en first responders, Sergeant Mike Ste-
phen, who was killed in the line of duty
on July 18.
Sergeant Stephen was a true public
servant, having served Arkansas and
our Nation as a law enforcement offi-
cer, firefighter, and soldier.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.006 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7251
July 24, 2019
Sergeant Stephen began his career as
a first responder when he was just 16
years old, following in his father’s foot-
steps by joining the Calico Rock Fire
Department.
As a soldier, Mike Stephen rose to
the rank of sergeant first class. As a
firefighter, Mike Stephen led the Pine-
ville Volunteer Fire Department while
he served as a sheriff’s deputy. He in-
stilled his values and dedication to
public service and his family, all of
whom served as volunteer firefighters.
Whenever a call came to the Stephen
home, the entire family responded.
As a career law enforcement officer,
Sergeant Stephen served in the Moun-
tain View Police Department, Arkan-
sas Department of Corrections, and, ul-
timately, the Stone County Sheriff’s
Office. Beloved by his colleagues, Ser-
geant Stephen viewed public service as
more than a job. He was always on call
24/7, ready to assist his community in
any way. He advocated for first re-
sponders by testifying before the Ar-
kansas General Assembly.
On Thursday, July 18, Sergeant Ste-
phen responded to his final call. Early
that morning, Sergeant Stephen re-
sponded to a domestic welfare call in
Leslie, Arkansas. As Stephen per-
formed his duties, shots were fired, and
Stephen was struck fatally, as was the
suspected shooter.
As Arkansas mourns the loss of Ser-
geant Mike Stephen, I ask my col-
leagues to join me in extending my
condolences to the Stephen family and
honoring the life of a true public serv-
ant who gave his life protecting the
community he loved.
f
OUR COUNTRY’S ATTENTION IS
FOCUSED ON THE MUELLER RE-
PORT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY) for 5
minutes.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, today
much of our country’s attention is fo-
cused on the hearing happening across
the street from where we stand. For
weeks, pundits have been speculating:
What else would the special counsel re-
veal? Where is that smoking gun or the
viral moment?
These questions are understandable,
but they also obscure a powerful tool
already at this body’s disposal as we
consider whether or not to hold the
President accountable: what we al-
ready know. And for that, we turn to
the special counsel’s report.
Volume I details a ‘‘sweeping and
systematic’’ attack by the Russian
Government on our democracy, an at-
tack that our President still refuses to
acknowledge. Volume II describes 11
different occasions—11—where the ac-
tions of the President may have ob-
structed justice.
The legal framework is pretty
straightforward. In criminal cases, an
individual must meet the so-called ele-
ments of an offense, essentially, a
checklist of actions, which, if each is
proven, means that a crime was com-
mitted. What follows in the special
counsel’s report is an exhaustive de-
tailing of facts uncovered and a thor-
ough analysis as to whether the ele-
ments of obstruction of justice were
met in those 11 instances.
The special counsel instructs, on
page 9 of Volume II, that ‘‘three basic
elements are common to the most rel-
evant obstruction statutes: one, an ob-
structive act; two, a nexus between the
obstructive act and an official pro-
ceeding; and three, a corrupt intent.’’
In a few of the occasions inves-
tigated, the special counsel indicates
that the evidence is not sufficient to
reach that standard. In several others,
however, his analysis is crystal clear.
On page 84, the report begins to de-
tail how the President directed White
House Counsel Don McGahn to remove
the special counsel. ‘‘Mueller has to
go.’’
‘‘Call me back when you do it.’’
The special counsel then applies the
law:
One, an obstructive act: page 88,
‘‘Substantial evidence supports a con-
clusion that the President . . . directed
McGahn to call Rosenstein to have the
special counsel removed.’’
Two, a nexus: page 89, ‘‘Substantial
evidence indicates that . . . the Presi-
dent knew his conduct was under inves-
tigation by a Federal prosecutor.’’ In
fact, the President had tweeted about
it.
Three, corrupt intent: page 89, ‘‘Sub-
stantial evidence indicates that the
President’s attempts to remove the
special counsel were linked . . . most
immediately to reports that the Presi-
dent was being investigated for poten-
tial obstruction of justice.’’
Substantial evidence to show that all
three elements of the offense are met;
substantial evidence that the President
obstructed justice; substantial evi-
dence that the President of the United
States committed a crime.
There are countless other troubling
facts which the special counsel indi-
cates may meet the obstruction thresh-
old.
Page 91, just days after pressuring
McGahn, President Trump directs his
former campaign manager Corey
Lewandowski to deliver a message to
Attorney General Jeff Sessions to limit
the scope of the Mueller investigation
to future election interference alone.
Page 92, the President follows up
with Lewandowski with the same re-
quest a month later.
Page 96, the President writes Chief of
Staff Reince Priebus, ‘‘Did you get
it?’’—referring to Sessions’ resigna-
tion. ‘‘Are you working on it?’’—which
leads Mr. Mueller to conclude, on page
97, that ‘‘taken together, the Presi-
dent’s directives indicate that Sessions
was being instructed to tell the special
counsel to end the existing investiga-
tion into his campaign.’’ And, the same
page, that ‘‘substantial evidence indi-
cates that the President’s efforts to
have Sessions limit the scope of the
special counsel’s investigation . . . was
intended to prevent further investiga-
tive scrutiny of the President’s and his
campaign’s conduct.’’
These are the findings of the report,
the facts as they were uncovered and
applied to the relevant statutes of our
criminal law. This is the information
already in our hands today.
Summed up by Mr. Mueller’s dev-
astating conclusion: ‘‘Our investiga-
tion found multiple acts by the Presi-
dent that were capable of exerting
undue influence over law enforcement
investigations, including the Russian
interference and obstruction investiga-
tions.’’
The special counsel has done his job.
We must do ours.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
HONORING BOYD W. SORENSON
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Minnesota (Mr. EMMER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Boyd W.
Sorenson of Waite Park for receiving
France’s highest distinction, the Le-
gion of Honor, for his service during
World War II.
As a fighter pilot in the U.S. Army
Air Corps, he flew 89 missions in the
European theater during World War II,
assisting in the liberation of France.
Mr. Sorenson’s service didn’t end
after World War II. In fact, Boyd went
on to fly 72 missions during the Korean
war.
Mr. Boyd is no stranger to recogni-
tion for his bravery. He has already
been awarded the European African
Middle Eastern Medal with three
bronze stars, the Air Medal with three
oak leaf clusters, the Distinguished
Flying Cross with two oak leaf clus-
ters, and the Canadian Operational
Service Medal with maple leaf cluster.
Boyd is a hero, and his actions helped
further the cause of freedom we enjoy
today. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr.
Sorenson for his service and congratu-
late him on another well-deserved
award.
CONGRATULATING VIOLET HALVERSON
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Violet Halverson
of Sartell, Minnesota. At 94 years old,
Violet has just earned herself the silver
medal in shuffleboard at the National
Senior Games. The National Senior
Games were created to promote
healthy lifestyles for aging adults
through education, fitness, and sport.
Violet began playing shuffleboard in
the 1980s. Over the years since, she has
participated in recreational leagues
and competitions. When she heard
about the National Senior Games, she
knew she had to compete. Violet won
gold her first year, and this year she
takes home a silver.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Violet
and can’t wait to see how she performs
next year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.008 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7252 July 24, 2019
CONGRATULATIONS TO FOREST LAKE HIGH
SCHOOL
Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Forest Lake
Area High School for being named a
Green Ribbon School by the United
States Department of Education. This
award is given to schools that have rec-
ognized the environmental impact of
their facility, promote health, and en-
sure high-quality environmental edu-
cation programming that prepares stu-
dents with sustainability skills.
Forest Lake Area High School is
among only 35 schools, 14 districts, and
4 postsecondary institutions across the
country to receive this award. I look
forward to welcoming the honorees to
Washington, D.C. in September for a
ceremony to recognize their wonderful
achievement.
Congratulations to Forest Lake Area
High School for the Green Ribbon
School award.
f
THE GROWING RACIAL WEALTH
GAP IN THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. RUSH) for 5 minutes.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to address the crisis that is the grow-
ing racial wealth gap in the United
States.
A recent report from the Institute for
Policy Studies noted that the median
wealth for Black families, adjusted for
inflation, declined from $7,323 to $3,557
between the years 1983 and 2013.
Mr. Speaker, if these alarming trends
continue, the average Black household
is on track to own $0 in wealth by the
year 2053.
This stands in sharp contrast to the
average wealth of White households,
which increased by nearly $14,000 dur-
ing the same period, to an average of
$137,000 by the year 2053.
Zero dollars for the Black families,
$137,000 for the White families by the
year 2053.
The wealth disparity between Black
and White families persists across
nearly all levels of income and edu-
cation.
White middle-class households have
almost eight times more wealth than a
Black household in the same income
bracket.
b 1045
Mr. Speaker, even a 4-year degree
cannot remedy these disparities. A 2014
census survey found that a Black fam-
ily whose head of household has ob-
tained a master’s degree owns an aver-
age $37,600 of wealth, compared to an
average of $181,220 in a comparable
White household, a difference of nearly
$150,000.
Mr. Speaker, the racial gap in our
Nation must be addressed, as it is a
critical concern for all of our Nation.
The barriers between Black families
and White families must be addressed.
The barriers preventing Black families
from accumulating wealth drive up
poverty rates and stifle America’s
economy.
This is not just a Black issue; this is
an American issue.
The inability to secure your future
no matter how hard you work runs con-
trary to our basic American principles.
We must do more in this House of Rep-
resentatives to alleviate this critical
issue, this crisis, and we must continue
to make our Nation, these United
States of America, the land of oppor-
tunity for all of its citizens.
f
BOYS & GIRLS CLUB MISSOURI
STATE YOUTH OF THE YEAR
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER) for 5 min-
utes.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Boys & Girls
Club 2019 Missouri State Youth of the
Year, Ms. Jazzmine Jones.
Jazzmine is a member of the Boys &
Girls Clubs of West Central Missouri’s
Cole Camp Site, where she serves as a
junior staff member. In her position,
she helps run programs and mentors
the younger club kids.
Earlier this year, Jazzmine was
named the Missouri State Youth of the
Year at a 2-day event in Jefferson City,
Missouri, marking the first time a stu-
dent from the Boys & Girls Club of
West Central Missouri was awarded
this title.
Last week, on July 18, Jazzmine rep-
resented Missouri at the Boys & Girls
Clubs of America Midwest Regional
Youth of the Year competition. She
made Missouri proud with her speech
highlighting the importance of a
healthy lifestyle, education, and the
impact of one’s actions.
I am so thankful to have such a tal-
ented young individual in Missouri’s
Fourth Congressional District working
hard to be the best person that she can
be and sharing her knowledge with
younger kids as a mentor.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
join me in commending Jazzmine for
her hard work and dedication in using
her actions to inspire others. I also
want to wish her well in her future en-
deavors as she begins her freshman
year at the University of Missouri.
Go, Tigers.
FAYETTE OPTIMIST CLUB
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Optimist Club of
Fayette, Missouri. This club, founded
on December 13, 1968, celebrates its
50th anniversary this year. For half a
century, they have helped to support
youth, and cultivate an overall strong-
er community in Fayette.
The Optimist Club relies on their
dedicated volunteers to raise funds and
complete projects that impact the lives
of kids in their community.
The Optimists promote youth in-
volvement in Fayette by hosting a
summer recreation program, a youth
appreciation banquet, and a fishing
derby every year, as well as numerous
other activities that promote local pro-
gramming for young people throughout
the community.
It is organizations like the Optimist
Club that create the backbone of our
small towns and help preserve their
treasured culture.
Mr. Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating the Optimist Club of Fay-
ette, Missouri, for their hard work and
dedication to the youth of the commu-
nity for the last 50 years.
COMO FIRE CHIEF RANDY WHITE
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Columbia, Mis-
souri, Fire Chief Randy White on his
retirement.
Since joining the department in 1998
as a firefighter, Chief White has dedi-
cated his life to the safety of mid-Mis-
souri families. He has saved countless
lives and led his department to new
heights.
During his time as fire chief, Randy’s
department became one of only 258 in
the world to achieve accreditation
through the Commission on Fire Ac-
creditation International. His hard
work and leadership have been a bless-
ing to the Columbia Fire Department
and a true role model for other depart-
ments to follow.
I join with many Missourians, fami-
lies, and friends to wish Chief White a
fulfilling retirement. I hope Randy en-
joys the days he has worked so hard to
earn and wish him continued health
and happiness in this new phase of life.
f
WE ARE A COUNTRY OF BRAVE
AND BEAUTIFUL CITIZENS AND
IMMIGRANTS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. CÁRDENAS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CÁRDENAS. Mr. Speaker, let me
set the record straight. The way Presi-
dent Trump talks about women, mi-
norities, immigrants, and pretty much
every American who does not look like
him is fueling hate in our great coun-
try.
Last week, in a series of tweets,
President Trump attacked four Con-
gresswomen, all of whom are American
citizens and women of color. The Presi-
dent doubled down on his attacks and
singled out one of my colleagues from
Minnesota in a rally, during which the
crowd chanted, ‘‘Send her back,’’ which
he seemed to relish.
Mr. Speaker, watching that clip
made me sick to my stomach, and I am
concerned about the direction Presi-
dent Trump is leading our country.
Mr. Speaker, President Trump ap-
pears to be encouraging Americans to
assume patriotism by the color of one’s
skin and not the content of one’s char-
acter. This is, in fact, the opposite of
what American heroes like Congress-
man JOHN LEWIS, Dolores Huerta, Cesar
Chavez, and Dr. King fought and bled
for.
Mr. Speaker, make no mistake: our
President is stoking the flames of hate
and division in our great country.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.009 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7253
July 24, 2019
President Trump, his America is an
America where Congress does not in-
clude Native Americans, Latinos, Afri-
can Americans, Asian Americans, or
LGBTQ Americans. His vision for
America is one where people like my
parents and grandparents are not wel-
come.
What I find ironic about Donald
Trump’s anti-immigrant vision for this
country is it contradicts his own fam-
ily’s history. Donald Trump’s grand-
father, Friedrich Trump, moved to the
United States in 1885 for many reasons,
including to escape poverty. Today,
President Trump is hurting our reputa-
tion by denying entry to asylum seek-
ers who are fleeing many of the hard-
ships his very own grandfather was es-
caping.
In 1905, after making his fortune in
the United States running a brothel,
Grandfather Trump attempted to go
back to Germany, only to be denied
entry for failing to complete military
service in his own country of Germany,
something that apparently runs in the
family.
After attempting to appeal the denial
in a flattering letter to the Prince of
Germany, addressing him as the much-
loved, noble, wise, and righteous sov-
ereign and sublime ruler, Friedrich
Trump’s request to return to Germany
was denied for a second time.
My father and mother moved to the
United States in 1946 seeking a better
life for their family because they heard
of the promise of the United States of
America, that if you work hard and
play by the rules, you can succeed and
your children can have a better life.
I stand before you today an Amer-
ican-born citizen and a Member of the
United States Congress because my
parents worked hard and played by the
rules. I wasn’t handed a fortune like
President Trump. I was taught the val-
ues of keeping my word, being kind to
others, and working for what I earn.
Mr. Speaker, this President would
like us to believe that he is more patri-
otic than the Congresswomen he has
repeatedly attacked, not because of
anything he has done for this country,
but because he believes that this coun-
try’s rights and protections only apply
to the privileged, like himself.
Honor and patriotism exist in some
more than others. My brother-in-law,
Hector, who was born in Mexico and is
now a citizen of the United States of
America, answered the call to serve our
great country, when Donald Trump
avoided service time and time again.
While Donald Trump was dodging the
draft five times, my brother-in-law,
Hector, was serving the United States
of America in Vietnam.
While Donald Trump was ripping off
small businesses right here at home,
Hector was shot while serving his coun-
try in Vietnam.
My Mexican-born brother-in-law has
served this country honorably, and if
Donald Trump had his way, Hector
would never have had the chance to
serve our great Nation.
Mr. Speaker, does the word ‘‘patriot’’
come to mind when you think of a man
who dodged the draft time and time
again, or does the word ‘‘patriot’’ come
to mind when you think of a man who
answered the call of duty and bled for
our great country?
Mr. Speaker, I tell these truths to re-
mind us all why the United States of
America is great: We are a country of
brave and beautiful American citizens
and brave and beautiful immigrants
from all over the world who contribute
to the greatness of our great Nation
every single day.
May God bless the diverse and beau-
tiful people of the United States of
America, and God bless the United
States of America.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
REPEAL THE MEDICAL DEVICE
TAX
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Utah (Mr. CURTIS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to speak against the medical de-
vice tax.
Utah has earned a reputation as a
thriving hub for innovation in life
sciences, leading the Nation in tech-
nology breakthroughs. Each year, med-
ical device manufacturers in Utah pio-
neer new, exciting medical tech-
nologies that help patients live longer
and more productive lives.
Unfortunately, the culture of col-
laboration and innovation has been
threatened by the medical device tax, a
tax on device manufacturers that has
stalled medical technology investment
across the country.
Although Congress has come to-
gether on a bipartisan basis time and
time again to delay its implementa-
tion, the continuous threat of heavy,
onerous taxation has stifled job growth
among medical technology innovators
and has delayed cutting-edge research
that could potentially lead to break-
throughs in patient care and treat-
ment.
As it stands today, this tax will come
into effect January 1, 2020. The impact
would be devastating in Utah, where
the med tech industry employs thou-
sands of Utahns and contributes ap-
proximately $5 billion to the local
economy. One local company estimated
the tax would cost them over $7 mil-
lion, money that would otherwise be
reinvested into workforce and tech-
nology development.
As we approach this January dead-
line, I call upon my colleagues to come
together and finally repeal the tax on
innovation once and for all.
OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH ISRAEL
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to highlight our critical rela-
tionship with Israel, an alliance not
only important to our two countries,
but to the tectonic plates of global geo-
politics.
I was pleased to both cosponsor and
vote in favor of the United States-
Israel Cooperation Enhancement and
Regional Security Act and the resolu-
tion opposing the efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel and the
Global Boycott, Disinvestment, and
Sanctions movement targeting Israel,
two important legislative priorities,
because I believe Israel’s safety and se-
curity is critical to our own safety and
security. More importantly, it is the
right thing to do.
I have shared with my colleagues on
the House Foreign Affairs Committee
that Israel holds a special place in my
heart. As a college student 40 years
ago, I had the opportunity to spend a
semester in Jerusalem and get to know
the people and cultures. I developed a
unique appreciation and understanding
for the struggles they face on a daily
basis.
As many of us know, the BDS move-
ment exists solely to delegitimize
Israel’s very existence, and I am proud
of the House of Representatives coming
together on a bipartisan basis with a
unified voice that we will not stand
idly by while one of our closest allies is
targeted and vilified. The path to peace
between Israel and Palestine will not
be hindered by that kind of blind ha-
tred.
Although this BDS resolution sends a
critical message, it falls short of what
is ultimately needed to address the
long-term challenges. I am hopeful
that the House will consider stronger
legislation with actual binding policy
provisions to help the United States
stand with Israel against BDS.
I am prepared to work with my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to ad-
dress these issues and those facing our
allies.
f
b 1100
RECOGNIZING APOLLO ENGINEER
MARION JOHNSON
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. CARTER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Ms. Marion
Johnson for her contribution to land-
ing a man on the Moon 50 years ago
this month.
A product of the First Congressional
District of Georgia, Ms. JOHNSON used
her love of math to break barriers
throughout her life not only in math
and science but also for women and
people of color.
With a math degree from Talladega
College, Ms. JOHNSON took a risk and
applied to become one of the first fe-
male and/or minority engineers at Boe-
ing. She was accepted. By chance, it
happened to be around the same time
that President Kennedy announced the
national mission of sending a man to
the Moon.
At Boeing, she worked on a team of
engineers with the specific mission of
putting a man on the Moon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.012 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7254 July 24, 2019
In her own words, she said, ‘‘We
worked hard. We worked Saturdays. We
worked afternoons and evenings until
we got it right.’’
The rest is history. Now, Ms. JOHN-
SON’s name is enshrined in the Apollo
Saturn V Roll of Honor at the Smithso-
nian and Library of Congress.
I could not have been prouder to have
someone like Ms. JOHNSON from the
First Congressional District of Georgia
contributing to this engineering mar-
vel that changed world history.
RECOGNIZING BLACKSHEAR TIMES’ ROBERT AND
CHERYL WILLIAMS
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Mr. and
Mrs. Robert and Cheryl Williams, who
are retiring after nearly 50 years of
running the Blackshear Times in the
First Congressional District of Geor-
gia.
The oldest business in the area, the
newspaper is 150 years old this year.
Under Mr. and Mrs. Williams’ leader-
ship, the Blackshear Times has become
one of the top papers in Georgia, re-
ceiving over 400 awards. Nearly every-
one in Pierce County gets their news
from the newspaper, exemplified in the
Blackshear Times tag line, ‘‘Liked by
Many, Cussed by Some, Read by Them
All.’’
Mr. WILLIAMS edited and published,
his dream job since he was a young
child. Mrs. Williams continually kept
the paper’s financials in check.
‘‘To be a good paper, first, you have
to be a good business,’’ Mr. WILLIAMS
said in praise of his wife’s work.
I am proud to have the Blackshear
Times in my district, and I am thank-
ful that Mr. and Mrs. Williams dedi-
cated 50 years to the paper and keeping
the Blackshear community informed.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Mr. and
Mrs. Williams on their retirement.
They both will be missed.
RECOGNIZING HOLOCAUST SURVIVOR SAM
WEINREICH
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Dr. Sam
Weinreich, who is celebrating not only
his 100th birthday in August but also
his 73rd wedding anniversary with his
wife, Frieda.
Referred to as Zadie, from Yiddish,
Mr. Weinreich is a Holocaust survivor
who spent time in both the Auschwitz
and Dachau concentration camps. He
was the only survivor from his family,
which included nine of his siblings. His
hometown, Lodz, Poland, once con-
tained over 200,000 Jews and the second
largest Jewish community in Europe.
After the Nazi occupation ended, Mr.
Weinreich was one of only 6,000 to sur-
vive. Mr. Weinreich survived in part
because he was a Jewish doctor and re-
ceived more privileges than other pris-
oners, but he also had a beautiful voice
and would sing songs in front of the
guards for food.
Now living in Memphis, Tennessee,
Mr. Weinreich has dedicated his life to
sharing his story and ensuring that a
tragedy of this magnitude will never
happen again.
Mr. Speaker, happy birthday and an-
niversary, Zadie.
f
CONGRESSIONAL INTERNS SHARE
CONCERNS ABOUT NATIONAL
DEBT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. BROOKS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, President Herbert Hoover once stat-
ed, ‘‘Blessed are the young, for they
will inherit the national debt.’’
Four young interns in my office—Na-
than Olsen, Jill Oxley, Austin Snell,
and Tyler Wiley—recently shared their
concerns about the debt burden they
will inherit from debt-addicted Wash-
ington politicians. These remarks re-
flect their concerns.
Ironically, their concerns coincide
with a massive $2 trillion deficit bill
Congress will soon vote on that be-
queaths at least $24 trillion in debt to
America’s future generations. Be-
queathing this dangerous debt is the
greatest disservice ever done by one
American generation to another.
My interns itemize three ways in
which excessive debt endangers Amer-
ica.
First, excessive government debt and
borrowing compete with and crowd out
private borrower investment opportu-
nities by decreasing available credit,
thereby costing American jobs and bet-
ter incomes. According to the Congres-
sional Budget Office, when the govern-
ment borrows, it borrows from people
in businesses, which limits American
business and citizen opportunity,
which, in turn, drives them to be less
productive, cuts their compensation,
and makes them less inclined to work.
In sum, excessive government debt
stunts future growth and hurts the
American economy and people.
Second, excessive debt hurts Con-
gress’ ability to respond to challenges
and emergencies. The Peter G. Peter-
son Foundation warns that high levels
of debt reduce our government’s flexi-
bility concerning ‘‘future emergencies,
unanticipated challenges, wars, or re-
cessions.’’
The Peterson Foundation adds that
one reason ‘‘the United States was able
to recover from the Great Recession
more quickly than other countries was
because our debt was fairly low, at 35
percent of GDP.’’
As recent history proves, America
can better respond to a financial crisis
if we are not drowning in excessive
debt. Unfortunately, by year’s end,
America’s debt will explode to roughly
78 percent of GDP, more than double
that of a mere decade ago. That trend
is dangerous.
Third, as America’s debt becomes
more unmanageable, our creditors be-
come increasingly concerned about
government default and national bank-
ruptcy and insolvency. The Congres-
sional Budget Office warns that with
the debt-to-GDP ratio projected to
grow to ‘‘unprecedented levels, it is in-
creasingly likely that . . . investors
will become concerned about the risk
of default.’’
America has clearly entered dan-
gerous, uncharted financial waters.
The greater the debt, the greater the
risk.
How do we safely navigate these dan-
gerous waters? Washington must learn
from history and heed the advice of
President John F. Kennedy, who said
we do not choose to cut spending be-
cause it is easy, but because it is hard.
Unfortunately, today’s Washington
politicians reject President Kennedy’s
wisdom because they are as hopelessly
addicted to debt as a junkie is to her-
oin.
As a result, America faces a moun-
tainous $22 trillion debt and a bipar-
tisan debt agreement that adds yet an-
other $2 trillion in debt in just 2 years.
If America is to soar to new heights
rather than crash and burn on a moun-
tain of debt, Washington politicians
must act like adults. Our choice is
clear.
Washington can rack up obscene defi-
cits, accumulated debt, and pay hun-
dreds of billions of dollars each year in
debt service costs, with the ultimate
catastrophe being debilitating national
insolvency and bankruptcy. Or Wash-
ington can protect America’s future,
stop unnecessary spending, and be-
queath future generations economic
freedom and prosperity.
Mr. Speaker, I choose the path of
economic freedom and prosperity for
future American generations. That is
why I vote against so many unneces-
sary and excessive spending bills that
we don’t have the money to pay for.
And that is why I will vote against the
proposed spending deal that creates a
short-term debt junkie high while
badly risking America’s future and
health.
f
HONORING WAR HERO TOM
‘‘PINKY’’ FUNDERBURK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
South Carolina (Mr. NORMAN) for 5
minutes.
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate a man who is part of
the Greatest Generation, Tom ‘‘Pinky’’
Funderburk of Rock Hill, South Caro-
lina.
Mr. Funderburk has been awarded
the French Legion of Honor. Pinky
flew B–17 bombers, known as the Fly-
ing Fortress, with the Mighty 8th
United States Air Force during World
War II.
The Legion of Honor was established
by Napoleon in 1802 as the highest
French order of merit for military and
civil merits.
The first dangerous missions for
which Pinky was awarded the Legion
of Honor took place on the 14th, 15th,
and 16th of April 1945 over Royan,
France. His crew’s mission was to
bomb the 30,000 encamped German
troops concentrated around Royan on
the coast of France.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.014 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7255
July 24, 2019
One day, they approached their tar-
get from an altitude of 25,000 feet and
noticed an absence of antiaircraft ac-
tivity in the skies, so they dropped
down to 17,000 feet. The formation cir-
cled three times to drop their bombs
more accurately when a small flare
used to follow bombs to their targets
ignited in their bomb bay, filling the
aircraft with thick, sooty smoke that
covered all the windows.
Fearing they were hit by ground fire,
the crew grabbed their parachutes and
prepared to abandon their plane over
enemy territory. Before jumping out,
the crew made one last check to see if
the pilots were able to make it out
safely. They yelled through the inter-
com to see if they were coming but re-
ceived no reply. Just as they were
ready to bail out, copilot Funderburk
yelled out, ‘‘Wait.’’
The smoke was so thick that the pi-
lots were worried about crashing into
the other planes in the formation and
were too busy flying the plane and
clearing the smoke to worry about
bailing out. The pilots were able to
clear the smoke and fly the airplane
and crew safely back to their home
base.
The final mission took Pinky deep
into enemy territory into Horsching,
Austria, where French prisoners of war
had recently been liberated from a
POW camp. Pinky’s crew reconfigured
their B–17 bomber to carry 31 prisoners
of war back to Paris and their home-
land.
Mr. Speaker, for these heroic duties
and his selfless service, Pinky Funder-
burk honors all South Carolinians, and
I am proud to recognize him today for
receiving the prestigious French Le-
gion of Honor.
f
CAHOKIA MOUNDS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. BOST) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, southern Il-
linois is home to one of America’s
great civilizations in history, many
years before this was the United States
of America. Its center was at Cahokia,
and it was once the largest civilization
in today’s United States. By 1200 A.D.,
the community numbered 10,000 to
20,000 strong.
What remains today are the Cahokia
Mounds, a 2,200-acre site with more
than 70 earth mounds, upon which
many of their buildings once stood.
This treasure is visited by schools,
families, and history buffs, everyone
who wants to see this wonderful part of
history. It is a critical part of history.
That is why I introduced a bill to
make Cahokia Mounds a national park.
My bill would help preserve this amaz-
ing piece of history for generations to
come.
I thank Congressmen CLAY, SHIMKUS,
and DAVIS for cosponsoring this bill.
This legislation preserves the mounds
in their districts, as well.
I also thank the State and local lead-
ers who support our efforts in Illinois,
and I thank the HeartLands Conser-
vancy for its hard work and for being
guardians of our history.
I thank my staff for working so hard
with other issues that are going on but
understanding how important this
issue is to future generations, to the
opportunity for our children and grand-
children to understand the history of
this area in the world. I am proud to be
part of these efforts to preserve our
past well into the future.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 13
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. LANGEVIN) at noon.
f
PRAYER
Rabbi Mark Getman, Temple Emanu-
El of Canarsie, Brooklyn, New York,
offered the following prayer:
Heavenly One, our protector and re-
deemer, guardian of life and liberty, we
ask for Your continued blessings as we
open this session of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
May our Nation and its leaders be
blessed with Your protection as they
continue their work for their constitu-
ents across these United States.
God, continue to send Your light to
all elected officials across this land,
guiding them with Your good counsel
and providing them with wisdom and
forbearance.
May our Nation and its citizens al-
ways work towards world peace and
harmony as part and party rep-
resenting this great Nation.
God of peace and prosperity, bless
this House of Representatives and all
those who lead, serve, and defend our
Nation as they continue to serve with
honor, and remember those who have
died in defense of our ideals and values.
May the One who makes peace in the
universe make peace for all of us, for
all the United States, for all the world.
God bless America.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. DUNN)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. DUNN led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING RABBI MARK GETMAN
(Miss RICE of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Miss RICE of New York. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to welcome Rabbi Mark
Getman of Temple Emanu-El of
Canarsie, Brooklyn, and thank him for
leading us in prayer this morning on
the House floor.
I was proud to invite Rabbi Getman
to give the opening prayer today, and I
am even more proud to call him a con-
stituent of New York’s Fourth Con-
gressional District.
Rabbi Getman is a military veteran,
a cancer survivor, a community leader,
and a man of deep faith. He embodies
the strength, leadership, and patriot-
ism that we look for in every Amer-
ican.
I can’t express how grateful I am to
Rabbi Getman for making the trip
down to Washington today to represent
our community and to deliver a mes-
sage of harmony and compassion. I be-
lieve that is a message that our coun-
try needs to hear, perhaps now more
than ever.
Rabbi Getman graciously reminded
us today that we are a country united
under God, in our pursuit of prosperity
and peace for all people, and he re-
minded us that this shared purpose is
more powerful, more important than
any political division we may have, and
I couldn’t agree more.
As a member of the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs, I am beyond appre-
ciative that Rabbi Getman paid such a
touching tribute to the brave men and
women who wear our uniform today
and to those who paid the ultimate sac-
rifice in defense of our great Nation. As
a veteran himself, I know that Rabbi
Getman understands that sacrifice bet-
ter than most.
I want to thank Rabbi Getman once
more for his service to our community
and to our country and, above all, for
taking the time to be here with us
today and delivering a much-needed
message of unity.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 further re-
quests for 1-minute speeches on each
side of the aisle.
f
ANNIVERSARY OF DEATHS OF
CAPITOL POLICE OFFICERS
JACOB CHESTNUT AND JOHN
GIBSON
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.015 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7256 July 24, 2019
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, this is a
sad day in the history of the House.
Some 21 years ago, a deranged indi-
vidual came through the door that we
now call the Memorial Door and took
the lives of two of our officers.
I rise to pay tribute to my con-
stituent Officer Jacob Chestnut and
Detective John Gibson from the State
of Virginia. Both of them were shot
and killed defending this Capitol 21
years ago today, July 24, 1998.
A lone gunman burst through what
we now call the Memorial Door and at-
tacked this sacred home of American
democracy. These brave officers, whom
we remember today, placed themselves
in the line of fire and gave their lives
to protect Members, staff, and visitors
in the building that morning.
Memorial Door, Mr. Speaker, is right
outside my office. I go through it al-
most every day. Every time I pass
through it, I look at the memorial
plaque and remember these two ex-
traordinary and brave men whose sac-
rifice will not be forgotten by those
who serve in and work in this House,
by their brothers and sisters in the
Capitol Police force who still stand
sentry and watch over it, and by their
grateful fellow Americans.
Today, America, let us pay tribute to
Officer Chestnut and Detective Gibson
and give our thanks to all the men and
women of the U.S. Capitol Police and,
indeed, to all law enforcement officers
who, every morning, get up and put a
badge perhaps on their chest or on
their belt or in their wallet and go out
to protect us, their neighbors, their
friends.
Let us thank all law enforcement of-
ficers in communities across this coun-
try for their service, their dedication,
and their sacrifices, which make the
exercise of democracy possible.
HONORING MELINDA WALKER UPON HER
RETIREMENT AS CHIEF REPORTER OF DEBATES
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I just
spoke about two who served our Cap-
itol and our country. Unhappily, they
lost their lives.
I now speak about one who has served
our House of Representatives as an in-
stitution much more happily, because
she has served so well and so faithfully
and so long and is now retiring, hope-
fully, to a very happy retirement.
We could not do our job representing
the American people without the tire-
less and sometimes thankless labors of
the men and women who make this
House function behind the scenes.
They sit at the desk behind us. They
sit at the upper rostrum. They make a
difference. And they record what we
have to say.
From the Clerk’s Office to the Par-
liamentarian staff, from the C–SPAN
crew to the stenographers, the non-
partisan, professional staff who enable
the work of the House and its Members
are central to the success of our con-
stitutional mission.
The House has relied on the services
of shorthand reporters of debates for
almost 200 years, and the verbatim pro-
ceedings of House business have been
published as the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD since 1873.
We have a young woman who is now
taking down my remarks, which may
or may not be profound, but somebody
will be able to say: ‘‘What did Hoyer
say?’’ ‘‘What did my Representative
say?’’
A division of the Office of the Clerk,
the Office of Official Reporters is
charged with providing nonpartisan,
professional stenographic services for
the House floor, committees, and lead-
ership.
It has grown from a 5-person shop in
the 19th century to a diverse 43-person
operation today. They work extraor-
dinarily long hours; they work very
hard; and they are extraordinarily
competent.
Today, I join all my colleagues in
thanking one of those outstanding,
wonderful individuals who is retiring
as the Chief Reporter of Debates,
Melinda Walker.
Melinda is with us on the floor today.
Melinda, thank you very much.
And I know, Mr. Speaker, if it
weren’t out of order, I would mention
that her family is in the gallery, but
because that is not in order, I won’t do
that.
Melinda will step down in August,
after more than 20 years of service to
the House of Representatives.
A proud native of Texas, Melinda
came to the House in 1999, after serving
as a court reporter for the U.N. Inter-
national Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda
in Arusha, Tanzania.
Her career began after graduating
from the Stenograph Institute of Texas
in 1989, and her work took her around
the country and across the world, with
positions in the United Kingdom, the
Caribbean, and South Africa.
Melinda has reported both House
committee hearings and floor pro-
ceedings. She has taken down com-
mittee testimony from two Chief Jus-
tices of the Supreme Court and three
Secretaries of State, among many oth-
ers.
On the floor, Melinda has reported
the State of the Union messages for
three Presidents, as well as the re-
marks of numerous foreign dignitaries
during joint meetings of Congress.
Upon Melinda’s promotion to Chief
Reporter in 2015, she led the team of re-
porters and staff in charge of the pro-
duction of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
Under her watch, the office has been
successful in meeting its daily produc-
tion deadlines, while capturing the in-
tricate parliamentary nuances of
House proceedings.
Melinda has contributed a fully re-
vised and updated style and formatting
manual, more than 200 pages long, for
the Office of Official Reporters. Ameri-
cans will be advantaged by that work
for decades to come.
She has been recognized by the Na-
tional Court Reporters Association as a
Registered Professional Reporter and a
Certified Manager of Reporting Serv-
ices, and she remains a certified short-
hand reporter in her native Texas.
Melinda plans to return to her home-
town of San Saba, Texas, and spend
more time with her family and faithful
dog, Bleu.
Lucky dog to have Melinda back.
Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues
will join me in thanking Melinda Walk-
er for her many years of distinguished
and dedicated service to the House and
in wishing her the very best in retire-
ment.
Melinda, we owe you and your col-
leagues a debt of gratitude. You si-
lently serve and sit and listen to verb
after noun after adjective after word
after word after word—and you stay
awake. It is amazing. And you do it so
well, to the advantage of all of us who
serve here, but, much more impor-
tantly, to the advantage of the people
of the United States, who will know
what their Representatives say on
their behalf and will be, therefore, able,
in a democracy, to make a sound judg-
ment as to whether those words are the
words they want intoned on this floor
on their behalf.
So, Melinda, to you and to all of your
colleagues, we say thank you. God-
speed. Be well.
f
RECOGNIZING EDD SORENSON OF
JACKSON COUNTY, FLORIDA
(Mr. DUNN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to recognize a local hero from Jackson
County, Florida.
Mr. Edd Sorenson is known inter-
nationally for his courageous and skill-
ful ability to rescue and retrieve cave
divers. Just this past March, he was
called upon in the Dominican Republic
to retrieve two bodies that were on the
brink of never being recovered due to
the dangerous conditions.
His most recent courageous rescue
took place in Tennessee, where he was
called upon, in the middle of the night,
to save the life of a professional cave
diver, Josh Bratchley, widely known as
the man who saved the Thai soccer
team last year from their cave inci-
dent.
When Edd is not answering a call for
the next cave rescue, you will find him
managing his cave diving business in
Marianna, Florida, where he is a cave
dive instructor.
Edd is a truly remarkable individual.
Mr. Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing Mr. Edd Sorenson for his heroic
and selfless actions that have saved the
lives of many and brought closure to
families that, otherwise, would never
have been possible.
f
b 1215
THE PLIGHT OF ETHIOPIAN
ISRAELIS IN ISRAEL
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.018 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7257
July 24, 2019
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to highlight the suffering of
Ethiopian Israelis. A couple of weeks
ago, a young Ethiopian Israeli man was
killed by an Israeli police officer.
After this tragedy, there have been
massive protests against police bru-
tality. Unfortunately, these protests
have turned violent. While I do not
condone violence, I believe people have
the right to protest systemic racism.
The Ethiopian community in Israel
has been treated like second-class citi-
zens for decades. In the 1990s, Ethio-
pian Israelis had their donated blood
secretly disposed of by Israeli officials
because they believed it may contain
the HIV virus.
Just 4 years ago, an Ethiopian Israeli
IDF soldier was brutally beaten by an
Israeli police officer, setting off an-
other wave of massive demonstrations.
Now, there are reports that the pro-
tests against police brutality are being
cast as anti-Israeli. This is nothing
more than an attempt to delegitimize
their suffering. I will not tolerate it,
and neither should any Member of this
body.
f
NEW SNAP PROGRAM RULING
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, this week the U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture announced
and published a new rule that would
address ‘‘broad-based categorical eligi-
bility’’ through the SNAP program,
formerly known as food stamps.
Under current law, SNAP recipients
in dozens of States have been auto-
matically enrolled into the program,
despite not really demonstrating finan-
cial need; simply by receiving other
minimal welfare services, even just re-
ceiving a pamphlet in the mail.
Now, let me be clear that these
changes—anyone who truly is economi-
cally distressed and eligible will con-
tinue to receive SNAP benefits. But
through the loophole that has been in
existence, some recipients were en-
rolled in the program without meeting
its asset and income tests. The asset
and income tests are critical metrics to
ensure program integrity and prevent
benefits from going to those who would
not normally qualify or truly need the
assistance.
This new regulation attempts to fix
this problem by limiting categorical
eligibility for SNAP recipients only to
those recipients who receive substan-
tial welfare benefits, rather than nomi-
nal ones.
As the former chairman of the Nutri-
tion Subcommittee, I rise in strong
support of this proposal. Enacting this
rule will help address waste and abuse
within SNAP, while encouraging the
continued availability of the program
for our friends in need who truly find
themselves food insecure.
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF PAUL HANEY
(Mr. MORELLE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of Paul Haney,
a longtime leader in Rochester and
Monroe County, and my very dear
friend, who passed away on Sunday.
As a former county legislator and
city councilman, Paul was a fixture in
our community; a man who truly em-
bodied the high ideals of public service.
Paul was kind, honest, smart as a
whip, and deeply passionate about im-
proving the community he loved. He
devoted his life in service to his neigh-
bors and was always the first to lend a
hand to those in need.
Paul Haney’s contributions have left
a profound and lasting impact on his
beloved city. His legacy will never be
forgotten.
I join all of Rochester County and
Monroe County in mourning his loss,
and extend my thoughts, prayers, and
deepest sympathies to the Haney fam-
ily.
f
CONGRATULATING CHANDLER
WASHBURN AND THE UNITED
STATES NAVAL ACADEMY MIXED
CREW TEAM
(Mr. RUTHERFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate Midshipman
Chandler Washburn and the entire
United States Naval Academy mixed
crew team for their victory at the his-
toric, now historic, King’s Cup this
past July.
The King’s Cup is a prestigious race
between eight allied military forces,
and has only been held twice, once in
1919, and this year on the 100th anni-
versary. The U.S. Naval Academy de-
feated countries like Canada, France,
and Germany on their way to winning
the cup.
The Northeast Florida community is
incredibly proud of Chandler and his
fellow midshipmen on this extraor-
dinary accomplishment.
Chandler graduated from the Epis-
copal School in Jacksonville and is
now a sophomore at the Naval Acad-
emy. Like all those representing us at
service academies across the country,
his commitment to both academics and
military service inspire us all.
On behalf of the Fourth District of
Florida, congratulations to Chandler
and the Naval Academy mixed crew
team for a victory they will remember
for the rest of their lives.
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 397, REHABILITATION
FOR MULTIEMPLOYER PENSIONS
ACT OF 2019; PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3239, HU-
MANITARIAN STANDARDS FOR
INDIVIDUALS IN CUSTOMS AND
BORDER PROTECTION CUSTODY
ACT; PROVIDING FOR PRO-
CEEDINGS DURING THE PERIOD
FROM JULY 29, 2019, THROUGH
SEPTEMBER 6, 2019; AND FOR
OTHER PURPOSES
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, by direction of the Com-
mittee on Rules, I call up House Reso-
lution 509 and ask for its immediate
consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 509
Resolved, That upon adoption of this reso-
lution it shall be in order to consider in the
House the bill (H.R. 397) to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to create a Pension
Rehabilitation Trust Fund, to establish a
Pension Rehabilitation Administration with-
in the Department of the Treasury to make
loans to multiemployer defined benefit
plans, and for other purposes. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. In lieu of the amendments in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by the
Committees on Education and Labor and
Ways and Means now printed in the bill, an
amendment in the nature of a substitute
consisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116-24 shall be considered as adopted.
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as
read. All points of order against provisions
in the bill, as amended, are waived. The pre-
vious question shall be considered as ordered
on the bill, as amended, and on any further
amendment thereto, to final passage without
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of
debate equally divided among and controlled
by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on Education and Labor
and the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on Ways and Means; (2) the
further amendment printed in part A of the
report of the Committee on Rules accom-
panying this resolution, if offered by the
Member designated in the report, which shall
be in order without intervention of any point
of order, shall be considered as read, shall be
separately debatable for the time specified in
the report equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent, and shall not
be subject to a demand for division of the
question; and (3) one motion to recommit
with or without instructions.
SEC. 2. At any time after adoption of this
resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to
clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House
resolved into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 3239) to require U.S.
Customs and Border Protection to perform
an initial health screening on detainees, and
for other purposes. The first reading of the
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. General debate shall be confined to
the bill and shall not exceed one hour equal-
ly divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee
on the Judiciary. After general debate the
bill shall be considered for amendment under
the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute rec-
ommended by the Committee on the Judici-
ary now printed in the bill, it shall be in
order to consider as an original bill for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.020 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7258 July 24, 2019
purpose of amendment under the five-minute
rule an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute consisting of the text of Rules Com-
mittee Print 116-26 modified by the amend-
ment printed in part B of the report of the
Committee on Rules accompanying this res-
olution. That amendment in the nature of a
substitute shall be considered as read. All
points of order against that amendment in
the nature of a substitute are waived. No
amendment to that amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute shall be in order except
those printed in part C of the report of the
Committee on Rules. Each such amendment
may be offered only in the order printed in
the report, may be offered only by a Member
designated in the report, shall be considered
as read, shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division of the
question in the House or in the Committee of
the Whole. All points of order against such
amendments are waived. At the conclusion
of consideration of the bill for amendment
the Committee shall rise and report the bill
to the House with such amendments as may
have been adopted. Any Member may de-
mand a separate vote in the House on any
amendment adopted in the Committee of the
Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the
nature of a substitute made in order as origi-
nal text. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the bill and amend-
ments thereto to final passage without inter-
vening motion except one motion to recom-
mit with or without instructions.
SEC. 3. House Resolution 507 is hereby
adopted.
SEC. 4. It shall be in order at any time on
the legislative day of July 25, 2019, or July
26, 2019, for the Speaker to entertain motions
that the House suspend the rules as though
under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or
her designee shall consult with the Minority
Leader or his designee on the designation of
any matter for consideration pursuant to
this section.
SEC. 5. On any legislative day during the
period from July 29, 2019, through September
6, 2019—
(a) the Journal of the proceedings of the
previous day shall be considered as approved;
and
(b) the Chair may at any time declare the
House adjourned to meet at a date and time,
within the limits of clause 4, section 5, arti-
cle I of the Constitution, to be announced by
the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
SEC. 6. The Speaker may appoint Members
to perform the duties of the Chair for the du-
ration of the period addressed by section 5 of
this resolution as though under clause 8(a) of
rule I.
SEC. 7. Each day during the period ad-
dressed by section 5 of this resolution shall
not constitute a calendar day for purposes of
section 7 of the War Powers Resolution (50
U.S.C. 1546).
SEC. 8. Each day during the period ad-
dressed by section 5 of this resolution shall
not constitute a legislative day for purposes
of clause 7 of rule XIII.
SEC. 9. Each day during the period ad-
dressed by section 5 of this resolution shall
not constitute a legislative day for purposes
of clause 7 of rule XV.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from California is recognized
for 1 hour.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, for the purpose of debate
only, I yield the customary 30 minutes
to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. BUR-
GESS), pending which I yield myself
such time as I may consume. During
consideration of this resolution, all
time yielded is for the purpose of de-
bate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members be given 5 legislative days
to revise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, on Tuesday, the Rules Com-
mittee met and reported a rule, House
Resolution 509, providing for consider-
ation of H.R. 397, the Rehabilitation for
Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019,
under a structured rule.
The rule makes in order one amend-
ment. The rule provides 1 hour of gen-
eral debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minor-
ity member of the Committees on Edu-
cation and Labor and Ways and Means.
The rule also provides for consider-
ation of H.R. 3239, the Humanitarian
Standards for Individuals in Customs
and Border Protection Custody Act,
under a structured rule.
The rule self-executes Chairman NAD-
LER’s manager’s amendment and
makes in order two further amend-
ments.
The rule provides 1 hour of general
debate equally divided and controlled
by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
Upon passage of the rule, House Res-
olution 507 will be considered as adopt-
ed.
Finally, the rule provides suspension
authority for this Thursday and Fri-
day, and standard floor recess instruc-
tions for the August district work pe-
riod.
Mr. Speaker, in a few days, we will be
celebrating 200 days since Democrats
took back the majority in the U.S.
House of Representatives. We have
spent the past 8 months fighting for
American families, American values.
While Republicans spent 8 years in
charge, what did they get done?
Their crowning achievement was a
massive tax giveaway to corporations
to line the pockets of the super-
wealthy, while exploding the Federal
deficit by $1.5 trillion. Clearly, a tax
scam was a result of special interests
having too much power in Washington.
Mr. Speaker, it is time to give back
that power to the people, to the Amer-
ican people that sent us here.
Democrats passed the For the People
Act, which puts elections back in the
hands of the people and gets special in-
terest out of the government.
And instead of giving tax cuts to bil-
lionaires, Democrats, last week, passed
legislation to increase the minimum
wage to $15 an hour.
b 1230
And as a result, 33 million Americans
will finally get a raise and no more sin-
gling out to our young Puerto Ricans.
The Raise the Wage Act repealed a
shortsighted Republican measure that
allowed employers to pay Puerto
Ricans under the age of 25 a measly
$4.25 an hour for up to 4 years. I don’t
know about my colleagues’ back-
grounds, but at 20 years old, I was rais-
ing a family, and I could not have done
that on $4.25 an hour.
And we proclaim to all the American
women, whether you are a supervisor
at a fast-food restaurant, a nurse at a
hospital, or a World Cup-winning soc-
cer player, women deserve equal pay
for equal work.
And for Dreamers without permanent
legal status who came here as children
and just want to contribute to the
greatness that makes America, Demo-
crats passed the Dream Act so that
they can have a pathway to citizen-
ship. My Republican colleagues refused
to bring up the Dream Act when they
were in charge, even when, clearly, we
had enough votes to pass the bill.
Mr. Speaker, that is the kind of
progress Americans wanted to see.
That is why elections matter.
Today, we are also voting on the
Butch Lewis Act, to protect the pen-
sions of hardworking Americans.
I come from a proud union household.
For 171⁄2 years, I worked as a 911 dis-
patcher, and my husband was a mem-
ber of the building and construction
trades for 20 years. We taught our chil-
dren, our sons, to work hard and save
for their future, and we showed them
the honor of public service.
Mr. Speaker, in December of 2014,
this body passed the Multiemployer
Pension Reform Act of 2014, a mis-
guided bill that reneged on the promise
that we make to retirees that they will
get the benefits they worked and nego-
tiated for. And here we sit, almost 5
years later, and the multiemployer
pension system is still on the brink of
a real and disastrous crisis.
While these plans have historically
been a safe and secure retirement op-
tion, many plans now face financial
shortfalls because of the Great Reces-
sion and other structural challenges,
like a lack of new workers, an increase
in the number of retirees, and employ-
ees abandoning the commitments that
they made to their employees.
Around 130 of these plans covering
over a million Americans are rapidly
running out of money to pay benefits
that were promised to these employees.
Truck drivers, electricians, iron-
workers, steelworkers, coal miners,
and many, many others participate in
multiemployer pension plans. More
than 5,000 of my constituents, alone,
participate in multiemployer pension
plans. These hardworking individuals
are staring down the possibility of los-
ing their retirement through no fault
of their own.
I know that some of my colleagues
are going to tar and feather this bill.
They are going to call it a bailout.
They are going to say that it is fiscally
irresponsible. But this bill only author-
izes loans, loans for multiemployer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.002 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7259
July 24, 2019
pension plans, if it is clear that those
loans can be repaid with interest.
This is not a bailout; this is a loan.
And I am happy to have my staff pro-
vide a dictionary if any of my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
are still confused about the difference
and the meaning of each.
Hardworking American workers and
retirees are counting on us to protect
the benefits that they have earned and
keep them on a solid financial footing.
H.R. 397 does that exactly, and all
without forcing workers and retirees to
pay a single cent more for the benefits
that they have earned.
Now, I would like to turn our atten-
tion to H.R. 3239, Humanitarian Stand-
ards for Individuals in Customs and
Border Protection Custody Act.
I have had the opportunity to witness
the horrendous conditions at our
southern border, children jailed in
freezing cold cages, toddlers going
without nutritious food. They need to
grow up and be healthy and strong.
Six-year-olds who are not allowed to
shower. Border Patrol agents parading
asylees around with degrading mes-
sages hanging from their necks.
This is the greatest country in the
world, and no child—no child—should
die in our custody and in the greatest
custody in the world. Jakelin Caal
should not have died. Felipe Gomez
should not have died. And Carlos Her-
nandez should not have died.
We cannot bring these children back
from the dead, but we can try to pre-
vent the next child from dying. And we
must. We must because we have a
moral responsibility to these children.
Today we have the opportunity to
act. The Humanitarian Standards for
Individuals in Customs and Border Pro-
tection Act would protect the health
and safety of children in CBP care. It
will bring medical expertise to the bor-
der so that children receive the care
that they need, and it will ensure that
children have access to the basics: nu-
tritious food, a shower, toothpaste, and
clean clothes.
I urge all my colleagues to support
this important legislation. Vote ‘‘yes’’
on the rule for the children. Vote ‘‘yes’’
on the bill for the children.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mrs. TORRES for yielding me the cus-
tomary 30 minutes, and I yield myself
such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, today we are consid-
ering two bills that will never become
law. They are not going to be taken up
by the Senate. If they did, they would
not pass, and the President likely
would not sign them.
The first bill, H.R. 397, the Rehabili-
tation for Multiemployer Pensions Act,
was drafted by the majority as an at-
tempted fix of the multiemployer pen-
sion crisis. Unfortunately, the bill does
nothing but create more government,
increase the deficit, and kick the can
down the road for another generation
that will have to ultimately deal with
it.
So let’s examine the facts.
Multiemployer pension plans are pen-
sions run jointly by a union and mul-
tiple companies whose employees are
members of that union. These are de-
fined benefit plans that guarantee em-
ployees receive a specific amount upon
retirement regardless of the funding
available. These plans must comply
with collective bargaining agreements
and the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act and pay into the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the
Federal insurer of the plans.
Over 1,300 multiemployer plans cover
more than 10 million participants, and
well over a million are in plans that
are either insolvent or will be within
the next two decades. This means that
more than 1 million retirees may have
their retirement plan benefits cut if no
action is taken.
Multiemployer pension plans are cur-
rently underfunded by $638 billion, and
the figure increases by $15 billion each
and every year. The largest plan is the
Central States Pension Fund, which
has been sponsored by the Teamsters.
It has approximately 385,000 partici-
pants and is underfunded by $41 billion.
To ensure struggling pension plans
would not affect the defined benefit
promise to employers, Congress created
the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corpora-
tion to provide financial assistance to
pay participant benefits. The Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation is fund-
ed through premiums paid by plan
funds and is currently not backed by
the taxpayer.
Since 2003, the Pension Benefit Guar-
anty Corporation has held a deficit
when comparing its current multiem-
ployer pension assets to its out-
standing liabilities due to these insol-
vent union-managed pension plans.
Today, the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation has a deficit of $54 billion.
The entity Congress created to protect
insolvent plans is estimated to be in-
solvent itself.
This crisis did not materialize sud-
denly. During the 2008 recession, retire-
ment plans throughout the country
lost nearly 30 percent of their value,
but the weaknesses of the multiem-
ployer system were not conceived in
one event. The American Academy of
Actuaries outlined some of the deci-
sions that led to this instability.
Generally, many plans overleveraged
their risk, increased their benefits in
an unsustainable fashion, did not main-
tain appropriate resources to recover
from losses, and kept fewer working
employees. Additionally, many em-
ployers have left their multiemployer
pension plans, further limiting funding
for those that remain.
At the end of the day, these plans
were mismanaged in a way that has in-
creased costs and decreased revenue.
So how are our colleagues across the
aisle hoping to fix this troubling situa-
tion? The Rehabilitation for Multiem-
ployer Pensions Act would create a
trust fund called the pension rehabili-
tation trust fund that would be admin-
istered by a brand-new Federal agency
within the Department of the Treasury
called the Pension Rehabilitation Ad-
ministration.
This new agency would provide unse-
cured, federally subsidized 30-year
loans to critical or declining multiem-
ployer plans without requiring the
plans to make any actuarial changes to
bring them back to solvency. If the
plan cannot certify that it can repay
the loan, the plan would also receive a
grant from the Pension Benefit Guar-
anty Corporation to pay retiree bene-
fits and to pay back the loan, essen-
tially double-dipping Federal support.
If a plan cannot make interest or prin-
cipal payments on the loan, payments
can be forgiven to pay retiree benefits.
Finally, H.R. 397 would reverse re-
forms made in 2014 that allowed certain
plans greater flexibility to regain sol-
vency.
Earlier this month, the Congres-
sional Budget Office published a report
on the estimated budget impact of a
previous version of H.R. 397. The new
subsidies and the expanded assistance
would increase the Federal deficit by
$64 billion without truly addressing the
underlying financial issues.
Should this bill be signed into law, it
will be the first time that the Federal
Government has placed United States
taxpayers on the hook to subsidize pri-
vate pension plans.
It is important to note that many
taxpayers who would finance this sub-
sidy have not, themselves, been in-
cluded in a pension plan.
As presented today, H.R. 397 would
result in a large balloon payment due
in year 30 of the pension rehabilitation
trust fund loan. And if a plan cannot
afford loan payments without cutting
benefits, the new Pension Rehabilita-
tion Administration would be allowed
to forgive these debts. This is the defi-
nition of a taxpayer bailout.
Mr. Speaker, the majority knows this
bill will never move in the Senate, and
I do urge my colleagues to reconsider
this legislation. There, perhaps, are
ways to fix this crisis and address it in
a fiscally and actuarially sound man-
ner. A bipartisan agreement is the only
way for a solution to this crisis that
will actually make it to the President’s
desk.
The second bill in this rule is yet an-
other attempt to fix the crisis at our
southern border without addressing
any root cause. H.R. 3239, the Humani-
tarian Standards for Individuals in
Customs and Border Protection Cus-
tody Act, is a reactionary bill attempt-
ing to restructure Customs and Border
Protection through overly prescriptive,
one-size-fits-all mandates that actually
ignore what CBP has as resources and
its core mission.
If this legislation were to be signed
into law, Customs and Border Protec-
tion would be required to provide
health and medical screenings to all
migrants who entered their custody.
Customs and Border Protection must
provide individuals 1 gallon of water
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.023 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7260 July 24, 2019
per day, access to safe and clean toilets
and showers, diaper changing facilities,
and provide sanitation products. CBP
will also be required to provide three
meals a day totaling 2,000 calories, in-
terpreters, video monitoring, adequate
lighting, and to keep facilities within a
specific temperature range.
b 1245
Medical staff are required to be on-
site to conduct medical screenings, re-
gardless of the number of staff or ap-
prehensions, and specialty physicians
are required to, at the very least, be on
call.
These physician specialties include
pediatrics, OB/GYN, family medicine,
geriatric medicine, infectious diseases,
mental health, and dieticians. Imme-
diate access to such specialists is not
even available to some of our veterans,
yet we are mandating it be there for
undocumented migrants.
The bill also requires adult chap-
erones for children receiving medical
exams. Allowable adults will consist of
parents, legal guardians, and/or adult
relatives. However, ‘‘adult relative’’ is
not defined, meaning that a very dis-
tant relative or someone who simply
states they are a relative could pose as
the child’s guardian in the absence of a
parent or legal guardian.
This is concerning for identifying
trafficking victims. When children are
victims of trafficking, often the only
chance they get to be apart from their
trafficker is while receiving medical
care, and sometimes then the traf-
ficker will refuse to leave the child
alone.
If we mandate the presence of an
adult relative during the child’s med-
ical exam, in fact, we may never learn
that the child is a victim.
Additionally, children who arrive
with a parent, legal guardian, or other
adult relative are to be kept together
in Customs and Border Protection cus-
tody. Under current law, the Office of
Refugee Resettlement has custody of
and must provide care for each unac-
companied alien child, defined as a
child without lawful immigration sta-
tus under the age of 18 without a par-
ent or legal guardian to provide care.
If children who arrive with an adult
relative are not allowed to be trans-
ferred to the Office of Refugee Reset-
tlement, this bill is simultaneously
mandating that ORR violate current
law.
Customs and Border Protection’s
mission is to safeguard America’s bor-
ders to protect the public from dan-
gerous people and materials while fa-
cilitating legal trade and travel. Due to
the migrant crisis, more CBP agents
and officers are concentrated on the
southern border, taking them away
from their other lawful responsibil-
ities.
If Customs and Border Protection is
required to implement the mandates
that are in this bill, customs inspec-
tions will be limited, and lines at ports
of entry will become much longer.
Customs and Border Protection in-
spects our agriculture and food, checks
for counterfeit or defective consumer
products, and searches for and seizes il-
licit drugs, much of which is currently
fueling the opioid crisis. If they are not
on the line to do their job, these things
don’t happen.
Customs and Border Protection offi-
cers are also the first to welcome
Americans home from abroad and for-
eigners with legal documentation into
the country. Due to the Democrats’ re-
fusal to deal with our southern border
crisis, these important functions will
also suffer.
We must also remember that Cus-
toms and Border Protection facilities
do not just exist along the southern
border. Customs and Border Protection
is located in every State and territory,
in addition to several overseas
preclearance facilities. Mandating the
presence of specialty medical personnel
and certain facility upgrades is not
only unfeasible in some of these re-
mote locations, but it would also cost
an enormous amount of money.
The cost to comply with the provi-
sions in this bill is unclear because we
don’t have a Congressional Budget Of-
fice score, but it is likely to be high.
Customs and Border Protection cur-
rently has around $3 billion in unmet
funding needs due to the crisis on our
southern border. Requiring updates to
hundreds of Customs and Border Pro-
tection facilities, increasing personnel
and equipment, and providing training
would add significantly to this short-
fall.
Here is the really amazing part: This
bill contains no authorization for ap-
propriations. Last night at the Rules
Committee, it was asked how Demo-
crats were planning to pay for the
mandates in this bill. The response was
that there is money there, that it has
previously been appropriated in the re-
cent border supplemental.
Remember that is the very same sup-
plemental that the House Democratic
leadership told us last May was not
necessary because this was a manufac-
tured crisis. Then suddenly, right be-
fore the Fourth of July recess, it be-
came a very real crisis, and the Con-
gress did step up to provide the addi-
tional funding that was required. But
this funding was provided for specific
purposes, not for new requirements
upon Customs and Border Protection.
The answer is that there is no fund-
ing provided to implement this bill,
which amounts to an unfunded man-
date. That diminishes the likelihood
that any of it would actually happen,
should it become law.
Most importantly, this bill does
nothing to stop the flow of irregular
migrants, including vulnerable chil-
dren, to our southern border.
Placing overly burdensome and un-
reasonable standards of care on Cus-
toms and Border Protection will only
exacerbate the security and humani-
tarian crisis on our southern border.
Let me just say this: Having been at
the Clint facility last Friday, the men
and women of the Customs and Border
Protection are doing the job that Con-
gress asked them to do. Congress didn’t
ask them to do; they told them to do.
We passed laws. They are delivering on
what we told them to do.
But the men and women at Customs
and Border Protection are good people
who are driven to do the right thing.
They care, but at the same time, we
complicate their lives so much by not
funding the needs that they actually
have and then adding on top of it all of
these unfunded mandates.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my Democratic
colleagues to work across the aisle to
find and implement real solutions rath-
er than unfunded mandates. I urge op-
position to this rule.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, if my colleagues had
read the bill, they would know that not
only are there numerous incentives for
plans to repay the loans, there is a
statutory requirement for plan actu-
aries to demonstrate that the plan will
be able to pay the loan back with inter-
est.
Let’s talk about how we got in this
situation. After the 9/11 attacks, the
airline industry was in desperate need
of help, and Congress stepped up and
approved loan assistance. We acted be-
cause it was seen as an emergency.
In 2008, during the greatest financial
crisis in our lifetimes, Wall Street
banks and the auto industry were in
trouble and in desperate need of help.
Congress again acted because it was
seen as an emergency.
Mr. Speaker, what makes this situa-
tion any different?
Congress disbursed approximately
$624.6 billion in taxpayer money during
these emergencies, and roughly $699.7
billion has come back: revenue, inter-
est, fees, and asset sales. Ultimately, it
earned taxpayers more than $75 billion
in profit.
To the 898 retirees of Texas’ 26th
Congressional District, I say to you:
Democrats have your back, and Demo-
crats are fighting for you.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR).
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, it is with
great pleasure today that I rise in sup-
port of strong bipartisan passage of the
Butch Lewis Act and this rule. I thank
Congresswoman TORRES for yielding
me this time and Chairman RICHARD
NEAL of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee for moving this legislation ex-
peditiously.
The Butch Lewis Act will provide the
economic security this body ripped out
from under millions of hardworking
Americans in past Congresses.
Across our country, 1.3 million work-
ers—truck drivers, candymakers, coal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.024 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7261
July 24, 2019
miners—and retirees face serious and
significant threats of cuts to their
hard-earned multiemployer pension
plans through no fault of their own.
Several of these plans are large
enough to take down the entire Pen-
sion Benefit Guaranty Corporation,
threatening the security of another 10
million hardworking Americans.
I have heard the message time and
again from retirees in our district and
across this Nation: They worked for
decades to earn these pensions, and
they cannot sustain massive cuts. Now,
they are too old or their health too un-
stable to return to the workforce. The
stress and anxiety are sapping their
will, and some have even taken their
own lives.
The Butch Lewis Act will ensure
they receive their much-needed and
long-overdue pensions, again, which
they earned.
The Butch Lewis Act keeps the prom-
ises made to retirees, guaranteeing
their pensions into the future, and does
so by allowing impacted pension plans
to borrow the money needed to remain
solvent over a 30-year period of time,
with low-interest loans that they must
pay back.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield an additional 30 sec-
onds to the gentlewoman.
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
Pensions have afforded millions of
middle-class Americans the oppor-
tunity to enjoy their golden years with
economic peace of mind. Let us restore
this peace to 1.3 million Americans and
retirees who earned these benefits with
the swift and, finally, just passage of
the Butch Lewis Act.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. ARRINGTON), a valuable member of
the Ways and Means Committee.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
BURGESS) for yielding.
I am on the Ways and Means Com-
mittee. I was at the markup for this
legislation, Mr. Speaker, and I do want
to correct the RECORD from the pre-
vious statement that my colleague on
the other side of the aisle made that
this was a bipartisan legislative initia-
tive. Not one Republican voted for this
bill.
We offered up several amendments.
None of them were taken. One of them,
for example, was one that I proposed
whereby these employees would take
out a guaranty policy that would en-
sure that taxpayers get paid back for
these ‘‘loans.’’
They call them loans, and the gentle-
woman says that they must be paid
back. That is not true. Read the fine
print, my fellow Americans. It says
that they can be forgiven, that they
can be converted into grants.
This is a bailout. This is one of the
most reckless, fiscally irresponsible
pieces of legislation I have ever seen.
Yes, we need to help those workers.
They were the real victims. The cul-
prits? The unions and the employers
making benefit promises that they
knew good and well they couldn’t de-
liver on.
Who is now going to hold the bag?
Our children and grandchildren.
Today, we are bailing out $100 billion
worth, about 130 plans irresponsibly
managed—grossly, irresponsibly man-
aged. It is our children who will pay for
this.
This is the first $100 billion. There is
$650 billion, roughly, underfunded li-
abilities in multiemployer pensions. Of
the 1,300 pension plans, whereby 10 mil-
lion workers are covered, 75 percent of
the workers are in plans that are less
than 50 percent funded.
This is a disaster. This is a terrible
precedent. This is a moral hazard if I
have ever seen it because we will do
this for $100 billion, but we won’t fix
the problem. We don’t do anything to
get at the root cause that brought us
here, and there will be a line as long as
the eye can see to bail out the next $100
billion and the next $100 billion. It
won’t be the multiemployer pension. It
will be State pensions and local pen-
sions.
We are bankrupt, Mr. Speaker. We
are bankrupt in this country, and this
is the most irresponsible way to try to
solve this problem of underfunded and
unfunded liabilities for these workers.
Hold the people who are responsible
accountable. Don’t just give a blank
check from the taxpayers to bail out
this program and be right back here
doing the same thing.
I was a regulator at the FDIC. We
would close down a bank that gave
these so-called loans so fast that your
heads would spin.
This is not a loan. This is a complete
write-off of irresponsible behavior. We
shouldn’t have anything to do with
this.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
reject this bill. I oppose it. I hope they
will, too.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, painting this greedy picture
of union bosses who mismanage funds
and overpromise benefits doesn’t get us
anywhere, and it is simply not true.
I will tell you what is true. What is
true is that 399 retirees in Texas’ Con-
gressional District 19 will lose. But
guess what? Democrats got your back
in Texas 19. Know that.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from California (Mr. RUIZ).
b 1300
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise in sup-
port of the rule for H.R. 3239, the Hu-
manitarian Standards for Individuals
in CBP Custody Act, my legislation to
ensure CBP upholds basic standards to
meet the humanitarian needs of chil-
dren, women, and families.
My bill is an American-values-based,
basic public health approach to prevent
the deaths of children under CBP’s cus-
tody and responsibility, and to develop
a professional, humane response to the
humanitarian challenges at our border.
Why are these humanitarian stand-
ards needed, you might ask?
Because when I visited the border, I
saw open toilets in crowded cells with-
out privacy, and babies who were dirty
and didn’t have diapers sleeping on
cold cement floors; because these inhu-
mane and unsanitary conditions
threaten the mental and physical
health of CBP agents; and because six
children have now died in the custody
and responsibility of CBP.
To address this crisis, we need to do
more than send money to an adminis-
tration that has urged, in court, that
children in CBP custody do not need
soap and toothbrushes for basic hy-
giene needs.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield an additional 30 sec-
onds to the gentleman from California.
Mr. RUIZ. Passing this rule is the
first step to ensure CBP facilities have
basic necessities like humane sleeping
conditions, private and clean bath-
rooms, sufficient water and nutrition,
and showers.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my fellow rep-
resentatives to support my bill, the
Humanitarian Standards for Individ-
uals in CBP Custody Act, to protect
the health of our agents, prevent the
deaths of children, and restore human-
ity to our treatment of children and
families seeking asylum.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, Republicans will amend
the rule to add H. Con. Res. 54 that will
reconstitute the Joint Select Com-
mittee on Multiemployer Pensions
through February of 2020. The select
committee worked to find solutions to
reestablish the solvency of multiem-
ployer plans. While a draft proposal
was released, ultimately, no legislative
solution was achieved.
By reconstituting the select com-
mittee through February of 2020, we
will build upon the work of a previous
committee to finally ensure the sol-
vency of the multiemployer pension
plans. This is an opportunity to work
across the dais on an issue that affects
millions of Americans.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a no vote on the
previous question so that we can come
together to protect Americans in re-
tirement.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert the text of my amend-
ment in the RECORD, along with extra-
neous material, immediately prior to
the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes the gentleman from Wisconsin
(Mr. STEIL).
Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleague for yielding.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.026 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7262 July 24, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I came to Washington
to fight for workers. I also came to
Congress to make tough choices, not
easy ones. That is why we are here
today: to stand up for workers through-
out Wisconsin and across the country.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to oppose the pre-
vious question so that my resolution,
H. Con. Res. 54, can be voted on. My
resolution, H. Con. Res. 54, will rees-
tablish the congressional joint select
committee to address the multiem-
ployer pension crisis, bringing together
a nonpartisan group to take this prob-
lem head on.
Pension plans for nearly half a mil-
lion Americans are in jeopardy. Rough-
ly, 130 union-managed pension funds,
covering over 1.3 million workers, are
severely underfunded. This accounts
for more than 23,000 workers from the
Central States’ plan in Wisconsin
alone. In just 51⁄2 years, their pension
fund may become insolvent. Unfortu-
nately, the actions of a few have re-
sulted in uncertainty for many.
We all know that Central States and
other pension plans are in crisis. These
underfunded plans pose a threat to
workers, to retirees, and to our econ-
omy. We need to address this now.
I have offered H. Con. Res. 54 as a
real solution to this problem. This is a
good-faith effort to protect pensions.
This is an opportunity to make real
change in Americans’ lives. This is a
path for Democrats and Republicans to
protect pension benefits for thousands
of Americans.
The joint select committee will be
required to come to a legislative solu-
tion no later than April 30, 2020. This
holds Members accountable and gives
the issue the urgency it requires.
Like many Federal programs, we
should look at the States. For example,
in Wisconsin, the State’s public em-
ployee pension system is designed to
avoid the challenges that we see in to-
day’s multiemployer pensions. Con-
tributions to the State’s pension fund
are recalculated yearly to ensure the
pension fund continues to be funded.
Wisconsin’s retirement system is
fully funded. It isn’t reliant on polit-
ical wins, and it has a formula that
protects retirees by making proactive,
not reactive changes. This is one of
many possible solutions that should be
on the table.
H.R. 397 does not solve the actual
problem. Why? Because it does not pre-
vent this crisis from happening again
in 5 years, in 10 years, or in 20 years.
We owe it to workers to provide them
with the certainty that they will have
a retirement living in dignity. H.R. 397
does not do that.
Democrats and Republicans agree:
the retirees and future retirees are the
victims here. We need to protect them.
These are men and women who have or
are currently working and supporting
their families. They have planned for
retirement and, through no fault of
their own, their financial future is at
risk.
Are we capable of working together
in the House? We must.
However, throughout this process,
the majority did not allow other voices
to be heard. H.R. 397 did not even re-
ceive a public hearing. We can do bet-
ter. We must do better.
My resolution would require us to
work together. As my resolution says,
we should establish the select com-
mittee focused solely on this issue. We
should support hardworking Americans
who are vested in the system. Demo-
crats and Republicans should protect
workers and retirees and ensure new
benefits are adequately funded. Reform
the broken system to prevent this from
occurring again. And use this as an op-
portunity to work together.
Just like the pension system is bro-
ken, so is our political system. We can
do better. We must do better. The
clock is ticking. This is an opportunity
to protect retirees and workers. They
deserve it.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote against the previous question so
that we can immediately consider my
resolution and reconstitute the joint
committee and fix this problem for the
long term.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the joint select com-
mittee held five hearings. Enough with
the talk. These hardworking American
retirees are demanding action. They
want Congress to act.
We are here because of failed IRS
regulations in the eighties and nineties
that deterred employers from increas-
ing contributions in times of surplus.
We are here because when a contrib-
uting employer went bankrupt, the re-
maining employers got saddled with
the unfunded liabilities.
Most importantly, we are not here
because of the millions of Americans
participating in these plans. They did
nothing wrong.
I want to point to one plan in Wis-
consin’s First District. There are 3,285
retirees. And, to them, I want to repeat
and say: Democrats in Congress have
your back.
Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself 3 minutes.
Mr. Speaker, I want to talk on recon-
stituting the select committee that
Mr. STEIL just spoke of on the issue on
the previous question.
Mr. Speaker, I want to bring the
House’s attention to an editorial in
The Washington Post from April 25. Be-
fore we initiated this discussion today,
they wrote that the retirement liveli-
hoods of hundreds of thousands of
working class Americans are in jeop-
ardy. So, too, are many businesses for
which pension obligations have become
a growth-stifling burden.
Quoting The Washington Post:
‘‘A meltdown must be avoided, but
so, too, must a massive Federal bailout
that would soak the rest of society, in-
cluding many taxpayers who do not
even have pensions. Between those
poles lie inevitable shared sacrifices: a
significant but finite injection of pub-
lic funds, offset by limited benefit re-
ductions, conditioned on long-term re-
forms to stabilize the system.’’
And they go on to say:
‘‘Congress actually adopted such a
proposal on a bipartisan basis in 2014,
but the Obama administration balked
at implementing the required benefit
haircut for Central States’ retirees on
the eve of the 2016 election, which sent
Congress back to the drawing board.
Lawmakers from both parties and both
Chambers formed a committee to write
a new bill, which would have gotten ex-
pedited consideration on the floors of
both Chambers. Unfortunately, the
committee missed a self-imposed No-
vember 30, 2018 deadline.’’
Leaving The Washington Post for a
moment, now we are talking about re-
constituting that select committee.
And, in fact, that is what the editorial
board of The Washington Post was sug-
gesting last April. We find ourselves at
that juncture now.
Mr. Speaker, again, I urge my col-
leagues to vote against the previous
question and defeat the previous ques-
tion so we can consider the amendment
brought by Mr. STEIL.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. LIPINSKI).
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of the Rehabilitation
for Multiemployer Pensions Act, also
known as the Butch Lewis Act.
Without this bill, millions of retired
workers, including truck drivers, elec-
tricians, steelworkers, locomotive en-
gineers, boilermakers, machinists, and
others will lose their earned pension
benefits. We should all agree that these
pensions should not be cut.
This is about basic fairness. These
are hardworking people who agreed to
exchange some of their pay during
their working years for the promise of
a secure retirement. This bill will pro-
vide loans to pension plans in need of
help to pay these benefits. These are
loans.
Many of us remember the dark days
of the financial crisis. During this cri-
sis, pension plans took a big hit. Back
then, Congress bailed out Wall Street.
Although I did not support that bill, I
think we should all agree now that we
should help support pensions for retir-
ees. Let’s do right by the everyday
families who count on these plans.
Let’s pass this rule and pass the Reha-
bilitation for Multiemployer Pensions
Act. It is the right thing to do.
b 1315
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
In closing, Mr. Speaker, both bills
under consideration as part of this rule
provide Band-Aids to what are much
more systemic problems. We simply
cannot keep placing Band-Aids on open
wounds.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.028 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7263
July 24, 2019
Republicans agree that there is a
multiemployer pension crisis, but as
my Republican colleagues on the com-
mittees of jurisdiction have stated
many times before, it has to be ad-
dressed through reforms to the finan-
cial structure of these plans to ensure
that the plans will not be underfunded
in the future.
The security humanitarian crisis on
the southern border continues. At least
we are to a point right now that we
admit that it is a crisis. Republicans
will keep working on solutions to se-
cure the border and help stabilize Cen-
tral American countries in order to
eliminate the surge in irregular migra-
tion.
These are not problems that can be
solved on a partisan basis alone. I hope
our Democratic colleagues will join us
in finding a long-lasting solution.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on
the previous question, a ‘‘no’’ vote on
the underlying measure, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, at the core, how we
choose to vote on these bills reflects
our values.
This morning, I read a report that a
school district in Pennsylvania tried to
create a family separation program in
order to collect school lunch debts.
Imagine that. Family separation be-
cause children are too poor to pay for
their lunch.
This maltreatment at our southern
border is spreading across our Nation,
dehumanizing people because they are
poor. This is how we want to treat the
weakest among us?
Will we lock children in cages and
allow babies to sit in dirty diapers for
days, give asylees toothbrushes but no
toothpaste, and deny children regular
showers and proper medical care?
Will we turn a blind eye when chil-
dren are dying at the hands of the CBP
officers?
Will we watch as retirees are forced
to choose between paying for rent, pay-
ing for groceries, or paying for their
medication?
Will we stand by and watch as our
neighbors, our parents are forced to
stretch their medication because they
are being denied the pension that they
were promised, that they worked for?
We are a country where migrants and
asylees can come for a better life. We
are a nation where you can work hard
and retire with the peace of mind that
you have earned your keep.
Democrats are fighting to protect the
promise of the American Dream for ev-
eryone. Mr. Speaker, I can only speak
for myself when I say this, but I refuse
to be a party to breaking that promise,
because it means that much to me.
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’
on the rule and to pass these critical
pieces of legislation.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. BURGESS is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 509
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 10. Immediately upon adoption of this
resolution, the House shall proceed to the
consideration in the House of the concurrent
resolution (H. Con. Res. 54) establishing the
Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Mul-
tiemployer Pension Plans. The concurrent
resolution shall be considered as read. The
previous question shall be considered as or-
dered on the concurrent resolution to adop-
tion without intervening motion or demand
for division of the question except one hour
of debate equally divided and controlled by
the Majority Leader and the Minority Lead-
er or their respective designees.
SEC. 11. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of House Concur-
rent Resolution 54.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield back the balance of
my time, and I move the previous ques-
tion on the resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
COAST GUARD AUTHORIZATION
ACT OF 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3409) to authorize appropriations
for the Coast Guard, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3409
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Coast Guard
Authorization Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
The table of contents for this Act is as fol-
lows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
TITLE I—AUTHORIZATIONS
Sec. 101. Authorizations of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Authorized levels of military
strength and training.
Sec. 103. Determination of budgetary ef-
fects.
TITLE II—COAST GUARD
Sec. 201. Grade on retirement.
Sec. 202. Congressional affairs; Director.
Sec. 203. Limitations on claims.
Sec. 204. Authority for officers to opt out of
promotion board consideration.
Sec. 205. Temporary promotion authority
for officers in certain grades
with critical skills.
Sec. 206. Career intermission program.
Sec. 207. Major acquisitions; operation and
sustainment costs.
Sec. 208. Employment assistance.
Sec. 209. Reports on gender diversity in the
Coast Guard.
Sec. 210. Disposition of infrastructure re-
lated to E–LORAN.
Sec. 211. Positions of importance and re-
sponsibility.
Sec. 212. Research projects; transactions
other than contracts and
grants.
Sec. 213. Acquisition workforce authorities.
Sec. 214. Report on Coast Guard defense
readiness resources allocation.
Sec. 215. Report on the feasibility of lique-
fied natural gas fueled vessels.
TITLE III—SHIPPING
Sec. 301. Electronic charts; equivalency.
Sec. 302. Passenger vessel security and safe-
ty requirements; application.
Sec. 303. Non-operating individual.
Sec. 304. Small passenger vessels and
uninspected passenger vessels.
Sec. 305. Installation vessels.
Sec. 306. Advisory committees.
Sec. 307. Expired maritime liens.
Sec. 308. Training; emergency response pro-
viders.
Sec. 309. Aiming a laser pointer at a vessel.
Sec. 310. Maritime transportation assess-
ment.
Sec. 311. Safety of special activities.
Sec. 312. Engine cut-off switches; use re-
quirement.
Sec. 313. Exemptions and equivalents.
Sec. 314. Security plans; reviews.
Sec. 315. Waiver of navigation and vessel in-
spection laws.
Sec. 316. Requirement for small shipyard
grantees.
Sec. 317. Independent study on the United
States Merchant Marine Acad-
emy.
Sec. 318. Centers of excellence for domestic
maritime workforce training
and education.
Sec. 319. Renewal of merchant mariner li-
censes and documents.
TITLE IV—MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 401. Coastwise trade.
Sec. 402. Unmanned maritime systems and
satellite vessel tracking tech-
nologies.
Sec. 403. Expedited transfer in cases of sex-
ual assault; dependents of mem-
bers of the Coast Guard.
Sec. 404. Towing vessels; operation outside
the boundary line.
Sec. 405. Coast Guard authorities study.
Sec. 406. Cloud computing strategy.
Sec. 407. Report on effects of climate change
on Coast Guard.
Sec. 408. Shore infrastructure.
Sec. 409. Physical access control system re-
port.
Sec. 410. Coastwise endorsements.
Sec. 411. Polar security cutter acquisition
report.
Sec. 412. Sense of the Congress on the need
for a new Great Lakes ice-
breaker.
Sec. 413. Cargo preference study.
Sec. 414. Insider Threat program.
Sec. 415. Fishing safety grants.
Sec. 416. Plans for demonstration programs.
Sec. 417. Waters deemed not navigable
waters of the United States for
certain purposes.
Sec. 418. Coast Guard housing; status and
authorities briefing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.030 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7264 July 24, 2019
Sec. 419. Conveyance of Coast Guard prop-
erty at Point Spencer, Alaska.
Sec. 420. Prohibition.
Sec. 421. Certificate extensions.
Sec. 422. Homeland security rotational cy-
bersecurity research program
at the Coast Guard Academy.
Sec. 423. Towing vessel inspection fees.
Sec. 424. Subrogated claims.
Sec. 425. Loan provisions under Oil Pollu-
tion Act of 1990.
Sec. 426. Liability limits.
Sec. 427. Report on drug interdiction in the
Caribbean basin.
Sec. 428. Voting Requirement.
Sec. 429. Transportation work identification
card pilot program.
Sec. 430. Plan for wing-in-ground demonstra-
tion plan.
TITLE V—REORGANIZATION
Sec. 501. Uninspected commercial fishing in-
dustry vessels.
Sec. 502. Transfers.
Sec. 503. Repeals.
TITLE VI—TECHNICAL, CONFORMING,
AND CLARIFYING AMENDMENTS
Sec. 601. Maritime transportation system.
Sec. 602. References to ‘‘persons’’ and ‘‘sea-
men’’.
Sec. 603. Common appropriation structure.
Sec. 604. References to ‘‘himself’’ and ‘‘his’’.
Sec. 605. References to ‘‘motorboats’’ and
‘‘yachts’’.
Sec. 606. Miscellaneous technical correc-
tions.
Sec. 607. Technical corrections relating to
codification of Ports and Wa-
terways Safety Act.
TITLE VII—FEDERAL MARITIME
COMMISSION
Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VIII—COAST GUARD ACADEMY
IMPROVEMENT ACT
Sec. 801. Short title.
Sec. 802. Coast Guard Academy study.
Sec. 803. Annual report.
Sec. 804. Assessment of Coast Guard Acad-
emy admission processes.
Sec. 805. Coast Guard Academy minority
outreach team program.
Sec. 806. Coast Guard college student pre-
commissioning initiative.
Sec. 807. Annual board of visitors.
TITLE I—AUTHORIZATIONS
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIA-
TIONS.
Section 4902 of title 14, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘year 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘years
2020 and 2021’’;
(2) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ‘‘pro-
vided for, $7,914,195,000 for fiscal year 2019.’’
and inserting ‘‘provided for—
‘‘(i) $8,122,912,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
‘‘(ii) $8,538,324,000 for fiscal year 2021.’’;
(3) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ‘‘sub-
paragraph (A)—’’ and inserting ‘‘subpara-
graph (A)(i), $17,035,000 shall be for environ-
mental compliance and restoration.’’;
(4) by striking paragraphs (1)(B)(i) and
(1)(B)(ii);
(5) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(C) Of the amount authorized under sub-
paragraph (A)(ii) $17,376,000 shall be for envi-
ronmental compliance and restoration.’’;
(6) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘For the procurement’’ and
inserting ‘‘(A) For the procurement’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘and equipment,
$2,694,745,000 for fiscal year 2019.’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘and equipment—
‘‘(i) $2,748,640,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
‘‘(ii) $2,803,613,000 for fiscal year 2021.’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) Of the amounts authorized under sub-
paragraph (A), the following amounts shall
be for the alteration of bridges:
‘‘(i) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
‘‘(ii) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2021.’’;
(7) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘and
equipment, $29,141,000 for fiscal year 2019.’’
and inserting ‘‘and equipment—
‘‘(A) $13,834,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
‘‘(B) $14,111,000 for fiscal year 2021.’’; and
(8) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) For the Coast Guard’s Medicare-eligi-
ble retiree health care fund contribution to
the Department of Defense—
‘‘(A) $205,107,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
‘‘(B) $209,209,000 for fiscal year 2021.’’.
SEC. 102. AUTHORIZED LEVELS OF MILITARY
STRENGTH AND TRAINING.
Section 4904 of title 14, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘43,000 for
fiscal year 2018 and 44,500 for fiscal year 2019’’
and inserting ‘‘44,500 for each of fiscal years
2020 and 2021’’; and
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘fiscal
years 2018 and 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal
years 2020 and 2021’’.
SEC. 103. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
TITLE II—COAST GUARD
SEC. 201. GRADE ON RETIREMENT.
(a) COMMANDANT OR VICE COMMANDANT.—
Section 303 of title 14, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in subsections (a) and (b), by striking
‘‘A’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘Subject to section 2501, a’’; and
(2) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘An’’ and
inserting ‘‘Subject to section 2501, an’’.
(b) OTHER OFFICERS.—Section 306 of title
14, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘An officer’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘Subject to section
2501, an officer’’; and
(2) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘his’’ and
inserting ‘‘the officer’s’’.
(c) COMMISSIONED OR WARRANT OFFICER.—
Section 2501 of title 14, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Any’’ and inserting ‘‘COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Any’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘him’’ and inserting ‘‘such
officer’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the of-
ficer’s’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) CONDITIONAL DETERMINATION.—When
an officer is under investigation for alleged
misconduct at the time of retirement, the
Secretary may conditionally determine the
highest grade of satisfactory service of the
officer pending completion of the investiga-
tion. Such grade is subject to resolution
under subsection (c)(2).’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Any’’ and inserting ‘‘WAR-
RANT OFFICER.—Any’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘him’’ and inserting ‘‘such
warrant officer’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the
warrant officer’s’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) RETIREMENT IN LOWER GRADE.—
‘‘(1) MISCONDUCT IN LOWER GRADE.—In the
case of an officer whom the Secretary deter-
mines committed misconduct in a lower
grade, the Secretary may determine the offi-
cer has not served satisfactorily in any grade
equal to or higher than that lower grade.
‘‘(2) CONDITIONAL DETERMINATION.—A deter-
mination of the retired grade of an officer
shall be resolved following a conditional de-
termination under subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2)
if the investigation of or personnel action
against the officer or warrant officer, as ap-
plicable, results in adverse findings.
‘‘(3) RETIRED PAY; RECALCULATION.—If the
retired grade of an officer is reduced, the re-
tired pay of the officer under chapter 71 of
title 10 shall be recalculated, and any modi-
fication of the retired pay of the officer shall
go into effect on the effective date of the re-
duction in retired grade.
‘‘(d) FINALITY OF RETIRED GRADE DETER-
MINATIONS.—
‘‘(1) ADMINISTRATIVE FINALITY.—Except as
otherwise provided by law, a determination
of the retired grade of an officer pursuant to
this section is administratively final on the
day the officer is retired, and may not be re-
opened.
‘‘(2) REOPENING DETERMINATION.—A deter-
mination of the retired grade of an officer
may be reopened as follows:
‘‘(A) If the retirement or retired grade of
the officer was procured by fraud.
‘‘(B) If substantial evidence comes to light
after the retirement that could have led to a
lower retired grade under this section if
known by competent authority at the time
of retirement.
‘‘(C) If a mistake of law or calculation was
made in the determination of the retired
grade.
‘‘(D) In the case of a retired grade fol-
lowing a conditional determination under
subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2), if the investigation
of or personnel action against the officer, as
applicable, results in an adverse finding.
‘‘(E) If the Secretary determines, pursuant
to regulations prescribed by the Secretary,
that good cause exists to reopen the deter-
mination or certification.
‘‘(3) NOTIFICATION OF REOPENING.—If a de-
termination or certification of the retired
grade of an officer is reopened, the Sec-
retary—
‘‘(A) shall notify the officer of the reopen-
ing; and
‘‘(B) may not make an adverse determina-
tion on the retired grade of the officer until
the officer has had a reasonable opportunity
to respond regarding the basis of the reopen-
ing.
‘‘(4) RETIRED PAY; RECALCULATION.—If the
retired grade of an officer is reduced through
the reopening of the officer’s or warrant offi-
cer’s retired grade, the retired pay of the of-
ficer under chapter 71 of title 10 shall be re-
calculated, and any modification of the re-
tired pay of the officer shall go into effect on
the effective date of the reduction of the offi-
cer’s retired grade.’’.
SEC. 202. CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS; DIRECTOR.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 3 of title 14,
United States Code, as amended by this Act,
is further amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘§ 320. Congressional affairs; Director
‘‘The Commandant of the Coast Guard
shall appoint a Director of Congressional Af-
fairs from among officers of the Coast Guard
who are in a grade above captain.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for chapter 3 of title 14, United States Code,
as amended by this Act, is further amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘320. Congressional affairs; Director.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7265
July 24, 2019
SEC. 203. LIMITATIONS ON CLAIMS.
(a) ADMIRALTY CLAIMS.—Section 937 of title
14, United States Code, is amended in sub-
section (a) by striking ‘‘$100,000’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘$425,000’’.
(b) CLAIMS FOR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY OF
THE UNITED STATES.—Section 938 of title 14,
United States Code, is amended by striking
‘‘$100,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$425,000’’.
SEC. 204. AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS TO OPT OUT
OF PROMOTION BOARD CONSIDER-
ATION.
(a) ELIGIBILITY OF OFFICERS FOR CONSIDER-
ATION FOR PROMOTION.—Section 2113 of title
14, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(g)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the
Commandant may provide that an officer
may, upon the officer’s request and with the
approval of the Commandant, be excluded
from consideration by a selection board con-
vened under section 2106(a).
‘‘(2) The Commandant shall approve a re-
quest under paragraph (1) only if—
‘‘(A) the basis for the request is to allow
the officer to complete a broadening assign-
ment, advanced education, another assign-
ment of significant value to the Coast Guard,
a career progression requirement delayed by
the assignment or education, or a qualifying
personal or professional circumstance, as de-
termined by the Commandant;
‘‘(B) the Commandant determines the ex-
clusion from consideration is in the best in-
terest of the Coast Guard; and
‘‘(C) the officer has not previously failed of
selection for promotion to the grade for
which the officer requests the exclusion from
consideration.’’.
(b) ELIGIBILITY OF RESERVE OFFICER FOR
PROMOTION.—Section 3743 of title 14, United
States Code, is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 3743. Eligibility for promotion
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), a Reserve officer is eligible
for consideration for promotion and for pro-
motion under this subchapter, if that officer
is in an active status.
‘‘(b) EXCEPTION.—A Reserve officer who has
been considered but not recommended for re-
tention in an active status by a board con-
vened under subsection 3752(a) of this title, is
not eligible for consideration for promotion.
‘‘(c) REQUEST FOR EXCLUSION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commandant may
provide that an officer may, upon the offi-
cer’s request and with the approval of the
Commandant, be excluded from consider-
ation by a selection board convened under
section 3740(b) of this title to consider offi-
cers for promotion to the next higher grade.
‘‘(2) APPROVAL OF REQUEST.—The Com-
mandant shall approve a request under para-
graph (1) only if—
‘‘(A) the basis for the request is to allow an
officer to complete a broadening assignment,
advanced education, another assignment of
significant value to the Coast Guard, a ca-
reer progression requirement delayed by the
assignment or education, or a qualifying per-
sonal or professional circumstance, as deter-
mined by the Commandant;
‘‘(B) the Commandant determines the ex-
clusion from consideration is in the best in-
terest of the Coast Guard; and
‘‘(C) the officer has not previously failed of
selection for promotion to the grade for
which the officer requests the exclusion from
consideration.’’.
SEC. 205. TEMPORARY PROMOTION AUTHORITY
FOR OFFICERS IN CERTAIN GRADES
WITH CRITICAL SKILLS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of Chapter
21 of title 14, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘§ 2130. Promotion to certain grades for offi-
cers with critical skills: captain, com-
mander, lieutenant commander, lieutenant
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—An officer in the grade
of lieutenant (junior grade), lieutenant, lieu-
tenant commander, or commander, who is
described in subsection (b) may be tempo-
rarily promoted to the grade of lieutenant,
lieutenant commander, commander, or cap-
tain under regulations prescribed by the Sec-
retary. Appointments under this section
shall be made by the President, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate.
‘‘(b) COVERED OFFICERS.—An officer de-
scribed in this subsection is any officer in a
grade specified in subsection (a) who—
‘‘(1) has a skill in which the Coast Guard
has a critical shortage of personnel (as deter-
mined by the Secretary); and
‘‘(2) is serving in a position (as determined
by the Secretary) that—
‘‘(A) is designated to be held by a lieuten-
ant, lieutenant commander, commander, or
captain; and
‘‘(B) requires that an officer serving in
such position have the skill possessed by
such officer.
‘‘(c) PRESERVATION OF POSITION AND STATUS
OF OFFICERS APPOINTED.—
‘‘(1) The temporary positions authorized
under this section shall not be counted
among or included in the list of positions on
the active duty promotion list.
‘‘(2) An appointment under this section
does not change the position on the active-
duty list or the permanent, probationary, or
acting status of the officer so appointed,
prejudice the officer in regard to other pro-
motions or appointments, or abridge the
rights or benefits of the officer.
‘‘(d) BOARD RECOMMENDATION REQUIRED.—A
temporary promotion under this section may
be made only upon the recommendation of a
board of officers convened by the Secretary
for the purpose of recommending officers for
such promotions.
‘‘(e) ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF
APPOINTMENT.—Each appointment under this
section, unless expressly declined, is, with-
out formal acceptance, regarded as accepted
on the date such appointment is made, and a
member so appointed is entitled to the pay
and allowances of the grade of the temporary
promotion under this section beginning on
the date the appointment is made.
‘‘(f) TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT.—Unless
sooner terminated, an appointment under
this section terminates—
‘‘(1) on the date the officer who received
the appointment is promoted to the perma-
nent grade of lieutenant, lieutenant com-
mander, commander, or captain;
‘‘(2) on the date the officer is detached
from a position described in subsection
(b)(2), unless the officer is on a promotion
list to the permanent grade of lieutenant,
lieutenant commander, commander, or cap-
tain, in which case the appointment termi-
nates on the date the officer is promoted to
that grade; or
‘‘(3) when the appointment officer deter-
mines that the officer who received the ap-
pointment has engaged in misconduct or has
displayed substandard performance.
‘‘(g) LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF ELIGIBLE
POSITIONS.—An appointment under this sec-
tion may only be made for service in a posi-
tion designated by the Secretary for the pur-
poses of this section. The number of posi-
tions so designated may not exceed the fol-
lowing percentages of the respective grades:
‘‘(1) As lieutenant, 0.5 percent.
‘‘(2) As lieutenant commander, 3.0 percent.
‘‘(3) As commander, 2.6 percent.
‘‘(4) As captain, 2.6 percent.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for such subchapter is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘2130. Promotion to certain grades for offi-
cers with critical skills: cap-
tain, commander, lieutenant
commander, lieutenant.’’.
SEC. 206. CAREER INTERMISSION PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter
25 of title 14, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘§ 2514. Career flexibility to enhance reten-
tion of members
‘‘(a) PROGRAMS AUTHORIZED.—The Com-
mandant may carry out a program under
which members of the Coast Guard may be
inactivated from active service in order to
meet personal or professional needs and re-
turned to active service at the end of such
period of inactivation from active service.
‘‘(b) PERIOD OF INACTIVATION FROM ACTIVE
SERVICE; EFFECT OF INACTIVATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The period of inactiva-
tion from active service under a program
under this section of a member participating
in the program shall be such period as the
Commandant shall specify in the agreement
of the member under subsection (c), except
that such period may not exceed three years.
‘‘(2) EXCLUSION FROM YEARS OF SERVICE.—
Any service by a Reserve officer while par-
ticipating in a program under this section
shall be excluded from computation of the
total years of service of that officer pursuant
to section 14706(a) of title 10.
‘‘(3) EXCLUSION FROM RETIREMENT.—Any pe-
riod of participation of a member in a pro-
gram under this section shall not count to-
ward—
‘‘(A) eligibility for retirement or transfer
to the Ready Reserve under either chapter
571 or 1223 of title 10; or
‘‘(B) computation of retired or retainer pay
under chapter 71 or 1223 of title 10.
‘‘(c) AGREEMENT.—Each member of the
Coast Guard who participates in a program
under this section shall enter into a written
agreement with the Commandant under
which that member shall agree as follows:
‘‘(1) To accept an appointment or enlist, as
applicable, and serve in the Coast Guard
Ready Reserve during the period of the inac-
tivation of the member from active service
under the program.
‘‘(2) To undergo during the period of the in-
activation of the member from active service
under the program such inactive service
training as the Commandant shall require in
order to ensure that the member retains pro-
ficiency, at a level determined by the Com-
mandant to be sufficient, in the military
skills, professional qualifications, and phys-
ical readiness of the member during the in-
activation of the member from active serv-
ice.
‘‘(3) Following completion of the period of
the inactivation of the member from active
service under the program, to serve two
months as a member of the Coast Guard on
active service for each month of the period of
the inactivation of the member from active
service under the program.
‘‘(d) CONDITIONS OF RELEASE.—The Com-
mandant shall prescribe regulations speci-
fying the guidelines regarding the conditions
of release that must be considered and ad-
dressed in the agreement required by sub-
section (c). At a minimum, the Commandant
shall prescribe the procedures and standards
to be used to instruct a member on the obli-
gations to be assumed by the member under
paragraph (2) of such subsection while the
member is released from active service.
‘‘(e) ORDER TO ACTIVE SERVICE.—Under reg-
ulations prescribed by the Commandant, a
member of the Coast Guard participating in
a program under this section may, in the dis-
cretion of the Commandant, be required to
terminate participation in the program and
be ordered to active service.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7266 July 24, 2019
‘‘(f) PAY AND ALLOWANCES.—
‘‘(1) BASIC PAY.—During each month of par-
ticipation in a program under this section, a
member who participates in the program
shall be paid basic pay in an amount equal to
two-thirtieths of the amount of monthly
basic pay to which the member would other-
wise be entitled under section 204 of title 37
as a member of the uniformed services on ac-
tive service in the grade and years of service
of the member when the member commences
participation in the program.
‘‘(2) SPECIAL OR INCENTIVE PAY OR BONUS.—
‘‘(A) PROHIBITION.—A member who partici-
pates in such a program shall not, while par-
ticipating in the program, be paid any spe-
cial or incentive pay or bonus to which the
member is otherwise entitled under an agree-
ment under chapter 5 of title 37 or section
1925 of this title that is in force when the
member commences participation in the pro-
gram.
‘‘(B) NOT TREATED AS FAILURE TO PERFORM
SERVICES.—The inactivation from active
service of a member participating in a pro-
gram shall not be treated as a failure of the
member to perform any period of service re-
quired of the member in connection with an
agreement for a special or incentive pay or
bonus under chapter 5 of title 37 that is in
force when the member commences partici-
pation in the program.
‘‘(3) RETURN TO ACTIVE SERVICE.—
‘‘(A) SPECIAL OR INCENTIVE PAY OR BONUS.—
Subject to subparagraph (B), upon the return
of a member to active service after comple-
tion by the member of participation in a pro-
gram—
‘‘(i) any agreement entered into by the
member under chapter 5 of title 37 for the
payment of a special or incentive pay or
bonus that was in force when the member
commenced participation in the program
shall be revived, with the term of such agree-
ment after revival being the period of the
agreement remaining to run when the mem-
ber commenced participation in the pro-
gram; and
‘‘(ii) any special or incentive pay or bonus
shall be payable to the member in accord-
ance with the terms of the agreement con-
cerned for the term specified in clause (i).
‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) shall
not apply to any special or incentive pay or
bonus otherwise covered by that subpara-
graph with respect to a member if, at the
time of the return of the member to active
service as described in that subparagraph—
‘‘(I) such pay or bonus is no longer author-
ized by law; or
‘‘(II) the member does not satisfy eligi-
bility criteria for such pay or bonus as in ef-
fect at the time of the return of the member
to active service.
‘‘(ii) PAY OR BONUS CEASES BEING AUTHOR-
IZED.—Subparagraph (A) shall cease to apply
to any special or incentive pay or bonus oth-
erwise covered by that subparagraph with re-
spect to a member if, during the term of the
revived agreement of the member under sub-
paragraph (A)(i), such pay or bonus ceases
being authorized by law.
‘‘(C) REPAYMENT.—A member who is ineli-
gible for payment of a special or incentive
pay or bonus otherwise covered by this para-
graph by reason of subparagraph (B)(i)(II)
shall be subject to the requirements for re-
payment of such pay or bonus in accordance
with the terms of the applicable agreement
of the member under chapter 5 of title 37.
‘‘(D) REQUIRED SERVICE IS ADDITIONAL.—
Any service required of a member under an
agreement covered by this paragraph after
the member returns to active service as de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) shall be in addi-
tion to any service required of the member
under an agreement under subsection (c).
‘‘(4) TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION ALLOW-
ANCE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), a member who participates in a program
is entitled, while participating in the pro-
gram, to the travel and transportation al-
lowances authorized by section 474 of title 37
for—
‘‘(i) travel performed from the residence of
the member, at the time of release from ac-
tive service to participate in the program, to
the location in the United States designated
by the member as the member’s residence
during the period of participation in the pro-
gram; and
‘‘(ii) travel performed to the residence of
the member upon return to active service at
the end of the participation of the member in
the program.
‘‘(B) SINGLE RESIDENCE.—An allowance is
payable under this paragraph only with re-
spect to travel of a member to and from a
single residence.
‘‘(5) LEAVE BALANCE.—A member who par-
ticipates in a program is entitled to carry
forward the leave balance existing as of the
day on which the member begins participa-
tion and accumulated in accordance with
section 701 of title 10, but not to exceed 60
days.
‘‘(g) PROMOTION.—
‘‘(1) OFFICERS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—An officer participating
in a program under this section shall not,
while participating in the program, be eligi-
ble for consideration for promotion under
chapter 21 or 37 of this title.
‘‘(B) RETURN TO SERVICE.—Upon the return
of an officer to active service after comple-
tion by the officer of participation in a pro-
gram—
‘‘(i) the Commandant may adjust the date
of rank of the officer in such manner as the
Commandant shall prescribe in regulations
for purposes of this section; and
‘‘(ii) the officer shall be eligible for consid-
eration for promotion when officers of the
same competitive category, grade, and se-
niority are eligible for consideration for pro-
motion.
‘‘(2) ENLISTED MEMBERS.—An enlisted mem-
ber participating in a program shall not be
eligible for consideration for advancement
during the period that—
‘‘(A) begins on the date of the inactivation
of the member from active service under the
program; and
‘‘(B) ends at such time after the return of
the member to active service under the pro-
gram that the member is treatable as eligi-
ble for promotion by reason of time in grade
and such other requirements as the Com-
mandant shall prescribe in regulations for
purposes of the program.
‘‘(h) CONTINUED ENTITLEMENTS.—A member
participating in a program under this section
shall, while participating in the program, be
treated as a member of the Armed Forces on
active duty for a period of more than 30 days
for purposes of—
‘‘(1) the entitlement of the member and of
the dependents of the member to medical
and dental care under the provisions of chap-
ter 55 of this title; and
‘‘(2) retirement or separation for physical
disability under the provisions of chapter 61
of title 10 and chapters 21 and 23 of this
title.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for such chapter is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 2513 the
following:
‘‘2514. Career flexibility to enhance retention
of members.’’.
SEC. 207. MAJOR ACQUISITIONS; OPERATION AND
SUSTAINMENT COSTS.
Section 5103(e)(3) of title 14, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and
(C) as subparagraphs (C) and (D) respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following:
‘‘(B) operate and sustain the cutters and
aircraft described under paragraph (2);’’.
SEC. 208. EMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter
27 of title 14, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘§ 2713. Employment assistance
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In order to improve the
accuracy and completeness of a certification
or verification of job skills and experience
required by section 1143(a)(1) of title 10, the
Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) establish a database to record all
training performed by members of the Coast
Guard that may have application to employ-
ment in the civilian sector; and
‘‘(2) make unclassified information regard-
ing such information available to States and
other potential employers referred to in sec-
tion 1143(c) of title 10 so that State and other
entities may allow military training to sat-
isfy licensing or certification requirements
to engage in a civilian profession.
‘‘(b) FORM OF CERTIFICATION OR
VERIFICATION.—The Secretary shall ensure
that a certification or verification of job
skills and experience required by section
1143(a)(1) of title 10 is rendered in such a way
that States and other potential employers
can confirm the accuracy and authenticity
of the certification or verification.
‘‘(c) REQUESTS BY STATES.—A State may
request that the Secretary confirm the accu-
racy and authenticity of a certification or
verification of jobs skills and experience pro-
vided under section 1143(c) of title 10.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for such chapter is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 2712 the
following:
‘‘2713. Employment assistance.’’.
SEC. 209. REPORTS ON GENDER DIVERSITY IN
THE COAST GUARD.
(a) ACTION PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall—
(A) determine which recommendations in
the RAND gender diversity report can prac-
ticably be implemented to promote gender
diversity in the Coast Guard; and
(B) submit a report to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate on the actions the Coast Guard
has taken or plans to take to implement
such recommendations.
(2) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘RAND diversity report’’ means the
RAND Corporation’s Homeland Security
Operational Analysis Center 2019 report enti-
tled ‘‘Improving Gender Diversity in the U.S.
Coast Guard: Identifying Barriers to Female
Retention’’.
(b) RECURRING REPORT.—Chapter 51 of title
14, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘§ 5109. Report on gender diversity in the
Coast Guard
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January
15, 2022, and biennially thereafter, the Com-
mandant shall submit a report on gender di-
versity in the Coast Guard to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate.
‘‘(b) CONTENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall contain the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7267
July 24, 2019
‘‘(1) GENDER DIVERSITY OVERVIEW.—An
overview of Coast Guard active duty and Re-
serve members, including the number of offi-
cers and enlisted members and the percent-
ages of men and women in each.
‘‘(2) RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION.—(A) An
analysis of the changes in the recruitment
and retention of women over the previous
two years.
‘‘(B) A discussion of any changes to Coast
Guard recruitment and retention over the
previous two years that were aimed at in-
creasing the recruitment and retention of fe-
male members.
‘‘(3) PARENTAL LEAVE.—(A) The number of
men and women who took parental leave
during each year covered by the report, in-
cluding the average length of such leave pe-
riods.
‘‘(B) A discussion of the ways in which the
Coast Guard worked to mitigate the impacts
of parental leave on Coast Guard operations
and on the careers of the members taking
such leave.
‘‘(4) LIMITATIONS.—An analysis of current
gender-based limitations on Coast Guard ca-
reer opportunities, including discussion of—
‘‘(A) shipboard opportunities;
‘‘(B) opportunities to serve at remote
units; and
‘‘(C) any other limitations on the opportu-
nities of female members.
‘‘(5) PROGRESS UPDATE.—An update on the
Coast Guard’s progress on the implementa-
tion of the action plan required under sec-
tion 209 of the Coast Guard Authorization
Act of 2019.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for such chapter is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘5109. Report on gender diversity in the
Coast Guard.’’.
SEC. 210. DISPOSITION OF INFRASTRUCTURE RE-
LATED TO E–LORAN.
Section 914 of title 14, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘date’’ and inserting ‘‘later
of the date of the conveyance of the prop-
erties directed under section 533(a) of the
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016 (Pub-
lic Law 114–120) or the date’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘determination by the Sec-
retary’’ and inserting ‘‘determination by the
Secretary of Transportation under section
312(d) of title 49’’; and
(2) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph
(2) and inserting the following:
‘‘(2) AVAILABILITY OF PROCEEDS.—The pro-
ceeds of such sales, less the costs of sale in-
curred by the General Services Administra-
tion, shall be deposited into the Coast Guard
Housing Fund for uses authorized under sec-
tion 2946 of this title.’’.
SEC. 211. POSITIONS OF IMPORTANCE AND RE-
SPONSIBILITY.
Section 2103(c)(3) of title 14, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘rear admiral
(lower half)’’ and inserting ‘‘vice admiral’’.
SEC. 212. RESEARCH PROJECTS; TRANSACTIONS
OTHER THAN CONTRACTS AND
GRANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 7 of title 14,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 720. Research projects; transactions other
than contracts and grants
‘‘(a) ADDITIONAL FORMS OF TRANSACTIONS
AUTHORIZED.—The Commandant may enter
into transactions (other than contracts, co-
operative agreements, and grants) in car-
rying out basic, applied, and advanced re-
search projects. The authority under this
subsection is in addition to the authority
provided in section 717 to use contracts, co-
operative agreements, and grants in carrying
out such projects.
‘‘(b) ADVANCE PAYMENTS.—The authority
under subsection (a) may be exercised with-
out regard to section 3324 of title 31.
‘‘(c) RECOVERY OF FUNDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection
(d), a cooperative agreement for performance
of basic, applied, or advanced research au-
thorized by section 717, and a transaction au-
thorized by subsection (a), may include a
clause that requires a person or other entity
to make payments to the Coast Guard or any
other department or agency of the Federal
Government as a condition for receiving sup-
port under the agreement or transaction, re-
spectively.
‘‘(2) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—The amount
of any payment received by the Federal Gov-
ernment pursuant to a requirement imposed
under paragraph (1) may be credited, to the
extent authorized by the Commandant, to an
appropriate appropriations account.
Amounts so credited shall be merged with
other funds in the account and shall be avail-
able for the same purposes and the same pe-
riod for which other funds in such account
are available.
‘‘(d) CONDITIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commandant shall
ensure that—
‘‘(A) to the extent that the Commandant
determines practicable, no cooperative
agreement containing a clause described in
subsection (c)(1), and no transaction entered
into under subsection (a), provides for re-
search that duplicates research being con-
ducted under existing programs carried out
by the Coast Guard; and
‘‘(B) to the extent that the Commandant
determines practicable, the funds provided
by the Federal Government under a coopera-
tive agreement containing a clause described
in subsection (c)(1), or under a transaction
authorized by subsection (a), do not exceed
the total amount provided by other parties
to the cooperative agreement or other trans-
action, respectively.
‘‘(2) OTHER AGREEMENTS NOT FEASIBLE.—A
cooperative agreement containing a clause
described in subsection (c)(1), or under a
transaction authorized by subsection (a),
may be used for a research project only if the
use of a standard contract, grant, or coopera-
tive agreement for such project is not fea-
sible or appropriate.
‘‘(e) EDUCATION AND TRAINING.—The Com-
mandant shall—
‘‘(1) ensure that management, technical,
and contracting personnel of the Coast
Guard involved in the award or administra-
tion of transactions under this section or
other innovative forms of contracting are af-
forded opportunities for adequate education
and training; and
‘‘(2) establish minimum levels and require-
ments for continuous and experiential learn-
ing for such personnel, including levels and
requirements for acquisition certification
programs.
‘‘(f) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary of the
department in which the Coast Guard is op-
erating shall prescribe regulations, as nec-
essary, to carry out this section.
‘‘(g) PROTECTION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION
FROM DISCLOSURE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Disclosure of informa-
tion described in paragraph (2) is not re-
quired, and may not be compelled, under sec-
tion 552 of title 5 for five years after the date
on which the information is received by the
Coast Guard.
‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) applies to
information described in subparagraph (B)
that is in the records of the Coast Guard
only if the information was submitted to the
Coast Guard in a competitive or noncompeti-
tive process having the potential for result-
ing in an award, to the party submitting the
information, of a cooperative agreement for
performance of basic, applied, or advanced
research authorized by section 717 or another
transaction authorized by subsection (a).
‘‘(B) INFORMATION DESCRIBED.—The infor-
mation referred to in subparagraph (A) is the
following:
‘‘(i) A proposal, proposal abstract, and sup-
porting documents.
‘‘(ii) A business plan submitted on a con-
fidential basis.
‘‘(iii) Technical information submitted on
a confidential basis.
‘‘(h) ANNUAL REPORT.—On the date on
which the President submits to Congress a
budget pursuant to section 1105 of title 31,
the Commandant shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations and Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure of the House of
Representatives and the Committees on Ap-
propriations and Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a report de-
scribing each use of the authority provided
under this section during the most recently
completed fiscal year, including details of
each use consisting of—
‘‘(1) the amount of each transaction;
‘‘(2) the entities or organizations involved;
‘‘(3) the product or service received; and
‘‘(4) the research project for which the
product or service was required.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for chapter 7 of title 14, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘720. Research projects; transactions other
than contracts and grants.’’.
SEC. 213. ACQUISITION WORKFORCE AUTHORI-
TIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 11 of title 14,
United States Code, as amended by this Act,
is further amended by inserting after section
1110 the following:
‘‘§ 1111. Acquisition workforce authorities
‘‘(a) EXPEDITED HIRING AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For the purposes of sec-
tion 3304 of title 5, the Commandant may—
‘‘(A) designate any category of acquisition
positions within the Coast Guard as shortage
category positions; and
‘‘(B) use the authorities in such section to
recruit and appoint highly qualified persons
directly to positions so designated.
‘‘(2) REPORTS.—The Commandant shall in-
clude in reports under section 1102 informa-
tion described in that section regarding posi-
tions designated under this subsection.
‘‘(b) REEMPLOYMENT AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), if an annuitant receiving an
annuity from the Civil Service Retirement
and Disability Fund becomes employed in
any category of acquisition positions des-
ignated by the Commandant under sub-
section (a), the annuity of the annuitant so
employed shall continue. The annuitant so
reemployed shall not be considered an em-
ployee for purposes of subchapter III of chap-
ter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5.
‘‘(2)(A) ELECTION.—An annuitant retired
under section 8336(d)(1) or 8414(b)(1)(A) of
title 5, receiving an annuity from the Civil
Service Retirement and Disability Fund,
who becomes employed in any category of
acquisition positions designated by the Com-
mandant under subsection (a) after date of
enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization
Act of 2019, may elect to be subject to sec-
tion 8344 or 8468 of such title (as the case
may be).
‘‘(i) DEADLINE.—An election for coverage
under this subsection shall be filed not later
than 90 days after the Commandant takes
reasonable actions to notify an employee
who may file an election.
‘‘(ii) COVERAGE.—If an employee files an
election under this subsection, coverage
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7268 July 24, 2019
shall be effective beginning on the first day
of the first applicable pay period beginning
on or after the date of the filing of the elec-
tion.
‘‘(B) APPLICATION.—Paragraph (1) shall
apply to an individual who is eligible to file
an election under such subparagraph and
does not file a timely election under clause
(i).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of chapter 11 of title 14, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 1110 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘1111. Acquisition workforce authorities.’’.
SEC. 214. REPORT ON COAST GUARD DEFENSE
READINESS RESOURCES ALLOCA-
TION.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall submit to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate, a report on the allocation of
resources by the Coast Guard to support its
defense readiness mission.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following ele-
ments:
(1) Funding levels allocated by the Coast
Guard to support defense readiness missions
for each of the past ten fiscal years.
(2) Funding levels transferred or otherwise
provided by the Department of Defense to
the Coast Guard in support of the Coast
Guard’s defense readiness missions for each
of the past ten fiscal years.
(3) The number of Coast Guard detach-
ments assigned in support of the Coast
Guard’s defense readiness mission for each of
the past ten fiscal years.
(c) ASSESSMENT.—In addition to the ele-
ments detailed in subsection (b), the report
shall include an assessment of the impacts
on the Coast Guard’s non-defense mission
readiness and operational capabilities due to
the annual levels of reimbursement provided
by the Department of Defense to compensate
the Coast Guard for its expenses to fulfill its
defense readiness mission.
SEC. 215. REPORT ON THE FEASIBILITY OF LIQ-
UEFIED NATURAL GAS FUELED VES-
SELS.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Commandant of
the Coast Guard shall submit a report to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate on the fol-
lowing:
(1) The feasibility, safety, and cost effec-
tiveness of using liquefied natural gas to fuel
new Coast Guard vessels.
(2) The feasibility, safety, and cost effec-
tiveness of converting existing vessels to run
on liquefied natural gas fuels.
(3) The operational benefits of using lique-
fied natural gas to fuel Coast Guard vessels.
TITLE III—SHIPPING
SEC. 301. ELECTRONIC CHARTS; EQUIVALENCY.
(a) REQUIREMENTS.—Section 3105(a)(1) of
title 46, United States Code, is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(1) ELECTRONIC CHARTS IN LIEU OF MARINE
CHARTS, CHARTS, AND MAPS.—Subject to para-
graph (2), the following vessels, while oper-
ating on the navigable waters of the United
States, shall be equipped with and operate
electronic navigational charts conforming to
a standard acceptable to the Secretary in
lieu of any marine charts, charts, and maps
required by titles 33 and 46, Code of Federal
Regulations, as in effect on the date of the
enactment of this paragraph:
‘‘(A) A self-propelled commercial vessel of
at least 65 feet overall length.
‘‘(B) A vessel carrying more than a number
of passengers for hire determined by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(C) A towing vessel of more than 26 feet in
overall length and 600 horsepower.
‘‘(D) Any other vessel for which the Sec-
retary decides that electronic charts are nec-
essary for the safe navigation of the vessel.’’.
(b) EXEMPTIONS AND WAIVERS.—Section
3105(a)(2) of title 46, United States Code, is
amended by—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘oper-
ates; and’’ and inserting ‘‘operates;’’;
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘those
waters.’’ and inserting ‘‘those waters; and’’;
and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) permit vessels that operate solely
landward of the baseline from which the ter-
ritorial sea of the United States is measured
to utilize software-based, platform-inde-
pendent electronic chart systems that the
Secretary determines are capable of dis-
playing electronic navigational charts with
necessary scale and detail to ensure safe
navigation for the intended voyage.’’.
SEC. 302. PASSENGER VESSEL SECURITY AND
SAFETY REQUIREMENTS; APPLICA-
TION.
Section 3507(k)(1) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (B), by adding ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon at the end;
(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a period; and
(3) by striking subparagraph (D).
SEC. 303. NON-OPERATING INDIVIDUAL.
(a) DEFINITION.—Section 2101 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after paragraph (23) the following:
‘‘(23a) ‘non-operating individual’ means an
individual who—
‘‘(A) does not perform—
‘‘(i) with respect to the operation of a ves-
sel, watchstanding, automated engine room
duty watch, navigation, or personnel safety
functions;
‘‘(ii) with respect to the loading and un-
loading of merchandise, cargo handling func-
tions, including any activity relating to the
loading or unloading of cargo, the operation
of cargo-related equipment (whether or not
integral to the vessel), and the handling of
mooring lines on the dock when the vessel is
made fast or let go;
‘‘(iii) vessel maintenance, including any re-
pairs that can be performed by the vessel’s
crew or a riding gang; or
‘‘(iv) safety, security, or environmental
protection activities directly related to the
operation of the vessel and normally con-
ducted by the vessel’s crew;
‘‘(B) does not serve as part of the crew
complement required under section 8101;
‘‘(C) does not serve as a riding gang mem-
ber;
‘‘(D) is not a member of the steward’s de-
partment;
‘‘(E) is not a citizen or temporary or per-
manent resident of a country designated by
the United States as a sponsor of terrorism
or any other country that the Secretary, in
consultation with the Secretary of State and
the heads of other appropriate United States
agencies, determines to be a security threat
to the United States;
‘‘(F) is not specifically exempted from the
requirement to have a merchant mariner’s
document under section 8701(a);
‘‘(G) has not been convicted in any juris-
diction of an offense described in paragraph
(2) or (3) of section 7703;
‘‘(H) whose license, certificate of registry,
or merchant mariner’s document has not
been suspended or revoked under section
7704; and
‘‘(I) who does not otherwise constitute a
threat to the safety of the vessel.’’.
(b) CITIZENSHIP AND NAVY RESERVE RE-
QUIREMENTS.—Section 8103(j) of title 46,
United States Code, is amended by—
(1) striking ‘‘RIDING GANG MEMBER’’ and in-
serting ‘‘RIDING GANG MEMBER OR NON-OPER-
ATING INDIVIDUAL’’; and
(2) inserting ‘‘or a non-operating indi-
vidual’’ before the period.
(c) REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO NON-OPER-
ATING INDIVIDUALS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 81 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by redesignating section 8107 as section
8108; and
(B) by inserting after section 8106 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘§ 8107. Requirements relating to non-oper-
ating individuals
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The owner or managing
operator of a merchant vessel of the United
States of at least 100 gross tons as measured
under section 14502, or an alternate tonnage
measured under section 14302 as prescribed
by the Secretary under section 14104, shall—
‘‘(1) ensure that—
‘‘(A) each non-operating individual on the
vessel—
‘‘(i) is a United States citizen or an alien
lawfully admitted to the United States for
permanent residence; or
‘‘(ii) possesses a United States non-immi-
grant visa for individuals desiring to enter
the United States temporarily for business,
employment-related and personal identifying
information, and any other documentation
required by the Secretary;
‘‘(B) all required documentation for such
individual is kept on the vessel and available
for inspection by the Secretary; and
‘‘(C) each non-operating individual is iden-
tified on the manifest;
‘‘(2) ensure that—
‘‘(A) each non-operating individual pos-
sesses—
‘‘(i) a merchant mariner’s document;
‘‘(ii) a transportation worker identifica-
tion credential under section 70105; or
‘‘(iii) a current security clearance issued
by a Federal agency; or
‘‘(B) the employer of such an individual at-
tests in a certificate to the owner or man-
aging operator that—
‘‘(i) the background of such individual has
been examined and found to be free of any
credible information indicating a material
risk to the security of the vessel, the vessel’s
cargo, the ports the vessel visits, or other in-
dividuals onboard the vessel;;
‘‘(ii) such examination—
‘‘(I) met the requirements of section
70105(d)(2), for persons described in paragraph
(1)(A)(i) of this subsection; or
‘‘(II) consisted of a search of all informa-
tion reasonably available to the owner or
managing operator in the individual’s coun-
try of citizenship and any other country in
which the individual works, receives employ-
ment referrals, or resides, for persons de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(A)(ii) of this sub-
section; and
‘‘(iii) the information derived from any
such examination is made available to the
Secretary upon request;
‘‘(3) ensure that each non-operating indi-
vidual of the vessel, while on board the ves-
sel, is subject to the same random chemical
testing and reporting regimes as crew mem-
bers;
‘‘(4) ensure that each such individual em-
ployed on the vessel receives basic safety fa-
miliarization and basic safety training ap-
proved by the Coast Guard; and
‘‘(5) ensure that every non-operating indi-
vidual of the vessel is employed on board the
vessel under conditions that meet or exceed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7269
July 24, 2019
the minimum international standards of all
applicable international labor conventions
to which the United States is a party, in-
cluding all of the merchant seamen protec-
tion and relief provided under United States
law.
‘‘(b) RECORDKEEPING.—In addition to the
requirements of subsection (a), the owner or
managing operator of a vessel to which sub-
section (a) applies shall ensure that all infor-
mation necessary to ensure compliance with
this section, as determined by the Secretary,
is entered into the vessel’s official logbook
required by chapter 113.
‘‘(c) CIVIL PENALTY.—A person (including
an individual) violating this section is liable
to the United States Government for a civil
penalty of $1,250.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—The analysis
for chapter 81 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended by striking the item relating to
section 8107 and inserting the following:
‘‘8107. Requirements relating to non-oper-
ating individuals.
‘‘8108. Use of force against piracy.’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) MERCHANT MARINERS’ DOCUMENTS RE-
QUIRED.—Section 8701 of title 46, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(e) This section does not apply to non-op-
erating individuals.’’.
(B) TRAINING FOR USE OF FORCE AGAINST PI-
RACY.—Section 51705(4) of title 46, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘46
U.S.C. 8107 note’’ and inserting ‘‘46 U.S.C.
8108 note’’.
SEC. 304. SMALL PASSENGER VESSELS AND
UNINSPECTED PASSENGER VES-
SELS.
Section 12121 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking sub-
paragraphs (A) and (B) and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) was built in the United States;
‘‘(B) was not built in the United States and
is at least 3 years old; or
‘‘(C) if rebuilt, was rebuilt—
‘‘(i) in the United States; or
‘‘(ii) outside the United States at least 3
years before the certificate requested under
subsection (b) would take effect.’’; and
(2) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘12132,’’
after ‘‘12113,’’.
SEC. 305. INSTALLATION VESSELS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 551 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 55123. Installation vessels
‘‘(a) INITIAL DETERMINATION OF COASTWISE
QUALIFIED VESSEL.—No later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this sec-
tion, the Secretary of Transportation shall
determine whether an installation vessel ex-
ists for which a coastwise endorsement has
been issued under section 12112.
‘‘(b) APPLICATION.—If the Secretary of
Transportation determines under subsection
(a) that no such coastwise qualified vessel
exists, then, after the date on which such de-
termination is made, lifting operations be-
tween a vessel for which a coastwise endorse-
ment has been issued under section 12112 and
an installation vessel for which no such en-
dorsement has been issued is not transpor-
tation of merchandise for the purposes of
section 55102.
‘‘(c) REQUESTS FOR DETERMINATIONS OF
COASTWISE QUALIFIED VESSELS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—After the date on which
the determination is made under subsection
(a), an installation vessel for which a coast-
wise endorsement has been issued under sec-
tion 12112, the owner or operator of such in-
stallation vessel may seek a new determina-
tion from the Secretary of Transportation
that an installation vessel for which a coast-
wise endorsement has been issued under sec-
tion 12112 exists.
‘‘(2) APPLICATION TO NON-QUALIFIED VES-
SELS.—If the Secretary of Transportation
makes a determination under paragraph (1)
that a coastwise qualified vessel exists,
then—
‘‘(A) the owner or operator of an installa-
tion vessel for which no coastwise endorse-
ment has been issued under section 12112
shall seek a determination of the avail-
ability of a coastwise qualified vessel under
paragraph (3) before using such non-coast-
wise qualified vessel for the transportation
of a platform jacket; and
‘‘(B) after the date on which such deter-
mination is made, the owner or operator of
an installation vessel for which no coastwise
endorsement has been issued under section
12112 shall not use such non-coastwise quali-
fied vessel for the transportation of a plat-
form jacket unless the Secretary of Trans-
portation determines a coastwise qualified is
not available under paragraph (4).
‘‘(3) CRITERIA FOR DETERMINATION OF AVAIL-
ABILITY.—The Secretary of Transportation
shall determine a coastwise qualified vessel
is not available if—
‘‘(A) the owner or operator of a non-coast-
wise qualified vessel submits to the Sec-
retary of Transportation an application for
the use of a non-coastwise qualified installa-
tion vessel for transportation of a platform
jacket under this section that includes all
relevant information, including engineering
details and timing requirements, and such
application is submitted not less than 1 year
before the date such vessel is required for
such use;
‘‘(B) the Secretary provides the application
made under subparagraph (A) to the owner of
each coastwise qualified vessel listed as an
installation vessel in the inventory under
section 12138(c) and promptly publishes in
the Federal Register a notice—
‘‘(i) describing the project and the platform
jacket involved;
‘‘(ii) advising that all relevant information
reasonably needed to assess the transpor-
tation and installation requirements for the
platform jacket will be made available to an
interested person on request; and
‘‘(iii) requesting that information on the
availability of coastwise qualified vessels be
submitted within a 45-day period beginning
on the date of such publication; and
‘‘(C)(i) within such 45-day period no infor-
mation is submitted to the Secretary from
owners or operators of coastwise qualified in-
stallation vessels to meet the requirements
of the application required under paragraph
(A); or
‘‘(ii) the owner or operator of a coastwise
qualified installation vessel submits infor-
mation to the Secretary asserting that the
owner or operator has a suitable coastwise
qualified installation vessel available to
meet the requirements of the application re-
quired under paragraph (A), but the Sec-
retary determines, within 90 days after the
notice is first published, that the coastwise
qualified installation vessel is not suitable
or reasonably available for the transpor-
tation.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) INSTALLATION VESSEL.—The term ‘in-
stallation vessel’ means a vessel using a
crane suitable for offshore use that—
‘‘(A) is used to install platform jackets;
‘‘(B) has a slewing or luffing capability;
‘‘(C) has a lifting capacity of at least 1,000
metric tons; and
‘‘(D) conducts lifting operations to con-
struct or remove offshore facilities or subsea
infrastructure or to install and uninstall
component parts or materials from offshore
facilities or subsea infrastructure.
‘‘(2) LIFTING OPERATIONS.—The term ‘lift-
ing operations’ means the lifting of platform
jackets by crane from the time that the lift-
ing activity begins when unlading from a
vessel or removing offshore facilities or
subsea infrastructure until the time that the
lifting activities are terminated for a par-
ticular unlading, installation, or removal of
offshore facilities or subsea infrastructure.
‘‘(3) PLATFORM JACKET.—The term ‘plat-
form jacket’ has the meaning given such
term in section 55108(a).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for chapter 551 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘55123. Installation vessels.’’.
(c) INVENTORY.—Section 12138(b) of title 46,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking the period
and inserting ‘‘, AND INSTALLATION.’’;
(2) by amending paragraph (1) to read as
follows:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Trans-
portation shall develop, maintain, and peri-
odically update an inventory of vessels that
are—
‘‘(A) documented under this chapter;
‘‘(B) at least 200 feet in length;
‘‘(C) have the capability to lay, maintain,
or repair a submarine cable, without regard
to whether a particular vessel is classed as a
cable ship or cable vessel; and
‘‘(D) installation vessels within the mean-
ing of such term in section 55123.’’; and
(3) by amending paragraph (2)(B) to read as
follows:
‘‘(B) the abilities and limitations of the
vessel with respect to—
‘‘(i) in the case of a vessel required to be
inventoried under paragraph (1)(A), laying,
maintaining, and repairing a submarine
cable; and
‘‘(ii) in the case of a vessel required to be
inventoried under paragraph (1)(B), install-
ing platform jackets; and’’.
(d) NOTICE OF MODIFICATION OR REVOCA-
TION.—No later than 30 days after the enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, acting through the Commissioner
of Customs and Border Protection, shall
issue a notice, including an opportunity for
public comment, on the modification or rev-
ocation of Letter Rulings 101925, 108442,
113841, 114435, 115185, 115218, 115311, 115487,
115522, 115771, 115938, 116078, H004242 with re-
spect to the application of the section 55102
of title 46, Shipping, United States Code, to
certain offshore operations.
SEC. 306. ADVISORY COMMITTEES.
(a) NATIONAL OFFSHORE SAFETY ADVISORY
COMMITTEE; REPRESENTATION.—Section
15106(c)(3) of title 46, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘min-
eral and oil operations, including geo-
physical services’’ and inserting ‘‘oper-
ations’’;
(2) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘explo-
ration and recovery’’;
(3) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘en-
gaged in diving services related to offshore
construction, inspection, and maintenance’’
and inserting ‘‘providing diving services to
the offshore industry’’;
(4) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘en-
gaged in safety and training services related
to offshore exploration and construction’’
and inserting ‘‘providing safety and training
services to the offshore industry’’;
(5) in subparagraph (G), by striking ‘‘en-
gaged in pipelaying services related to off-
shore construction’’ and inserting ‘‘providing
subsea engineering, construction, or re-
motely operated vehicle support to the off-
shore industry’’;
(6) in subparagraph (H), by striking ‘‘min-
eral and energy’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7270 July 24, 2019
(7) in subparagraph (I), by striking ‘‘na-
tional environmental entities’’ and inserting
‘‘entities providing environmental protec-
tion, compliance, or response services to the
offshore industry’’; and
(8) in subparagraph (J), by striking ‘‘deep-
water ports’’ and inserting ‘‘entities engaged
in offshore oil exploration and production on
the Outer Continental Shelf adjacent to
Alaska’’.
(b) ADVISORY COMMITTEES; TESTIMONY.—
Section 15109(j)(4) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(C) TESTIMONY.—The members of a com-
mittee shall be available to testify before ap-
propriate committees of the Congress with
respect to the advice, reports, and rec-
ommendations submitted under paragraph
(2).’’.
(c) MARITIME TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM NA-
TIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 555 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 55502. Maritime Transportation System Na-
tional Advisory Committee
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
a Maritime Transportation System National
Advisory Committee (in this section referred
to as the ‘Committee’).
‘‘(b) FUNCTION.—The Committee shall ad-
vise the Secretary of Transportation on mat-
ters relating to the United States maritime
transportation system and its seamless inte-
gration with other segments of the transpor-
tation system, including the viability of the
United States Merchant Marine.
‘‘(c) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Committee shall
consist of 27 members appointed by the Sec-
retary of Transportation in accordance with
this section and section 15109.
‘‘(2) EXPERTISE.—Each member of the Com-
mittee shall have particular expertise,
knowledge, and experience in matters relat-
ing to the function of the Committee.
‘‘(3) REPRESENTATION.—Members of the
Committee shall be appointed as follows:
‘‘(A) At least 1 member shall represent the
Environmental Protection Agency.
‘‘(B) At least 1 member shall represent the
Department of Commerce.
‘‘(C) At least 1 member shall represent the
Army Corps of Engineers.
‘‘(D) At least 1 member shall represent the
Coast Guard.
‘‘(E) At least 1 member shall represent
Customs and Border Protection.
‘‘(F) At least 1 member shall represent
State and local governmental entities.
‘‘(G) Additional members shall represent
private sector entities that reflect a cross-
section of maritime industries, including
port and water stakeholders, academia, and
labor.
‘‘(H) The Secretary may appoint additional
representatives from other Federal agencies
as the Secretary considers appropriate.
‘‘(4) ADMINISTRATION.—For purposes of sec-
tion 15109—
‘‘(A) the Committee shall be treated as a
committee established under chapter 151;
and
‘‘(B) the Secretary of Transportation shall
fulfill all duties and responsibilities and
have all authorities of the Secretary of
Homeland Security with regard to the Com-
mittee.’’.
(2) TREATMENT OF EXISTING COMMITTEE.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law—
(A) an advisory committee substantially
similar to the Committee established by sec-
tion 55502 of title 46, United States Code, and
that was in force or in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act,
including the charter, membership, and
other aspects of such committee, may re-
main in force or in effect for the 2-year pe-
riod beginning on the date of the enactment
of this section; and
(B) during such 2-year period—
(i) requirements relating the Maritime
Transportation System National Advisory
Committee established by such section shall
be treated as satisfied by such substantially
similar advisory committee; and
(ii) the enactment of this section shall not
be the basis—
(I) to deem, find, or declare such com-
mittee, including the charter, membership,
and other aspects thereof, void, not in force,
or not in effect;
(II) to suspend the activities of such com-
mittee; or
(III) to bar the members of such committee
from a meeting.
(3) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis for
chapter 555 of title 46, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘55502. Maritime Transportation System Na-
tional Advisory Committee.’’.
(4) REPEAL.—Section 55603 of title 46,
United States Code, and the item relating to
that section in the analysis for chapter 556 of
that title, are repealed.
(d) GREAT LAKES PILOTAGE ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking section 9307 and
inserting the following:
‘‘§ 9307. Great Lakes Pilotage Advisory Com-
mittee
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
a Great Lakes Pilotage Advisory Committee
(in this section referred to as the ‘Com-
mittee’).
‘‘(b) FUNCTION.—The Committee—
‘‘(1) may review proposed Great Lakes pi-
lotage regulations and policies and make
recommendations to the Secretary that the
Committee considers appropriate;
‘‘(2) may advise, consult with, report to,
and make recommendations to the Secretary
on matters relating to Great Lakes pilotage;
and
‘‘(3) may only make recommendations to
the Secretary under paragraph (2) if such
recommendations have been approved by all
but one of the members then serving on such
Committee.
‘‘(c) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Committee shall
consist of 7 members appointed by the Sec-
retary in accordance with this section and
section 15109.
‘‘(2) EXPERTISE.—Each member of the Com-
mittee shall have particular expertise,
knowledge, and experience in matters relat-
ing to the function of the Committee.
‘‘(3) REPRESENTATION.—Members of the
Committee shall be appointed as follows:
‘‘(A) The President of each of the 3 Great
Lakes pilotage districts, or the President’s
representative.
‘‘(B) At least 1 member shall represent the
interests of vessel operators that contract
for Great Lakes pilotage services.
‘‘(C) At least 1 member shall represent the
interests of Great Lakes ports.
‘‘(D) At least 1 member shall represent the
interests of shippers whose cargoes are
transported through Great Lakes ports.
‘‘(E) At least 1 member shall have a back-
ground in finance or accounting and must
have been recommended to the Secretary by
a unanimous vote of the other members of
the Committee.
‘‘(4) ADMINISTRATION.—For purposes of sec-
tion 15109, the Committee shall be treated as
a committee established under chapter 151.’’.
(2) TREATMENT OF EXISTING COMMITTEE.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law—
(A) an advisory committee substantially
similar to the Great Lakes Pilotage Advi-
sory Committee established by section 9307
of title 46, United States Code, as amended
by this section, and that was in force or in
effect on the day before the date of the en-
actment of this Act, including the charter,
membership, and other aspects of the com-
mittee, may remain in force or in effect for
a period of 2 years from the date of enact-
ment of this Act; and
(B) during such 2-year period—
(i) requirements relating to the Great
Lakes Pilotage Advisory Committee estab-
lished by section 9307 of title 46, United
States Code, as amended by this section,
shall be treated as satisfied by the substan-
tially similar advisory committee; and
(ii) the enactment of this section and the
amendments made by this section shall not
be the basis—
(I) to deem, find, or declare such com-
mittee, including the charter, membership,
and other aspects thereof, void, not in force,
or not in effect;
(II) to suspend the activities of such com-
mittee; or
(III) to bar the members of such committee
from a meeting.
(e) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Section 15109
of title 46 is amended by inserting ‘‘or to
which this chapter applies’’ after ‘‘com-
mittee established under this chapter’’ each
place it appears.
SEC. 307. EXPIRED MARITIME LIENS.
Section 31343(e) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ before ‘‘A notice’’;
and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (1), as so
designated by this section, the following:
‘‘(2) On expiration of a notice of claim of
lien under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
remove such expired notice.’’.
SEC. 308. TRAINING; EMERGENCY RESPONSE
PROVIDERS.
(a) SECURITY PLAN IMPLEMENTATION
GRANTS.—Section 70107 of title 46, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘law en-
forcement personnel’’ and inserting ‘‘emer-
gency response providers’’;
(2) in subsection (b)(8), by striking ‘‘law en-
forcement personnel—’’ and inserting ‘‘emer-
gency response providers—’’; and
(3) in subsection (c)(2)(C), by striking ‘‘law
enforcement agency personnel’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘emergency response providers’’.
(b) CREDENTIALING FOR STATE AND LOCAL
SUPPORT.—Section 70132 of title 46, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘law en-
forcement personnel—’’ and inserting ‘‘emer-
gency response providers—’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘law en-
forcement personnel’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘emergency response pro-
viders’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) DEFINITION.—For the purposes of this
section, the term ‘emergency response pro-
viders’ has the meaning given that term in
section 2 of the Homeland Security Act of
2002 (6 U.S.C. 101).’’.
SEC. 309. AIMING A LASER POINTER AT A VESSEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter
700 of title 46, United States Code, is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘§ 70014. Aiming a laser pointer at a vessel
‘‘(a) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful to
cause the beam of a laser pointer to strike a
vessel operating on the navigable waters of
the United States.
‘‘(b) EXCEPTIONS.—This section shall not
apply to a member or element of the Depart-
ment of Defense or Department of Homeland
Security acting in an official capacity for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7271
July 24, 2019
the purpose of research, development, oper-
ations, testing, or training.
‘‘(c) LASER POINTER DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion the term ‘laser pointer’ means any de-
vice designed or used to amplify electro-
magnetic radiation by stimulated emission
that emits a beam designed to be used by the
operator as a pointer or highlighter to indi-
cate, mark, or identify a specific position,
place, item, or object.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for such chapter is amended by adding at the
end of the items relating to such subchapter
the following:
‘‘70014. Aiming a laser pointer at a vessel.’’.
SEC. 310. MARITIME TRANSPORTATION ASSESS-
MENT.
Section 55501(e) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘an assess-
ment of the condition’’ and inserting ‘‘a con-
ditions and performance analysis’’;
(2) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
(3) in paragraph (5) by striking the period
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) a compendium of the Federal programs
engaged in the maritime transportation sys-
tem.’’.
SEC. 311. SAFETY OF SPECIAL ACTIVITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title 46, United States
Code, is amended by inserting after section
70005 the following:
‘‘§ 70006. Safety of special activities
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may es-
tablish a safety zone to address special ac-
tivities in the exclusive economic zone.
‘‘(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘safety zone’ has the mean-
ing provided in section 165.20 of title 33, Code
of Federal Regulations.
‘‘(2) The term ‘special activities’ includes—
‘‘(A) space activities, including launch and
reentry, as those terms are defined in section
50902 of title 51, carried out by United States
citizens; and
‘‘(B) offshore energy development activi-
ties, as described in section 8(p)(1)(C) of the
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C.
1337(p)(1)(C)), on or near a fixed platform.
‘‘(3) The term ‘United States citizen’ has
the meaning given the term ‘eligible owners’
in section 12103.
‘‘(4) The term ‘fixed platform’ means an ar-
tificial island, installation, or structure per-
manently attached to the sea-bed for the
purpose of exploration or exploitation of re-
sources or for other economic purposes.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for chapter 700 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 70005 the following:
‘‘70006. Safety of special activities.’’.
(c) REGULATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of the department in which the
Coast Guard is operating shall establish reg-
ulations to implement this section.
(2) ALIGNMENT WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.—
Such regulations shall align with subchapter
C of chapter III of title 14, Code of Federal
Regulations.
SEC. 312. ENGINE CUT-OFF SWITCHES; USE RE-
QUIREMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 4312 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (b), (c),
and (d) as subsections (c), (d), and (e), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) USE REQUIREMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An individual operating
a covered recreational vessel shall use an en-
gine cut-off switch link while operating on
plane or above displacement speed.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTIONS.—The requirement under
paragraph (1) shall not apply if—
‘‘(A) the main helm of the covered vessel is
installed within an enclosed cabin; or
‘‘(B) the vessel does not have an engine
cut-off switch and is not required to have
one under subsection (a).’’.
(b) CIVIL PENALTY.—Section 4311 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended by—
(1) redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e),
(f), and (g) as subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), and
(h), respectively; and
(2) inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(c) A person violating section 4312(b) of
this title is liable to the United States Gov-
ernment for a civil penalty of not more
than—
‘‘(1) $100 for the first offense;
‘‘(2) $250 for the second offense; and
‘‘(3) $500 for any subsequent offense.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made in subsections (a) and (b) shall take ef-
fect 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this section, unless the Commandant of
the Coast Guard, prior to the date that is 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
section, determines that the use requirement
enacted in subsection (a) would not promote
recreational boating safety.
SEC. 313. EXEMPTIONS AND EQUIVALENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 4305 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking the heading and inserting
the following:
‘‘§ 4305. Exemptions and equivalents’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘If the Secretary’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(a) EXEMPTIONS.—If the Secretary’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) EQUIVALENTS.—The Secretary may ac-
cept a substitution for associated equipment
performance or other safety standards for a
recreational vessel if the substitution pro-
vides an equivalent level of safety.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for chapter 43 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended by striking the item relating to
section 4305 and inserting the following:
‘‘4305. Exemptions and equivalents.’’.
SEC. 314. SECURITY PLANS; REVIEWS.
Section 70103 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by amending subsection (b)(3) to read as
follows:
‘‘(3) The Secretary shall review and ap-
prove Area Maritime Transportation Secu-
rity Plans and updates under this sub-
section.’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)(4), by inserting ‘‘or up-
date’’ after ‘‘plan’’ each place it appears.
SEC. 315. WAIVER OF NAVIGATION AND VESSEL
INSPECTION LAWS.
Section 501(a) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘On request’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—On request’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) EXPLANATION.—Not later than 24 hours
after making a request under paragraph (1),
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
Committees on Transportation and Infra-
structure and Armed Services of the House
of Representatives and the Committees on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation and
Armed Services of the Senate a written ex-
planation of the circumstances requiring
such a waiver in the interest of national de-
fense, including a confirmation that there
are insufficient qualified vessels to meet the
needs of national defense without such a
waiver.’’.
SEC. 316. REQUIREMENT FOR SMALL SHIPYARD
GRANTEES.
Section 54101(d) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Grants awarded’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Grants awarded’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) BUY AMERICA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), no funds may be obligated by the Admin-
istrator of the Maritime Administration
under this section, unless each product and
material purchased with those funds (includ-
ing products and materials purchased by a
grantee), and including any commercially
available off-the-shelf item, is—
‘‘(i) an unmanufactured article, material,
or supply that has been mined or produced in
the United States; or
‘‘(ii) a manufactured article, material, or
supply that has been manufactured in the
United States substantially all from articles,
materials, or supplies mined, produced, or
manufactured in the United States.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraph (A), the requirements of that sub-
paragraph shall not apply with respect to a
particular product or material if such Ad-
ministrator determines—
‘‘(I) that the application of those require-
ments would be inconsistent with the public
interest;
‘‘(II) that such product or material is not
available in the United States in sufficient
and reasonably available quantities, of a sat-
isfactory quality, or on a timely basis; or
‘‘(III) that inclusion of a domestic product
or material will increase the cost of that
product or material by more than 25 percent,
with respect to a certain contract between a
grantee and that grantee’s supplier.
‘‘(ii) FEDERAL REGISTER.—A determination
made by such Administrator under this sub-
paragraph shall be published in the Federal
Register.
‘‘(C) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
‘‘(i) COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE OFF-THE-
SHELF ITEM.—The term ‘commercially avail-
able off-the-shelf item’ means—
‘‘(I) any item of supply (including con-
struction material) that is—
‘‘(aa) a commercial item, as defined by sec-
tion 2.101 of title 48, Code of Federal Regula-
tions; and
‘‘(bb) sold in substantial quantities in the
commercial marketplace; and
‘‘(II) does not include bulk cargo, as that
term is defined in section 40102(4) of this
title, such as agricultural products and pe-
troleum products.
‘‘(ii) PRODUCT OR MATERIAL.—The term
‘product or material’ means an article, mate-
rial, or supply brought to the site by the re-
cipient for incorporation into the building,
work, or project. The term also includes an
item brought to the site preassembled from
articles, materials, or supplies. However,
emergency life safety systems, such as emer-
gency lighting, fire alarm, and audio evacu-
ation systems, that are discrete systems in-
corporated into a public building or work
and that are produced as complete systems,
are evaluated as a single and distinct con-
struction material regardless of when or how
the individual parts or components of those
systems are delivered to the construction
site.
‘‘(iii) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘United
States’ includes the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American
Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7272 July 24, 2019
SEC. 317. INDEPENDENT STUDY ON THE UNITED
STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACAD-
EMY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Transportation shall seek to
enter into an agreement with the National
Academy of Public Administration (referred
to in this section as the ‘‘Academy’’) to
carry out the activities described in this sec-
tion.
(b) STUDY ELEMENTS.—In accordance with
the agreement described in subsection (a),
the Academy shall conduct a study of the
United States Merchant Marine Academy
that consists of the following:
(1) A comprehensive assessment of the
United States Merchant Marine Academy’s
systems, training, facilities, infrastructure,
information technology, and stakeholder en-
gagement.
(2) Identification of needs and opportuni-
ties for modernization to help the United
States Merchant Marine Academy keep pace
with more modern campuses.
(3) Development of an action plan for the
United States Merchant Marine Academy
with specific recommendations for—
(A) improvements or updates relating to
the opportunities described in paragraph (2);
and
(B) systemic changes needed to help the
United States Merchant Marine Academy
achieve its mission of inspiring and edu-
cating the next generation of the mariner
workforce on a long-term basis.
(c) DEADLINE AND REPORT.—Not later than
1 year after the date of the agreement de-
scribed in subsection (a), the Academy shall
prepare and submit to the Administrator of
the Maritime Administration a report con-
taining the action plan described in sub-
section (b)(3), including specific findings and
recommendations.
SEC. 318. CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE FOR DOMES-
TIC MARITIME WORKFORCE TRAIN-
ING AND EDUCATION.
Section 54102 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘or sub-
section (d)’’ after ‘‘designated under sub-
section (a)’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) STATE MARITIME ACADEMY.—The Sec-
retary of Transportation shall designate
each State maritime academy, as defined in
section 51102(4) of this title, as a center of ex-
cellence under this section.’’.
SEC. 319. RENEWAL OF MERCHANT MARINER LI-
CENSES AND DOCUMENTS.
Section 7507 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(d) RENEWAL.—With respect to any re-
newal of an existing merchant mariner cre-
dential that is not an extension under sub-
section (a) or (b), such credential shall begin
the day after the expiration of the credential
holder’s existing credential.’’.
TITLE IV—MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 401. COASTWISE TRADE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commandant of the
Coast Guard shall review the adequacy of
and continuing need for provisions in title
46, Code of Federal Regulations, that require
a United States vessel documented under
chapter 121 of title 46, United States Code,
possessing a coastwise endorsement under
that chapter, and engaged in coastwise
trade, to comply with regulations for vessels
engaged in an international voyage.
(b) BRIEFING.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commandant of the Coast Guard shall pro-
vide to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate a briefing on the findings of the re-
view required under subsection (a) and a dis-
cussion of how existing laws and regulations
could be amended to ensure the safety of ves-
sels described in subsection (a) while infring-
ing as little as possible on commerce.
SEC. 402. UNMANNED MARITIME SYSTEMS AND
SATELLITE VESSEL TRACKING
TECHNOLOGIES.
(a) ASSESSMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commandant of the
Coast Guard, acting through the Blue Tech-
nology Center of Expertise, shall regularly
assess available unmanned maritime sys-
tems and satellite vessel tracking tech-
nologies for potential use to support mis-
sions of the Coast Guard.
(2) CONSULTATION.—The Commandant shall
make the assessment required under para-
graph (1) after consultation with the Depart-
ment of Defense, other Federal agencies, the
academic sector, and developers and manu-
facturers of unmanned maritime systems
and satellite vessel tracking technologies.
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and biennially thereafter, the Commandant
shall submit to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate a report on the actual and potential
effects of the use of then-existing unmanned
maritime systems and satellite vessel track-
ing technologies on the mission effectiveness
of the Coast Guard.
(2) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(A) An inventory of current unmanned
maritime systems used by the Coast Guard,
an overview of such usage, and a discussion
of the mission effectiveness of such systems,
including any benefits realized or risks or
negative aspects of such usage.
(B) An inventory of satellite vessel track-
ing technologies, and a discussion of the po-
tential mission effectiveness of such tech-
nologies, including any benefits or risks or
negative aspects of such usage.
(C) A prioritized list of Coast Guard mis-
sion requirements that could be met with ad-
ditional unmanned maritime systems, or
with satellite vessel tracking technologies,
and the estimated costs of accessing, acquir-
ing, or operating such systems.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) UNMANNED MARITIME SYSTEMS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘unmanned
maritime systems’’ means remotely operated
or autonomous vehicles produced by the
commercial sector designed to travel in the
air, on or under the ocean surface, on land,
or any combination thereof, and that func-
tion without an on-board human presence.
(B) EXAMPLES.—Such term includes the
following:
(i) Unmanned undersea vehicles.
(ii) Unmanned surface vehicles.
(iii) Unmanned aerial vehicles.
(iv) Autonomous underwater vehicles.
(v) Autonomous surface vehicles.
(vi) Autonomous aerial vehicles.
(2) AVAILABLE UNMANNED MARITIME SYS-
TEMS.—The term ‘‘available unmanned mari-
time systems’’ includes systems that can be
purchased commercially or are in use by the
Department of Defense or other Federal
agencies.
(3) SATELLITE VESSEL TRACKING TECH-
NOLOGIES.—The term ‘‘satellite vessel track-
ing technologies’’ means shipboard broadcast
systems that use satellites and terrestrial
receivers to continually track vessels.
SEC. 403. EXPEDITED TRANSFER IN CASES OF
SEXUAL ASSAULT; DEPENDENTS OF
MEMBERS OF THE COAST GUARD.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Commandant
of the Coast Guard shall establish a policy to
allow the transfer of a member of the Coast
Guard whose dependent is the victim of sex-
ual assault perpetrated by a member of the
Armed Forces who is not related to the vic-
tim.
SEC. 404. TOWING VESSELS; OPERATION OUTSIDE
THE BOUNDARY LINE.
(a) INTERIM EXEMPTION.—A towing vessel
to which this section applies is exempt from
any additional requirements of subtitle II of
title 46, United States Code, and chapter I of
title 33 and chapter I of title 46, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, that would result solely
from such vessel operating outside the
Boundary Line (as such term is defined in
section 103 of title 46, United States Code) if
such vessel—
(1) is listed as a response vessel on a vessel
response plan and is operating outside the
Boundary Line solely to perform duties of a
response vessel; or
(2) is operating outside the Boundary Line
solely to perform operations necessary to es-
cort a vessel with limited maneuverability.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—This section applies to
a towing vessel—
(1) that is subject to inspection under
chapter 33 of title 46, United States Code,
and subchapter M of title 46, Code of Federal
Regulations;
(2) with only ‘‘Lakes, Bays, and Sounds’’ or
‘‘Rivers’’ routes recorded on such vessel’s
certificate of inspection under section 136.230
of title 46, Code of Federal Regulations; and
(3)(A) that, with respect to a vessel that is
described in subsection (a)(1), is listed—
(i) on a vessel response plan under part 155
of title 33, Code of Federal Regulations, on
the date of approval of the vessel response
plan; or
(ii) by name or reference in the vessel re-
sponse plan’s geographic-specific appendix
on the date of approval of the vessel response
plan; or
(B) that, with respect to a vessel described
in subsection (a)(2), is regularly engaged in
harbor assist operations, including the dock-
ing, undocking, mooring, unmooring, and es-
corting of vessels with limited maneuver-
ability.
(c) LIMITATIONS.—A vessel exempted under
subsection (a) is subject to the following op-
erating limitations:
(1) RESPONSE VESSELS.—The voyage of a
vessel exempted under subsection (a)(1)
shall—
(A) be less than 12 hours, or in the case of
a voyage in the territorial waters of Alaska,
Guam, Hawaii, and American Samoa, have
sufficient manning as determined by the
Secretary; and
(B) originate and end in the inspection
zone of a single Officer In-Charge, Marine In-
spection, as defined in section 3305(d)(4) of
title 46, United States Code.
(2) ESCORT VESSELS.—The voyage of a ves-
sel exempted under subsection (a)(2) shall—
(A) be less than 12 hours in total duration;
(B) originate and end in the inspection
zone of a single Officer In-Charge, Marine In-
spection, as such term is defined in section
3305(d)(4) of title 46, United States Code; and
(C) occur no further than 10 nautical miles
from the Boundary Line.
(d) TERMINATION.—The interim exemption
provided under subsection (a) shall termi-
nate on July 22, 2023.
(e) RESTRICTION.—The Officer In-Charge,
Marine Inspection, as defined in section
3305(d)(4) of title 46, United States Code, for
an inspection zone may restrict operations
under the exemptions provided under sub-
section (a) for safety purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7273
July 24, 2019
(f) BRIEFING.—Not later than July 22, 2022,
the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall
brief the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate
regarding the following:
(1) The impacts of the interim exemptions
provided under this section.
(2) Any safety concerns regarding the expi-
ration of such interim exemptions.
(3) Whether such interim exemptions
should be extended or made permanent in
the interests of safety.
SEC. 405. COAST GUARD AUTHORITIES STUDY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the de-
partment in which the Coast Guard is oper-
ating shall seek to enter into an arrange-
ment with the National Academy of Sciences
not later than 60 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act under which the Acad-
emy shall prepare an assessment of Coast
Guard authorities.
(b) ASSESSMENT.—The assessment under
subsection (a) shall provide—
(1) an examination of emerging issues that
may require Coast Guard oversight, regula-
tion, or action;
(2) a description of potential limitations
and shortcomings of relying on current
Coast Guard authorities to address emerging
issues; and
(3) an overview of adjustments and addi-
tions that could be made to existing Coast
Guard authorities to fully address emerging
issues.
(c) REPORT TO THE CONGRESS.—Not later
than 1 year after entering into an arrange-
ment with the Secretary under subsection
(a), the National Academy of Sciences shall
submit the assessment under this section to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate.
(d) EMERGING ISSUES.—In this section, the
term ‘‘emerging issues’’ means changes in
the maritime industry and environment that
in the determination of the National Acad-
emy of Sciences are reasonably likely to
occur within 10 years after the date of the
enactment of this Act, including—
(1) the introduction of new technologies in
the maritime domain;
(2) the advent of new processes or oper-
ational activities in the maritime domain;
and
(3) changes in the use of navigable water-
ways.
SEC. 406. CLOUD COMPUTING STRATEGY.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Commandant
of the Coast Guard shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a detailed de-
scription of the Coast Guard’s strategy to
implement cloud computing for the entire
Coast Guard, including—
(1) the goals and acquisition strategies for
all proposed enterprise-wide cloud com-
puting service procurements;
(2) a strategy to sustain competition and
innovation throughout the period of per-
formance of each contract for procurement
of cloud-computing goods and services for
the Coast Guard, including defining opportu-
nities for multiple cloud-service providers
and insertion of new technologies;
(3) an assessment of potential threats and
security vulnerabilities of the strategy, and
plans to mitigate such risks; and
(4) an estimate of the cost and timeline to
implement cloud computing service for all
Coast Guard computing.
SEC. 407. REPORT ON EFFECTS OF CLIMATE
CHANGE ON COAST GUARD.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall
submit to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate a report on vulnerabilities of Coast
Guard installations and requirements result-
ing from climate change over the next 20
years.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) A list of the 10 most vulnerable Coast
Guard installations based on the effects of
climate change, including rising sea tides,
increased flooding, drought, desertification,
wildfires, thawing permafrost, or any other
categories the Commandant determines nec-
essary.
(2) An overview of—
(A) mitigations that may be necessary to
ensure the continued operational viability
and to increase the resiliency of the identi-
fied vulnerable installations; and
(B) the cost of such mitigations.
(3) A discussion of the climate-change-re-
lated effects on the Coast Guard, including—
(A) the increase in the frequency of hu-
manitarian assistance and disaster relief
missions; and
(B) campaign plans, contingency plans, and
operational posture of the Coast Guard.
(4) An overview of mitigations that may be
necessary to ensure mission resiliency and
the cost of such mitigations.
(c) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 408. SHORE INFRASTRUCTURE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall—
(1) develop a plan to standardize Coast
Guard facility condition assessments;
(2) establish shore infrastructure perform-
ance goals, measures, and baselines to track
the effectiveness of maintenance and repair
investments and provide feedback on
progress made;
(3) develop a process to routinely align the
Coast Guard shore infrastructure portfolio
with mission needs, including disposing of
unneeded assets;
(4) establish guidance for planning boards
to document inputs, deliberations, and
project prioritization decisions for infra-
structure maintenance projects;
(5) employ models for Coast Guard infra-
structure asset lines for—
(A) predicting the outcome of investments
in shore infrastructure;
(B) analyzing tradeoffs; and
(C) optimizing decisions among competing
investments;
(6) include supporting details about com-
peting project alternatives and report trade-
offs in congressional budget requests and re-
lated reports; and
(7) explore the development of real prop-
erty management expertise within the Coast
Guard workforce, including members of the
Senior Executive Service.
(b) BRIEFING.—Not later than December 31,
2020, the Commandant of the Coast Guard
shall brief the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate on the status of the actions required
under subsection (a).
SEC. 409. PHYSICAL ACCESS CONTROL SYSTEM
REPORT.
Not later 180 days after the date of the en-
actment of this Act and annually for each of
the 4 years thereafter, the Commandant of
the Coast Guard shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a report re-
garding the status of the Coast Guard’s com-
pliance with Homeland Security Presidential
Directive 12 (HSPD–12) and Federal Informa-
tion Processing Standard 201 (FIPS–201), in-
cluding—
(1) the status of Coast Guard efforts to
field a comprehensive Physical Access Con-
trol System at Coast Guard installations and
locations necessary to bring the Service into
compliance with HSPD–12 and FIPS–201B;
(2) the status of the selection of a techno-
logical solution;
(3) the estimated phases and timeframe to
complete the implementation of such a sys-
tem; and
(4) the estimated cost for each phase of the
project.
SEC. 410. COASTWISE ENDORSEMENTS.
(a) ‘‘SAFARI VOYAGER’’.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sections
12112 and 12132 of title 46, United States
Code, the Secretary of the department in
which the Coast Guard is operating shall
issue a certificate of documentation with a
coastwise endorsement for the vessel Safari
Voyager (International Maritime Organiza-
tion number 8963753).
(2) REVOCATION OF EFFECTIVENESS OF CER-
TIFICATE.—A certificate of documentation
issued under paragraph (1) is revoked on the
date of the sale of the vessel or the entity
that owns the vessel.
(b) ‘‘PACIFIC PROVIDER’’.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sections
12112 and 12132 of title 46, United States
Code, the Secretary of the department in
which the Coast Guard is operating may
issue a certificate of documentation with a
coastwise endorsement for the vessel Pacific
Provider (United States official number
597967).
(2) REVOCATION OF EFFECTIVENESS OF CER-
TIFICATE.—A certificate of documentation
issued under paragraph (1) is revoked on the
date of the sale of the vessel or the entity
that owns the vessel.
(c) DOCUMENTATION OF LNG TANKERS.—Sec-
tion 7(b)(3) of the America’s Cup Act of 2011
(Public Law 112–61) is amended by—
(1) striking ‘‘The coastwise endorsement
issued’’ and inserting ‘‘No coastwise endorse-
ment shall be issued’’; and
(2) striking ‘‘shall expire on’’ and inserting
‘‘after’’.
(d) REPLACEMENT VESSEL.—Notwith-
standing section 208(g)(5) of the American
Fisheries Act (Public Law 105–277; 16 U.S.C.
1851 note), a vessel eligible under section
208(e)(21) of such Act that is replaced under
section 208(g) of such Act shall be subject to
a sideboard restriction catch limit of zero
metric tons in the Bering Sea and Aleutian
Islands and in the Gulf of Alaska unless that
vessel is also a replacement vessel under sec-
tion 679.4(o)(4) of title 50, Code of Federal
Regulations, in which case such vessel shall
not be eligible to be a catcher/processor
under section 206(b)(2) of such Act.
SEC. 411. POLAR SECURITY CUTTER ACQUISITION
REPORT.
Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Commandant
of the Coast Guard shall submit a report to
the Committees on Transportation and In-
frastructure and Armed Services of the
House of Representatives, and the Commit-
tees on Commerce, Science and Transpor-
tation and Armed Services of the Senate
on—
(1) the extent to which specifications, key
drawings, and detail design for the Polar Se-
curity Cutter are complete before the start
of construction;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7274 July 24, 2019
(2) the extent to which Polar Security Cut-
ter hulls numbers one, two, and three are
science ready; and
(3) what actions will be taken to ensure
that Polar Security Cutter hull number four
is science capable, as described in the Na-
tional Academies of Sciences, Engineering,
and Medicine’s Committee on Polar Ice-
breaker Cost Assessment letter report enti-
tled ‘‘Acquisition and Operation of Polar Ice-
breakers: Fulfilling the Nation’s Needs’’ and
dated July 11, 2017.
SEC. 412. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON THE
NEED FOR A NEW GREAT LAKES ICE-
BREAKER.
(a) FINDINGS.—The Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) The Great Lakes shipping industry is
crucial to the American economy, including
the U.S. manufacturing base, providing im-
portant economic and national security ben-
efits.
(2) A recent study found that the Great
Lakes shipping industry supports 237,000 jobs
and tens of billions of dollars in economic
activity.
(3) United States Coast Guard icebreaking
capacity is crucial to full utilization of the
Great Lakes shipping system, as during the
winter icebreaking season up to 15 percent of
annual cargo loads are delivered and many
industries would have to reduce their pro-
duction if Coast Guard icebreaking services
were not provided.
(4) Six of the Coast Guard’s nine
icebreaking cutters in the Great Lakes are
more than 30 years old and are frequently in-
operable during the winter icebreaking sea-
son, including those that have completed a
recent service life extension program.
(5) During the previous 10 winters, Coast
Guard Great Lakes icebreaking cutters have
been inoperable for an average of 65 cutter-
days during the winter icebreaking season,
with this annual lost capability exceeding
100 cutter-days, with a high of 246 cutter-
days during the winter of 2017–2018.
(6) The 2019 ice season provides further
proof that current Coast Guard icebreaking
capacity is inadequate for the needs of the
Great Lakes shipping industry, as only six of
the nine icebreaking cutters are operational
and millions of tons of cargo was not loaded
or was delayed due to inadequate Coast
Guard icebreaking assets during a histori-
cally average winter for Great Lakes ice cov-
erage.
(7) The Congress has authorized the Coast
Guard to acquire a new Great Lakes ice-
breaker as capable as Coast Guard Cutter
MACKINAW (WLBB–30), the most capable
Great Lakes icebreaker, and $10 million has
been appropriated to fund the design and ini-
tial acquisition work for this icebreaker.
(8) The Coast Guard has not initiated a new
acquisition program for this Great Lakes
icebreaker.
(b) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.—It is the sense
of the Congress of the United States that a
new Coast Guard icebreaker as capable as
Coast Guard Cutter MACKINAW (WLBB–30)
is needed on the Great Lakes and the Coast
Guard should acquire this icebreaker as soon
as possible.
SEC. 413. CARGO PREFERENCE STUDY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
of the United States shall conduct an audit
regarding the enforcement of the United
States Cargo Preference Laws set forth in
sections 55302, 55303, 55304, and 55305 of title
46, United States Code, and section 2631 of
title 10, United States Code (hereinafter in
this section referred to as the ‘‘United States
Cargo Preference Laws’’).
(b) SCOPE.—The audit conducted under sub-
section (a) shall include, for the period from
October 14, 2008, until the date of the enact-
ment of this Act—
(1) a listing of the agencies and organiza-
tions required to comply with the United
States Cargo Preference Laws;
(2) an analysis of the compliance or non-
compliance of such agencies and organiza-
tions with such laws, including—
(A) the total amount of oceangoing cargo
that each such agency, organization, or con-
tractor procured for its own account or for
which financing was in any way provided
with Federal funds, including loan guaran-
tees;
(B) the percentage of such cargo shipped on
privately owned commercial vessels of the
United States;
(C) an assessment of internal programs and
controls used by each such agency or organi-
zation to monitor and ensure compliance
with the United States Cargo Preference
Laws, to include education, training, and su-
pervision of its contracting personnel, and
the procedures and controls used to monitor
compliance with cargo preference require-
ments by contractors and subcontractors;
and
(D) instances in which cargoes are shipped
on foreign-flag vessels under non-availability
determinations but not counted as such for
purposes of calculating cargo preference
compliance; and
(3) an overview of enforcement activities
undertaken by the Maritime Administration
from October 14, 2008, until the date of the
enactment of this Act, including a listing of
all bills of lading collected by the Maritime
Administration during that period.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Comp-
troller General shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a report detail-
ing the results of the audit and providing
recommendations related to such results, to
include—
(1) actions that should be taken by agen-
cies and organizations to fully comply with
the United States Cargo Preference Laws;
and
(2) Other measures that may compel agen-
cies and organizations, and their contractors
and subcontractors, to use United States flag
vessels in the international transportation of
ocean cargoes as mandated by the United
States Cargo Preference Laws.
SEC. 414. INSIDER THREAT PROGRAM.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Commandant
of the Coast Guard shall brief the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate on a plan to expand the Coast
Guard Insider Threat program to include the
monitoring of all Coast Guard devices, in-
cluding mobile devices.
SEC. 415. FISHING SAFETY GRANTS.
The cap on the Federal share of the cost of
any activity carried out with a grant under
subsections (i) and (j) of section 4502 of title
46, United States Code, as in effect prior to
the date of enactment of the Frank LoBi-
ondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018,
shall apply to any funds appropriated under
the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017
(Public Law 115–31) for the purpose of mak-
ing such grants.
SEC. 416. PLANS FOR DEMONSTRATION PRO-
GRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commandant of the
Coast Guard shall develop plans for dem-
onstration programs that will assess the fea-
sibility of using unmanned maritime sys-
tems for surveillance of marine protected
areas, the transit zone, and the Arctic to—
(1) gather regular maritime domain aware-
ness of marine protected areas, the transit
zone, and the Arctic; and
(2) ensure sufficient response to illegal ac-
tivities in marine protected areas, the tran-
sit zone, and the Arctic.
(b) COLLABORATION WITH LOCAL AUTHORI-
TIES.—The Commandant of the Coast Guard
shall collaborate with local, State, and Trib-
al authorities and international partners for
surveillance permissions over their waters in
conducting any demonstration program
under subsection (a).
(c) REQUIREMENTS.—The plans required
under subsection (a) shall include—
(1) discussion of the feasibility, safety, and
cost effectiveness of using unmanned mari-
time systems for the purposes of enhancing
maritime domain awareness in marine pro-
tected areas, the transit zone, and the Arc-
tic;
(2) coordination and communication plans
to facilitate coordination with other rel-
evant Federal, State, Tribal, and local agen-
cies, and international partners;
(3) consideration of the potential impacts
of such a demonstration program on the
Coast Guard’s existing unmanned vehicle
programs;
(4) an overview of areas that could be
surveilled under such program;
(5) a timeline and technical milestones for
the implementation of such a program;
(6) resource requirements to implement
and sustain such a program; and
(7) the operational benefits of such a pro-
gram.
(d) CONSULTATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS.—
The Commandant of the Coast Guard shall
consult with relevant stakeholders including
the Department of Defense, other agencies,
the academic sector, and developers and
manufacturers of unmanned maritime sys-
tems on the appropriate technologies for suc-
cessful implementation of any demonstra-
tion program under subsection (a).
(e) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commandant shall brief the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate on the plans required under
subsection (a).
(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ARCTIC.—The term ‘‘Arctic’’ has the
meaning given that term in section 112 of the
Arctic Research and Policy Act of 1984 (15
U.S.C. 4111).
(2) MARINE PROTECTED AREA.—The term
‘‘marine protected area’’ means any discrete
area of the marine environment under a Fed-
eral statute.
(3) TRANSIT ZONE.—The term ‘‘transit
zone’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 1092(a)(8) of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (6 U.S.C.
223(a)(8)).
(4) UNMANNED MARITIME SYSTEMS.—The
term ‘‘unmanned maritime systems’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 402(c)(1).
SEC. 417. WATERS DEEMED NOT NAVIGABLE
WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
The Coalbank Slough in Coos Bay, Oregon,
is deemed to not be navigable waters of the
United States for all purposes of subchapter
J of Chapter I of title 33, Code of Federal
Regulations.
SEC. 418. COAST GUARD HOUSING; STATUS AND
AUTHORITIES BRIEFING.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Commandant
of the Coast Guard shall provide to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a briefing on
Coast Guard housing, including—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7275
July 24, 2019
(1) a description of the material condition
of Coast Guard housing facilities;
(2) the amount of current Coast Guard
housing construction and deferred mainte-
nance backlogs;
(3) an overview of the manner in which the
Coast Guard manages and maintains housing
facilities;
(4) a discussion of whether reauthorizing
housing authorities for the Coast Guard
similar to those provided in section 208 of
the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–324); and
(5) recommendations regarding how the
Congress could adjust those authorities to
prevent mismanagement of Coast Guard
housing facilities.
SEC. 419. CONVEYANCE OF COAST GUARD PROP-
ERTY AT POINT SPENCER, ALASKA.
(1) Section 533 of the Coast Guard Author-
ization Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–120) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(f) REMEDIAL ACTIONS.—For purposes of
the transfers under this section, the reme-
dial actions required under section 120(h) of
the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9620(h)) may be completed by the
United States Coast Guard after the date of
such transfer and a deed entered into for
such transfer shall include a clause granting
the United States Coast Guard access to the
property in any case in which remedial ac-
tion or corrective action is found to be nec-
essary after the date of such transfer.’’.
(2) Section 534(a) of the Coast Guard Au-
thorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–120) is
amended by—
(A) striking ‘‘Nothing’’ and inserting
‘‘After the date on which the Secretary of
the Interior conveys land under section 533
of this Act, nothing’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘, with respect to con-
taminants on such land prior to the date on
which the land is conveyed’’ before the pe-
riod.
SEC. 420. PROHIBITION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the de-
partment in which the Coast Guard is oper-
ating shall not establish anchorage grounds
on the Hudson River between Yonkers, New
York, and Kingston, New York, under sec-
tion 7 of the Rivers and Harbors Appropria-
tions Act of 1915 (33 U.S.C. 471) or chapter 700
of title 46, United States Code, in addition to
any anchorage grounds in effect in such area
on the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b) RESTRICTION.—The Commandant may
not establish or expand any anchorage
grounds outside of the reach on the Hudson
River described in subsection (a) without
first providing notice to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate not later than 180 days prior to
the establishment or expansion of any such
anchorage grounds.
(c) SAVINGS CLAUSE.—Nothing in this sec-
tion—
(1) prevents the master or pilot of a vessel
operating on the reach of the Hudson River
described in subsection (a) from taking
emergency actions necessary to maintain
the safety of the vessel or to prevent the loss
of life or property; or
(2) shall be construed as limiting the au-
thority of the Secretary of the department
in which the Coast Guard is operating to ex-
ercise authority over the movement of a ves-
sel under section 70002 of title 46, United
States Code, or any other applicable laws or
regulations governing the safe navigation of
a vessel.
(d) STUDY.—The Commandant of the Coast
Guard, in consultation with the Hudson
River Safety, Navigation, and Operations
Committee, shall conduct a study of the
Hudson River north of Tarrytown, New York
to examine—
(1) the nature of vessel traffic including
vessel types, sizes, cargoes, and frequency of
transits;
(2) the risks and benefits of historic prac-
tices for commercial vessels anchoring; and
(3) the risks and benefits of establishing
anchorage grounds on the Hudson River.
(e) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commandant of the Coast Guard shall sub-
mit to the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a
report containing the findings, conclusions,
and recommendations from the study re-
quired under subsection (b).
SEC. 421. CERTIFICATE EXTENSIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter
121 of title 46, United States Code, is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘§ 12108. Authority to extend the duration of
vessel certificates
‘‘(a) CERTIFICATES.—Provided a vessel is in
compliance with inspection requirements in
section 3313, the Secretary of the Depart-
ment in which in the Coast Guard is oper-
ating may, if he makes the determination
described in subsection (b), extend for a pe-
riod of not more than one year an expiring–
—
‘‘(1) certificate of documentation issued for
a vessel under chapter 121; or
‘‘(2) certificate of financial responsibility
required for a vessel by section 1016(a) of the
Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2716(a)) or
Section 108 of the Comprehensive Environ-
mental Response, Compensation, and Liabil-
ity Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9608).
‘‘(b) DETERMINATION.—The determination
referred to in subsection (a) is a determina-
tion that such extension is required to en-
able the Coast Guard to—
‘‘(1) eliminate a backlog in processing ap-
plications for such certificates; or
‘‘(2) act in response to a national emer-
gency or natural disaster.
‘‘(c) MANNER OF EXTENSION.—Any exten-
sion granted under this section may be
granted to individual vessels or to a specifi-
cally identified group of vessels.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for such subchapter is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘12108. Authority to extend the duration of
vessel certificates.’’.
SEC. 422. HOMELAND SECURITY ROTATIONAL CY-
BERSECURITY RESEARCH PROGRAM
AT THE COAST GUARD ACADEMY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E of title VIII of
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
411 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘SEC. 846. ROTATIONAL CYBERSECURITY RE-
SEARCH PROGRAM.
‘‘To enhance the Department’s cybersecu-
rity capacity, the Secretary may establish a
rotational research, development, and train-
ing program for—
‘‘(1) detail to the Cybersecurity and Infra-
structure Security Agency (including the na-
tional cybersecurity and communications in-
tegration center authorized by section 2209)
of Coast Guard Academy graduates and fac-
ulty; and
‘‘(2) detail to the Coast Guard Academy, as
faculty, of individuals with expertise and ex-
perience in cybersecurity who are employed
by—
‘‘(A) the Agency (including the center);
‘‘(B) the Directorate of Science and Tech-
nology; or
‘‘(C) institutions that have been designated
by the Department as a Center of Excellence
for Cyber Defense, or the equivalent.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of such Act is
amended by adding at the end of the items
relating to such subtitle the following:
‘‘Sec. 846. Rotational cybersecurity research
program.’’.
SEC. 423. TOWING VESSEL INSPECTION FEES.
Notwithstanding section 9701 of title 31,
United States Code, and section 2110 of title
46, United States Code, the Secretary of the
department in which the Coast Guard is op-
erating may not charge an inspection fee for
towing vessels required to have a Certificate
of Inspection under subchapter M of title 46,
Code of Federal Regulations, until—
(1) the completion of the review required
under section 815 of the Frank LoBiondo
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–282); and
(2) the promulgation of regulations to es-
tablish specific inspection fees for such ves-
sels.
SEC. 424. SUBROGATED CLAIMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1012(b) of the Oil
Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2712(b)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘The’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) SUBROGATED RIGHTS.—Except for a
guarantor claim pursuant to a defense under
section 1016(f)(1), Fund compensation of any
claim by an insurer or other indemnifier of a
responsible party or injured third party is
subject to the subrogated rights of that re-
sponsible party or injured third party to
such compensation.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section and the
amendments made by this section shall take
effect 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act.
SEC. 425. LOAN PROVISIONS UNDER OIL POLLU-
TION ACT OF 1990.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1013 of the Oil
Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2713) is
amended by striking subsection (f).
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
1012(a) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33
U.S.C. 2712(a)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (4), by adding ‘‘and’’ after
the semicolon at the end;
(2) in paragraph (5)(D), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a period; and
(3) by striking paragraph (6).
SEC. 426. LIABILITY LIMITS.
Section 1004(d)(2) of the Oil Pollution Act
of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2704(d)(2)) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(2) DEEPWATER PORTS AND ASSOCIATED
VESSELS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that the design and operation of a
deepwater port results in a lower risk of oil
pollution than the design and operation of
such deepwater ports as existed on the date
of the enactment of the Coast Guard Author-
ization Act of 2019, the Secretary may ini-
tiate a rulemaking proceeding to lower the
limitation of liability under subsection (a)(4)
for such deepwater port and each other deep-
water port which achieves such lower risk
level through such port’s design and oper-
ation.
‘‘(B) RISK DETERMINATION.—In determining
the risk of oil pollution, the Secretary shall
take into account, as applicable—
‘‘(i) the size of the deepwater ports and as-
sociated vessels;
‘‘(ii) oil storage capacity of the deepwater
ports and associated vessels;
‘‘(iii) oil handling capacity of the deep-
water ports and associated vessels;
‘‘(iv) oil throughput;
‘‘(v) proximity to sensitive areas;
‘‘(vi) type of oil handled;
‘‘(vii) history of oil discharges; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7276 July 24, 2019
‘‘(viii) such other factors relevant to the
oil pollution risks posed by the class or cat-
egory of deepwater port and associated ves-
sels as the Secretary determines appropriate.
‘‘(C) LIMIT OF LIABILITY; TRANSPORTATION
OF OIL.—For deepwater ports used in connec-
tion with the transportation of oil, the Sec-
retary may establish a limitation of liability
under subparagraph (A) of not more than
$350,000,000 and not less than $50,000,000.
‘‘(D) LIMIT OF LIABILITY; TRANSPORTATION
OF NATURAL GAS.—For deepwater ports used
in connection with the transportation of nat-
ural gas, the Secretary may establish a limi-
tation of liability under subparagraph (A) of
not more than $350,000,000 and not less than
$1,000,000.’’.
SEC. 427. REPORT ON DRUG INTERDICTION IN
THE CARIBBEAN BASIN.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Com-
mandant of the Coast Guard shall submit to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate a report on
drug interdiction in the Caribbean basin.
(b) CONTENT.—Such report shall include—
(1) a statement of the Coast Guard mission
requirements for drug interdiction in the
Caribbean basin;
(2) the number of maritime surveillance
hours and Coast Guard assets used in each of
fiscal years 2017 through 2019 to counter the
illicit trafficking of drugs and other related
threats throughout the Caribbean basin; and
(3) a determination of whether such hours
and assets satisfied the Coast Guard mission
requirements for drug interdiction in the
Caribbean basin.
SEC. 428. VOTING REQUIREMENT.
Section 305(i)(1)(G)(iv) of the Magnuson-
Stevens Fishery Conservation and Manage-
ment Act (16 U.S.C. 1855(i)(1)(G)(iv)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(iv) VOTING REQUIREMENT.—The panel may
act only by the affirmative vote of at least
five of its members.’’.
SEC. 429. TRANSPORTATION WORK IDENTIFICA-
TION CARD PILOT PROGRAM.
Section 70105(g) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘shall concur-
rently’’ and all that follows and inserting
the following: ‘‘shall—
‘‘(1) develop and, no later than one year
after the date of enactment of the Coast
Guard Authorization Act of 2019, implement
a joint application for merchant mariner’s
documents under chapter 73 of title 46,
United States Code, and for a transportation
security card issued under this section; and
‘‘(2) upon receipt of a joint application de-
veloped under paragraph (1) concurrently
process an application from an individual for
merchant mariner’s documents under chap-
ter 73 of title 46, United States Code, and an
application from such individual for a trans-
portation security card under this section.’’.
SEC. 430. PLAN FOR WING-IN-GROUND DEM-
ONSTRATION PLAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—(1) The Commandant of
the Coast Guard, in coordination with the
Administrator of the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration with regard to any regulatory
or safety matter regarding airspace, air
space authorization, or aviation, shall de-
velop plans for a demonstration program
that will determine whether wing-in-ground
craft, as that term is defined in section 2101
of title 46, United States Code, that is capa-
ble of carrying at least one individual, can—
(A) provide transportation in areas in
which energy exploration, development or
production activity takes place on the Outer
Continental Shelf; and
(B) under the craft’s own power, safely
reach helidecks or platforms located on off-
shore energy facilities.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The plans required
under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) examine and explain any safety issues
with regard to the operation of the such
craft as a vessel, or as an aircraft, or both;
(B) include a timeline and technical mile-
stones for the implementation of such a dem-
onstration program;
(C) outline resource requirements needed
to undertake such a demonstration program;
(D) describe specific operational cir-
cumstances under which the craft may be
used, including distance from United States
land, altitude, number of individuals,
amount of cargo, and speed and weight of
vessel;
(E) describe the operations under which
Federal Aviation Administration statutes,
regulations, circulars, or orders apply; and
(F) describe the certifications, permits, or
authorizations required to perform any oper-
ations.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commandant, along with the Administrator
of the Federal Aviation Administration with
regard to any regulatory or safety matter re-
garding airspace, air space authorization, or
aviation, shall brief the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science and Transportation of
the Senate on the plan developed under sub-
section (a), including—
(1) any regulatory changes needed regard-
ing inspections and manning, to allow such
craft to operate between onshore facilities
and offshore energy facilities when such
craft is operating as a vessel;
(2) any regulatory changes that would be
necessary to address potential impacts to air
traffic control, the National Airspace Sys-
tem, and other aircraft operations, and to
ensure safe operations on or near helidecks
and platforms located on offshore energy fa-
cilities when such craft are operating as air-
craft; and
(3) any other statutory or regulatory
changes related to authority of the Federal
Aviation Administration over operations of
the craft.
TITLE V—REORGANIZATION
SEC. 501. UNINSPECTED COMMERCIAL FISHING
INDUSTRY VESSELS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle II of title 46,
United States Code, is amended by striking
chapter 45 and inserting the following:
‘‘CHAPTER 45—UNINSPECTED
COMMERCIAL INDUSTRY VESSELS
‘‘Sec.
‘‘4501. Application.
‘‘4502. Definitions.
‘‘4503. Safety standards.
‘‘4504. Vessel construction.
‘‘4505. Operating stability.
‘‘4506. Training.
‘‘4507. Vessel certification.
‘‘4508. Alternate safety compliance program.
‘‘4509. Substitute safety compliance pro-
gram.
‘‘4510. Enhanced substitute safety compli-
ance program.
‘‘4511. Prohibited acts.
‘‘4512. Termination of unsafe operations.
‘‘4513. Penalties.
‘‘4514. Compliance; Secretary actions.
‘‘4515. Exemptions.
‘‘4516. Regulations; considerations and limi-
tations.
‘‘4517. Fishing safety grants.
‘‘§ 4501. Application
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), this chapter applies to an
uninspected vessel that is a fishing vessel,
fish processing vessel, or fish tender vessel.
‘‘(b) CARRIAGE OF BULK DANGEROUS CAR-
GOES.—This chapter does not apply to the
carriage of bulk dangerous cargoes regulated
under chapter 37.
‘‘§ 4502. Definitions
‘‘In this chapter:
‘‘(1) The term ‘accountable vessel’ means a
vessel to which this chapter applies that—
‘‘(A)(i) was built after December 31, 1988, or
undergoes a major conversion completed
after that date; and
‘‘(ii) operates with more than 16 individ-
uals on board; or
‘‘(B) in the case of a fish tender vessel, en-
gages in the Aleutian trade.
‘‘(2) The term ‘auxiliary craft’ means a ves-
sel that is carried onboard a fishing vessel
and is normally used to support fishing oper-
ations.
‘‘(3)(A) The term ‘built’ means, with re-
spect to a vessel, that the vessel’s construc-
tion has reached any of the following stages:
‘‘(i) The vessel’s keel is laid.
‘‘(ii) Construction identifiable with the
vessel has begun and assembly of that vessel
has commenced comprising of at least 50
metric tons or one percent of the estimated
mass of all structural material, whichever is
less.
‘‘(B) In the case of a vessel greater than 79
feet in overall length, for purposes of sub-
paragraph (A)(i), a keel is deemed to be laid
when a marine surveyor affirms that a struc-
ture adequate for serving as a keel for such
vessel is in place and identified for use in the
construction of such vessel.
‘‘(4) The term ‘subject vessel’ means a ves-
sel to which this chapter applies that—
‘‘(A) operates beyond 3 nautical miles from
the baseline from which the territorial sea of
the United States is measured or beyond 3
nautical miles from the coastline of the
Great Lakes;
‘‘(B) operates with more than 16 individ-
uals on board; or
‘‘(C) in the case of a fish tender vessel, en-
gages in the Aleutian trade.
‘‘(5) The term ‘substitute-eligible vessel’
means a fishing vessel or fish tender vessel
that is—
‘‘(A) a subject vessel;
‘‘(B) at least 50 feet overall in length, and
not more than 180 feet overall in length as
listed on the vessel’s certificate of docu-
mentation or certificate of number; and
‘‘(C) built after February 8, 2016.
‘‘§ 4503. Safety standards
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall pre-
scribe regulations that require that each ves-
sel to which this chapter applies shall be
equipped with—
‘‘(1) readily accessible fire extinguishers
capable of promptly and effectively extin-
guishing a flammable or combustible liquid
fuel fire;
‘‘(2) at least one readily accessible life pre-
server or other lifesaving device for each in-
dividual on board;
‘‘(3) an efficient flame arrestor, backfire
trap, or other similar device on the carbu-
retors of each inboard engine that uses gaso-
line as fuel;
‘‘(4) the means to properly and efficiently
ventilate enclosed spaces, including engine
and fuel tank compartments, so as to remove
explosive or flammable gases;
‘‘(5) visual distress signals;
‘‘(6) other equipment required to minimize
the risk of injury to the crew during vessel
operations, if the Secretary determines that
a risk of serious injury exists that can be
eliminated or mitigated by that equipment;
and
‘‘(7) a placard as required by regulations
prescribed under section 10603(b).
‘‘(b) SUBJECT VESSELS.—In addition to the
requirements of subsection (a), the Secretary
shall prescribe regulations requiring that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7277
July 24, 2019
subject vessels install, maintain, and use the
following equipment:
‘‘(1) Alerting and locating equipment, in-
cluding emergency position indicating radio
beacons.
‘‘(2)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), a sur-
vival craft that—
‘‘(i) ensures that no part of an individual is
immersed in water; and
‘‘(ii) is sufficient to accommodate all indi-
viduals on board.
‘‘(B) Except for a nonapplicable vessel, an
auxiliary craft shall satisfy the equipment
requirement under paragraph (2)(B) if such
craft is—
‘‘(i) necessary for normal fishing oper-
ations;
‘‘(ii) readily accessible during an emer-
gency; and
‘‘(iii) capable, in accordance with the Coast
Guard capacity rating, when applicable, of
safely holding all individuals on board the
vessel to which the craft functions as an aux-
iliary.
‘‘(3) At least one readily accessible immer-
sion suit for each individual on board the
vessel when operating on the waters de-
scribed in section 3102.
‘‘(4) Marine radio communications equip-
ment sufficient to effectively communicate
with a land-based search and rescue facility.
‘‘(5) Navigation equipment, including com-
passes, nautical charts, and publications.
‘‘(6) First aid equipment and medical sup-
plies sufficient for the size and area of oper-
ation of the vessel.
‘‘(7) Ground tackle sufficient for the vessel.
‘‘(c) ACCOUNTABLE VESSELS.—In addition to
the requirements described in subsections (a)
and (b), the Secretary may prescribe regula-
tions establishing minimum safety standards
for accountable vessels, including standards
relating to—
‘‘(1) navigation equipment, including ra-
dars and fathometers;
‘‘(2) lifesaving equipment, immersion suits,
signaling devices, bilge pumps, bilge alarms,
life rails, and grab rails;
‘‘(3) fire protection and firefighting equip-
ment, including fire alarms and portable and
semiportable fire extinguishing equipment;
‘‘(4) use and installation of insulation ma-
terial;
‘‘(5) storage methods for flammable or
combustible material; and
‘‘(6) fuel, ventilation, and electrical sys-
tems.
‘‘§ 4504. Vessel construction
‘‘A vessel to which this chapter applies
shall be constructed in a manner that pro-
vides a level of safety equivalent to the min-
imum safety standards the Secretary may
establish for recreational vessels under sec-
tion 4302, if the vessel is—
‘‘(1) a subject vessel;
‘‘(2) less than 50 feet overall in length; and
‘‘(3) built after January 1, 2010.
‘‘§ 4505. Operating stability
‘‘(a) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall
prescribe regulations for the operating sta-
bility of a vessel to which this chapter ap-
plies—
‘‘(1) that was built after December 31, 1989;
or
‘‘(2) the physical characteristics of which
are substantially altered after December 31,
1989, in a manner that affects the vessel’s op-
erating stability.
‘‘(b) EVIDENCE OF COMPLIANCE.—The Sec-
retary may accept, as evidence of compli-
ance with this section, a certification of
compliance issued by the person providing
insurance for the vessel or by another quali-
fied person approved by the Secretary.
‘‘§ 4506. Training
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The individual in charge
of a subject vessel must pass a training pro-
gram approved by the Secretary that meets
the requirements of subsection (b) and hold a
valid certificate issued under that program.
‘‘(b) TRAINING PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—
The training program shall—
‘‘(1) be based on professional knowledge
and skill obtained through sea service and
hands-on training, including training in sea-
manship, stability, collision prevention,
navigation, firefighting and prevention,
damage control, personal survival, emer-
gency medical care, emergency drills, and
weather;
‘‘(2) require an individual to demonstrate
ability to communicate in an emergency sit-
uation and understand information found in
navigation publications;
‘‘(3) recognize and give credit for recent
past experience in fishing vessel operation;
and
‘‘(4) provide for issuance of a certificate to
an individual who has successfully com-
pleted the program.
‘‘(c) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall
prescribe regulations implementing this sec-
tion. The regulations shall require that an
individual who is issued a certificate under
subsection (b)(4) must complete refresher
training at least once every 5 years as a con-
dition of maintaining the validity of the cer-
tificate.
‘‘(d) ELECTRONIC DATABASE.—The Sec-
retary shall establish an electronic database
listing the names of individuals who have
participated in and received a certificate
confirming successful completion of a train-
ing program approved by the Secretary
under this section.
‘‘§ 4507. Vessel certification
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A vessel to which this
section applies may not be operated unless
the vessel—
‘‘(1) meets all survey and classification re-
quirements prescribed by the American Bu-
reau of Shipping or another similarly quali-
fied organization approved by the Secretary;
and
‘‘(2) has on board a certificate issued by
the American Bureau of Shipping or such
other organization evidencing compliance
with this subsection.
‘‘(b) APPLICATION.—
‘‘(1) Except as provided in section 4509, this
section applies to a fish processing vessel to
which this chapter applies that—
‘‘(A) is built after July 27, 1990; or
‘‘(B) undergoes a major conversion com-
pleted after that date.
‘‘(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph
(B), this section applies to a subject vessel
that is at least 50 feet overall in length and
is built after July 1, 2013.
‘‘(B) This section does not apply to a sub-
stitute-eligible vessel if such vessel complies
with—
‘‘(i) the substitute safety compliance pro-
gram established under section 4509; or
‘‘(ii) the enhanced substitute safety com-
pliance program established by the Sec-
retary under section 4510.
‘‘§ 4508. Alternate safety compliance program
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) The Secretary shall establish an alter-
nate safety compliance program developed in
coordination with the commercial fishing in-
dustry.
‘‘(2) The program established under para-
graph (1) may include requirements for—
‘‘(A) a specific region or fishery (or both);
and
‘‘(B) any combination of regions or fish-
eries (or both).
‘‘(b) VESSELS REQUIRED TO COMPLY.—Be-
ginning on the date that is 3 years after the
date the Secretary prescribes an alternate
safety compliance program, the following
vessels shall comply with such program:
‘‘(1) A subject vessel that is—
‘‘(A) at least 50 feet overall in length;
‘‘(B) built before July 1, 2013; and
‘‘(C) 25 years of age or older.
‘‘(2) A fishing vessel, fish processing vessel,
or fish tender vessel built before July 1, 2013,
that undergoes a major conversion com-
pleted after the date the Secretary pre-
scribes an alternate safety compliance pro-
gram.
‘‘(c) EXEMPT VESSELS.—
‘‘(1) Notwithstanding subsection (b), ves-
sels owned by a person that owns more than
30 vessels subject to that subsection are not
required to comply with alternate safety
compliance program requirements until Jan-
uary 1, 2030, if that owner—
‘‘(A) enters into a compliance agreement
with the Secretary that provides for a fixed
schedule for all such vessels owned by that
person to meet requirements of such para-
graph by such date; and
‘‘(B) is meeting such schedule.
‘‘(2) A subject vessel that was classed be-
fore July 1, 2012, is exempt from the require-
ments of this section if such vessel—
‘‘(A) remains subject to the requirements
of a classification society approved by the
Secretary; and
‘‘(B) has on board a certificate from that
society.
‘‘§ 4509. Substitute safety compliance program
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish a substitute safety compliance pro-
gram for substitute-eligible vessels that in-
cludes the following requirements:
‘‘(1) A substitute-eligible vessel shall be de-
signed by an individual licensed by a State
as a naval architect or marine engineer, and
the design shall incorporate standards equiv-
alent to those prescribed by a classification
society to which the Secretary has delegated
authority under section 3316 or another
qualified organization approved by the Sec-
retary for purposes of this paragraph.
‘‘(2) Construction of a substitute-eligible
vessel shall be overseen and certified as
being in accordance with its design by a ma-
rine surveyor of an organization accepted by
the Secretary.
‘‘(3) A substitute-eligible vessel shall—
‘‘(A) complete a stability test performed by
a qualified individual;
‘‘(B) have written stability and loading in-
structions from a qualified individual that
are provided to the owner or operator; and
‘‘(C) have an assigned loading mark.
‘‘(4) A substitute-eligible vessel shall not
be substantially altered without the review
and approval of an individual licensed by a
State as a naval architect or marine engi-
neer before the beginning of such substantial
alteration.
‘‘(5) A substitute-eligible vessel shall un-
dergo a condition survey at least twice in 5
years, with not more than 3 years between
surveys, to the satisfaction of a marine sur-
veyor of an organization accepted by the
Secretary.
‘‘(6) A substitute-eligible vessel shall un-
dergo an out-of-water survey at least once
every 5 years to the satisfaction of a cer-
tified marine surveyor of an organization ac-
cepted by the Secretary.
‘‘(7) Once every 5 years, and at the time of
a substantial alteration to a substitute-eligi-
ble vessel, compliance of the vessel with the
requirements of paragraph (3) is reviewed
and updated as necessary.
‘‘(8) For the life of a substitute-eligible
vessel, the owner of the vessel shall maintain
records to demonstrate compliance with this
subsection and make such records readily
available for inspection by an official au-
thorized to enforce this chapter.
‘‘(b) COMPLIANCE.—Section 4507 of this title
shall not apply to a substitute-eligible vessel
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7278 July 24, 2019
that complies with the requirements of the
program established under this section.
‘‘(c) REPORT.—Not later than February 8,
2026, the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a report that
provides an analysis of the adequacy of the
substitute safety compliance program re-
quirements established under subsection (a)
in maintaining the safety of substitute-eligi-
ble fishing vessels and fish tender vessels and
that comply with such requirements.
‘‘§ 4510. Enhanced substitute safety compli-
ance program
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—If the report required
under section 4509(c) includes a determina-
tion that the substitute safety compliance
program established under section 4509(a) is
not adequate or that additional safety meas-
ures are necessary, then the Secretary may
establish an enhanced substitute safety com-
pliance program for fishing vessels or fish
tender vessels (or both) that are substitute-
eligible vessels and that comply with the re-
quirements of section 4509.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS.—The enhanced sub-
stitute safety compliance program estab-
lished under this subsection shall include re-
quirements for—
‘‘(1) vessel construction;
‘‘(2) a vessel stability test;
‘‘(3) vessel stability and loading instruc-
tions;
‘‘(4) an assigned vessel loading mark;
‘‘(5) a vessel condition survey at least
twice in 5 years, not more than 3 years apart;
‘‘(6) an out-of-water vessel survey at least
once every 5 years;
‘‘(7) maintenance of records to dem-
onstrate compliance with the program, and
the availability of such records for inspec-
tion; and
‘‘(8) such other aspects of vessel safety as
the Secretary considers appropriate.
‘‘(c) COMPLIANCE.—Section 4507 shall not
apply to a substitute-eligible vessel that
complies with the requirements of the pro-
gram established under this section.
‘‘§ 4511. Prohibited acts
‘‘A person may not operate a vessel in vio-
lation of this chapter or a regulation pre-
scribed under this chapter.
‘‘§ 4512. Termination of unsafe operations
‘‘An official authorized to enforce this
chapter—
‘‘(1) may direct the individual in charge of
a vessel to which this chapter applies to im-
mediately take reasonable steps necessary
for the safety of individuals on board the
vessel if the official observes the vessel being
operated in an unsafe condition that the offi-
cial believes creates an especially hazardous
condition, including ordering the individual
in charge to return the vessel to a mooring
and to remain there until the situation cre-
ating the hazard is corrected or ended; and
‘‘(2) may order the individual in charge of
an uninspected fish processing vessel that
does not have on board the certificate re-
quired under section 4507 to return the vessel
to a mooring and to remain there until the
vessel is in compliance with such section,
unless the vessel is required to comply with
section 4508.
‘‘§ 4513. Penalties
‘‘(a) CIVIL PENALTY.—The owner, charterer,
managing operator, agent, master, and indi-
vidual in charge of a vessel to which this
chapter applies that is operated in violation
of this chapter or a regulation prescribed
under this chapter may each be assessed a
civil penalty by the Secretary of not more
than $10,260. Any vessel with respect to
which a penalty is assessed under this sub-
section is liable in rem for the penalty.
‘‘(b) CRIMINAL PENALTIES.—An individual
willfully violating this chapter or a regula-
tion prescribed under this chapter shall be
fined not more than $5,000, imprisoned for
not more than one year, or both.
‘‘§ 4514. Compliance; Secretary actions
‘‘To ensure compliance with the require-
ments of this chapter, the Secretary—
‘‘(1) shall require the individual in charge
of a subject vessel to keep a record of equip-
ment maintenance and required instruction
and drills;
‘‘(2) shall examine at dockside a subject
vessel at least once every 5 years, but may
require an exam at dockside every 2 years for
certain subject vessels if requested by the
owner or operator; and
‘‘(3) shall issue a certificate of compliance
to a vessel meeting the requirements of this
chapter and satisfying the requirements of
paragraph (2).
‘‘§ 4515. Exemptions
‘‘The Secretary may exempt a vessel from
any part of this chapter if, under regulations
prescribed by the Secretary (including regu-
lations on special operating conditions), the
Secretary finds that—
‘‘(1) good cause exists for granting an ex-
emption; and
‘‘(2) the safety of the vessel and those on
board will not be adversely affected.
‘‘§ 4516. Regulations; considerations and limi-
tations
‘‘In prescribing a regulation under this
chapter, the Secretary—
‘‘(1) shall consider the specialized nature
and economics of the operations and the
character, design, and construction of the
vessel; and
‘‘(2) may not require the alteration of a
vessel or associated equipment that was con-
structed or manufactured before the effec-
tive date of such regulation.
‘‘§ 4517. Fishing safety grants
‘‘(a) SAFETY TRAINING GRANTS.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall establish a
Fishing Safety Training Grant Program to
provide funding to municipalities, port au-
thorities, other appropriate public entities,
not-for-profit organizations, and other quali-
fied persons that provide commercial fishing
safety training.
‘‘(2) USE OF FUNDS.—Entities receiving
funds under this section may use such
funds—
‘‘(A) to conduct fishing vessel safety train-
ing for vessel operators and crewmembers
that—
‘‘(i) in the case of vessel operators, meets
the requirements of section 4506; and
‘‘(ii) in the case of crewmembers, meets
the requirements of sections 4506(b)(1),
4506(b)(4), 4506(c), and 4506(d), and such re-
quirements of section 4506(b)(2) as are appro-
priate for crewmembers; and
‘‘(B) for purchase of safety equipment and
training aids for use in such fishing vessel
safety training programs.
‘‘(3) AWARD CRITERIA.—The Secretary of
Health and Human Services, in consultation
with and based on criteria established by the
Commandant of the Coast Guard, shall
award grants under this subsection on a
competitive basis.
‘‘(4) LIMITATION ON FEDERAL SHARE OF
COST.—The Federal share of the cost of any
activity carried out with a grant under this
subsection shall not exceed 50 percent.
‘‘(5) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated
$3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 and 2021
for grants under this subsection.
‘‘(b) RESEARCH GRANT PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall establish a
Fishing Safety Research Grant Program to
provide funding to individuals in academia,
not-for-profit organizations, businesses in-
volved in fishing and maritime matters, and
other persons with expertise in fishing safe-
ty, to conduct research on methods of im-
proving the safety of the commercial fishing
industry, including vessel design, emergency
and survival equipment, enhancement of ves-
sel monitoring systems, communications de-
vices, de-icing technology, and severe weath-
er detection.
‘‘(2) AWARD CRITERIA.—The Secretary of
Health and Human Services, in consultation
with and based on criteria established by the
Commandant of the Coast Guard, shall
award grants under this subsection on a
competitive basis.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION ON FEDERAL SHARE OF
COST.—The Federal share of the cost of any
activity carried out with a grant under this
subsection shall not exceed 50 percent.
‘‘(4) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated
$3,000,000 for each fiscal year 2020 and 2021 for
activities under this subsection.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
3104(d) of title 46, United States Code, is
amended by striking ‘‘under section 4503(d)’’
and inserting ‘‘under section 4502(3)’’.
(c) SAFETY STANDARDS.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, and without regard to the provisions of
chapters 5 and 6 of title 5, United States
Code, the Secretary of the department in
which the Coast Guard is operating shall
promulgate the regulations required by sec-
tion 4503(b) of title 46, United States Code, as
amended by this section.
SEC. 502. TRANSFERS.
(a) TRANSFERS OF PROVISIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) Section 215 of the Coast Guard and
Maritime Transportation Act of 2004 (Public
Law 108–293; 14 U.S.C. 504 note) is redesig-
nated as section 321 of title 14, United States
Code, transferred to appear after section 320
of that title, and amended so that the enu-
merator, section heading, typeface, and
typestyle conform to those appearing in
other sections in title 14, United States
Code.
(B) Section 406 of the Maritime Transpor-
tation Security Act of 2002 (Public Law (107–
295; 14 U.S.C. 501 note) is redesignated as sec-
tion 719 of title 14, United States Code,
transferred to appear after section 718 of
that title, and amended so that the enu-
merator, section heading, typeface, and
typestyle conform to those appearing in
other sections in title 14, United States
Code.
(C) Section 1110 of title 14, United States
Code, is redesignated as section 5110 of that
title, and transferred to appear after section
5109 of that title.
(D) ELEVATION OF DISPUTES TO THE CHIEF
ACQUISITION OFFICER.—
(i) Section 401 of the Coast Guard Author-
ization Act of 2010 (Public Law 111–281) is
amended by striking subsection (e).
(ii) Subchapter I of chapter 11 of title 14,
United States Code, as amended by this Act,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘§ 1110. Elevation of Disputes to the Chief Ac-
quisition Officer
‘‘If, after 90 days following the elevation to
the Chief Acquisition Officer of any design or
other dispute regarding level 1 or level 2 ac-
quisition, the dispute remains unresolved,
the Commandant shall provide to the appro-
priate congressional committees a detailed
description of the issue and the rationale un-
derlying the decision taken by the Chief Ac-
quisition Officer to resolve the issue.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7279
July 24, 2019
(E) Section 217 of the Coast Guard Author-
ization Act of 2010 (Public Law 111–281; 14
U.S.C. 504 note)—
(i) is redesignated as section 5111 of title
14, United States Code, transferred to appear
after section 5110 of that title, and amended
so that the enumerator, section heading,
typeface, and typestyle conform to those ap-
pearing in other sections in title 14, United
States Code; and
(ii) is amended—
(I) by striking the heading and inserting
the following:
‘‘§ 5111. Sexual assault and sexual harassment
in the Coast Guard’’; and
(II) in subsection (b), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(5)(A) The number of instances in which a
covered individual was accused of mis-
conduct or crimes considered collateral to
the investigation of a sexual assault com-
mitted against the individual.
‘‘(B) The number of instances in which ad-
verse action was taken against a covered in-
dividual who was accused of collateral mis-
conduct or crimes as described in subpara-
graph (A).
‘‘(C) The percentage of investigations of
sexual assaults that involved an accusation
or adverse action against a covered indi-
vidual as described in subparagraphs (A) and
(B).
‘‘(D) In this paragraph, the term ‘covered
individual’ means an individual who is iden-
tified as a victim of a sexual assault in the
case files of a military criminal investiga-
tive organization.’’.
(F) Section 305 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(i) by striking ‘‘The Federal’’ and inserting
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Federal’’; and
(ii) by inserting after section (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) TRANSPARENCY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In conjunction with the
transmittal by the President to the Congress
of the Budget of the United States for fiscal
year 2021 and biennially there-after, the Fed-
eral Maritime Commission shall submit to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives reports that
describe the Commission’s progress toward
addressing the issues raised in each unfin-
ished regulatory proceeding, regardless of
whether the proceeding if subject to a statu-
tory or regulatory deadline.
‘‘(2) FORMAT OF REPORTS.—Each report
under paragraph (1) shall, among other
things, clearly identify for each unfinished
regulatory proceeding—
‘‘(A) the popular title;
‘‘(B) the current stage of the proceeding;
‘‘(C) an abstract of the proceeding;
‘‘(D) what prompted the action in question;
‘‘(E) any applicable statutory, regulatory,
or judicial deadline;
‘‘(F) the associated docket number;
‘‘(G) the date the rulemaking was initi-
ated;
‘‘(H) a date for the next action; and
‘‘(I) if a date for the next action identified
in the previous report is not met, the reason
for the delay.’’.
(G) Section 7 of the Rivers and Harbors Ap-
propriations Act of 1915 (33 U.S.C. 471) is
amended—
(i) by transferring such section to appear
after section 70006 of title 46, United States
Code;
(ii) by striking ‘‘SEC. 7.’’ and inserting
‘‘§70007. Establishment by Secretary of Home-
land Security of anchorage grounds and reg-
ulations generally’’; and
(iii) by adjusting the margins with respect
to subsections (a) and (b) for the presence of
a section heading accordingly.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
(A) The analysis for chapter 3 of title 14,
United States Code, as amended by this Act,
is further amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘321. Redistricting notification require-
ment.’’.
(B) The analysis for chapter 7 of title 14,
United States Code, as amended by this Act,
is further amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘719. VHF communication services.’’.
(C) The analysis for chapter 11 of title 14,
United States Code, is amended by striking
the item relating to section 1110 and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘1110. Elevation of disputes to the Chief Ac-
quisition Officer.’’.
(D) The analysis for chapter 51 of title 14,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘5110. Mission need statement.
‘‘5111. Sexual assault and sexual harassment
in the Coast Guard.’’.
(E) The analysis for chapter 700 of title 46,
United States Code, as amended by section
311(b), is further amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 70006 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘70007. Establishment by the Secretary of
Homeland Security of anchor-
age grounds and regulations
generally.’’.
(b) TRANSFERS.—
(1) SECTION 204 OF THE MARINE TRANSPOR-
TATION SECURITY ACT.—
(A) The Maritime Transportation Security
Act of 2002 is amended by striking section 204
(33 U.S.C. 1902a).
(B) Section 3 of the Act to Prevent Pollu-
tion from Ships (33 U.S.C. 1902)—
(i) is amended by redesignating subsections
(e) through (i) as subsections (f) through (j)
respectively; and
(ii) by inserting after subsection (d) the
following:
‘‘(e) DISCHARGE OF AGRICULTURAL CARGO
RESIDUE.—Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the discharge from a vessel of
any agricultural cargo residue material in
the form of hold washings shall be governed
exclusively by the provisions of the Act to
Prevent Pollution from Ships (33 U.S.C. 1901
et seq.) that implement Annex V to the
International Convention for the Prevention
of Pollution from Ships.’’.
(2) LNG TANKERS.—
(A) The Coast Guard and Maritime Trans-
portation Act of 2006 is amended by striking
section 304 (Public Law 109–241; 120 Stat. 527).
(B) Section 5 of the Deepwater Port Act of
1974 (33 U.S.C. 1504) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(j) LNG TANKERS.—
‘‘(1) PROGRAM.—The Secretary of Transpor-
tation shall develop and implement a pro-
gram to promote the transportation of lique-
fied natural gas to and from the United
States on United States flag vessels.
‘‘(2) INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED.—When
the Coast Guard is operating as a contrib-
uting agency in the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission’s shoreside licensing
process for a liquefied natural gas or lique-
fied petroleum gas terminal located on shore
or within State seaward boundaries, the
Coast Guard shall provide to the Commission
the information described in section
5(c)(2)(K) of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974
(33 U.S.C. 1504(c)(2)(K)) with respect to ves-
sels reasonably anticipated to be servicing
that port.’’.
SEC. 503. REPEALS.
(a) LICENSE EXEMPTIONS; REPEAL OF OBSO-
LETE PROVISIONS.—
(1) SERVICE UNDER LICENSES ISSUED WITHOUT
EXAMINATION.—
(A) REPEAL.—Section 8303 of title 46,
United States Code, and the item relating to
that section in the analysis for chapter 83 of
that title, are repealed.
(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
14305(a)(10) of title 46, United States Code, is
amended by striking ‘‘sections 8303 and 8304’’
and inserting ‘‘section 8304’’.
(2) STANDARDS FOR TANK VESSELS OF THE
UNITED STATES.—Section 9102 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘(a)’’ before the first sen-
tence; and
(B) by striking subsection (b).
(b) REPEAL.—Section 343 of the Maritime
Transportation Security Act of 2002 (Public
Law 107–295; 116 Stat. 2106) is repealed.
(c) ACCIDENT AND INCIDENT NOTIFICATION.—
Subsection (c) of section 9 of the Pipeline
Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Cre-
ation Act of 2011 (Public Law 112–90; 125 Stat
1912)) is repealed and is deemed not to have
been enacted.
TITLE VI—TECHNICAL, CONFORMING,
AND CLARIFYING AMENDMENTS
SEC. 601. MARITIME TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
(a) MARITIME TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.—
Section 312(b)(4) of title 14, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘marine trans-
portation system’’ and inserting ‘‘maritime
transportation system’’.
(b) CLARIFICATION OF REFERENCE TO MARINE
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM PROGRAMS.—Sec-
tion 50307(a) of title 46, United States Code,
is amended by striking ‘‘marine transpor-
tation’’ and inserting ‘‘maritime transpor-
tation’’.
SEC. 602. REFERENCES TO ‘‘PERSONS’’ AND ‘‘SEA-
MEN’’.
(a) TECHNICAL CORRECTION OF REFERENCES
TO ‘‘PERSONS’’.—Title 14, United States Code,
is amended as follows:
(1) In section 312(d), by striking ‘‘persons’’
and inserting ‘‘individuals’’.
(2) In section 313(d)(2)(B), by striking ‘‘per-
son’’ and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(3) In section 504—
(A) in subsection (a)(19)(B), by striking ‘‘a
person’’ and inserting ‘‘an individual’’; and
(B) in subsection (c)(4), by striking ‘‘sea-
men;’’ and inserting ‘‘mariners;’’.
(4) In section 521, by striking ‘‘persons’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘individ-
uals’’.
(5) In section 522—
(A) by striking ‘‘a person’’ and inserting
‘‘an individual’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘person’’ the second and
third place it appears and inserting ‘‘indi-
vidual’’.
(6) In section 525(a)(1)(C)(ii), by striking
‘‘person’’ and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(7) In section 526—
(A) by striking ‘‘person’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘individual’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘persons’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘individuals’’; and
(C) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘per-
son’s’’ and inserting ‘‘individual’s’’.
(8) In section 709—
(A) by striking ‘‘persons’’ and inserting
‘‘individuals’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘person’’ and inserting ‘‘in-
dividual’’.
(9) In section 933(b), by striking ‘‘Every
person’’ and inserting ‘‘An individual’’.
(10) In section 1102(d), by striking ‘‘per-
sons’’ and inserting ‘‘individuals’’.
(11) In section 1902(b)(3)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘per-
son or persons’’ and inserting ‘‘individual or
individuals’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘per-
son’’ and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(12) In section 1941(b), by striking ‘‘per-
sons’’ and inserting ‘‘individuals’’.
(13) In section 2101(b), by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7280 July 24, 2019
(14) In section 2102(c), by striking ‘‘A per-
son’’ and inserting ‘‘An individual’’.
(15) In section 2104(b)—
(A) by striking ‘‘persons’’ and inserting
‘‘individuals’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘A person’’ and inserting
‘‘An individual’’.
(16) In section 2118(d), by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual who is’’.
(17) In section 2147(d), by striking ‘‘a per-
son’’ and inserting ‘‘an individual’’.
(18) In section 2150(f), by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual who is’’.
(19) In section 2161(b), by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(20) In section 2317—
(A) by striking ‘‘persons’’ and inserting
‘‘individuals’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘person’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘individual’’; and
(C) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ‘‘per-
son’s’’ and inserting ‘‘individual’s’’.
(21) In section 2531—
(A) by striking ‘‘person’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘individual’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘persons’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘individuals’’.
(22) In section 2709, by striking ‘‘persons’’
and inserting ‘‘individuals’’.
(23) In section 2710—
(A) by striking ‘‘persons’’ and inserting
‘‘individuals’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘person’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(24) In section 2711(b), by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(25) In section 2732, by striking ‘‘a person’’
and inserting ‘‘an individual’’.
(26) In section 2733—
(A) by striking ‘‘A person’’ and inserting
‘‘An individual’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘that person’’ and inserting
‘‘that individual’’.
(27) In section 2734, by striking ‘‘person’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘indi-
vidual’’.
(28) In section 2735, by striking ‘‘a person’’
and inserting ‘‘an individual’’.
(29) In section 2736, by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(30) In section 2737, by striking ‘‘a person’’
and inserting ‘‘an individual’’.
(31) In section 2738, by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(32) In section 2739, by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(33) In section 2740—
(A) by striking ‘‘person’’ and inserting ‘‘in-
dividual’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘one’’ the second place it
appears.
(34) In section 2741—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘a per-
son’’ and inserting ‘‘an individual’’;
(B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ‘‘per-
son’s’’ and inserting ‘‘individual’s’’; and
(C) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ‘‘per-
son’’ and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(35) In section 2743, by striking ‘‘person’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘indi-
vidual’’.
(36) In section 2744—
(A) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘a per-
son’’ and inserting ‘‘an individual’’; and
(B) in subsections (a) and (c), by striking
‘‘person’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘individual’’.
(37) In section 2745, by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(38)(A) In section 2761—
(i) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘Per-
sons’’ and inserting ‘‘Individuals’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘persons’’ and inserting
‘‘individuals’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘person’’ and inserting
‘‘individual’’.
(B) In the analysis for chapter 27, by strik-
ing the item relating to section 2761 and in-
serting the following:
‘‘2761. Individuals discharged as result of
court-martial; allowances to.’’.
(39)(A) In the heading for section 2767, by
striking ‘‘persons’’ and inserting ‘‘individ-
uals’’.
(B) In the analysis for chapter 27, by strik-
ing the item relating to section 2767 and in-
serting the following:
‘‘2767. Reimbursement for medical-related
travel expenses for certain indi-
viduals residing on islands in
the continental United
States.’’.
(40) In section 2769—
(A) by striking ‘‘a person’s’’ and inserting
‘‘an individual’s’’; and
(B) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(41) In section 2772(a)(2), by striking ‘‘per-
son’’ and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(42) In section 2773—
(A) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘persons’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘individ-
uals’’; and
(B) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘a per-
son’’ and inserting ‘‘an individual’’.
(43) In section 2775, by striking ‘‘person’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘indi-
vidual’’.
(44) In section 2776, by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(45)(A) In section 2777—
(i) in the heading, by striking ‘‘persons’’
and inserting ‘‘individuals’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘persons’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘individuals’’.
(B) In the analysis for chapter 27, by strik-
ing the item relating to in section 2777 and
inserting the following:
‘‘2777. Clothing for destitute shipwrecked in-
dividuals.’’.
(46) In section 2779, by striking ‘‘persons’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘individ-
uals’’.
(47) In section 2902(c), by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(48) In section 2903(b), by striking ‘‘person’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(49) In section 2904(b)(1)(B), by striking ‘‘a
person’’ and inserting ‘‘an individual’’.
(50) In section 3706—
(A) by striking ‘‘a person’’ and inserting
‘‘an individual’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘person’s’’ and inserting
‘‘individual’s’’.
(51) In section 3707—
(A) in subsection (c)—
(i) by striking ‘‘person’’ and inserting ‘‘in-
dividual’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘person’s’’ and inserting
‘‘individual’s’’; and
(B) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘a per-
son’’ and inserting ‘‘an individual’’.
(52) In section 3708, by striking ‘‘person’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘indi-
vidual’’.
(53) In section 3738—
(A) by striking ‘‘a person’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘an individual’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘person’s’’ and inserting
‘‘individual’s’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘A person’’ and inserting
‘‘An individual’’.
(b) CORRECTION OF REFERENCES TO PERSONS
AND SEAMEN.—
(1) Section 2303a(a) of title 46, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘per-
sons’’ and inserting ‘‘individuals’’.
(2) Section 2306(a)(3) of title 46, United
States Code, is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(3) An owner, charterer, managing oper-
ator, or agent of a vessel of the United
States notifying the Coast Guard under para-
graph (1) or (2) shall—
‘‘(A) provide the name and identification
number of the vessel, the names of individ-
uals on board, and other information that
may be requested by the Coast Guard; and
‘‘(B) submit written confirmation to the
Coast Guard within 24 hours after nonwrit-
ten notification to the Coast Guard under
such paragraphs.’’.
(3) Section 7303 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘seaman’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(4) Section 7319 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘seaman’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(5) Section 7501(b) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘seaman’’ and
inserting ‘‘holder’’.
(6) Section 7508(b) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘individual
seamen or a specifically identified group of
seamen’’ and inserting ‘‘an individual or a
specifically identified group of individuals’’.
(7) Section 7510 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (c)(8)(B), by striking
‘‘merchant seamen’’ and inserting ‘‘mer-
chant mariner’’; and
(B) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘mer-
chant seaman’’ and inserting ‘‘merchant
mariner’’.
(8) Section 8103 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘seaman’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘individual’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘seamen’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘individuals’’;
(C) in the headings for paragraphs (2) and
(3) of subsection (k), by striking ‘‘SEAMEN’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘INDIVID-
UALS’’;
(D) in subsection (k)(3)(A)(iv)(II), by strik-
ing ‘‘seaman’s’’ and inserting ‘‘individual’s’’;
and
(E) in subsection (k)(3)(C), by striking
‘‘merchant mariners’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘merchant mariner’s’’.
(9) Section 8104 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘a li-
censed individual or seaman’’ and inserting
‘‘an individual’’;
(B) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘A li-
censed individual or seaman’’ and inserting
‘‘An individual’’;
(C) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘a sea-
man’’ each place it appears and inserting ‘‘an
individual’’; and
(D) in subsection (j), by striking ‘‘seaman’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(10) Section 8302(d) of title 46, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘3 per-
sons’’ and inserting ‘‘3 individuals’’.
(11) Section 11201 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘a person’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘an indi-
vidual’’.
(12) Section 11202 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘a person’’ and inserting
‘‘an individual’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘the person’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘the individual’’.
(13) Section 11203 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘a person’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘an individual’’; and
(B) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ‘‘that
person’’ and inserting ‘‘that individual’’.
(14) Section 15109(i)(2) of title 46, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘addi-
tional persons’’ and inserting ‘‘additional in-
dividuals’’.
SEC. 603. COMMON APPROPRIATION STRUCTURE.
(a) AMENDMENTS TO CONFORM TO COMMON
APPROPRIATIONS STRUCTURE.—
(1) PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT OF FUNDS NEC-
ESSARY TO PROVIDE MEDICAL CARE.—Section
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7281
July 24, 2019
506 of title 14, United States Code, is amend-
ed—
(A) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ‘‘es-
tablished under chapter 56 of title 10’’ after
‘‘Medicare-Eligible Retiree Health Care
Fund’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ‘‘oper-
ating expenses’’ and inserting ‘‘operations
and support’’.
(2) USE OF CERTAIN APPROPRIATED FUNDS.—
Section 903 of title 14, United States Code, is
amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘acquisi-
tion, construction, and improvement of fa-
cilities, for research, development, test, and
evaluation;’’ and inserting ‘‘procurement,
construction, and improvement of facilities
and for research and development’’; and
(B) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ‘‘oper-
ating expenses’’ and inserting ‘‘operations
and support’’.
(3) CONFIDENTIAL INVESTIGATIVE EX-
PENSES.—Section 944 of title 14, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘nec-
essary expenses for the operation’’ and in-
serting ‘‘operations and support’’.
(4) PROCUREMENT OF PERSONNEL.—Section
2701 of title 14, United States Code, is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘operating expense’’ and in-
serting ‘‘operations and support’’.
(5) COAST GUARD HOUSING FUND.—Section
2946(b)(2) of title 14, United States Code, is
amended by striking ‘‘acquisition’’ and in-
serting ‘‘procurement’’.
(6) REQUIREMENT FOR PRIOR AUTHORIZATION
OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Section 4901 of title 14,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘mainte-
nance’’ and inserting ‘‘support’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘acquisi-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘procurement’’;
(C) by striking paragraphs (3), (4), and (6);
(D) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (3); and
(E) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘research, development, test, and
evaluation’’ and inserting ‘‘research and de-
velopment’’.
(b) COMMON APPROPRIATION STRUCTURE.—
Sections 3317(b), 7504, and 80505(b)(3) of title
46, United States Code, are each amended by
striking ‘‘operating expenses’’ and inserting
‘‘operations and support’’.
(c) COMMON APPROPRIATION STRUCTURE.—
(1) OIL SPILL LIABILITY TRUST FUND.—Sec-
tion 1012(a)(5)(A) of the Oil Pollution Act of
1990 (33 U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)(A)) is amended by
striking ‘‘operating expenses’’ and inserting
‘‘operations and support’’.
(2) HISTORIC LIGHT STATION SALES.—Section
305106 of title 54, United States Code, is
amended—
(A) in subsection (b)(1)(B)(i) by striking
‘‘Operating Expenses’’ and inserting ‘‘Oper-
ations and Support’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)(2) by striking ‘‘Oper-
ating Expense’’ and inserting ‘‘Operations
and Support’’;
(3) BRIDGE PERMITS.—Section 712(a)(2) of
the Coast Guard and Maritime Transpor-
tation Act of 2012 (Public Law 112–213; 126
Stat. 1582) is amended by striking ‘‘operating
expenses’’ and inserting ‘‘operations and sup-
port’’.
(4) CONTRACTS.—Section 557(a) of the Con-
solidated and Further Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, 2013 (Public Law 113–6; 127 Stat.
377) is amended by striking ‘‘Acquisition’’
and inserting ‘‘Procurement’’.
(5) CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES.—Section
214(d)(1) of the Howard Coble Coast Guard
and Maritime Transportation Act of 2014
(Public Law 113–281; 128 Stat. 3034) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘operating expenses’’ and in-
serting ‘‘operations and support’’.
SEC. 604. REFERENCES TO ‘‘HIMSELF’’ AND ‘‘HIS’’.
(a) Section 1927 of title 14, United States
Code, is amended by—
(1) striking ‘‘of his initial’’ and inserting
‘‘of an initial’’; and
(2) striking ‘‘from his pay’’ and inserting
‘‘from the pay of such cadet’’.
(b) Section 2108(b) of title 14, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘himself’’ and
inserting ‘‘such officer’’.
(c) Section 2732 of title 14, United States
Code, as amended by this Act, is further
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘distinguishes himself con-
spicuously by’’ and inserting ‘‘displays con-
spicuous’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘such
individual’s’’.
(d) Section 2736 of title 14, United States
Code, as amended by this Act, is further
amended by striking ‘‘distinguishes himself
by’’ and inserting ‘‘performs’’.
(e) Section 2738 of title 14, United States
Code, as amended by this Act is further
amended by striking ‘‘distinguishes himself
by’’ and inserting ‘‘displays’’.
(f) Section 2739 of title 14, United States
Code, as amended by this Act, is further
amended by striking ‘‘distinguishes himself
by’’ and inserting ‘‘displays’’.
(g) Section 2742 of title 14, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘he distin-
guished himself’’ and inserting ‘‘of the acts
resulting in the consideration of such
award’’.
(h) Section 2743 of title 14, United States
Code, as amended by this Act, is further
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘distinguishes himself’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘he’’ and inserting ‘‘such in-
dividual’’.
SEC. 605. REFERENCES TO ‘‘MOTORBOATS’’ AND
‘‘YACHTS’’.
(a) CORRECTION OF REFERENCES TO MOTOR-
BOATS AND YACHTS.—
(1) Section 3901(d)(4) of title 14, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘motor
boats, yachts,’’ and inserting ‘‘vessels,’’.
(2) Section 3903(1)(A) of title 14, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘motor-
boats, yachts’’ and inserting ‘‘vessels,’’.
(3) Section 3907(a) of title 14, United States
Code, is amended—
(A) in the heading, by striking ‘‘MOTOR
BOATS, YACHTS,’’ and inserting ‘‘VESSELS,’’;
and
(B) by striking ‘‘motorboat, yacht,’’ and
inserting ‘‘vessels,’’.
(4) Section 3908 of title 14, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘motorboat or
yacht’’ and inserting ‘‘vessel’’.
(5) Section 3911(a) of title 14, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘motorboat,
yacht,’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘vessel,’’.
(6) Section 3912 of title 14, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘motorboat,
yacht,’’ and inserting ‘‘vessel,’’.
(7) Section 4101 of title 14, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘motorboats,
yachts,’’ and inserting ‘‘vessels,’’.
(8) Section 4102 of title 14, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘motorboat,
yacht, or any other vessel,’’ and inserting
‘‘or vessel,’’.
(b) CONFORMING REFERENCES TO YACHTS.—
Title 46, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in parts F and G of subtitle II, by strik-
ing ‘‘yacht’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘recreational vessel’’;
(2) in subtitle III—
(A) in section 30506(a), by striking ‘‘pleas-
ure yachts’’ and inserting ‘‘recreational ves-
sels’’; and
(B) in section 30508(a), by striking ‘‘pleas-
ure yachts’’ and inserting ‘‘recreational ves-
sels’’; and
(3) in section 60504—
(A) by striking ‘‘yachts’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘recreational vessels’’;
and
(B) by striking ‘‘yacht’’ and inserting ‘‘rec-
reational vessel’’.
(c) VESSELS.—Section 352(a)(4) of the Com-
munications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 352(a)(4)) is
amended by striking ‘‘Yachts’’ and inserting
‘‘Recreational vessels, as defined in section
2101(46) of title 46, United States Code,’’.
SEC. 606. MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL CORREC-
TIONS.
(a) MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL CORREC-
TIONS.—
(1) Section 3305(d)(3)(B) of title 46, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘Coast
Guard Authorization Act of 2017’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Author-
ization Act of 2018’’.
(2) Section 4312 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘Coast Guard
Authorization Act of 2017’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘Frank LoBiondo Coast
Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (Public Law
115–282)’’.
(3) The analysis for chapter 700 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by striking the item relating to the
heading for the first subchapter and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER I—VESSEL OPERATIONS’’;
(B) by striking the item relating to the
heading for the second subchapter and in-
serting the following:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER II—PORTS AND WATERWAYS
SAFETY’’;
(C) by striking the items relating to the
heading for the third subchapter and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER III—CONDITION FOR ENTRY INTO
PORTS IN THE UNITED STATES
‘‘70021. Conditions for Entry Into Ports in
the United States.’’;
(D) by striking the item relating to the
heading for the fourth subchapter and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER IV—DEFINITIONS REGULATIONS,
ENFORCEMENT, INVESTIGATORY POWERS, AP-
PLICABILITY’’;
(E) by striking the item relating to the
heading for the fifth subchapter and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER V—REGATTAS AND MARINE
PARADES’’;
and
(F) by striking the item relating to the
heading for the sixth subchapter and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER VI—REGULATION OF VESSELS IN
TERRITORIAL WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES’’.
(4) Section 70031 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘A through C’’
and inserting ‘‘I through III’’.
(5) Section 70032 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘A through C’’
and inserting ‘‘I through III’’.
(6) Section 70033 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘A through C’’
and inserting ‘‘I through III’’.
(7) Section 70034 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘A through C’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘I
through III’’.
(8) Section 70035(a) of title 46, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘A
through C’’ and inserting ‘‘I through III’’.
(9) Section 70036 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by—
(A) striking ‘‘A through C’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘I through III’’; and
(B) striking ‘‘A, B, or C’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘I, II, or III’’.
(b) ALTERATION OF BRIDGES; TECHNICAL
CHANGES.—The Act of June 21, 1940 (33 U.S.C.
511 et seq.), popularly known as the Truman-
Hobbs Act, is amended by striking section 12
(33 U.S.C. 522).
(c) REPORT OF DETERMINATION; TECHNICAL
CORRECTION.—Section 105(f)(2) of the Pribilof
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7282 July 24, 2019
Islands Transition Act (16 U.S.C. 1161 note;
Public Law 106–562) is amended by striking
‘‘subsection (a),’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph
(1),’’.
(d) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO FRANK LOBI-
ONDO COAST GUARD AUTHORIZATION ACT OF
2018.—
(1) Section 408 of the Frank LoBiondo
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–282) and the item relating to such
section in section 2 of such Act are repealed,
and the provisions of law redesignated,
transferred, or otherwise amended by section
408 are amended to read as if such section
were not enacted.
(2) Section 514(b) of the Frank LoBiondo
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–282) is amended by striking
‘‘Chapter 30’’ and inserting ‘‘Chapter 3’’.
(3) Section 810(d) of the Frank LoBiondo
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–282) is amended by striking
‘‘within 30 days after receiving the notice
under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall,
by not later than 60 days after transmitting
such notice,’’ and inserting ‘‘in accordance
within subsection (a)(2), the Secretary
shall’’.
(4) Section 820(a) of the Frank LoBiondo
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–282) is amended by striking
‘‘years 2018 and’’ and inserting ‘‘year’’.
(5) Section 820(b)(2) of the Frank LoBiondo
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–282) is amended by inserting ‘‘and
the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018
(Public Law 115–141)’’ after ‘‘(Public Law 115–
31)’’.
(6) Section 821(a)(2) of the Frank LoBiondo
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–282) is amended by striking
‘‘Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2017’’ and
inserting ‘‘Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Au-
thorization Act of 2018’’.
(7) This section shall take effect on the
date of the enactment of the Frank LoBi-
ondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018
(Public Law 115–282) and apply as if included
therein.
(e) TECHNICAL CORRECTION.—Section
533(d)(2)(A) of the Coast Guard Authorization
Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–120) is amended
by striking ‘‘Tract 6’’ and inserting ‘‘such
Tract’’.
(f) DISTANT WATER TUNA FLEET; TECHNICAL
CORRECTIONS.—Section 421 of the Coast
Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of
2006 (Public Law 109–241) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Notwithstanding’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the
term ‘treaty area’ has the meaning given the
term in the Treaty on Fisheries Between the
Governments of Certain Pacific Island
States and the Government of the United
States of America as in effect on the date of
the enactment of the Coast Guard and Mari-
time Transportation Act of 2006 (Public Law
109–241).’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) by striking ‘‘12.6 or 12.7’’ and inserting
‘‘13.6’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘and Maritime Transpor-
tation Act of 2012’’ and inserting ‘‘Authoriza-
tion Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 607. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS RELATING
TO CODIFICATION OF PORTS AND
WATERWAYS SAFETY ACT.
Effective upon the enactment of section 401
of the Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Author-
ization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–282), and
notwithstanding section 402(e) of such Act—
(1) section 16 of the Ports and Waterways
Safety Act, as added by section 315 of the
Countering America’s Adversaries Through
Sanctions Act (Public Law 115–44; 131 Stat.
947)—
(A) is redesignated as section 70022 of title
46, United States Code, transferred to appear
after section 70021 of that title, and amended
so that the enumerator, section heading,
typeface, and typestyle conform to those ap-
pearing in other sections in title 46, United
States Code; and
(B) as so redesignated and transferred, is
amended—
(i) in subsections (b) and (e), by striking
‘‘section 4(a)(5)’’ each place it appears and
inserting ‘‘section 70001(a)(5)’’;
(ii) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ‘‘not
later than’’ and all that follows through
‘‘thereafter,’’ and inserting ‘‘periodically’’;
and
(iii) by striking subsection (h); and
(2) chapter 700 of title 46, United States
Code, is amended—
(A) in section 70002(2), by inserting ‘‘or
70022’’ after ‘‘section 70021’’;
(B) in section 70036(e), by inserting ‘‘or
70022’’ after ‘‘section 70021’’; and
(C) in the analysis for such chapter—
(i) by inserting ‘‘Sec.’’ above the section
items, in accordance with the style and form
of such an entry in other chapter analyses of
such title; and
(ii) by striking the item relating to section
70021 and inserting the following:
‘‘70021. Conditions for entry to ports in the
United States
‘‘70022. Prohibition on entry and operation’’.
TITLE VII—FEDERAL MARITIME
COMMISSION
SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Federal
Maritime Commission Authorization Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 702. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 308 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended by striking ‘‘$28,012,310 for fiscal
year 2018 and $28,544,543 for fiscal year 2019’’
and inserting ‘‘$29,086,888 for fiscal year 2020
and $29,639,538 for fiscal year 2021’’.
TITLE VIII—COAST GUARD ACADEMY
IMPROVEMENT ACT
SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Coast Guard
Academy Improvement Act’’.
SEC. 802. COAST GUARD ACADEMY STUDY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the de-
partment in which the Coast Guard is oper-
ating shall seek to enter into an arrange-
ment with the National Academy of Public
Administration not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of the this Act
under which the National Academy of Public
Administration shall—
(1) conduct an assessment of the cultural
competence of the Coast Guard Academy as
an organization and of individuals at the
Coast Guard Academy to carry out effec-
tively the primary duties of the United
States Coast Guard listed in section 102 of
title 14, United States Code, when inter-
acting with individuals of different races,
ethnicities, genders, religions, sexual ori-
entations, socioeconomic backgrounds, or
from different geographic origins; and
(2) issue recommendations based upon the
findings in such assessment.
(b) ASSESSMENT OF CULTURAL COM-
PETENCE.—
(1) CULTURAL COMPETENCE OF THE COAST
GUARD ACADEMY.—The arrangement de-
scribed in subsection (a) shall require the
National Academy of Public Administration
to, not later than 1 year after entering into
an arrangement with the Secretary under
subsection (a), submit to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate the assessment described under
subsection (a)(1).
(2) ASSESSMENT SCOPE.—The assessment de-
scribed under subsection (a)(1) shall—
(A) describe the level of cultural com-
petence described in subsection (a)(1) based
on the National Academy of Public Adminis-
tration’s assessment of the Coast Guard
Academy’s relevant practices, policies, and
structures, including an overview of discus-
sions with faculty, staff, students, and rel-
evant Coast Guard Academy affiliated orga-
nizations;
(B) examine potential changes which could
be used to further enhance such cultural
competence by—
(i) modifying institutional practices, poli-
cies, and structures; and
(ii) any other changes deemed appropriate
by the National Academy of Public Adminis-
tration; and
(C) make recommendations to enhance the
cultural competence of the Coast Guard
Academy described in subparagraph (A), in-
cluding any specific plans, policies, mile-
stones, performance measures, or other in-
formation necessary to implement such rec-
ommendations.
(c) FINAL ACTION MEMORANDUM.—Not later
than three months after submission of the
assessment under section 802(b)(1), the Com-
mandant of the Coast Guard shall submit to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate, a final ac-
tion memorandum in response to all rec-
ommendations contained in the assessment.
The Final Action Memorandum shall include
the rationale for accepting, accepting in
part, or rejecting each recommendation, and
shall specify, where applicable, actions to be
taken to implement such recommendations,
including an explanation of how each action
enhances the ability of the Coast Guard to
carry out the primary duties of the United
States Coast Guard listed in section 102 of
title 14, United States Code.
(d) PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than six months
after the date of the submission of the final
action memorandum required under sub-
section (c), the Commandant of the Coast
Guard, in coordination with the Chief
Human Capital Officer of the Department of
Homeland Security, shall submit a plan to
carry out the recommendations or the parts
of the recommendations accepted in the
Final Action Memorandum to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate.
(2) STRATEGY WITH MILESTONES.—If any rec-
ommendation or parts of recommendations
accepted in the Final Action Memorandum
address any of the following actions, then
the plan required in paragraph (1) shall in-
clude a strategy with appropriate milestones
to carry out such recommendations or parts
of recommendations:
(A) Improve outreach and recruitment of a
more diverse Coast Guard Academy cadet
candidate pool based on race, ethnicity, gen-
der, religion, sexual orientation, socio-
economic background, and geographic ori-
gin.
(B) Modify institutional structures, prac-
tices, and policies to foster a more diverse
cadet corps body, faculty, and staff work-
force based on race, ethnicity, gender, reli-
gion, sexual orientation, socioeconomic
background, and geographic origin.
(C) Modify existing or establish new poli-
cies and safeguards to foster the retention of
cadets, faculty, and staff of different races,
ethnicities, genders, religions, sexual ori-
entations, socioeconomic backgrounds, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7283
July 24, 2019
geographic origins at the Coast Guard Acad-
emy.
(D) Restructure the admissions office of
the Coast Guard Academy to be headed by a
civilian with significant relevant higher edu-
cation recruitment experience.
(3) IMPLEMENTATION.—Unless otherwise di-
rected by an Act of Congress, the Com-
mandant of the Coast Guard shall begin im-
plementation of the plan developed under
this subsection not later than 180 days after
the submission of such plan to Congress.
(4) UPDATE.—The Commandant of the
Coast Guard shall include in the first annual
report required under chapter 51 of title 14,
United States Code, as amended by this Act,
submitted after the date of enactment of this
section, the strategy with milestones re-
quired in paragraph (2) and shall report an-
nually thereafter on actions taken and
progress made in the implementation of such
plan.
SEC. 803. ANNUAL REPORT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 51 of title 14,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 5112. Report on diversity at the Coast
Guard Academy
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January
15, 2021, and annually thereafter, the Com-
mandant shall submit a report on diversity
at the Coast Guard Academy to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate.
‘‘(b) CONTENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include—
‘‘(1) the status of the implementation of
the plan required section 802 of the Coast
Guard Academy Improvement Act;
‘‘(2) specific information on outreach and
recruitment activities for the preceding
year, including the effectiveness of the Coast
Guard Academy Minority Outreach Team
Program described under section 1905 and of
outreach and recruitment activities in the
territories and other possessions of the
United States;
‘‘(3) enrollment information about the in-
coming class, including the gender, race,
ethnicity, religion, socioeconomic back-
ground, and State of residence of Coast
Guard Academy cadets;
‘‘(4) information on class retention, out-
comes, and graduation rates, including the
race, gender, ethnicity, religion, socio-
economic background, and State of residence
of Coast Guard Academy cadets; and
‘‘(5) information on efforts to retain di-
verse cadets, including through professional
development and professional advancement
programs for staff and faculty.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for chapter 51 of title 14, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘5112. Report on diversity at the Coast Guard
Academy.’’.
SEC. 804. ASSESSMENT OF COAST GUARD ACAD-
EMY ADMISSION PROCESSES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the de-
partment in which the Coast Guard is oper-
ating shall seek to enter into an arrange-
ment with the National Academy of Public
Administration under which the National
Academy of Public Administration shall, not
later than 1 year after submitting an assess-
ment under section 802(a), submit an assess-
ment of the Coast Guard Academy admis-
sions process to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate.
(b) ASSESSMENT SCOPE.—The assessment
required to be sought under subsection (a)
shall, at a minimum, include—
(1) a study, or an audit if appropriate, of
the process the Coast Guard Academy uses
to—
(A) identify candidates for recruitment;
(B) recruit applicants;
(C) assist applicants in the application
process;
(D) evaluate applications; and
(E) make admissions decisions;
(2) discussion of the consideration during
the admissions process of diversity, includ-
ing—
(A) race;
(B) ethnicity;
(C) gender;
(D) religion;
(E) sexual orientation;
(F) socioeconomic background; and
(G) geographic origin;
(3) an overview of the admissions processes
at other Federal service academies, includ-
ing—
(A) discussion of consideration of diversity,
including any efforts to attract a diverse
pool of applicants, in those processes; and
(B) an analysis of how the congressional
nominations requirement in current law re-
lated to military service academies and the
Merchant Marine Academy impacts those
processes and the overall demographics of
the student bodies at those academies;
(4) a determination regarding how a con-
gressional nominations requirement for
Coast Guard Academy admissions could im-
pact diversity among the student body and
the ability of the Coast Guard to carry out
effectively the Service’s primary duties de-
scribed in section 102 of title 14, United
States Code; and
(5) recommendations for improving Coast
Guard Academy admissions processes, in-
cluding whether a congressional nominations
process should be integrated into such proc-
esses.
SEC. 805. COAST GUARD ACADEMY MINORITY
OUTREACH TEAM PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 19 of title 14,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 1904 the following:
‘‘§ 1905. Coast Guard Academy minority out-
reach program
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established
within the Coast Guard Academy a minority
outreach team program (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘Program’ ) under which offi-
cers, including minority officers and officers
from territories and other possessions of the
United States, who are Academy graduates
may volunteer their time to recruit minority
students and strengthen cadet retention
through mentorship of cadets.
‘‘(b) ADMINISTRATION.—Not later than July
15, 2020, the Commandant, in consultation
with Program volunteers and Academy
alumni that participated in prior programs
at the Academy similar to the Program,
shall appoint a permanent civilian position
at the Academy to administer the Program
by, among other things—
‘‘(1) overseeing administration of the Pro-
gram;
‘‘(2) serving as a resource to volunteers and
outside stakeholders;
‘‘(3) advising Academy leadership on re-
cruitment and retention efforts based on rec-
ommendations from volunteers and outside
stakeholders;
‘‘(4) establishing strategic goals and per-
formance metrics for the Program with
input from active volunteers and Academy
leadership; and
‘‘(5) reporting annually to the Com-
mandant on academic year and performance
outcomes of the goals for the Program before
the end of each academic year.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for chapter 19 of title 14, United States Code,
is amended by inserting after the item relat-
ing to section 1904 the following:
‘‘1905. Coast Guard Academy minority out-
reach team program.’’.
SEC. 806. COAST GUARD COLLEGE STUDENT PRE-
COMMISSIONING INITIATIVE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter
21 of title 14, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘§ 2131. College student pre-commissioning
initiative
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized
within the Coast Guard the College Student
Pre-Commissioning Initiative program (in
this section referred to as the ‘program’) for
eligible undergraduate students to enlist and
receive a guaranteed commission as an offi-
cer in the Coast Guard.
‘‘(b) CRITERIA FOR SELECTION.—To be eligi-
ble for the program a student must meet the
following requirements upon submitting an
application:
‘‘(1) AGE.—A student must be not less than
19 years old and not more than 27 years old
as of September 30 of the fiscal year in which
the program selection panel selecting such
student convenes.
‘‘(2) CHARACTER.—
‘‘(A) ALL APPLICANTS.—All applicants must
be of outstanding moral character and meet
other character requirements as set forth by
the Commandant.
‘‘(B) COAST GUARD APPLICANTS.—An appli-
cant serving in the Coast Guard may not be
commissioned if in the 36 months prior to
the first Officer Candidate School class con-
vening date in the selection cycle, such ap-
plicant was convicted by a court-martial or
awarded non-judicial punishment, or did not
meet performance or character requirements
set forth by the Commandant.
‘‘(3) CITIZENSHIP.—A student must be a
United States citizen.
‘‘(4) CLEARANCE.—A student must be eligi-
ble for a secret clearance.
‘‘(5) DEPENDENCY.—
‘‘(A) A student may not have more than 2
dependents; and
‘‘(B) A student who is single may not have
sole or primary custody of dependents.
‘‘(6) EDUCATION.—
‘‘(A) INSTITUTION.—A student must be an
undergraduate sophomore or junior—
‘‘(i) at a historically Black college or uni-
versity described in section 322(2) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1061(2)) or an institution of higher education
described in section 371(a) of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q(a)); or
‘‘(ii) who is active in minority-serving or-
ganizations and pursuing a degree in science,
technology, engineering, or mathematics at
an institution of higher education described
in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001) that is not a historically
Black college or university or institution of
higher education referred to in clause (i) of
this subparagraph.
‘‘(B) LOCATION.—The institution at which
such student is an undergraduate must be
within 100 miles of a Coast guard unit or
Coast Guard Recruiting Office unless other-
wise approved by the Commandant.
‘‘(C) RECORDS.—A student must meet cred-
it and grade point average requirements set
forth by the Commandant.
‘‘(7) MEDICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE.—A stu-
dent must meet other medical and adminis-
trative requirements as set forth by the
Commandant.
‘‘(c) ENLISTMENT AND OBLIGATION.—Individ-
uals selected and accept to participate in the
program shall enlist in the Coast Guard in
pay grade E–3 with a four year duty obliga-
tion and four year inactive Reserve obliga-
tion.
‘‘(d) MILITARY ACTIVITIES PRIOR TO OFFICER
CANDIDATE SCHOOL.—Individuals enrolled in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7284 July 24, 2019
the program shall participate in military ac-
tivities each month, as required by the Com-
mandant, prior to attending Officer Can-
didate School.
‘‘(e) PARTICIPATION IN OFFICER CANDIDATE
SCHOOL.—Each graduate of the program shall
attend the first enrollment of Officer Can-
didate School that commences after the date
of such graduate’s graduation.
‘‘(f) COMMISSIONING.—Upon graduation
from Officer Candidate School, program
graduates shall be discharged from enlisted
status and commissioned as an O–1 with an
initial three-year duty obligation.
‘‘(g) BRIEFING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than August 15
of each year, the Commandant shall provide
a briefing to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate on the College Student Pre-Commis-
sioning Initiative.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—The briefing required
under paragraph (1) shall describe—
‘‘(A) outreach and recruitment efforts over
the previous year; and
‘‘(B) demographic information of enrollees
including—
‘‘(i) race;
‘‘(ii) ethnicity;
‘‘(iii) gender;
‘‘(iv) geographic origin; and
‘‘(v) educational institution.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for subchapter I of chapter 21 of title 14,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘2131. College Student Pre-Commissioning
Initiative.’’.
SEC. 807. ANNUAL BOARD OF VISITORS.
Section 1903(d) of title 14, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through
(6) as paragraphs (3) through (7), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) recruitment and retention;’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Or-
egon (Mr. DEFAZIO) and the gentleman
from Ohio (Mr. GIBBS) each will control
20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oregon.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous materials on H.R. 3409, as
amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to rise
today and speak in strong support of
H.R. 3409, the Coast Guard Reauthor-
ization Act of 2019. This is genuinely
bipartisan legislation which will reau-
thorize funding for the United States
Coast Guard Federal Maritime Com-
mission for fiscal years 2020 and 2021.
The bill also advances other impor-
tant provisions to help both the eco-
nomic competitiveness and effective
regulation of the U.S. maritime indus-
try.
It is the latest in a long line of major
legislation from this committee, re-
ported to the House on a bipartisan
basis and underpinning essential func-
tions of government such as, in this
case, the United States Coast Guard
and the Federal Maritime Commission.
I couldn’t have better partners than I
had: my ranking member, SAM GRAVES;
the chair of the Subcommittee on
Coast Guard and Maritime Transpor-
tation, SEAN PATRICK MALONEY; and
the ranking subcommittee member,
Representative BOB GIBBS. They
worked hard on this legislation, and
many of their concerns were included
in the final product. Each of them has
joined as an original cosponsor, which I
appreciate.
We have also worked with other
members of the committee on both
sides of the aisle and the House to in-
clude provisions that address concerns
raised by them or their constituents.
We all know that, over the last few
years, the Coast Guard budgets have
been inadequate, mostly a byproduct of
mandatory cuts imposed by the so-
called Budget Control Act. This inad-
equate funding has left the Coast
Guard, as Admiral Schultz has said, at
a tipping point. This legislation, at
long last, begins to reverse that down-
ward spiral.
Mr. Speaker, there is $11 billion for
the Coast Guard’s discretionary budget
for fiscal years 2020 and 2021. This
tracks the recently increased appro-
priations of the last 2 fiscal years and
builds in a 2 percent inflation adjust-
ment to arrive at the highest author-
ized funding levels for the Coast Guard
in recent memory.
Is that totally adequate? No, it isn’t.
But it is at least incremental progress
in a time where we aren’t seeing a lot
of progress on a lot of things these
days.
I am particularly please that the top-
line numbers for procurement, acquisi-
tions, and improvement have been
pushed up to $2.7 billion and $2.8 bil-
lion. That means the Coast Guard
should be able to maintain its ongoing
recapitalization programs, including
the critically important offshore patrol
cutter; the new fleet of polar security
cutters, which will be absolutely vital
to deal particularly with the opening of
the Northwest Passage; and, also, to
continue critical support for our assets
and activities in Antarctica.
It wasn’t a great year for the Coast
Guard when we had the stupid govern-
ment shutdown. They were continuing
to carry out their critical homeland se-
curity duties in addition to their daily
lifesaving duties and their drug inter-
diction duties, many in a high-risk pro-
fession, and yet they weren’t being
paid.
They were escorting the subs out of
Bremerton. The sailors were being paid
on the subs. The Coast Guard, which
was providing critical surface support
and protection, was not being paid.
I had originally included in this leg-
islation provisions to assure that the
Coast Guard would be paid in case of
another government shutdown. Unfor-
tunately, the very stupid budget rules
we have around here say that we will
pretend that they will never be paid—
and if that is the case, then we won’t
have a Coast Guard anymore—there-
fore, to mandatorily pay them during a
shutdown would count as new deficit,
like we are never going to pay them.
It is a pretty dumb rule, but those
concerns were raised by people above
my pay grade, and I reluctantly re-
moved the provision from the bill. I am
going to continue to push for that pro-
vision as we move forward through the
appropriations process and elsewhere. I
will look for any opportunity I can to
recognize the service of the Coast
Guard.
There is also, in this bill, a modest
$1.4 million increase in the budget of
the Federal Maritime Commission.
This will help them implement the
most extensive package of amendments
to the Ocean Shipping Reform Act
since 1998, particularly looking at anti-
trust oversight of foreign-flag commer-
cial carrier alliances that transport
nearly 98 percent of U.S. foreign com-
merce.
Our overreliance on foreign-flag car-
riers to move the commerce of the
United States is a growing liability
and, yet, unintended consequence of
our trade policies. Only now are we be-
ginning to recognize and grapple with
the implications of this dependence on
our national and economic security.
The increased authorized funding of
$29 million for the operating budget
should provide them with the addi-
tional resources they need to actually
be a cop on the beat and ensure foreign
carriers abide by fair shipping prac-
tices and compliance with all U.S. anti-
trust requirements.
I am also pleased with provisions
that would boost coastwise trades and,
potentially, our shipbuilding industry.
We are reaffirming, yet again, long-
term support for the Jones Act, includ-
ing clarifications as to how the Jones
Act applies to maritime transportation
and heavy-lift activities that occur off-
shore.
I believe the language in this bill
strikes a sensible path forward. I look
forward to resolving any outstanding
questions and concerns in conference
with the United States Senate.
Just as important, the bill provides
new authorities to address new or
emerging ocean technologies, including
unmanned systems, to ensure Coast
Guard has enough competence to either
use, or regulate the use of, said sys-
tems; amendments to build on progress
made last Congress to improve mari-
time safety requirements; and it
strengthens standards to prevent dis-
crimination, sexual assault and harass-
ment and promote gender equity in the
Coast Guard at the U.S. Merchant Ma-
rine Academy and across the U.S. mar-
itime industry.
This is vital legislation to the Coast
Guard, and the maritime shipyard
workers across this country.
Again, I want to thank my col-
leagues.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.004 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7285
July 24, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I urge an ‘‘aye’’ vote,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY,
Washington, DC, July 16, 2019.
Hon. PETER DEFAZIO,
Chairman, Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN DEFAZIO: I write to you re-
garding H.R. 3409, the ‘‘Coast Guard Author-
ization Act of 2019.’’
H.R. 3409 contains provisions that fall
within the jurisdiction of the Committee on
Homeland Security. I recognize and appre-
ciate your desire to bring this legislation be-
fore the House in an expeditious manner and,
accordingly, I will not seek a sequential re-
ferral of the bill. However, agreeing to waive
consideration of this bill should not be con-
strued as the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity waiving, altering, or otherwise affecting
its jurisdiction over subject matters con-
tained in the bill which fall within its Rule
X jurisdiction.
Further, I request your support for the ap-
pointment of Homeland Security conferees
during any House-Senate conference con-
vened on this or similar legislation. I also
ask that a copy of this letter and your re-
sponse be included in the legislative report
on H.R. 3409 and in the Congressional Record
during floor consideration of this bill.
I look forward to working with you as we
prepare to pass this important legislation.
Sincerely,
BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COM-
MITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND
INFRASTRUCTURE,
Washington, DC, July 17, 2019.
Hon. BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
U.S. House of Representatives, Washington,
DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN THOMPSON: Thank you for
your letter regarding H.R. 3409, the Coast
Guard Reauthorization Act of 2019, which
was ordered to be reported out of the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
on June 26, 2019. I appreciate your willing-
ness to work cooperatively on this legisla-
tion.
I acknowledge that by foregoing a sequen-
tial referral on H.R. 3409, the Committee on
Homeland Security does not waive any fu-
ture jurisdictional claims to provisions in
this or similar legislation. In addition,
should a conference on the bill be necessary,
I would support your effort to seek appoint-
ment of an appropriate number of conferees
to any House-Senate conference involving
provisions within this legislation on which
the Committee on Homeland Security has a
valid jurisdictional claim.
I appreciate your cooperation regarding
this legislation, and I will ensure that our
exchange of letters is included in the Con-
gressional Record during floor consideration
of H.R. 3409.
Sincerely,
PETER A. DEFAZIO,
Chair.
b 1330
Mr. GIBBS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3409 represents the
Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure’s commitment to the men
and women serving in the Coast Guard
and lays the groundwork for maintain-
ing their mission capability in the fu-
ture.
It also represents the bipartisan spir-
it that so often falls below the radar on
Capitol Hill. At a time when the issues
dominating the headlines fuel political
fighting, it is refreshing to work with
colleagues from both sides of the aisle.
H.R. 3409 recognizes that port and
coastal security, drug interdiction, and
maritime safety are commonsense
issues, not Republican or Democrat
issues. This Coast Guard authorization
addresses priorities important to both
East and West Coasts, the inland river
system, and the Great Lakes. All these
regions are well-represented by the
chairs and ranking members of the
committee and subcommittee.
The Coast Guard plays an important
and unique role in national security
and maritime safety. It is a critical
component in carrying out drug inter-
diction efforts, keeping our ports and
coasts safe, and conducting icebreaking
operations. H.R. 3409, the Coast Guard
Authorization Act of 2019, helps the
Coast Guard better perform their mis-
sions and encourages the use of cut-
ting-edge technology to improve oper-
ations. Utilizing drone technology and
upgrading computer systems will help
the Coast Guard personnel complete
their missions.
I am also proud of the commitment
made to the Great Lakes in this bill.
Working with Congressman MIKE GAL-
LAGHER from Wisconsin, we emphasized
the economic importance of the Great
Lakes and the necessity for new, dedi-
cated icebreakers on the lakes to keep
commerce moving.
It is unfortunate that the provisions
in the bill to ensure the Coastguards-
men were paid during lapses in appro-
priations were stripped from the bill.
Nonetheless, I commend Chairman
DEFAZIO and the 186 cosponsors of the
Pay Our Coast Guard Act for pursuing
this important initiative.
I thank Chairman DEFAZIO, Ranking
Member GRAVES, and Subcommittee
Chairman MALONEY for working in a
bipartisan fashion to give the Coast
Guard the resources it needs to accom-
plish its missions.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Flor-
ida (Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL).
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Speaker, I rise in support of this bill
which incorporates the Coast Guard
Shore Infrastructure Improvement Act
that I introduced with Representative
GARRET GRAVES of Louisiana. It directs
the Commandant of the Coast Guard to
tackle the maintenance backlog of its
shore infrastructure.
The Coast Guard currently has a $2.6
billion project backlog, and 25 percent
of its assets have exceeded their serv-
ice lives.
We must rebuild our Coast Guard in a
strategic way, one that accounts for
stronger storms that will only worsen
with climate change.
This bill will ensure that the Coast
Guard has the processes in place to
carry out crucial shore infrastructure
repairs. Coasties often spend their per-
sonal time working on infrastructure
improvements. It is unacceptable that
they have to sacrifice their rest time
and family time to repair crumbling
buildings.
Passing this bill will ensure Amer-
ica’s security, the success of our Coast
Guard, and the well-being of our serv-
icemembers.
Mr. GIBBS. Mr. Speaker, I yield such
time as he may consume to the gen-
tleman from Missouri (Mr. GRAVES),
who is the ranking member of the full
Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee.
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Mr. Speak-
er, the Coast Guard is one of the Na-
tion’s five armed services, and this bi-
partisan bill is going to provide the re-
sources to help them carry out their
vital missions more effectively. These
missions are critical to ensuring mari-
time safety, stopping the flow of illegal
drugs and migrants into the country,
enforcing U.S. laws at sea, and pro-
tecting our Nation’s borders.
In order to carry out the tens of
thousands of operations each year, the
Coast Guard must also replace and
modernize their assets—from cutters to
icebreakers to helicopters. This bill is
going to help them do that.
This legislation also takes steps nec-
essary to provide the men and women
of the Coast Guard, as has been pointed
out, parity with other servicemembers
in the Department of Defense. The
Coast Guard is the only one of the
armed services that is not in the De-
partment of Defense, and the only
armed service with law enforcement
authority.
I agree with the chairman on the bi-
partisan nature of this bill and how it
was put together. I commend Chairman
DEFAZIO and Subcommittee Chairman
MALONEY, and Subcommittee Ranking
Member GIBBS for working diligently
and coming up with a very good piece
of legislation and a very good bipar-
tisan agreement that we have here
today.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON), who is the chairman of the
Committee on Homeland Security.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
Oregon for yielding me time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 3409. I am glad to have
worked with Chairman DEFAZIO to in-
tegrate major provisions from legisla-
tion I authored to drive long overdue
reforms at the Coast Guard Academy.
Our armed services should reflect the
diverse fabric of this Nation. Unfortu-
nately, the Coast Guard Academy has
struggled to attract and retain a di-
verse student body and faculty. The ab-
sence of diverse voices at the Coast
Guard Academy has contributed to
what many acknowledge as a hostile
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:34 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.034 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7286 July 24, 2019
environment for cadets and faculty
with diverse backgrounds punctuated
by hateful incidents. I have engaged
with the Commandant regarding condi-
tions at the academy and, to his credit,
he is open to change. To that end, H.R.
3409 directs the Commandant to secure
the services of outside experts to carry
out an independent, top-to-bottom re-
view of conditions at the academy with
an eye to issuing recommendations to
foster a more inclusive and supportive
environment.
Additionally, the independent body
would be directed to assess the acad-
emy’s admissions processes and con-
sider the potential benefits of congres-
sional nominations to increase diver-
sity. The true test for the Coast Guard
will come when recommendations are
issued. At that point it will be clear if,
as an organization, the Coast Guard is
willing to abandon its historically in-
sular ways and embrace real reform.
Other noteworthy provisions of my
legislation that are reflected here in-
clude requiring a Coast Guard strategy
to increase the representation of ca-
dets, faculty, and staff from diverse
backgrounds, and authorizing both the
Academy Minority Outreach Team
Program and the College Student Pre-
Commissioning Initiative.
I am pleased that the bill also in-
cludes language authored by Congress-
man RICHMOND to enhance the Coast
Guard’s capacity to combat and defend
against cyber threats.
Before I close, I would like to thank
Chairman DEFAZIO, Chairman CUM-
MINGS and their staffs, particularly
Dave Jansen on the Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee staff, for
partnering with me and my staff to put
the academy on a positive trajectory.
Mr. GIBBS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Puerto Rico (Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN).
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman
DEFAZIO and Ranking Member GRAVES
for working on these bills. This is an
important one in Puerto Rico.
I am really proud about the work the
Coast Guard did during both Hurri-
canes Irma and Maria.
I am proud to be a cosponsor of this
bill, the Coast Guard Authorization
Act of 2019, which authorizes the serv-
ice for the next 2 years, gives the Coast
Guard parity with the other military
branches in the Department of Defense,
addresses a backlog of shore-side infra-
structure, and reauthorizes the Federal
Maritime Commission.
I worked with Delegate Plaskett
from the Virgin Islands to get on board
to help determine if the Coast Guard’s
maritime surveillance hours used for
drug interdictions in the Caribbean
Basin meet mission requirements. The
U.S. Coast Guard has been vital in ad-
dressing these threats and securing our
maritime region as well.
For example, during the first half of
fiscal year 2019, the Coast Guard re-
moved over 9 metric tons of cocaine
and interdicted 722 migrants around
the Puerto Rico area of operations.
That is the reason I also was able to in-
clude a provision in this bill which en-
sures recruitment activities in Puerto
Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and all
the territories as well. We are proud to
answer the call to serve in our Nation’s
service branches, and the Coast Guard
is no exception.
Mr. Speaker, I support this bill.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. VAN DREW).
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Oregon and
chairman of the illustrious Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure Committee.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 3409, the Coast Guard
Authorization Act—bipartisan legisla-
tion that authorizes programs and
funding of over $11 billion for the
United States Coast Guard through fis-
cal year 2021.
I am proud to represent New Jersey’s
Second Congressional District, home to
the United States Coast Guard Train-
ing Center in Cape May, Air Station
Atlantic City, and thousands more of
our brave men and brave women who
protect our shores and our coastal
communities.
This comprehensive bill authorizes
critical funding to upgrade and mod-
ernize our fleets and improve offshore
navigation safety. It requires a report
on the effects of climate change and
the vulnerabilities of our Coast Guard
installations, directs the use of drone
technology for potential use to support
missions and operations, and orders the
Commandant of the Coast Guard to
brief Congress on the conditions and
need for Coast Guard housing.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman
DEFAZIO and Ranking Member GRAVES
for bringing this important bill to the
floor, and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port H.R. 3409, the Coast Guard Author-
ization Act. These are our brave men
and women who protect our seas.
Mr. GIBBS. Mr. Speaker, I yield such
time as he may consume to the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. GRAVES).
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I want to thank the gen-
tleman from Ohio, our ranking member
of the subcommittee, for all of his
work on this. I want to thank Con-
gressman SEAN PATRICK MALONEY from
New York, our chairman; Chairman
DEFAZIO and the ranking member of
the full committee, SAM GRAVES, for
all their work on this.
Mr. Speaker, this is a bill that is a
bipartisan bill, and I do appreciate ev-
eryone working together to make sure
that we are doing the right thing.
The Coast Guard, in many cases, is
not held to the level of regard and re-
spect that they deserve.
Let’s think about all of the things
that the Coast Guard is responsible for:
They are in charge of drug interdic-
tion on our seas; they are in charge of
alien interdiction on our seas; they are
in charge of enforcing all U.S. laws on
our waterways; securing our maritime
borders; defense readiness; port and
coastal security issues; search and res-
cue; marine safety; maintaining aids to
navigation; icebreaking; marine envi-
ronmental protection; oil spill preven-
tion and response; and many other
things.
Mr. Speaker, I often refer to them as
the Swiss Army knife of the Federal
Government. They have an incredibly
broad jurisdiction. These are men and
women who are serving their Nation on
a daily basis.
I want to thank all of the leaders of
this committee for the work in the
committee, where we took the Coast
Guard Parity Act and added it to this
bill. The Coast Guard Parity Act recog-
nized that the men and women of the
Coast Guard were treated differently
from all of the other armed services
whenever the Federal Government goes
into a shutdown.
Mr. Speaker, when the government
shuts down, it is because Congress
failed to do its job together with an ad-
ministration. The men and women in
the Coast Guard do not deserve to be
punished.
There is something that is really im-
portant to point out: the men and
women of the Coast Guard can’t just go
say: Hey, I am going to go work for an-
other job. I am going to leave this one
because I am not being paid because
the government is shut down. I am
going to go work and do this other job.
They are contractually obligated to
continue doing their work and their
service for our Nation. So the Coast
Guard Parity Act was added to this bill
in committee, and I am very dis-
appointed that it was pulled out. I
know the chairman and the ranking
member were both very supportive of
this.
We need to address this issue. Let me
say it again: the men and women of the
Coast Guard are not responsible for
when the government shuts down, and
they should not be penalized for it ei-
ther. I hope that we can continue to
work together to solve this.
But going back, Mr. Speaker, the
Coast Guard does an incredible job in
an incredibly broad mission. This bill
helps to recapitalize an antiquated net-
work or system of equipment, anti-
quated vessels that have lasted well be-
yond their intended service life. It
helps to ensure that we can authorize
the appropriate vessels, whether it is
the national security cutter, the off-
shore patrol cutter, the fast response
cutter, and the helos and winged air-
craft that the men and women of the
Coast Guard depend on on a daily basis.
We know that the other side—the
drug traffickers and the alien smug-
glers and others—are using new and up-
dated technology. We need to make
sure that we continue to provide the
men and women of the Coast Guard
with the upper hand with the best tech-
nology and with the best equipment to
deal with their daily mission of pro-
tecting our Nation and enforcing all
laws on the seas of the United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.035 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7287
July 24, 2019
Mr. Speaker, again, I want to thank
Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. GRAVES, Mr. GIBBS,
and Mr. MALONEY for all of the work
that they have done to ensure this bill
moves forward. It is a bipartisan bill,
and I urge adoption.
b 1345
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I am pre-
pared to close. I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GIBBS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, this is a very strong bi-
partisan bill. We need to support the
efforts of our men and women out there
who are doing the daily work to pro-
tect this country, the Coast Guard.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, just expanding a little
bit on the former speaker, Representa-
tive GRAVES of Louisiana, I would rec-
ommend to people the video that be-
came available last week of the Coast
Guard boarding a semisubmersible
smuggling drugs. It is an extraordinary
video and extraordinary and precarious
undertaking by the Coast Guard, jump-
ing from a Zodiac onto the top of this
vessel, pounding on the hatch to get
the people to open the hatch and sur-
render.
Again, just reiterating what I said
earlier, what they do with drug inter-
diction far exceeds all of the other Fed-
eral agencies combined, and yet they
weren’t paid during the shutdown
doing these dangerous activities, and
what they do for Homeland Security,
what they do on a daily basis to pro-
vide search and rescue activities, keep
our mariners safe and maritime safety
inspections.
So again, I regret that the technical-
ities around here didn’t allow us to
move forward at this time, but I am de-
termined that we will do that.
Mr. Speaker, I also want to raise an-
other issue, and I would hope that the
Coast Guard is listening.
I am very concerned. The largest ac-
quisition program—I mentioned earlier
about the acquisition budget for re-
capitalization—is the Offshore Patrol
Cutter. Twice now, Representatives
and Senators from Florida have at-
tempted to end-run the contracting
process. They have a shipyard that
claims, that because of the hurricane,
they didn’t underbid the contract.
No, no, no. They didn’t. They didn’t.
But they need hundreds of millions of
dollars more to do the contract with-
out going through a bidding process,
without any scrutiny, and without any
information being provided to this
committee justifying those increases.
In fact, they are saying: Well, we
can’t get workers because of the hurri-
cane; it is just impossible. Well, we are
rebuilding Tyndall Air Force Base.
Armed Services hasn’t heard anything
about that.
And then, also, they say: Well, it is
going to take 1.3 million more man-
hours.
Well, what does that have to do with
not being able to get skilled labor? The
allegations by some others in the in-
dustry are that they underbid the con-
tract, and now they are trying to come
up with a rationale.
It is further disturbing that a former
Commandant of the Coast Guard runs
this organization. And I am very con-
cerned that the Coast Guard is now
contemplating asking Homeland Secu-
rity to invoke a law they have never
used before, claiming national security
to renegotiate between the current
Commandant of the Coast Guard and
the past Commandant of the Coast
Guard running this shipyard the terms
of this contract.
That is not right. It doesn’t protect
the taxpayers. It doesn’t protect the
contracting process. I am going to be
pushing very, very hard on this issue.
That said, there are many meri-
torious things in this bill, and I will
yield back the balance of my time after
recommending a unanimous vote by
the House of Representatives. Hope-
fully, the Senate won’t take 11⁄2 years
to get the bill done this time, so actu-
ally it will be a 2-year authorization
instead of a 2-year/1-year authoriza-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as a sen-
ior member of the House Committees on the
Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, I
rise in strong support of H.R. 3409, the ‘‘Coast
Guard Authorization Act of 2019.’’
H.R. 3409 is bipartisan legislation that reau-
thorizes appropriations for the Coast Guard
and Federal Maritime Commission through the
2021 Fiscal Year.
This legislation contains improvements to
promote the U.S. maritime industry and off-
shore renewable energy development, author-
ization of funding for new heavy ice breakers,
and provisions to increase diversity at the
United States Coast Guard Academy.
Additionally, this legislation will enhance re-
cruitment and retention of merchant vessels,
along with advancing new opportunities to
strengthen the competitiveness of the U.S.
maritime and shipbuilding industries.
Earlier this year the Department of Home-
land Security, which oversees the United
States Coast Guard, was adversely affected
by the Trump Administration’s government
shutdown.
The shutdown affected the pay of over
40,000 active duty Coast Guard members,
6,000 reservists, and 8,500 civilian employees.
It took 35 days for Congress and the White
House to agree on a FY 2019 funding bill.
During this time the brave men and women
of the Coast Guard endured the cold winter
weather while conducting life-saving rescues,
drug interdiction operations, environmental
protection missions, and costal security oper-
ations.
This bill will guarantee that the Coast
Guard’s active duty and civilian personnel are
paid in the event of another federal govern-
ment shutdown.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 1649 ‘‘Coast Guard Au-
thorization Act of 2019’’ in order to ensure that
the Coast Guard has all of the resources re-
quired to carry out their missions and maintain
safety along our coastal borders.
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I would like to express my
support for the Coast Guard Authorization Act
and the inclusive and bipartisan agreement
that the Members of the Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee have reached.
The robust funding for the Coast Guard in
this 2-year authorization is indicative of this
body’s strong support for the men and women
serving in the Coast Guard and the important
mission they undertake. I recently visited our
Coasties in District 7 to see their profes-
sionalism and skills on full display—they make
the impossible look routine on a daily basis.
From drug interdictions to search and res-
cue, the Coast Guard continues to prove its
effectiveness while operating with limited re-
sources. The passage of this bill sends the
message that every dollar is a dollar well
spent with respect to the U.S. Coast Guard.
This important legislation includes provisions
that will further strengthen the Coast Guard by
expanding the use of unmanned systems and
fully integrating new and existing technologies
developed both inside and outside of the serv-
ice.
I am pleased that the bill contains a number
of provisions aimed at increasing cultural com-
petence in the Coast Guard and at the Coast
Guard Academy. The service will only realize
its full potential once it instills a culture that
welcomes all people regardless of gender,
race, or sexual orientation.
The bill also includes several provisions
aimed to bolster the U.S. maritime industry. By
clarifying certain requirements on domestic
vessels, it sends a strong signal of support for
the Jones Act and our coastwise maritime in-
dustry. By clarifying cargo preference require-
ments, we begin to address losses in the
internationally trading U.S. fleet and rebuild
the American mariner base.
The bill also contains important protections
for the Hudson River in my district and will en-
sure this natural treasure is preserved for fu-
ture generations to come.
I am proud to be one of the original spon-
sors of this important legislation and I look for-
ward to ensuring that this important legislation
is signed into law.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFA-
ZIO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 3409, as amend-
ed.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DISCLOSING AID SPENT TO
ENSURE RELIEF ACT
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1984) to amend chapter 11 of title
31, United States Code, to require the
Director of the Office of Management
and Budget to annually submit to Con-
gress a report on all disaster-related
assistance provided by the Federal
Government.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.038 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7288 July 24, 2019
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1984
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Disclosing
Aid Spent to Ensure Relief Act’’ or the ‘‘DIS-
ASTER Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) At a time of constrained budgets, it is
fiscally prudent to understand the amount
and the scope of the Federal Government’s
involvement in providing disaster-related as-
sistance to communities in need.
(2) The Federal Government does not pro-
vide a single, publicly available estimate of
the amount it is spending on disaster-related
assistance.
(3) Because recovery is a long-term proc-
ess, providing disaster-related assistance re-
quires significant Federal resources to sup-
port a multi-agency, multi-year restoration
of infrastructure and commerce in affected
communities.
(4) Understanding the expenditures of indi-
vidual Federal agencies for disaster-related
assistance will help better inform the con-
gressional appropriations process, as well as
presidential budget requests.
(5) Knowledge about disaster-related ex-
penses will illustrate opportunities for re-
ducing these expenses through efforts to re-
duce vulnerabilities to future natural disas-
ters.
SEC. 3. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Act is to require the
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget to annually submit to Congress a re-
port on all disaster-related assistance pro-
vided by the Federal Government.
SEC. 4. REPORTING OF DISASTER-RELATED AS-
SISTANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 11 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 1127. Reporting of disaster-related assist-
ance
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—On the same day that
the President makes the annual budget sub-
mission to the Congress under section 1105(a)
for a fiscal year, the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall submit to
Congress a report on Federal disaster-related
assistance for the fiscal year ending in the
calendar year immediately preceding the
calendar year in which the annual budget
submission is made. Disaster-related assist-
ance encompasses Federal obligations re-
lated to disaster response, recovery, and
mitigation efforts, as well as administrative
costs associated with these activities, in-
cluding spending by the following agencies
and programs:
‘‘(1) Department of Agriculture:
‘‘(A) Agriculture Research Service.
‘‘(B) Farm Service Agency.
‘‘(C) Food and Nutrition Service.
‘‘(D) Natural Resource Conservation Serv-
ice.
‘‘(E) Forest Service.
‘‘(F) Rural Housing Service.
‘‘(G) Rural Utilities Service.
‘‘(2) Department of Commerce:
‘‘(A) National Marine Fisheries Service of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration.
‘‘(B) Economic Development Administra-
tion Economic Adjustment Assistance.
‘‘(3) Army Corps of Engineers of the De-
partment of Defense (Civil).
‘‘(4) Department of Defense (Military):
‘‘(A) Military Personnel.
‘‘(B) Operations and Maintenance.
‘‘(C) Procurement.
‘‘(D) Research, Development, Test, and
Evaluation.
‘‘(E) Military Construction (MILCON) and
Family Housing.
‘‘(F) Management Funds.
‘‘(G) Other Department of Defense Pro-
grams.
‘‘(5) Department of Education:
‘‘(A) Elementary and Secondary Edu-
cation.
‘‘(B) Higher Education.
‘‘(6) Department of Health and Human
Services:
‘‘(A) Administration for Children and Fam-
ilies.
‘‘(B) Public Health and Medical Assistance.
‘‘(C) Public Health Emergency Fund.
‘‘(7) Department of Homeland Security:
‘‘(A) Federal Emergency Management
Agency:
‘‘(i) Emergency Declarations.
‘‘(ii) Fire Management Assistance Grants.
‘‘(iii) Major Disaster Declarations.
‘‘(iv) Administrative Assistance.
‘‘(B) FEMA Missions Assignments by Fed-
eral Agency.
‘‘(C) Community Disaster Loan Program.
‘‘(8) Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment (HUD):
‘‘(A) Community Development Block
Grants.
‘‘(B) Rental Assistance/Section 8 Vouchers.
‘‘(C) Supportive Housing.
‘‘(D) Public Housing Repair.
‘‘(E) Inspector General.
‘‘(9) Department of the Interior:
‘‘(A) Bureau of Indian Affairs.
‘‘(B) United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice.
‘‘(C) National Park Service.
‘‘(D) Wildland Fire Management.
‘‘(10) Department of Justice:
‘‘(A) Legal Activities.
‘‘(B) United States Marshals Service.
‘‘(C) Federal Bureau of Investigation.
‘‘(D) Drug Enforcement Administration.
‘‘(E) Bureau of Tobacco, Firearms, and Ex-
plosives.
‘‘(F) Federal Prison System (Bureau of
Prisons).
‘‘(G) Office of Justice Programs.
‘‘(11) Department of Labor:
‘‘(A) National Emergency Grants for Dis-
location Events.
‘‘(B) Workforce Investment Act (WIA) Dis-
located Worker Program.
‘‘(12) Department of Transportation:
‘‘(A) Federal Highway Administration:
Emergency Relief Program (ER).
‘‘(B) Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA).
‘‘(C) Federal Transit Administration
(FTA).
‘‘(13) Department of the Treasury: Internal
Revenue Service.
‘‘(14) Department of Veterans Affairs.
‘‘(15) Corporation for National and Commu-
nity Service.
‘‘(16) Environmental Protection Agency:
‘‘(A) Hurricane Emergency Response Au-
thorities.
‘‘(B) EPA Hurricane Response.
‘‘(C) EPA Regular Appropriations.
‘‘(17) The Federal Judiciary.
‘‘(18) Disaster Assistance Program of the
Small Business Administration.
‘‘(19) Department of Energy:
‘‘(A) Office of Cybersecurity, Energy Secu-
rity, and Emergency Response.
‘‘(B) Office of Petroleum Services.
‘‘(20) General Services Administration.
‘‘(21) Other authorities as appropriate.
‘‘(b) CONTENT.—The report shall detail the
following:
‘‘(1) Overall amount of disaster-related as-
sistance obligations during the fiscal year.
‘‘(2) Disaster-related assistance obligations
by agency and account.
‘‘(3) Disaster for which the spending was
obligated.
‘‘(4) Obligations by disaster.
‘‘(5) Disaster-related assistance by disaster
type.
‘‘(6) Response and recovery spending.
‘‘(7) Mitigation spending.
‘‘(8) Spending in the form of loans.
‘‘(9) Spending in the form of grants.
‘‘(c) AVAILABILITY OF REPORT.—The report
shall be made publicly available on the
website of the Office of Management and
Budget and should be searchable, sortable
and downloadable.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
chapters for chapter 11 of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:
‘‘1127. Reporting of disaster-related assist-
ance.’’.
SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.
The reporting requirement under the
amendment made by section 3(a) shall take
effect with the budget submission of the
President under section 1105(a) of title 31,
United States Code, for fiscal year 2022.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Or-
egon (Mr. DEFAZIO) and the gentleman
from Missouri (Mr. GRAVES) each will
control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oregon.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 1984.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1984, the Disclosing Aid Spent to En-
sure Relief, or DISASTER Act, intro-
duced by the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. PETERS).
In 2018 alone, there were 14 natural
disasters that each resulted in more
than $1 billion in losses. Already in
2019, the President has granted over 50
major disaster emergency or fire man-
agement declarations under the au-
thorities of the Stafford Act.
While insurance partially covers the
cost of disaster recovery, the Federal
Government, along with State, local,
Tribal, and territorial partners, is
spending billions of dollars annually to
respond to and recover from these
events across more than three dozen
departments and agencies. That results
in the fact that there is no clear and
consolidated information regarding
Federal spending on disasters.
The DISASTER Act would change
that by requiring the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget to annually compile
and publicly release a report on dis-
aster-related spending across the Fed-
eral Government.
I thank the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. PETERS) for introducing
this bill so that we can obtain, in the
future, this vital consolidated informa-
tion and have it also be available to
taxpayers of the United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.039 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7289
July 24, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support this commonsense measure. It
will do more to shed light on how lim-
ited taxpayer resources are being
spent. Doing so will help better inform
how we prioritize policies and spending
to drive down disaster-related expendi-
tures in the future and more effectively
provide relief.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this
bill. I urge my colleagues to join me in
support, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1984, the DIS-
ASTER Act, is a bipartisan piece of
legislation that requires the Federal
agencies across the government to re-
port on how much they simply spend
on disasters.
I want to thank the gentleman from
California (Mr. PETERS) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MEADOWS) for their work on this legis-
lation.
Mr. Speaker, you would think that
we would know how much the Federal
Government spends, actually spends,
on disasters. We have estimates, but we
simply don’t know what the actual
costs are across the Federal Govern-
ment.
This bill is going to help us get some
real numbers. It is going to help us in-
crease transparency for the taxpayer.
It is going to help Congress make some
much better-informed decisions.
Mr. Speaker, I do support this legis-
lation. I would encourage my col-
leagues to do the same, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. PETERS), the author of this
excellent legislation.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFA-
ZIO) for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, as we in California and
the West prepare for more scorching
wildfires, the Southeast is in the heart
of hurricane season, and the Midwest is
still drying out from historic flooding.
Across the country, natural disasters
have taken the lives of loved ones, de-
stroyed livelihoods, and caused irrep-
arable damage to communities and
businesses.
Disasters are becoming larger, more
dangerous and frequent, and signifi-
cantly more expensive. According to
the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, there have been more than
2,400 federally declared disasters since
2000, totaling hundreds of billions of
dollars in relief aid.
However, when the Federal Govern-
ment helps communities recover from
these disasters, it does not calculate
one comprehensive number of how
much we spend on disasters per year.
Those funds could come from 29 dif-
ferent accounts across 11 different
agencies, which exacerbates delays in
disaster recovery and hinders future
planning and future accountability.
That is why I introduced the bipartisan
Disclosing Aid Spent to Ensure Relief,
or DISASTER Act with Representative
MARK MEADOWS of North Carolina.
This transparency bill is common
sense. It requires the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, OMB, to publish an
annual total of disaster-related assist-
ance categorized by disaster type, loca-
tion, and purpose.
With this and other smart reforms
Congress is considering today, tax-
payers will know where their dollars
are going, and the Federal Government
can be a better steward of those re-
sources and will be better able to plan
for the next disasters.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
pass this legislation today before the
next big natural disaster hits.
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 3 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Puerto Rico (Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN).
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman for yielding.
I want to thank Representative
PETERS and Ranking Member MEADOWS
of the Subcommittee on Economic De-
velopment, Public Buildings, and
Emergency Management for working
on this critical legislation.
As coming from one of those places
that actually was impacted by a hurri-
cane, I think this is one of the best
ways to be accountable for the money
that has been approved.
I am a cosponsor of H.R. 1984, the
DISASTER Act, which requires the Of-
fice of Management and Budget to sub-
mit an annual report to Congress on all
disaster-related assistance provided by
the Federal Government. The report
must include all Federal obligations
related to disaster response recovery,
mitigation efforts, and administrative
costs associated with these activities
for specified agencies and programs.
A lot has been said about how much
money has been allocated to many ju-
risdictions across the different Federal
agencies, so having this tool will help
us understand how much in funds have
been approved and where that money is
going.
To date, Puerto Rico has been appro-
priated $42 billion in disaster funding;
$20.6 billion has been obligated; and
only $13.6 billion has been outlaid or
reached the island’s needs.
Having this information in a single
report will help Congress and the pub-
lic better understand the real cost of
natural disasters and the benefits of in-
vesting in mitigation and adaptation
efforts as well.
This legislation will also provide
transparency and accountability when
it comes to disaster relief costs. That
is the reason I am a proud cosponsor.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative
PETERS and Ranking Member MEAD-
OWS.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers at this time, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself the balance of my
time.
Mr. Speaker, again, you would think
that we would have a better idea of
what we actually spend on disasters.
We obviously don’t. This legislation is
going to provide the transparency.
Mr. Speaker, I think it is a good
piece of legislation. I urge my col-
leagues to support it, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this excellent legis-
lation, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 1984, the Disclosing
Aid Spent to Ensure Relief Act’’, or ‘‘DIS-
ASTER Act’’, which directs the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget to submit
to Congress a report on all disaster-related as-
sistance provided by the Federal Government.
Mr. Speaker, this legislation is not only a
reasonable exercise of Congress’ power of
oversight but it is also fiscally prudent.
To understand the scope of disaster-related
spending and expenditures by the Federal
Government, Congress must have a com-
prehensive understanding of the various multi-
agency and multiyear efforts in helping dis-
aster-stricken areas recover.
Additionally, having estimates of these ex-
penditures for individual Federal agencies will
also help inform the congressional appropria-
tions process as well as presidential budget
requests.
Mr. Speaker, knowledge about disaster-re-
lated expenses will also yield opportunities for
reducing these expenses through mitigative
and preventative efforts.
Because transparency and open govern-
ment are important, it is essential that Con-
gress has a single, publicly available estimate
of spending on disaster- related assistance.
The American people deserve to know how
their tax dollars are being spent and how
these dollars are being used to help them
when disaster strikes.
This report would also be crucial in helping
educate the public about the numerous agen-
cies involved in disaster relief efforts.
While many would immediately recognize
agencies such as FEMA and the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, less conspicuous agen-
cies such as NOAA, EPA, the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service, play a crucial role in disaster
relief.
In short, H.R. 1984 will better inform both
Congress and the public about what the Fed-
eral Government is doing to help those af-
fected by disaster.
I strongly urge all members to support this
necessary and vital legislation.
b 1400
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFA-
ZIO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 1984.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.040 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7290 July 24, 2019
RESTORE THE HARMONY WAY
BRIDGE ACT
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3245) to transfer a bridge over the
Wabash River to the New Harmony
River Bridge Authority and the New
Harmony and Wabash River Bridge Au-
thority, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3245
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Restore the
Harmony Way Bridge Act’’.
SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF BRIDGE AND LAND.
Notwithstanding any provision of the Act
of April 12, 1941 (55 Stat. 140, chapter 71), not
later than 180 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the White County Bridge
Commission shall convey, without consider-
ation, to the New Harmony River Bridge Au-
thority and the New Harmony and Wabash
River Bridge Authority, any and all right,
title, and interest of such Commission in and
to the bridge across the Wabash River at or
near New Harmony, Indiana, in the ap-
proaches thereto, and in land underneath or
adjacent to such bridge and its approaches.
SEC. 3. REPEAL.
The Act of April 12, 1941 (55 Stat. 140, chap-
ter 71) is repealed effective on the date that
the White County Bridge Commission com-
pletes the conveyance described in section 2.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Or-
egon (Mr. DEFAZIO) and the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. RODNEY DAVIS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oregon.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 3245.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
3245, introduced by the gentleman from
Indiana (Mr. BUCSHON).
The legislation is very similar to a
bill, H.R. 6793, which passed the House
by unanimous consent during the 115th
Congress but failed to achieve the con-
sideration of the United States Senate.
H.R. 3245 conveys the Harmony Way
Bridge to the New Harmony River
Bridge Authority in Illinois and the
New Harmony and Wabash River
Bridge Authority in Indiana.
The bridge currently remains owned
by the Federal Government under the
White County Bridge Commission, but
the commission is no longer active.
The bridge, which was constructed in
1930, connects White County, Illinois,
with Posey County, Indiana, across the
Wabash River. It was placed on the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places in
2007 but has been closed since 2012 when
an engineer’s inspection discovered
structural integrity issues, which made
the bridge unsafe for vehicular traffic.
This legislation allows the States of
Indiana and Illinois to jointly work to-
gether to restore the Harmony Way
Bridge and determine the future of this
historic landmark.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in passing this legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman
DEFAZIO for helping make this bill a
bipartisan success, and I rise in support
of H.R. 3245.
I really want to thank my colleague,
the ranking member of the committee,
Mr. GRAVES, and also our other col-
league, my former boss, Congressman
JOHN SHIMKUS, who allowed me to work
on this project as one of his staff mem-
bers back in the early 2000s.
To be able to stand on the House
floor and see this solution be put forth
by my other colleague from Indiana
(Mr. BUCSHON), with the support of Mr.
SHIMKUS, Mr. GRAVES, and the Illinois
and Indiana delegations in a very bi-
partisan way, it is a privilege for me to
be able to manage this bill today.
Who would have thought that two
kids from Christian County, Illinois,
would one day stand here on the floor
of the U.S. House of Representatives
and have a bipartisan bill that is going
to help both the constituents of Indi-
ana and Illinois, but that is exactly
where we are today with my good
friend Mr. BUCSHON, who grew up about
8 miles from where I grew up.
This bill is a long time coming. It is
going to convey the Harmony Way
Bridge from the Federal Government
to the designated entities within the
States of Illinois and Indiana. This is
what the States of Illinois and Indiana
have asked us for.
The bridge is currently managed by
the White County Bridge Commission,
which was created by Federal legisla-
tion in 1941. In 2012, this bridge was
closed because of the inability of that
commission to support its safety meas-
ures and to support the improvements
that were necessary.
By conveying this bridge and repeal-
ing the 1941 legislation, the two States
are going to work together for a new
vision, which serves as a very impor-
tant link between Illinois and Indiana
as it crosses the Wabash River.
A companion bill has already been in-
troduced by the four Senators from Il-
linois and Indiana. Last week, that
bill, S. 1833, was approved by unani-
mous consent. Additionally, the House
passed a similar bill last Congress by
unanimous consent.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 3245, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from Missouri (Mr.
GRAVES), my good friend and the rank-
ing member.
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam
Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3245,
and I thank Representative BUCSHON
for his hard work on this important
issue.
H.R. 3245 is going to enable entities
within the States of Illinois and Indi-
ana to chart a whole new course for the
Harmony Way Bridge, which is closed
currently.
The bridge is not only a critical link
between these States, but it is also rep-
resentative of that strong bond be-
tween the people of Illinois and Indi-
ana. That connection is further dem-
onstrated by the fact that all members
of the Indiana and Illinois delegations
cosponsored this bill.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 3245.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, again, this bill is a bi-
partisan success story and a bistate
success story.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Indiana (Mr.
PENCE).
Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 3245, legisla-
tion sponsored by my colleague, friend,
and fellow Hoosier, Dr. LARRY
BUCSHON.
The Harmony Way Bridge connects
Indiana to Illinois over the Wabash
River. The bridge is currently managed
by the White County Bridge Commis-
sion, which was created by Federal leg-
islation in 1941.
The bridge closed in 2012 due to
structural deficiencies, and current
Federal law blocks local officials from
taking action to repair the bridge.
I am proud to join my colleagues in
both the Indiana and Illinois delega-
tions as a cosponsor on this critical
legislation.
H.R. 3245 would allow the two States
to determine the future of the bridge.
Madam Speaker, supporting this bill
is common sense.
A companion bill, S. 1833, was intro-
duced by the four Senators from Indi-
ana and Illinois and passed by unani-
mous consent.
Last year, the House passed a similar
bill overwhelmingly. In addition, both
Indiana and Illinois created State com-
missions to manage the bridge, and
now it is our responsibility to complete
the transfer.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3245
and allow the States of Illinois and Indiana,
and the community residents surrounding the
Harmony Way Bridge, to determine the future
of this treasured landmark.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, again, I am proud to
stand here next to my good friend Dr.
BUCSHON, who was born in my home-
town of Taylorville, Illinois, raised in
Kincaid, Illinois, and went on to be-
come a heart surgeon.
I don’t know if I would trust him op-
erating on me, but, hey, I know a lot of
patients in Indiana did.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.042 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7291
July 24, 2019
This is a guy who promised to get
things done. This project, I can tell you
firsthand, was not moving anywhere
until Mr. BUCSHON took the lead. This
is why I am proud to be able to recog-
nize him now and thank him very
much for his support of this bill.
Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentleman from Indiana (Mr.
BUCSHON).
Mr. BUCSHON. Madam Speaker, it is
an honor to rise today in support of
H.R. 3245, the Restore the Harmony
Way Bridge Act.
The Harmony Way Bridge is a local
landmark and was an engineering mar-
vel when it opened in 1930. Throughout
the 20th century, the bridge connected
Posey County, Indiana, and White
County, Illinois, creating an access
point for commerce and recreation for
Hoosiers from the New Harmony and
surrounding communities, as well as
those from White County, Illinois.
Unfortunately, in 2012, the bridge was
permanently closed due to safety con-
cerns related to structural issues.
While the community has pushed to re-
furbish and reopen the bridge, until
now, Federal law has stood in the way.
That is why the Restore the Har-
mony Way Bridge Act is important. It
will convey the bridge to the Indiana
and Illinois bridge authorities and re-
move the Federal conditions set out on
the bridge.
I am glad to see this bill on the floor
today, and I want to give thanks to all
those who have helped in the effort.
First, I thank Susie Davis, from my
staff, for her work on this bill. I thank
Lora Arneberg from the New Harmony,
Indiana, community, whose hard work
has been invaluable in promoting the
bridge restoration.
I also thank Indiana State Senator
Jim Tomes and State Representative
Wendy McNamara for their efforts at
the State level.
Furthermore, I thank my colleagues:
Congressman SHIMKUS, Indiana Sen-
ators BRAUN and YOUNG, Illinois Sen-
ators DURBIN and DUCKWORTH, and all
the members of the Indiana and Illinois
House delegations, who are all cospon-
sors of this bill, for helping me lead
this effort in Congress and finally solv-
ing this problem.
The Restore the Harmony Way
Bridge Act will breathe life once more
into the Harmony Way Bridge.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my col-
leagues join me on this monumental
occasion and support this bill.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I
have no further speakers, and I reserve
the balance of my time to close.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I am prepared to
close. I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Madam Speaker, again, this is a bi-
partisan success story. This is an issue
so many of us have worked hard on to-
gether. To see it pass today with the
support of Republicans and Democrats
is something that I can tell you a few
years ago I didn’t think would happen.
This is an opportunity, too, for me,
again, to thank the hardworking peo-
ple in Congressman SHIMKUS’ office.
I remember learning about this
project from my fellow staffer who
lived right near the New Harmony Way
Bridge, Holly Healy, who gave me the
lowdown on why it was important to
pass this legislation. That was back in
2003.
I am proud to thank Holly today for
her dedication and the hard work that
she has done on behalf of Congressman
SHIMKUS over the years. Today is the
day we finally get to make this happen
so that bridge can be repaired and that
bridge can be reopened.
Madam Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote
on this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I urge that the
House do support and pass this legisla-
tion, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
TORRES of California). The question is
on the motion offered by the gen-
tleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, H.R. 3245.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
POST-DISASTER ASSISTANCE
ONLINE ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1307) to provide for an online
repository for certain reporting re-
quirements for recipients of Federal
disaster assistance, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1307
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Post-Dis-
aster Assistance Online Accountability Act’’.
SEC. 2. SUBPAGE FOR TRANSPARENCY OF DIS-
ASTER ASSISTANCE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF REPOSITORY FOR RE-
PORTING REQUIREMENTS.—The Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of the Treasury
and the head of each covered Federal agency,
shall establish a subpage within the website
established under section 2 of the Federal
Funding Accountability and Transparency
Act of 2006 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note) to publish the
information required to be made available to
the public under this section.
(b) SUBMISSION OF INFORMATION BY FED-
ERAL AGENCIES.—Not later than 30 days after
the end of a calendar quarter, each covered
Federal agency that made disaster assist-
ance available to an eligible recipient during
such quarter shall, in coordination with the
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget, make available to the public on the
subpage established under subsection (a) the
information described in subsection (c), and
ensure that any data asset of the agency is
machine-readable.
(c) INFORMATION REQUIRED.—The informa-
tion described in this subsection is, with re-
spect to disaster assistance provided by the
covered Federal agency—
(1) the total amount of disaster assistance
provided by the agency during such quarter;
(2) the amount of disaster assistance pro-
vided by the agency that was expended or ob-
ligated to projects or activities; and
(3) a detailed list of all projects or activi-
ties for which disaster assistance dispersed
by the agency was expended, obligated, or
used, including—
(A) the name of the project or activity;
(B) a description of the project or activity;
(C) an evaluation of the completion status
of the project or activity;
(D) any award identification number as-
signed to the project;
(E) the Catalog for Disaster Assistance
number assigned by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency;
(F) the location of the project, including
ZIP codes; and
(G) any reporting requirement information
being collected by a covered Federal agency
with respect to that agency’s disaster assist-
ance.
(d) GUIDANCE.—Each covered Federal agen-
cy, in coordination with the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget and the
Secretary of the Treasury, shall issue such
guidance as is necessary to meet the require-
ments of this Act.
(e) AGREEMENT WITH PRIVATE ENTITY.—The
Director, if necessary for purposes of trans-
parency, may enter into an agreement with
a private entity, including a nonprofit orga-
nization, to develop the subpage required
under this section.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act, the following definitions apply:
(1) COVERED FEDERAL AGENCY.—The term
‘‘covered Federal agency’’ means—
(A) any agency providing assistance under
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.);
(B) the Small Business Administration;
and
(C) the Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
(2) DISASTER ASSISTANCE.—The term ‘‘dis-
aster assistance’’ means any funds that are
made available by the Federal Government
in response to a specified natural disaster,
including—
(A) any assistance provided by the Admin-
istrator of the Small Business Administra-
tion as a result of a disaster declared under
section 7(b) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 636(b));
(B) any assistance provided by the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
for—
(i) activities authorized under title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to disaster
relief, long-term recovery, restoration of in-
frastructure and housing, and economic revi-
talization in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas resulting from a major disaster
declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.); and
(ii) flood insurance coverage provided
under the National Flood Insurance Program
pursuant to the National Flood Insurance
Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.); and
(C) any assistance provided under the Rob-
ert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
(3) ELIGIBLE RECIPIENT.—The term ‘‘eligible
recipient’’—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.045 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7292 July 24, 2019
(A) means any entity that receives disaster
assistance directly from the Federal Govern-
ment (including disaster assistance received
through grant, loan, or contract) other than
an individual; and
(B) includes a State that receives disaster
assistance.
(4) SPECIFIED NATURAL DISASTER.—The
term ‘‘specified natural disaster’’ means—
(A) a fire on public or private forest land or
grassland described in section 420 of the Rob-
ert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5187);
(B) a major disaster declared by the Presi-
dent under section 401 of such Act (42 U.S.C.
5170);
(C) an emergency declared by the President
under section 501 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5191);
and
(D) any other natural disaster for which a
disaster declaration is made by the Federal
Government.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Or-
egon (Mr. DEFAZIO) and the gentleman
from Missouri (Mr. GRAVES) each will
control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oregon.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 1307.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 1307, the Post-Disaster Assistance
Online Accountability Act, introduced
by the gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. MEADOWS).
When a major disaster strikes, the
American people should know how and
where their disaster funds are spent
without wading through reams of in-
scrutable government paperwork.
H.R. 1307 would simplify the data col-
lection process for Federal disaster re-
covery projects and activities by estab-
lishing an online repository to which
agencies could submit information on
projects and spending.
In order to increase transparency to
the public, the bill would also create a
page on USASpending.gov for the pub-
lic to track agency disaster recovery
activities and the amount of assistance
expended, on a quarterly basis.
b 1415
Federal agencies need to be account-
able to the victims of disasters so that
they can have peace of mind when they
are at their most vulnerable.
I strongly support the bill, and I urge
my colleagues to join me.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Speaker, H.R. 1307, the Post-
Disaster Assistance Online Account-
ability Act, is going to improve our
oversight of Federal disaster assistance
and projects.
By increasing the accountability and
transparency in Federal spending fol-
lowing disasters, this bill is going to
help ensure that funds are invested
more wisely and better able to help
Americans who are trying to recover
and rebuild their lives.
H.R. 1307 is going to require various
agencies that offer disaster assistance
to publicly report data on disaster
spending and obligations. It is critical,
as we continue to work to reform and
improve our disaster response and re-
covery programs, that we have the
most accurate data available. That is
important for our oversight, as well as
for the taxpayers in holding agencies
accountable.
I want to thank the Economic Devel-
opment, Public Buildings, and Emer-
gency Management Subcommittee
Ranking Member, Mr. MEADOWS, and
Mr. PETERS, for their work on this leg-
islation. I encourage my colleagues to
support it.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam
Speaker, I yield such time as he may
consume to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. ROUZER).
Mr. ROUZER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman and the ranking
member for their support and work on
this bill as well.
I certainly rise today in support of
this measure sponsored and introduced
by my friend and colleague, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, also from North Carolina. We
know firsthand just how badly this leg-
islation is needed.
In my district alone, which has been
a victim of two major hurricanes in the
last 3 years, Matthew in 2016, and Flor-
ence just this past fall, after both hur-
ricanes, Congress appropriated disaster
aid funding for rebuilding and recovery
efforts. To date, very little of that
money, quite honestly, has been chan-
neled to the State.
Taxpayers in North Carolina and
across the rest of the country deserve
to know how the Federal Government
is spending these recovery funds, or
whether they are being spent at all.
More transparency means more ac-
countability and making this disaster
funding data available online to the
public will help ensure that these dol-
lars that Congress has appropriated are
being spent in a timely and effective
manner.
As we continue to recover from Hur-
ricanes Matthew and Florence, and pre-
pare for yet another hurricane season
this year, it is more important than
ever that we make sure we are getting
the most out of every single dollar that
Congress appropriates. This bill will go
a long way in helping to ensure just
that.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I
have no further speakers. I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
As has been demonstrated by the last
four bills, the Transportation Com-
mittee is doing good work, and we pro-
duced four good, bipartisan bills. I am
very proud of that.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R.
1307, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I want to thank the gentleman from
Missouri. He has been a great partner
in these and other ongoing efforts by
the committee.
I urge the positive adoption of this
legislation, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico.
Mr. Speaker, I rise as a cosponsor to H.R.
1307—the Post-Disaster Assistance Online
Accountability Act, which establishes a central-
ized location where Federal Agencies will pub-
lish information on disaster assistance.
This legislation requires reports every 3
months, that are available to the public regard-
ing the total amount of assistance provided by
agencies, the amount of funding that obli-
gated, and where the funds are going, includ-
ing all projects or activities that received fund-
ing.
To date, roughly 32 percent, or $13.6 billion,
of all funding, $42 billion dollars, Congress
has appropriated to Puerto Rico has actually
been received by the communities and fami-
lies who are trying to rebuild their lives on the
island.
With this legislation my constituents will
know exactly how much funding is still ex-
pected to come to Puerto Rico and to their
communities. They will be able to see the
process that agencies are making for timely
dispersals of funding and holding them ac-
countable.
Again, I want to thank Rep. PETERS and
Ranking Member MEADOWS again for their
work on this Disaster recovery related bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFA-
ZIO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 1307.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Lasky, one of its clerks, announced
that the Senate has passed a bill of the
following title in which the concur-
rence of the House is requested:
S. 2249. An act to allow the Deputy Admin-
istrator of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion on the date of enactment of this Act to
continue to serve as such Deputy Adminis-
trator.
f
STOPPING BAD ROBOCALLS ACT
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.012 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7293
July 24, 2019
bill (H.R. 3375) to amend the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 to clarify the pro-
hibitions on making robocalls, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3375
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Stopping
Bad Robocalls Act’’.
SEC. 2. CONSUMER PROTECTION REGULATIONS
RELATING TO MAKING ROBOCALLS.
Not later than 6 months after the date of
the enactment of this Act, and as appro-
priate thereafter to ensure that the con-
sumer protection and privacy purposes of
section 227 of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 227) remain effective, the Com-
mission shall prescribe such regulations, or
amend such existing regulations, regarding
calls made or text messages sent using auto-
matic telephone dialing systems and calls
made using an artificial or prerecorded voice
as will, in the judgment of the Commission,
clarify descriptions of automatic telephone
dialing systems and ensure that—
(1) the consumer protection and privacy
purposes of such section are effectuated;
(2) calls made and text messages sent using
automatic telephone dialing systems and
calls made using an artificial or prerecorded
voice are made or sent (as the case may be)
with consent, unless consent is not required
under or the call or text message is exempt-
ed by paragraph (1), (2)(B), or (2)(C) of sub-
section (b) of such section;
(3) consumers can withdraw consent for
such calls and text messages;
(4) circumvention or evasion of such sec-
tion is prevented;
(5) callers maintain records to demonstrate
that such callers have obtained consent, un-
less consent is not required under or the call
or text message is exempted by paragraph
(1), (2)(B), or (2)(C) of subsection (b) of such
section, for such calls and text messages, for
a period of time that will permit the Com-
mission to effectuate the consumer protec-
tion and privacy purposes of such section;
and
(6) compliance with such section is facili-
tated.
SEC. 3. CONSUMER PROTECTIONS FOR EXEMP-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 227(b)(2) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
227(b)(2)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (G)(ii), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting a semicolon;
(2) in subparagraph (H), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(I) shall ensure that any exemption under
subparagraph (B) or (C) contains require-
ments for calls made in reliance on the ex-
emption with respect to—
‘‘(i) the classes of parties that may make
such calls;
‘‘(ii) the classes of parties that may be
called; and
‘‘(iii) the number of such calls that a call-
ing party may make to a particular called
party.’’.
(b) DEADLINE FOR REGULATIONS.—In the
case of any exemption issued under subpara-
graph (B) or (C) of section 227(b)(2) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
227(b)(2)) before the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Commission, shall, not later
than 1 year after such date of enactment,
prescribe such regulations, or amend such
existing regulations, as necessary to ensure
that such exemption contains each require-
ment described in subparagraph (I) of such
section, as added by subsection (a). To the
extent such an exemption contains such a re-
quirement before such date of enactment,
nothing in this section or the amendments
made by this section shall be construed to
require the Commission to prescribe or
amend regulations relating to such require-
ment.
SEC. 4. REPORT ON REASSIGNED NUMBER DATA-
BASE.
(a) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commission shall submit to Congress, and
make publicly available on the website of
the Commission, a report on the status of
the efforts of the Commission pursuant to
the Second Report and Order in the matter
of Advanced Methods to Target and Elimi-
nate Unlawful Robocalls (CG Docket No. 17–
59; FCC 18–177; adopted on December 12, 2018).
(2) CONTENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall describe the efforts of the
Commission, as described in such Second Re-
port and Order, to ensure—
(A) the establishment of a database of tele-
phone numbers that have been disconnected,
in order to provide a person making calls
subject to section 227(b) of the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(b)) with com-
prehensive and timely information to enable
such person to avoid making calls without
the prior express consent of the called party
because the number called has been reas-
signed;
(B) that a person who wishes to use any
safe harbor provided pursuant to such Sec-
ond Report and Order with respect to mak-
ing calls must demonstrate that, before
making the call, the person appropriately
checked the most recent update of the data-
base and the database reported that the
number had not been disconnected; and
(C) that if the person makes the dem-
onstration described in subparagraph (B), the
person will be shielded from liability under
section 227(b) of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(b)) should the database re-
turn an inaccurate result.
(b) CLARIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF CALLED
PARTY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 227(a) of the Com-
munications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) The term ‘called party’ means, with
respect to a call, the current subscriber or
customary user of the telephone number to
which the call is made, determined at the
time when the call is made.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
227(d)(3)(B) of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(d)(3)(B)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘called party’s line’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘telephone
line called’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘called party has hung up’’
and inserting ‘‘answering party has hung
up’’.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection shall apply begin-
ning on the date on which the database de-
scribed in the Second Report and Order in
the matter of Advanced Methods to Target
and Eliminate Unlawful Robocalls (CG Dock-
et No. 17–59; FCC 18–177; adopted on Decem-
ber 12, 2018) becomes fully operational, such
that a person may check the database to de-
termine the last date of permanent dis-
connection associated with a phone number.
Nothing in the amendments made by this
subsection shall affect the construction of
the law as it applies before the effective
date.
SEC. 5. ENFORCEMENT.
(a) NO CITATION REQUIRED TO SEEK FOR-
FEITURE PENALTY.—
(1) FOR ROBOCALL VIOLATIONS.—Section
227(b) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 227(b)) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(4) NO CITATION REQUIRED TO SEEK FOR-
FEITURE PENALTY.—Paragraph (5) of section
503(b) shall not apply in the case of a viola-
tion made with the intent to cause such vio-
lation of this subsection.’’.
(2) FOR CALLER IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION
VIOLATIONS.—Section 227(e)(5)(A)(iii) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
227(e)(5)(A)(iii)) is amended by adding at the
end the following: ‘‘Paragraph (5) of section
503(b) shall not apply in the case of a viola-
tion of this subsection.’’.
(b) 4-YEAR STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—
(1) FOR ROBOCALL VIOLATIONS.—Section
227(b) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 227(b)), as amended by subsection (a),
is further amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(5) 4-YEAR STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—Not-
withstanding paragraph (6) of section 503(b),
no forfeiture penalty for violation of this
subsection shall be determined or imposed
against any person if the violation charged
occurred more than—
‘‘(A) 3 years prior to the date of issuance of
the notice required by paragraph (3) of such
section or the notice of apparent liability re-
quired by paragraph (4) of such section (as
the case may be); or
‘‘(B) if the violation was made with the in-
tent to cause such violation, 4 years prior to
the date of issuance of the notice required by
paragraph (3) of such section or the notice of
apparent liability required by paragraph (4)
of such section (as the case may be).’’.
(2) FOR CALLER IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION
VIOLATIONS.—Section 227(e)(5)(A)(iv) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
227(e)(5)(A)(iv)) is amended—
(A) in the heading, by striking ‘‘2-YEAR’’
and inserting ‘‘4-YEAR’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘2 years’’ and inserting ‘‘4
years’’.
(c) INCREASED PENALTY FOR ROBOCALL VIO-
LATIONS WITH INTENT.—Section 227(b) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
227(b)), as amended by subsections (a) and
(b), is further amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(6) INCREASED PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS
WITH INTENT.—In the case of a forfeiture pen-
alty for violation of this subsection that is
determined or imposed under section 503(b),
if such violation was made with the intent to
cause such violation, the amount of such
penalty shall be equal to an amount deter-
mined in accordance with subparagraphs (A)
through (F) of section 503(b)(2) plus an addi-
tional penalty not to exceed $10,000.’’.
SEC. 6. ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.
Section 227 of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 227) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(i) ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS ON
ROBOCALLS AND TRANSMISSION OF MISLEADING
OR INACCURATE CALLER IDENTIFICATION IN-
FORMATION.—
‘‘(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 1
year after the date of the enactment of this
subsection, and annually thereafter, the
Commission, after consultation with the
Federal Trade Commission, shall submit to
Congress a report regarding enforcement by
the Commission of subsections (b), (c), (d),
and (e) during the preceding calendar year.
‘‘(2) MATTERS FOR INCLUSION.—Each report
required by paragraph (1) shall include the
following:
‘‘(A) The number of complaints received by
the Commission during each of the preceding
five calendar years, for each of the following
categories:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.050 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7294 July 24, 2019
‘‘(i) Complaints alleging that a consumer
received a call in violation of subsection (b)
or (c).
‘‘(ii) Complaints alleging that a consumer
received a call in violation of the standards
prescribed under subsection (d).
‘‘(iii) Complaints alleging that a consumer
received a call in connection with which mis-
leading or inaccurate caller identification
information was transmitted in violation of
subsection (e).
‘‘(B) The number of citations issued by the
Commission pursuant to section 503(b) dur-
ing the preceding calendar year to enforce
subsection (d), and details of each such cita-
tion.
‘‘(C) The number of notices of apparent li-
ability issued by the Commission pursuant
to section 503(b) during the preceding cal-
endar year to enforce subsections (b), (c), (d),
and (e), and details of each such notice in-
cluding any proposed forfeiture amount.
‘‘(D) The number of final orders imposing
forfeiture penalties issued pursuant to sec-
tion 503(b) during the preceding calendar
year to enforce such subsections, and details
of each such order including the forfeiture
imposed.
‘‘(E) The amount of forfeiture penalties or
criminal fines collected, during the pre-
ceding calendar year, by the Commission or
the Attorney General for violations of such
subsections, and details of each case in
which such a forfeiture penalty or criminal
fine was collected.
‘‘(F) Proposals for reducing the number of
calls made in violation of such subsections.
‘‘(G) An analysis of the contribution by
providers of interconnected VoIP service and
non-interconnected VoIP service that dis-
count high-volume, unlawful, short-duration
calls to the total number of calls made in
violation of such subsections, and rec-
ommendations on how to address such con-
tribution in order to decrease the total num-
ber of calls made in violation of such sub-
sections.
‘‘(3) NO ADDITIONAL REPORTING REQUIRED.—
The Commission shall prepare the report re-
quired by paragraph (1) without requiring
the provision of additional information from
providers of telecommunications service or
voice service (as defined in section 7(d) of the
Stopping Bad Robocalls Act).’’.
SEC. 7. REGULATIONS RELATING TO EFFECTIVE
CALL AUTHENTICATION TECH-
NOLOGY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Commission shall prescribe regulations in
WC Docket No. 17–97.
(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR EFFECTIVE CALL AU-
THENTICATION TECHNOLOGY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The regulations required
by subsection (a) shall—
(A) require providers of voice service to
implement, within six months after the date
on which such regulations are prescribed, an
effective call authentication technology; and
(B) ensure that voice service providers that
have implemented the effective authentica-
tion technology attest that such provider
has determined, when originating calls on
behalf of a calling party, that the calling
party number transmitted with such calls
has been appropriately authenticated.
(2) REASSESSMENT OF REGULATIONS.—The
Commission shall reassess such regulations,
at least once every two years, to ensure the
regulations remain effective and up to date
with technological capabilities.
(3) EXEMPTION.—
(A) BURDENS AND BARRIERS TO IMPLEMENTA-
TION.—The Commission—
(i) shall include findings on any burdens or
barriers to the implementation required in
paragraph (1), including—
(I) for providers of voice service to the ex-
tent the networks of such providers use
time-division multiplexing; and
(II) for small providers of voice service and
those in rural areas; and
(ii) in connection with such findings, may
exempt from the 6-month time period de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(A), for a reasonable
period of time a class of providers of voice
service, or type of voice calls, as necessary
for that class of providers or type of calls to
participate in the implementation in order
to address the identified burdens and bar-
riers.
(B) FULL PARTICIPATION.—The Commission
shall take all steps necessary to address any
issues in the findings and enable as promptly
as possible full participation of all classes of
providers of voice service and types of voice
calls to receive the highest level of attesta-
tion.
(C) ALTERNATIVE METHODOLOGIES.—The
Commission shall identify or develop, in con-
sultation with small providers of service and
those in rural areas, alternative effective
methodologies to protect customers from
unauthenticated calls during any exemption
given under subparagraph (A)(ii). Such meth-
odologies shall be provided with no addi-
tional line item charge to customers.
(D) REVISION OF EXEMPTION.—Not less fre-
quently than annually after the first exemp-
tion is issued under this paragraph, the Com-
mission shall consider revising or extending
any exemption made, may revise such ex-
emption, and shall issue a public notice with
regard to whether such exemption remains
necessary.
(4) ACCURATE IDENTIFICATION.—The regula-
tions required by subsection (a) shall include
guidelines that providers of voice service
may use as part of the implementation of ef-
fective call authentication technology under
paragraph (1) to take steps to ensure the
calling party is accurately identified.
(5) NO ADDITIONAL COST TO CONSUMERS OR
SMALL BUSINESS CUSTOMERS.—The regula-
tions required by subsection (a) shall pro-
hibit providers of voice service from making
any additional line item charges to con-
sumer or small business customer sub-
scribers for the effective call authentication
technology required under paragraph (1).
(6) EVALUATION.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
consistent with the regulations prescribed
under subsection (a), the Commission shall
initiate an evaluation of the success of the
effective call authentication technology re-
quired under paragraph (1).
(7) UNAUTHENTICATED CALLS.—The Commis-
sion shall—
(A) in the regulations required by sub-
section (a), consistent with the regulations
prescribed under subsection (k) of section 227
of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
227), as added by section 8, help protect sub-
scribers from receiving unwanted calls from
a caller using an unauthenticated number,
through effective means of enabling the sub-
scriber or provider to block such calls, with
no additional line item charge to the sub-
scriber; and
(B) take appropriate steps to ensure that
calls originating from a provider of service
in an area where the provider is exempt from
the 6-month time period described in para-
graph (1)(A) are not wrongly blocked because
the calls are not able to be authenticated.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 6 months after
the date on which the regulations under sub-
section (a) are prescribed, the Commission
shall submit to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate,
and make publicly available on its website, a
report on the implementation of subsection
(b), which shall include—
(1) an analysis of the extent to which pro-
viders of a voice service have implemented
the effective call authentication technology,
including whether the availability of nec-
essary equipment and equipment upgrades
has impacted such implementation; and
(2) an assessment of the effective call au-
thentication technology, as being imple-
mented under subsection (b), in addressing
all aspects of call authentication.
(d) VOICE SERVICE DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘voice service’’—
(1) means any service that is inter-
connected with the public switched tele-
phone network and that furnishes voice com-
munications to an end user using resources
from the North American Numbering Plan or
any successor to the North American Num-
bering Plan adopted by the Commission
under section 251(e)(1) of the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 251(e)(1)); and
(2) includes—
(A) transmissions from a telephone fac-
simile machine, computer, or other device to
a telephone facsimile machine; and
(B) without limitation, any service that
enables real-time, two-way voice commu-
nications, including any service that re-
quires internet protocol-compatible cus-
tomer premises equipment (commonly
known as ‘‘CPE’’) and permits out-bound
calling, whether or not the service is one-
way or two-way voice over internet protocol.
SEC. 8. STOP ROBOCALLS.
(a) INFORMATION SHARING REGARDING
ROBOCALL AND SPOOFING VIOLATIONS.—Sec-
tion 227 of the Communications Act of 1934
(47 U.S.C. 227), as amended by section 6, is
further amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(j) INFORMATION SHARING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of the enactment of this sub-
section, the Commission shall prescribe reg-
ulations to establish a process that stream-
lines the ways in which a private entity may
voluntarily share with the Commission in-
formation relating to—
‘‘(A) a call made or a text message sent in
violation of subsection (b); or
‘‘(B) a call or text message for which mis-
leading or inaccurate caller identification
information was caused to be transmitted in
violation of subsection (e).
‘‘(2) TEXT MESSAGE DEFINED.—In this sub-
section, the term ‘text message’ has the
meaning given such term in subsection
(e)(8).’’.
(b) ROBOCALL BLOCKING SERVICE.—Section
227 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 227), as amended by section 6 and sub-
section (a) of this section, is further amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(k) ROBOCALL BLOCKING SERVICE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this sub-
section, the Commission shall take a final
agency action to ensure the robocall block-
ing services provided on an opt-out or opt-in
basis pursuant to the Declaratory Ruling of
the Commission in the matter of Advanced
Methods to Target and Eliminate Unlawful
Robocalls (CG Docket No. 17–59; FCC 19–51;
adopted on June 6, 2019)—
‘‘(A) are provided with transparency and
effective redress options for both—
‘‘(i) consumers; and
‘‘(ii) callers; and
‘‘(B) are provided with no additional line
item charge to consumers and no additional
charge to callers for resolving complaints re-
lated to erroneously blocked calls.
‘‘(2) TEXT MESSAGE DEFINED.—In this sub-
section, the term ‘text message’ has the
meaning given such term in subsection
(e)(8).’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.015 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7295
July 24, 2019
(c) STUDY ON INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS
FOR CERTAIN VOIP SERVICE PROVIDERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
conduct a study regarding whether to re-
quire a provider of covered VoIP service to—
(A) provide to the Commission contact in-
formation for such provider and keep such
information current; and
(B) retain records relating to each call
transmitted over the covered VoIP service of
such provider that are sufficient to trace
such call back to the source of such call.
(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 18
months after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Commission shall submit to
Congress a report on the results of the study
conducted under paragraph (1).
(3) COVERED VOIP SERVICE DEFINED.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘covered VoIP service’’
means a service that—
(A) is an interconnected VoIP service (as
defined in section 3 of the Communications
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 153)); or
(B) would be an interconnected VoIP serv-
ice (as so defined) except that the service
permits users to terminate calls to the pub-
lic switched telephone network but does not
permit users to receive calls that originate
on the public switched telephone network.
(d) TRANSITIONAL RULE REGARDING DEFINI-
TION OF TEXT MESSAGE.—Paragraph (2) of
subsection (j) of section 227 of the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227), as added
by subsection (a) of this section, and para-
graph (2) of subsection (k) of such section
227, as added by subsection (b) of this sec-
tion, shall apply before the effective date of
the amendment made to subsection (e)(8) of
such section 227 by subparagraph (C) of sec-
tion 503(a)(2) of division P of the Consoli-
dated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Public Law
115–141) as if such amendment was already in
effect.
SEC. 9. PROVISION OF EVIDENCE OF CERTAIN
ROBOCALL VIOLATIONS TO ATTOR-
NEY GENERAL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—If the Chief of the En-
forcement Bureau of the Commission obtains
evidence that suggests a willful, knowing,
and repeated robocall violation with an in-
tent to defraud, cause harm, or wrongfully
obtain anything of value, the Chief of the
Enforcement Bureau shall provide such evi-
dence to the Attorney General.
(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, and annually thereafter, the Commis-
sion shall publish on its website and submit
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a report that—
(1) states the number of instances during
the preceding year in which the Chief of the
Enforcement Bureau provided the evidence
described in subsection (a) to the Attorney
General; and
(2) contains a general summary of the
types of robocall violations to which such
evidence relates.
(c) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to affect the
ability of the Commission or the Chief of the
Enforcement Bureau under other law—
(1) to refer a matter to the Attorney Gen-
eral; or
(2) to pursue or continue pursuit of an en-
forcement action in a matter with respect to
which the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau
provided the evidence described in sub-
section (a) to the Attorney General.
(d) ROBOCALL VIOLATION DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘robocall violation’’ means
a violation of subsection (b) or (e) of section
227 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 227).
SEC. 10. PROTECTION FROM ONE-RING SCAMS.
(a) INITIATION OF PROCEEDING.—Not later
than 120 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Commission shall initiate a
proceeding to protect called parties from
one-ring scams.
(b) MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED.—As part of
the proceeding required by subsection (a),
the Commission shall consider how the Com-
mission can—
(1) work with Federal and State law en-
forcement agencies to address one-ring
scams;
(2) work with the governments of foreign
countries to address one-ring scams;
(3) in consultation with the Federal Trade
Commission, better educate consumers
about how to avoid one-ring scams;
(4) incentivize voice service providers to
stop calls made to perpetrate one-ring scams
from being received by called parties, includ-
ing consideration of adding identified one-
ring scam type numbers to the Commission’s
existing list of permissible categories for
carrier-initiated blocking;
(5) work with entities that provide call-
blocking services to address one-ring scams;
and
(6) establish obligations on international
gateway providers that are the first point of
entry for these calls into the United States,
including potential requirements that such
providers verify with the foreign originator
the nature or purpose of calls before initi-
ating service.
(c) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Commission shall publish on its
website and submit to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate a report on the status of the pro-
ceeding required by subsection (a).
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ONE-RING SCAM.—The term ‘‘one-ring
scam’’ means a scam in which a caller makes
a call and allows the call to ring the called
party for a short duration, in order to
prompt the called party to return the call,
thereby subjecting the called party to
charges.
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 3 of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 153).
(3) VOICE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘voice serv-
ice’’ has the meaning given such term in sec-
tion 227(e)(8) of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(e)(8)). This paragraph shall
apply before the effective date of the amend-
ment made to such section by subparagraph
(C) of section 503(a)(2) of division P of the
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–141) as if such amendment was al-
ready in effect.
SEC. 11. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General, in
consultation with the Commission, shall
convene an interagency working group to
study the enforcement of section 227(b) of
the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
227(b)).
(b) DUTIES.—In carrying out the study
under subsection (a), the interagency work-
ing group shall—
(1) determine whether, and if so how, any
Federal law, including regulations, policies,
and practices, or budgetary or jurisdictional
constraints inhibit the enforcement of such
section;
(2) identify existing and potential Federal
policies and programs that encourage and
improve coordination among Federal depart-
ments and agencies and States, and between
States, in the enforcement and prevention of
the violation of such section;
(3) identify existing and potential inter-
national policies and programs that encour-
age and improve coordination between coun-
tries in the enforcement and prevention of
the violation of such section (and laws of for-
eign countries prohibiting similar conduct);
and
(4) consider—
(A) the benefit and potential sources of ad-
ditional resources for the Federal enforce-
ment and prevention of the violation of such
section;
(B) whether memoranda of understanding
regarding the enforcement and prevention of
the violation of such section should be estab-
lished between—
(i) the States;
(ii) the States and the Federal Govern-
ment; and
(iii) the Federal Government and foreign
governments;
(C) whether a process should be established
to allow States to request Federal subpoenas
from the Commission with respect to the en-
forcement of such section;
(D) whether increased criminal penalties
for the violation of such section (including
increasing the amount of fines and increas-
ing the maximum term of imprisonment that
may be imposed to a period greater than 2
years) are appropriate;
(E) whether regulation of any entity that
enters into a business arrangement with a
carrier for the specific purpose of carrying,
routing, or transmitting a call that con-
stitutes a violation of such section would as-
sist in the successful enforcement and pre-
vention of the violation of such section; and
(F) the extent to which the prosecution of
certain violations of such section (which re-
sult in economic, physical, or emotional
harm) pursuant to any Department of Jus-
tice policy may inhibit or otherwise inter-
fere with the prosecution of other violations
of such section.
(c) MEMBERS.—The interagency working
group shall be composed of such representa-
tives of Federal departments and agencies as
the Attorney General considers appropriate,
which may include—
(1) the Department of Commerce (including
the National Telecommunications and Infor-
mation Administration);
(2) the Department of State;
(3) the Department of Homeland Security;
(4) the Commission;
(5) the Federal Trade Commission; and
(6) the Bureau of Consumer Financial Pro-
tection.
(d) NON-FEDERAL STAKEHOLDERS.—In car-
rying out the study under subsection (a), the
interagency working group shall consult
with such non-Federal stakeholders as the
Attorney General determines have relevant
expertise, including the National Associa-
tion of Attorneys General.
(e) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 9
months after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the interagency working group
shall submit to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation and the
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
and the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives a report on the
findings of the study under subsection (a),
including—
(1) any recommendations regarding the en-
forcement and prevention of the violation of
such section; and
(2) a description of what process, if any,
relevant Federal departments and agencies
have made in implementing the rec-
ommendations under paragraph (1).
SEC. 12. COMMISSION DEFINED.
In this Act, the term ‘‘Commission’’ means
the Federal Communications Commission.
SEC. 13. ANNUAL ROBOCALL REPORT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter, the Commission
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.015 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7296 July 24, 2019
shall make publicly available on the website
of the Commission, and submit to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science and Transportation of
the Senate, a report on the status of private-
led efforts to trace back the origin of sus-
pected unlawful robocalls by the registered
consortium and the participation of voice
service providers in such efforts.
(b) CONTENTS OF REPORT.—The report re-
quired under subsection (a) shall include, at
minimum, the following:
(1) A description of private-led efforts to
trace back the origin of suspected unlawful
robocalls by the registered consortium and
the actions taken by the registered consor-
tium to coordinate with the Commission.
(2) A list of voice service providers identi-
fied by the registered consortium that par-
ticipated in private-led efforts to trace back
the origin of suspected unlawful robocalls
through the registered consortium.
(3) A list of each voice service provider
that received a request from the registered
consortium to participate in private-led ef-
forts to trace back the origin of suspected
unlawful robocalls and refused to partici-
pate, as identified by the registered consor-
tium.
(4) The reason, if any, each voice service
provider identified by the registered consor-
tium provided for not participating in pri-
vate-led efforts to trace back the origin of
suspected unlawful robocalls.
(5) A description of how the Commission
may use the information provided to the
Commission by voice service providers or the
registered consortium that have participated
in private-led efforts to trace back the origin
of suspected unlawful robocalls in the en-
forcement efforts by the Commission.
(c) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—Not later
than 210 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, and annually thereafter, the
Commission shall issue a notice to the public
seeking additional information from voice
service providers and the registered consor-
tium of private-led efforts to trace back the
origin of suspected unlawful robocalls nec-
essary for the report by the Commission re-
quired under subsection (a).
(d) REGISTRATION OF CONSORTIUM OF PRI-
VATE-LED EFFORTS TO TRACE BACK THE ORI-
GIN OF SUSPECTED UNLAWFUL ROBOCALLS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commission shall issue rules to establish
a registration process for the registration of
a single consortium that conducts private-
led efforts to trace back the origin of sus-
pected unlawful robocalls. The consortium
shall meet the following requirements:
(A) Be a neutral third-party competent to
manage the private-led effort to trace back
the origin of suspected unlawful robocalls in
the judgement of the Commission.
(B) Maintain a set of written best practices
about the management of such efforts and
regarding providers of voice services’ partici-
pation in private-led efforts to trace back
the origin of suspected unlawful robocalls.
(C) Consistent with section 222(d)(2) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
222(d)(2)), any private-led efforts to trace
back the origin of suspected unlawful
robocalls conducted by the third-party focus
on ‘‘fraudulent, abusive, or unlawful’’ traffic.
(D) File a notice with the Commission that
the consortium intends to conduct private-
led efforts to trace back in advance of such
registration.
(2) ANNUAL NOTICE BY THE COMMISSION SEEK-
ING REGISTRATIONS.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter, the Commission
shall issue a notice to the public seeking the
registration described in paragraph (1).
(e) LIST OF VOICE SERVICE PROVIDERS.—The
Commission may publish a list of voice serv-
ice providers and take appropriate enforce-
ment action based on information obtained
from the consortium about voice service pro-
viders that refuse to participate in private-
led efforts to trace back the origin of sus-
pected unlawful robocalls, and other infor-
mation the Commission may collect about
service providers that are found to originate
or transmit substantial amounts of illegal
calls.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) PRIVATE-LED EFFORT TO TRACE BACK.—
The term ‘‘private-led effort to trace back’’
means an effort made by the registered con-
sortium of voice service providers to estab-
lish a methodology for determining the ori-
gin of a suspected unlawful robocall.
(2) REGISTERED CONSORTIUM.—The term
‘‘registered consortium’’ means the consor-
tium registered under subsection (d).
(3) SUSPECTED UNLAWFUL ROBOCALL.—The
term ‘‘suspected unlawful robocall’’ means a
call that the Commission or a voice service
provider reasonably believes was made in
violation of subsection (b) or (e) of section
227 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 227).
(4) VOICE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘voice serv-
ice’’—
(A) means any service that is inter-
connected with the public switched tele-
phone network and that furnishes voice com-
munications to an end user using resources
from the North American Numbering Plan or
any successor to the North American Num-
bering Plan adopted by the Commission
under section 251(e)(1) of the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 251(e)(1)); and
(B) includes—
(i) transmissions from a telephone fac-
simile machine, computer, or other device to
a telephone facsimile machine; and
(ii) without limitation, any service that
enables real-time, two-way voice commu-
nications, including any service that re-
quires internet protocol-compatible cus-
tomer premises equipment (commonly
known as ‘‘CPE’’) and permits out-bound
calling, whether or not the service is one-
way or two-way voice over internet protocol.
SEC. 14. HOSPITAL ROBOCALL PROTECTION
GROUP.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Commission shall establish an advi-
sory committee to be known as the ‘‘Hos-
pital Robocall Protection Group’’.
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The Group shall be com-
posed only of the following members:
(1) An equal number of representatives
from each of the following:
(A) Voice service providers that serve hos-
pitals.
(B) Companies that focus on mitigating un-
lawful robocalls.
(C) Consumer advocacy organizations.
(D) Providers of one-way voice over inter-
net protocol services described in subsection
(e)(4)(B)(ii).
(E) Hospitals.
(F) State government officials focused on
combatting unlawful robocalls.
(2) One representative of the Commission.
(3) One representative of the Federal Trade
Commission.
(c) ISSUANCE OF BEST PRACTICES.—Not later
than 180 days after the date on which the
Group is established under subsection (a),
the Group shall issue best practices regard-
ing the following:
(1) How voice service providers can better
combat unlawful robocalls made to hos-
pitals.
(2) How hospitals can better protect them-
selves from such calls, including by using un-
lawful robocall mitigation techniques.
(3) How the Federal Government and State
governments can help combat such calls.
(d) PROCEEDING BY FCC.—Not later than 180
days after the date on which the best prac-
tices are issued by the Group under sub-
section (c), the Commission shall conclude a
proceeding to assess the extent to which the
voluntary adoption of such best practices
can be facilitated to protect hospitals and
other institutions.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) GROUP.—The term ‘‘Group’’ means the
Hospital Robocall Protection Group estab-
lished under subsection (a).
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 3 of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 153).
(3) VOICE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘voice serv-
ice’’—
(A) means any service that is inter-
connected with the public switched tele-
phone network and that furnishes voice com-
munications to an end user using resources
from the North American Numbering Plan or
any successor to the North American Num-
bering Plan adopted by the Commission
under section 251(e)(1) of the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 251(e)(1)); and
(B) includes—
(i) transmissions from a telephone fac-
simile machine, computer, or other device to
a telephone facsimile machine; and
(ii) without limitation, any service that
enables real-time, two-way voice commu-
nications, including any service that re-
quires internet protocol-compatible cus-
tomer premises equipment (commonly
known as ‘‘CPE’’) and permits out-bound
calling, whether or not the service is one-
way or two-way voice over internet protocol.
SEC. 15. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. PALLONE) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 3375.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of H.R. 3375, the Stopping Bad
Robocalls Act, it is bipartisan legisla-
tion that I introduced with Ranking
Member WALDEN, Communications and
Technology Subcommittee Chairman
DOYLE, and Subcommittee Ranking
Member LATTA. This legislation ad-
vanced out of our Energy and Com-
merce Committee last week by a unan-
imous vote of 48–0.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.015 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7297
July 24, 2019
The rising tide of unlawful, unwanted
robocalls started as a nuisance, but
now threatens the way consumers view
and use their telephones. These calls
are undermining our entire phone sys-
tem, and that is something we all need
to take very, very seriously.
Last year, there were an estimated 47
billion robocalls made to Americans. It
is no wonder that the American people
have lost confidence in answering their
phones. The Stopping Bad Robocalls
Act will help restore that confidence,
and that is very important, in my opin-
ion.
Madam Speaker, Americans use their
phones at some of the most important
times of their lives. They use their
phones to get help from first respond-
ers by calling 911; to hear important
medical test results from their doctor;
to connect with or reassure a family
member or friend; to learn that school
is closed tomorrow; or just to conduct
daily business.
Illegal, unwanted robocalls threaten
the foundational ways that we commu-
nicate with one another and, that, in
my opinion is dangerous.
Each time the consumer chooses not
to pick up the phone out of fear that a
scam robocall is on the other end of the
line, it chips away at our community
and public safety. Too frequently, con-
sumers feel their best option is to not
answer their ringing phone, which may
lead them to miss an important call.
It is truly unfortunate that con-
sumers feel they must take that risk in
order to proactively defend themselves
against a scam call. Some studies esti-
mate that nearly half of all calls this
year will be scam calls; and these calls
are not only harmful to the American
people, but they are also harmful to
business.
The Chief Information Security Offi-
cer of the Moffitt Cancer Center re-
cently testified before our committee
that scammers were calling his hos-
pital, disguised as Department of Jus-
tice officials, demanding to speak with
a physician about his medical license.
Robocalls are dangerous to public
health and to people’s privacy, using
this as an example.
We have heard similar stories of
scammers disguised as the IRS looking
to collect a debt; scammers disguised
as local governments or police depart-
ments; and scammers disguised as
loved ones in trouble looking for help.
We are even seeing new scams, such as
the one-ring-scam, where fraudsters
try to trick consumers into calling
back international numbers in the
hopes that the consumer will rack up
large charges.
All of these scams are different, and
there is no silver bullet to fix them all.
For that reason, this legislation takes
the comprehensive approach to cut off
robocalls at many different points.
For example, the bill would imple-
ment a nationwide caller authentica-
tion system, free for consumers, so
they can again trust that the number
they see on their caller ID is actually
the person calling them.
In that same vein, consumers need
more help controlling the calls they
have asked not to receive. Consumers
need to be in charge of their own phone
numbers, and scammers or tele-
marketers must have a consumer’s
consent before making calls.
Consumers should be able to block il-
legal and unwanted calls. But with
blocking, there needs to be trans-
parency and effective redress so that
we ensure the calls people want are ac-
tually getting through.
Madam Speaker, we need to ensure
that law enforcement and the Federal
Communications Commission have the
tools, information, and incentives to go
after robocallers that break the law.
This bill takes all these steps and
more. It also includes the text of many
important proposals that would help
address the onslaught of robocalls that
consumers face.
And I just want to mention some of
the other bills that were introduced
that we have tried to incorporate in
this bill. One is the Ending One-Ring
Scams Act; the Tracing Back and
Catching Unlawful Robocallers Act;
the Locking Up Robocallers Act, the
Spam Calls Task Force Act; and the
Protecting Patients and Doctors from
Unlawful Robocalls Act. I will thank
the sponsors of those more specifically
later during this debate.
But ours is a strong and comprehen-
sive bill that puts consumers first. I
want to thank all of my colleagues
that have shaped this bill with me, spe-
cifically, Mr. WALDEN, Mr. DOYLE, Mr.
LATTA, of course. But I also want to
thank all the consumer advocacy orga-
nizations and the carriers that worked
hard to reach a consensus piece of leg-
islation that will take tough and mean-
ingful steps to protect consumers from
these annoying and illegal robocalls.
Madam Speaker, the legislation now
has 237 sponsors, and I am hopeful that
it will garner strong bipartisan support
today when we vote.
I urge all of my colleagues to put
consumers first and join us in passing
the Stopping Bad Robocalls Act.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in
strong support of H.R. 3375, the Stop-
ping Bad Robocalls Act. I will speak
more later of my contribution on this
legislation, but I congratulate the au-
thors of this legislation, both the ma-
jority and the minority.
The American Association of Retired
Persons sent us a letter yesterday urg-
ing the adoption by stating: ‘‘All
Americans will benefit from the provi-
sions of H.R. 3375 that promote an ac-
curate call authentication framework
and prevent consumers from being
charged for blocking technology.’’
The support does not end with them,
but it spans the consumer and industry
groups that have seen the impact of
this. This bill incorporates the best of
the private sector solutions, at the
same time putting the call out to crack
down on these illegal actors for the
criminals that they are.
We are going to shut these scammers
down. This legislation establishes a
more rigorous enforcement structure
to shut down illegal robocalls. It em-
powers the Federal Communications
Commission with additional enforce-
ment. It also sets the path for pro-
viders to implement new caller ID
technologies, with no new line-item
charges to the consumers.
The fraud committed on Americans
by illegal robocallers is going to stop.
This bipartisan legislation creates a ro-
bust framework designed to protect
consumers from the fraud and nuisance
of these calls.
Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. WAL-
DEN), the ranking member of the full
committee.
Mr. WALDEN. Madam Speaker, I
want to thank my colleagues for their
work on the Stopping Bad Robocalls
Act.
To Chairman PALLONE, to Chairman
DOYLE, to Congressman LATTA, and ev-
erybody that has been involved in this,
I think we have come to a really good
agreement here, and it will help stop
the illegal robocalls; hopefully, all 47.8
billion. Let that number sink in.
Last year, in America, 47.8 billion
calls were made to all of us, and they
were mostly all illegal, and we are
going to do our best to stop them.
You will be hard-pressed to find a
technology that is more personal than
your phone; whether it is the phone
you carry in your pocket or, for some,
a landline at home, and how we com-
municate on these devices is essential
in the way that we connect to one an-
other.
Yet that personal connection is being
violated by bad actors that have com-
promised our country’s communica-
tions networks and who hide their
tracks with their own hardware and
software.
These criminal parties have done sig-
nificant harm to Americans, both per-
sonally and professionally. Those that
engage in such illicit behavior should
be treated and prosecuted for what
they are, criminals.
From the outset of our legislative ef-
fort to address this problem, I stated
we must make a clear distinction be-
tween parties that have ill purpose, as
opposed to those who do not. After all,
we don’t want to shut off legitimate
uses of these new technologies, such as
protecting the anonymity of a women’s
shelter assisting at-risk individuals or
alerting you to a fraudulent use of
your credit card or providing you the
simple convenience of interacting with
your ride-share service. Those are le-
gitimate purposes.
Our clearest and quickest path for
passing legislation, along with our
friends in the Senate and, ultimately,
to become law, is to go after those that
have malicious intent; and to go be-
yond that could undermine services
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.051 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7298 July 24, 2019
Americans depend on every day. So I
think we have found the right balance
here.
b 1430
By taking all this into account, we
can achieve the same kind of bipar-
tisan, bicameral success as exemplified
by the RAY BAUM’S Act last Congress,
which, notably, provided us with the
launching pad for where we are today.
Now, that law provided the FCC with
more authority to go after bad actors
who utilize calls and texts. Our work
from then was echoed by a broad bipar-
tisan group of attorneys general from
across the United States calling for the
FCC to move on updating its own rules.
Now, we know communications and
technologies are constantly evolving,
and, unfortunately, the bad actors’
tricks have evolved beyond our Do Not
Call Registry, and I am sure they will
continue figuring out a way to get
around this effort. However, the more
friction we can create against illicit
behavior, the more focused public-pri-
vate partnerships we can create among
industry, consumer groups, and govern-
ment that will help us root out this
problem, prosecute these criminals to
the fullest extent of the law, and make
great strides in regaining Americans’
confidence in their communication de-
vices.
Now, in the 35 townhalls I have held
in my district this year and phone calls
I get to my office, people ask one ques-
tion. I bet they ask it of you, Madam
Speaker.
What are you going to do to stop
these robocalls?
I will tell you what. This is a number
you can answer, 3375. That is the num-
ber of the bill. Pick it up; answer it;
vote ‘‘yes’’; and we will put an end to
these robocalls—at least for now.
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. ESHOO), who
chairs our Health Subcommittee.
Ms. ESHOO. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I thank the chairman of the full com-
mittee; the ranking member, Mr. WAL-
DEN; the ranking member of the sub-
committee, Mr. LATTA; and the distin-
guished chairman of the subcommittee,
Mr. DOYLE, for bringing forward this
bipartisan legislation.
I hope when the vote is taken on this
today by the full House that it is unan-
imous. And if it is—and it should be—
I think we are going to hear applause
from across the country, because the
American people have been bombarded
by robocalls every day.
Last year, as has been stated, Ameri-
cans received an unfathomable 48 bil-
lion—with a B—robocalls. So this is an
epidemic, and anyone with a phone
knows this.
I hear it from my constituents daily.
I think we all do. I have been subjected
to them. All of my colleagues have
been subjected to them, and their fami-
lies, as well.
And these calls are not only highly
annoying; they are also used to scam
people and to swindle them. Last year,
an estimated 43 million Americans
were scammed out of $101⁄2 billion. That
is a lot of money. And I have some
friends, intelligent people, who were
convinced by the story at the other end
of the line.
So the American people, for all the
legitimate reasons, are demanding that
we do something, and today I think we
are delivering a victory for them. I am
certainly proud to cosponsor the legis-
lation. And, as has been said, no one
bill can completely solve a complex
problem, so the FCC and Congress have
to remain vigilant to ensure that the
statutory and the regulatory protec-
tions are sufficient to protect the con-
sumers.
There are heavy fees for violators in
this bill, so it is really going to cost
them, and it is not simply paying be-
cause it is a cost of doing business.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
this.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Ohio (Mr. LATTA), the ranking member
of the Communications and Tech-
nology Subcommittee on the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I rise today because robocalls have to
stop. With the help of our phone car-
riers and the FCC, we have crafted
solid legislation in the Stopping Bad
Robocalls Act. But the most important
voices heard in the crafting of this bill
were the men and women from our dis-
tricts who have had to deal with these
calls.
Illegal robocalls are annoying, dis-
ruptive, and harmful. Sadly, Madam
Speaker, for many people in Ohio and
across the country, these calls have
also ruined lives. I hosted a workshop
geared toward helping seniors avoid be-
coming victims of scams, including il-
legal robocalls, and the stories are
heartbreaking.
We heard from seniors who have been
manipulated into giving away their life
savings to scammers, often because
they were tricked into thinking some-
one they loved had been hurt. They
told me, if there was a way for them to
know that it was an illegal robocall be-
fore they answered that call, this could
have possibly been prevented.
That is one of the many solutions we
offer in the Stopping Bad Robocalls
Act. I am proud to have contributed
with language from our own STOP
Robocalls Act, which would make it
easier for Americans to access robocall
blocking technology through their
phone companies on an informed opt-
out basis.
Prior to this legislation and the FCC
ruling, these services were available to
consumers who opted in to receive
them. This restriction made the num-
ber of customers using blocking tech-
nology very low. This legislation will
change that.
Madam Speaker, Americans deserve
peace of mind knowing that the phones
that connect us to the world are being
used for good and not scams.
I want to thank the gentleman from
New Jersey, the chairman of the full
committee; the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania, the chairman of the sub-
committee; and the gentleman from
Oregon, the Republican leader of the
full committee for working with us on
this legislation.
I also want to thank our great staffs
for all the hard work that they did in
making sure we got this legislation to
the floor today.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R.
3375.
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE),
who chairs our Communications and
Technology Subcommittee.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Madam Speaker, today the
House will vote on the Stopping Bad
Robocalls Act, legislation introduced
by Chairman PALLONE, Ranking Mem-
ber WALDEN, Ranking Member LATTA,
and me. This bill addresses a problem
that we all have firsthand experience
with: persistent, annoying, nonstop
robocalls.
Americans received nearly 48 billion
robocalls last year, a 60 percent in-
crease from the year before. That num-
ber is expected to increase to 60 billion
this year. In June alone, in my home-
town of Pittsburgh, we received an es-
timated 34 million robocalls. On aver-
age, everyone in this country receives
14 of these calls every day.
This bill is a comprehensive, bipar-
tisan solution that I believe will help
seriously reduce the onslaught of ille-
gal robocalls that Americans face.
The bill before the House today is the
result of bipartisan negotiations, which
included industry and public interest
stakeholders. This bill was reported
unanimously out of the Communica-
tions and Technology Subcommittee,
which I chair, as well as the full En-
ergy and Commerce Committee.
I am also pleased that the language
from the STOP Robocalls Act, which
Ranking Member LATTA and I intro-
duced, was included in this bill. These
provisions allow phone carriers to
automatically enable robocall blocking
services by default on phone lines.
While these technologies have been
available on an opt-in basis, too many
of our seniors and, frankly, too many
people in general just don’t know about
these services and how to sign up for
them.
Allowing these services to be enabled
by default allows all consumers to ben-
efit from these technologies without
having to go through the onerous
signup process, particularly for seniors
and those most vulnerable to scam
calls.
These provisions also include require-
ments that the new opt-out robocall
blocking services do not result in new
consumer fees. The bill also requires
all carriers to adopt call authentica-
tion technology, which would enable
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.052 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7299
July 24, 2019
people to be certain that the call they
receive——
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentleman.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. The call authentication tech-
nology would enable people to be cer-
tain that the number they see on their
caller ID is really the number the call
is coming from.
All too often, people get calls that
look like they are coming from down
the street, but they are really coming
from scammers half a world away.
This legislation came about through
the hard work of majority staff and mi-
nority staff of the Energy and Com-
merce Committee, and I would like to
thank both staffs on the majority and
minority for their hard work and dili-
gence to get this bill to the floor.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. BILIRAKIS).
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding, and
I thank the chairman and I thank the
ranking member.
Robocalls and spoofing have been a
burden to Americans for years. It is
very simple; it goes without saying: We
must end these bad robocalls. Our con-
stituents are fed up.
At a hearing 3 years ago, I was able
to highlight a constituent who received
hundreds of calls daily to his home
phone. His quality of life became so
poor, Madam Speaker, he had to re-
place his phone hardware and phone
number to get the peace he deserved in
his own home. The Stopping Bad
Robocalls Act will help ensure that sit-
uations like this become less frequent
and, eventually, nonexistent.
This bill will provide much-needed
authority for the FCC to develop rules
for blocking robocall violators and en-
hance the ability to pursue these bad
actors and bring them to justice for
taking advantage of the American peo-
ple, especially our seniors.
I am also pleased this package in-
cludes the Ending One-Ring Scams Act,
which Representative CLARKE and I in-
troduced this year. This provision will
direct the FCC to target one of the
newest forms of caller scams and show
that we are serious in combating all
forms of illegal phone fraud, no matter
the tactics used.
I strongly support the Stop Bad
Robocalls Act, and I urge the Senate to
pass this much-needed legislation, as
well.
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. MCNERNEY).
Mr. MCNERNEY. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman for yielding and
for his hard work on this; the chairman
of the subcommittee, Mr. DOYLE; the
ranking member; and the staff mem-
bers. Great bill here.
I rise in support of H.R. 3375, the
Stopping Bad Robocalls Act.
Today, Californians and Americans
across the country are receiving more
unwanted robocalls than ever before.
This is something I often hear about
from my constituents.
Nearly 48 billion robocalls were made
in 2018, an increase of 17 billion calls in
just 1 year. More than 40 percent of
these calls are illegal scams. They are
defrauding consumers; they are disrup-
tive; and they are costing victims an
average of $430 per scam.
I am worried that the real risk here
is that we are making our phone sys-
tem obsolete, because people just don’t
want to pick up their phones anymore.
Part of the problem is that our cur-
rent legal framework doesn’t go far
enough in deterring these harmful
practices. That is why I am pleased
that H.R. 3375 includes an amendment
that I offered with my colleague Mr.
FLORES, during, our full committee
markup.
Our provision will create disincen-
tives for the most egregious violators
of the law. Specifically, our provision
will empower the Federal Communica-
tions Commission to assess an addi-
tional $10,000 penalty for robocall vio-
lations where the offender acted with
intent to cause the violation.
Creating these disincentives is crit-
ical for protecting consumers and put-
ting abusive practices to an end. I am
proud to cosponsor this bipartisan,
commonsense legislation, and I urge
my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Ohio (Mr. JOHNSON).
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Madam
Speaker, I rise in strong support of
H.R. 3375, the Stopping Bad Robocalls
Act. These unwanted and annoying
robocalls, which are increasing at an
alarming rate, need to end.
I am very pleased that the House has
set aside partisan differences and
worked together on legislation to ben-
efit all Americans and address this se-
rious issue.
This important legislation would re-
quire service providers to implement
new technology that ensures caller ID
is authenticated and establishes addi-
tional protections for consumers re-
ceiving unwanted and sometimes fraud-
ulent—robocalls.
I am also pleased that H.R. 3375 in-
cludes legislation that I sponsored with
my colleague, Representative
BUTTERFIELD, which would require the
FCC to publish an annual report on the
private-led efforts to trace the origin
of unlawful robocalls, an important
step in stopping these bad actors from
reaching consumers.
This kind of illegal, annoying, and
harassing activity must stop, and I en-
courage my colleagues to join me in
supporting this legislation.
b 1445
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from New York (Ms. CLARKE), vice
chair of our committee.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Madam
Speaker, as vice chair of the Energy
and Commerce Committee, I rise today
to thank the House Energy and Com-
merce Committee Chairman FRANK
PALLONE and Ranking Member WAL-
DEN, and Subcommittee Chair MIKE
DOYLE and Ranking Member LATTA, for
their leadership on this bipartisan ef-
fort to bring this important piece of
legislation to the floor.
Today, I want to speak to the intru-
sive reality and damaging repercus-
sions of robocalls and voice my support
for H.R. 3375, the Stopping Bad
Robocalls Act.
While the illegality of these calls is
an issue, the insistent presence of them
is causing American citizens to no
longer view their phone as a legitimate
form of communication, thus impact-
ing legitimate business.
Adding to this, robocalls are actively
hurting the pockets of Americans, as
multitudes are scammed daily, costing
the American public millions of dol-
lars.
During committee markup, I intro-
duced the Clarke-Bilirakis amendment
based on the base bill, Ending One-Ring
Scams Act of 2019, and, Madam Speak-
er, I thank Mr. BILIRAKIS for his leader-
ship.
This was a bipartisan effort to ensure
that the American people are protected
from this harmful culture of one-ring
scams.
The nature of these one-ring scams
may seem ridiculous. However, they
have been effective in scamming the
American people. With one-ring scams,
the goal of the scammer is not for you
to answer, but, rather, for you to make
the call back.
One-ring calls may appear to be from
phone numbers somewhere in the
United States, including initial digits
that resemble U.S. area codes. If one
calls back, these citizens risk being
connected to a phone number outside
of the United States, thus resulting in
one being charged a fee for just con-
necting.
Ad nauseam, the good people of
Brooklyn’s Ninth Congressional Dis-
trict have voiced their outrage with
the state of their security and privacy
as the threat of one-ring scams grows
more prevalent.
Madam Speaker, before I conclude
my remarks, I would be remiss if I did
not thank my colleagues who helped
lead on today’s effort, Congressman
BILIRAKIS and Congressman VAN DREW.
Madam Speaker, I want to say to
those who are fraudulent: Today, game
over.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Montana (Mr. GIANFORTE), a valuable
member of our Energy and Commerce
Committee.
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker,
Montanans are bombarded with
robocalls. Last year alone, Americans
received over 48 billion robocalls. That
is nearly 100,000 robocalls per minute.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.054 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7300 July 24, 2019
Too many robocalls are deceptive and
destructive, from bogus insurance of-
fers to threats of legal action. Scam
artists scheme to steal hardworking
Montanans’ private, personal, and fi-
nancial information. Sometimes, they
go even farther.
A young woman from Bozeman re-
ceived a call from her little brother’s
phone number. She picked up the call,
but it wasn’t her brother. It was a
scammer using her brother’s number.
Tragically, her little brother had died
of a drug overdose a few months ear-
lier. She was devastated and shaken.
This is disgusting and should not hap-
pen.
Today, we are taking a big step for-
ward. We are empowering consumers.
Phone companies will provide con-
sumers with call authentication tools
and blocking services at no cost. Ille-
gal callers will face more jail time.
Let’s get robocall relief across the
finish line for the American people.
Madam Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to pass this legislation.
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. CRIST).
Mr. CRIST. Madam Speaker, I thank
Chairman PALLONE for his leadership
on this important legislation, and I
thank the ranking member.
The American people are fed up with
spam calls. They are predatory, inces-
sant, and an invasion of privacy.
We need a comprehensive approach to
root them out, and our Federal Govern-
ment plays an important role in that.
Whether it is the FCC, Department of
Justice, Homeland Security, or FBI,
these agencies should have the authori-
ties and tools to shut down these
spammers’ calls, and these powers are
maximized when they are coordinated.
That is why I included in this legisla-
tion the creation of the Spam Calls
Task Force. The task force will coordi-
nate the Federal response.
Madam Speaker, I also thank Rep-
resentative DARREN SOTO for his help
with this.
I am confident that by working to-
gether, we can all put a stop to spam
calls once and for all, and Americans
will no longer have to fear robocalls.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from Washington (Mrs. ROD-
GERS).
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
this legislation, the Stopping Bad
Robocalls Act.
We all agree that robocalls are an-
noying, and they are a nuisance. What
is worse is that these calls are often
scams, scams that are becoming more
and more sophisticated each day. When
our phone rings, we are just one answer
away from being a victim of identity
theft. That needs to change.
This legislation will restore trust
that Americans can again answer their
phones.
Madam Speaker, I have a constituent
who calls my office nearly every time
he receives a robocall. He has begged us
to do something. After today, I look
forward to sharing with him that we
listened and took action to solve this
problem.
Madam Speaker, on his behalf and on
behalf of all those whom I have the
privilege of representing in eastern
Washington, I urge support of the Stop-
ping Bad Robocalls Act.
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Florida (Mrs. MURPHY).
Mrs. MURPHY. Madam Speaker,
Congress has a terrible reputation for
being too partisan, but there is one
issue that has strong bipartisan agree-
ment in this Congress and across this
country, and that is: Fraudulent
robocalls must be stopped.
I hear these concerns from my con-
stituents in central Florida on a reg-
ular basis. It is one of the top issues
that constituents routinely write my
office about.
Americans received over 48 billion
robocalls last year. Nearly half of the
calls that Americans receive are
robocalls, many trying to scam people
out of their hard-earned money.
Floridians have received over 2.2 bil-
lion robocalls so far this year alone.
My hometown of Orlando is among the
most targeted cities in the country,
having received nearly 350 million
robocalls.
Robocalls are more than a nuisance.
They pose a direct threat to con-
sumers.
Often disguised using fake caller IDs,
like hospitals and government agen-
cies, robocallers attempt to trick peo-
ple into providing personal informa-
tion, preying especially on our seniors.
The American people have had
enough, and they are demanding swift
action from this body.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to help
introduce this bill, which is a great
first step to protect Americans from
robocall harassment. I urge my col-
leagues to support it.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. CARTER), a
valued member of the Energy and Com-
merce Committee.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of the Stopping Bad Robocalls
Act. This legislation will seek to stem
a problem affecting nearly everyone I
know, and that is the issue of
robocalls.
Last year, we had almost 50 billion
robocalls in the United States. This
year, we have already had almost 30
billion robocalls, or roughly 90
robocalls per person.
It is an issue that everyone can agree
is a nuisance and should be addressed.
That is why I join my colleagues in
supporting this legislation to end this
practice and once again make it pos-
sible to answer a phone call from a
phone number you don’t recognize.
This bill will give the FCC the au-
thority to move forward with changes
under the Telephone Consumer Protec-
tion Act and to ensure that these
changes will lead to an effective effort
to get rid of unwanted robocalls.
Not only will we see a greater ability
to stop these, but we will see penalties
that will, hopefully, deter future ef-
forts by bad actors.
Madam Speaker, I applaud my col-
leagues on the Energy and Commerce
Committee for their work on this legis-
lation, especially since it is an issue
that affects everyone. For this reason,
I urge my colleagues to support this
legislation and to help us get this bill
to the finish line.
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Tennessee (Mr. COHEN).
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I thank
Mr. PALLONE for yielding.
This issue has brought everybody to-
gether. It seems to be more popular
than ice cream or even fried chicken.
It is amazing such a bill could come
about, but it is important because we
get these calls that take up our time.
I have a landline, and I have two
cellphones. I don’t even answer my
landline anymore. When I come home
from a trip, coming up to Washington
and then going home, my service is full
of automatic dialers, robocalls. Con-
stituents who want to get through
can’t get through because the answer-
ing machine has been used up.
They try to take advantage of people,
scam them into buying products they
shouldn’t. They waste our time. They
ruin our opportunity to have a regular
life during the day.
Madam Speaker, I thank all the
sponsors. I am proud to be a supporter
and a cosponsor. I look forward to vot-
ing for this. I look forward to the day
when I can pick up my phone and it
will be Bear Bryant or somebody look-
ing to reach out to call his mama.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from Indiana (Mrs. BROOKS), a
valuable member of the committee.
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Madam Speaker, we have all gotten
robocalls. They are annoying, dis-
rupting, and actually can be dangerous.
Oftentimes, robocalls prey on our
communities’ most vulnerable popu-
lations in hopes of capitalizing on their
personal and private information. Un-
fortunately, this problem is growing.
H.R. 3375, the Stopping Bad Robocalls
Act, is a bipartisan solution, ensuring
that calls consumers receive are
verified as legitimate.
I am also pleased that the legislation
includes a bill that I was an original
cosponsor of called the Locking Up
Robocallers Act. It requires the Fed-
eral Communications Commission to
report particularly malicious robocall
schemes to the Justice Department so
that Federal resources may continue to
be properly leveraged to stop these
schemes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.056 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7301
July 24, 2019
As a former U.S. attorney, I am real-
ly proud that the Justice Department,
working with the FTC and local law
enforcement, has already taken en-
forcement actions in over 94 cases,
which has yielded blocking of more
than 1 billion robocalls so far.
Madam Speaker, I am reassured that
with this bill, they will be able to more
efficiently and consistently pursue
robocaller abusers. For these reasons
and many more, I urge my colleagues
to support this bill.
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, can
I inquire as to the amount of time on
each side?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New Jersey has 3 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from Texas
has 6 minutes remaining.
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Illinois (Ms. UNDERWOOD).
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Madam Speaker,
64. That is the number of robocalls that
the average Illinoisan has received in
2019 alone, over 1 billion total. Nation-
wide, half of all calls to cellphones are
robocalls.
Yesterday, in my staff meeting, our
discussion of floor consideration of the
Stopping Bad Robocalls Act was lit-
erally interrupted by two different
robocalls.
Madam Speaker, I thank the chair-
man and ranking member on behalf of
myself and my community in Illinois’
14th Congressional District for their
hard work to bring this commonsense,
bipartisan, and incredibly important
bill to the floor.
Robocalls aren’t just annoying; they
can be dangerous. They are used by
fraudsters and unscrupulous debt col-
lectors to scare hardworking Ameri-
cans to fall for their scams.
I am so proud to cosponsor the Stop-
ping Bad Robocalls Act. This bill en-
sures that consumers can block calls
they don’t want, with no extra charge.
It ensures that every call Illinoisans
receive is verified by caller ID, and it
strengthens enforcement against
scammers and robocall operators.
I am especially glad the bill includes
a provision to require the FCC to es-
tablish a Hospital Robocall Working
Group to ensure that robocalls don’t
threaten hospitals’ ability to provide
timely, lifesaving care.
Madam Speaker, I strongly urge my
colleagues to support the bill.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I am
prepared to close. I yield myself the
balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, robocalls have
moved beyond a simple nuisance. So-
phisticated actors are now using
robocalls to trick people into providing
sensitive information by posing as le-
gitimate organizations.
When this happens to hospitals, pa-
tients have no reason to believe that
there is a fraudulent actor on the other
line, leading them to reveal sensitive
health data and sensitive financial in-
formation. This activity threatens the
integrity of real health-related phone
calls and jeopardizes the relationship
between the patient and their provider.
Even more challenging than explain-
ing to consumers that the calls from
your phone number are not always
from your organization is the response
time required.
b 1500
According to testimony by Dave
Summitt of the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer
Center, in a 90-day period, they re-
ceived over 6,600 external calls identi-
fied as a Moffitt internal phone num-
ber, requiring 65 hours of response
time. This is time that could have been
used to support the hospital rather
than respond to fraudulent calls.
During the Energy and Commerce
Committee markup, I offered an
amendment with Mrs. DINGELL of
Michigan to establish a hospital
robocall protection group at the Fed-
eral Communications Commission.
This group will issue best practices to
help combat unlawful robocalls made
to hospitals, as well as those made
spoofing a legitimate hospital phone
number.
The hospital robocall protection
group will assist any hospital to com-
bat these fraudulent robocalls so that
they may focus on serving patients. A
patient should not have to worry about
whether they are speaking with their
real doctor or their real hospital when
discussing sensitive health informa-
tion, and providers should not have to
deal with disruptive false claims.
This amendment was adopted in com-
mittee, and I look forward to the best
practices being put forward in the hos-
pital robocall protection group.
The fraud committed on Americans
by illegal robocallers is going to end.
This bipartisan legislation creates a ro-
bust framework designed to protect
consumers from the fraud and nuisance
of these calls.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a yes vote on the
underlying legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I thank all of the mem-
bers who were able to work together to
produce this great legislation, and
there are a lot.
I thank Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. OLSON,
Mr. KIM, Mrs. BROOKS, Mr. BRINDISI,
and Mr. KUSTOFF for introducing the
Locking Up Robocalls Act, which was
added to this legislation in section 9.
I thank Ms. CLARKE, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. FOXX,
and Mr. WALBERG for introducing the
Ending One-Ring Scams Act, which
was added to this legislation in section
10.
I thank Mr. CRIST for introducing his
Spam Calls Task Force Act, which was
added to this legislation in section 11.
I thank Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. JOHN-
SON, Mr. SOTO, and Mr. GIANFORTE for
introducing the Tracing Back and
Catching Unlawful Robocalls Act,
which was added in section 13.
I thank Mrs. DINGELL and Dr. BUR-
GESS for introducing their Protecting
Patients and Doctors from Unlawful
Robocalls Act, which was added to the
bill in section 14.
And I thank Mr. FLORES and Mr.
MCNERNEY for offering their amend-
ment to increase the financial pen-
alties for illegal robocallers.
Mr. Speaker, I also thank my part-
ners—Mr. WALDEN, Mr. DOYLE, and Mr.
LATTA—for working with me to intro-
duce the bill, which included at intro-
duction Mr. LATTA’s and Mr. DOYLE’s
STOP Robocalls Act in section 8.
I also would like to quickly thank
the staff—Alex Hoehn-Saric, AJ Brown,
Jennifer Epperson, Dan Miller, Robin
Colwell, Tim Kurth—for all their hard
work, and, in particular, Gerry
Leverich, who is here, for all his time
and energy to get this bill to the floor
today. I am very proud for all our
members and staff for this important
bill.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a few letters and statements for the
RECORD: a letter from AARP on behalf
of its nearly 38 million members urging
a vote in favor of the bill; a letter from
more than 80 organizations rep-
resenting consumers throughout the
U.S., including Consumer Reports and
the National Consumer Law Center,
among others, urging strong support by
members of the bill; and a list of sup-
portive statements from carriers and
relevant associations, including
USTelecom, The Broadband Associa-
tion; CTIA, The Wireless Association;
NCTA, The Internet & Television Asso-
ciation; Charter Communications, and
Verizon.
AARP,
Washington, DC, July 23, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Republican Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADER MCCAR-
THY: On behalf of our nearly 38 million mem-
bers and all older Americans nationwide,
AARP is writing to urge a vote in favor of
H.R. 3375, the Stopping Bad Robocalls Act,
bipartisan legislation that will help fight
back against illegal robocalls.
AARP has a long history of fighting for
consumer protections for older Americans.
Unwanted robocalls are a rich playground for
scammers to deceive victims into paying
money under false pretenses. Through our
nationwide Fraud Watch Network initiative,
we work to empower consumers to spot and
avoid scams, and we provide support and
guidance to victims and their families when
fraud happens.
AARP is pleased that H.R. 3375 appro-
priately emphasizes consumer consent re-
garding the receipt of automatically dialed
calls and expands the enforcement provisions
of the Communications Act by extending the
statute of limitations. The bill specifies that
consumers should not face additional
charges for having robocalls blocked through
authentication technology and sets reason-
able deadlines for the Federal Communica-
tions Commission (FCC) to prescribe regula-
tions in the ongoing WC Docket No. 17–97.
AARP also supports the provisions of the
bill that require the FCC to report on the
implementation of the reassigned number
database, which will reduce the incidence of
repeated calls to innocent customers based
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.057 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7302 July 24, 2019
on the telephone number’s previous owner.
Likewise, we support the requirement of an
annual report to Congress on the FCC’s en-
forcement actions.
All Americans will benefit from the provi-
sions of H.R. 3375 that promote an accurate
call authentication framework and prevent
consumers from being charged for blocking
technology. We again urge you to enact H.R.
3375, and we look forward to working with
you on a bipartisan basis to combat un-
wanted and abusive robocalls against older
Americans. If you have any questions, please
feel free to contact me, or have your staff
contact our Government Affairs staff.
Sincerely,
NANCY A. LEAMOND,
Executive Vice President and
Chief Advocacy & Engagement Officer.
SUPPORT STRONG LEGISLATION TO STOP
ABUSIVE ROBOCALLS
(July 23, 2019)
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: The undersigned
organizations representing consumers
throughout the United States strongly urge
your support for H.R. 3375, the Stopping Bad
Robocalls Act. This bipartisan legislation,
which the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce approved by a unanimous vote of 48–0,
will help secure important protections
against abusive robocalling.
Robocalls are an ever-increasing plague.
Last year, Americans received an estimated
47.8 billion robocalls. They harass us, disrupt
our peace of mind, interrupt important time
with family, and interfere with important
communications. Many of these annoying
automated calls are to sell products or to
collect debts. They also enable scams to
enter our homes. Truecaller found that con-
sumers had lost an estimated $10.5 billion to
phone scams in a single 12-month period.
And spoofing, in which a caller sends a false
number in the caller ID, compounds the
problem, impeding call-blocking services and
tricking consumers into picking up the
phone.
A Consumer Reports national survey re-
leased earlier this year found that 70 percent
of consumers don’t even answer the phone
anymore if they don’t recognize the number,
because their phones are so overrun with un-
wanted robocalls.
H.R. 3375 would strengthen our laws to
curb this abusive robocalling.
It would direct the FCC to issue clear regu-
lations to better ensure that automated calls
and texts cannot be made without the con-
sumer’s prior consent, by requiring that the
technologies that enable unwanted calls are
properly defined and consumers can stop un-
wanted calls by withdrawing consent, and
closing off avenues for callers to seek loop-
holes.
It would direct the FCC to require phone
companies to provide effective call authen-
tication capability, at no charge to con-
sumers, to better identify and stop
robocalling and texting that uses deceptively
‘‘spoofed’’ phone numbers.
It would strengthen FCC powers to impose
forfeiture penalties for intentional viola-
tions.
It would direct the FCC to oversee creation
of a database that callers can check in order
to avoid making robocalls and texts to a
telephone number that has been reassigned
to a different consumer who has not given
consent, and would clarify that the caller
must have consent from the person actually
being called.
Consumers are calling on Congress to
enact these reforms now.
We strongly urge your support for H.R.
3375.
Sincerely,
Allied Progress; Americans for Financial
Reform; Center for Responsible Lending;
Consumer Action; Consumer Federation of
America; Consumer Reports; Electronic pri-
vacy Information Center (EPIC); Justice in
Aging; National Association of Consumer
Advocates; National Association of Con-
sumer Bankruptcy Attorneys; National Con-
sumer Law Center on behalf of its low-in-
come clients; National Consumers League;
National Fair Housing Alliance; National
Legal Aid & Defender Association; National
Rural Social Work Caucus; Public Citizen;
Public Knowledge.
Center for Digital Democracy, Alabama;
The Alabama Appleseed Center for Law &
Justice; Alaska Public Interest Research
Group (AkPIRG); Center for Economic Integ-
rity, Arizona; Arkansans Against Abusive
Payday Lending, Arkansas; Arkansas Com-
munity Institute, Arkansas; California Low-
Income Consumer Coalition; Public Law
Center, California; Media Alliance, Cali-
fornia; California Alliance for Consumer
Education; Western Center on Law & Pov-
erty, California.
Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, California;
Public Good Law Center, California; Con-
sumers for Auto Reliability and Safety, Cali-
fornia; Public Counsel, California; Justice &
Diversity Center of the Bar Association of
San Francisco/Consumer Advocacy; Funeral
Consumer Alliance of Connecticut, Inc.; Con-
necticut Legal Services, Inc.; Tzedek DC,
District of Columbia; Legal Aid Service of
Broward County, Florida; Florida Alliance
for Consumer Protection, Florida; Florida
Silver haired Legislature Inc., Florida; Inde-
pendent Party of Florida, Florida.
Mid-Pinellas Coalition of Neighborhood
Associations, Florida; Funeral Consumers
Alliance of Sarasota—Manatee, Florida;
Green Forest CDC, Georgia; Georgia Watch,
Georgia; Woodstock Institute, Illinois; Dig-
ital Privacy Alliance, Illinois; Western Illi-
nois Area Agency on Aging; CARPLS Legal
Aid, Illinois; Kentucky Equal Justice Center;
Maine Center for Economic Policy; Greater
Boston Legal Services, on behalf of its low-
income clients, Massachusetts; Massachu-
setts Law Reform Institute; The Midas Col-
laborative, Massachusetts; Center for Civil
Justice, Michigan; Mississippi Center for
Justice, Mississippi; Montana Organizing
Project, Montana.
New Jersey Citizen Action; Legal Services
of New Jersey; Empire Justice Center, New
York; Public Utility Law Project of New
York; Financial Protection Law Center,
North Carolina; Oregon Legal Guides; Oregon
Consumer League; SeniorLAW Center, Penn-
sylvania; The One Less Foundation, Pennsyl-
vania; Philadelphia VIP, Pennsylvania;
South Carolina Appleseed Legal Justice Cen-
ter.
Tennessee Citizen Action; Texas Appleseed;
Friends for life; Texas Legal Services Center;
Community Justice Program, Texas; Texas
Access to Justice Commission; Texas A&M
University; Family Violence Prevention
Services, Texas; AAA Fair Credit Founda-
tion, Utah; Virginia Citizens Consumer
Council; Statewide Poverty Action Network,
Washington; Mountain State Justice, Inc.,
West Virginia; West Virginia Center on
Budget and Policy; WV Citizen Action
Group, West Virginia; National Association
of Social Workers West Virginia Chapter.
STATEMENTS OF SUPPORT STOPPING BAD
ROBOCALLS ACT
[From the Committee on Energy &
Commerce, July 2019]
CONSUMER AND PRIVACY ORGANIZATIONS SUP-
PORTING HR 3375, THE STOPPING BAD
ROBOCALLS ACT
Americans for Financial Reform; Center
for Responsible Lending; Consumer Action;
Consumer Federation of America; National
Association of Consumer Advocates; Na-
tional Consumer Law Center on behalf of its
low-income clients; Public Citizen; Public
Knowledge.
STATEMENTS OF SUPPORT
Maureen Mahoney, policy analyst for Con-
sumer Reports: ‘‘Robocalls are a pervasive,
persistent problem, and consumers are des-
perate for relief from these unsolicited mes-
sages. These calls don’t just irritate con-
sumers—they interfere with the phone serv-
ice for which we pay dearly, and they subject
people to scams. By one estimate, consumers
lost $10.5 billion to phone scams in one single
year. We commend Chairman Pallone and
Ranking Member Walden for introducing the
Stopping Bad Robocalls Act, which will help
ensure that all consumers have effective pro-
tections from deceptively spoofed calls, in-
cluding calls from scammers. The bill will
also help get rid of loopholes in order to stop
robocallers from skirting the law. We look
forward to working with legislators to en-
sure that consumers get the protections they
deserve.’’
Margot Saunders, Senior Counsel for Na-
tional Consumer Law Center: ‘‘This bipar-
tisan bill is an important step forward in the
fight to stop unwanted and illegal robocalls.
There’s still more to be done and there is a
lot of responsibility placed on the FCC to
protect consumers. Robocalls plague voters
of all political stripes so we are especially
pleased to see a bipartisan effort on this bill.
We hope this is the first of several positive
steps that Congress will take.’’
AARP: ‘‘AARP commends Chairman Pal-
lone, Ranking Member Walden, Chairman
Doyle, and Ranking Member Latta for their
bipartisan commitment to address the seri-
ous problem of illegal and unwanted
robocalls. AARP shares your belief that ille-
gal robocalls continue to place all Americans
at risk of scams and fraud. New AARP Fraud
Watch Network research shows that con-
sumers are more likely to answer a call if it
is coming from a familiar area code or tele-
phone exchange, which is precisely what
scammers are exploiting. Older Americans
are particularly vulnerable to phone scam
victimization, which can wipe out their life
savings. AARP looks forward to working
with you and Congress on a bipartisan basis
to combat unwanted and abusive robocalls.’’
Jonathan Spalter, President and CEO of
USTelecom: ‘‘Chairman Pallone, Ranking
Member Walden and the bipartisan members
of the House Energy & Commerce Committee
delivered a loud and clear message to illegal
robocallers today: ‘enough.’ These legislative
proposals add to the growing momentum and
broad partnership among lawmakers, regu-
lators, industry and innovators of all stripes
who are closely collaborating to end the ille-
gal robocall plague scamming and spoofing
consumers.’’
Kelly Cole, Senior Vice President of Gov-
ernment Affairs for CTIA: ‘‘We commend
Chairman Pallone, Ranking Member Walden,
Chairman Doyle and Ranking Member Latta
for their Stopping Bad Robocalls Act. The
wireless industry is committed to combating
illegal robocalls and protecting consumers,
and we thank Committee Leadership for
tackling this important issue. We look for-
ward to working on getting robocall legisla-
tion enacted.’’
Robert Fisher, Senior Vice President of
Federal Legislative Affairs for Verizon: ‘‘We
applaud Chairman Pallone, Ranking Member
Walden, and the rest of the House Energy
and Commerce committee co-sponsors of this
bill for their continued efforts to protect
consumers from disruptive and harassing
robocalls. Enough is enough—it’s time for
Americans to hang up on abusive robocallers
once and for all. Verizon has already begun
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.019 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7303
July 24, 2019
deploying the STIR-SHAKEN call authen-
tication protocol for IP Voice services, and
we welcome the continued momentum to-
ward a bipartisan, comprehensive solution
that empowers service providers, law en-
forcement, and most of all consumers. We
commend this legislation and look forward
to working with Congress to make abusive
robocalls history.’’
Charter Communications: ‘‘Charter wants
to see an end to robocalls and we commend
Chairman Pallone and Ranking Member Wal-
den for introducing legislation that will help
do just that. This bipartisan bill is an impor-
tant step in curbing unwanted and illegal
calls. As we work to implement the call au-
thentication protocol SHAKEN/STIR by the
end of the year in addition to our currently
offered call blocking, screening, and identi-
fication features like the Nomorobo app, we
will continue to work with Congress to hope-
fully stop these disruptive calls once and for
all.’’
NCTA—The Internet & Television Associa-
tion: ‘‘Robocalls have become a scourge on
our daily lives causing many Americans to
simply stop answering their phones. This is
why we welcome the bipartisan leadership of
Chairman Pallone and Ranking Member Wal-
den to introduce the Stopping Bad Robocalls
Act. This legislation along with efforts by
the FCC to combat robocalls are critical to
protecting consumers from this nuisance.’’
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, again,
this is a bipartisan effort and a bi-
cameral effort. We are not doing mes-
saging here, Mr. Speaker. This is a bill
that will become law, and the Presi-
dent will sign it once we get it passed
in the Senate and we have a final bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 3375, the ‘‘Stopping Bad
Robocalls Act.’’
H.R. 3375 will require the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to update the definition
of what qualifies as a robocall and ensure that
any attempt to circumvent its rules using new
or different robocall technology is outlawed.
The Stopping Bad Robocalls Act would also
require telecommunications corporations to im-
plement new technology to ensure that calls
are not spam.
In addition, it will yield more efficient inves-
tigations conducted by government officials
and the heightened enforcement of anti-
robocall rules.
In June of 2019 4.4 billion robocalls were
placed nationwide.
Texas led all 50 states, receiving over 500
million robocalls in that month.
Mr. Speaker, robocalls have become an
overwhelming issue in our country and threat-
en to paralyze our most critical communica-
tions lines.
These callers are not only a nuisance but
are also predatory.
They have begun to target crucial establish-
ments including hospitals, cancer centers, and
medical research organizations, creating con-
ditions that can potentially lead to a health cri-
sis.
Administrators at these institutions worry
that, without intervention, the myriad of incom-
ing robocalls could eventually outmatch their
best efforts to keep hospital phone lines free
during emergencies.
Robocallers have gone even further to per-
form scams using the spoofing tactic, in which
they can appear to take on existing phone
numbers.
With the aid of spoofing, scammers can
take on phone numbers that are the same as
or very similar to the numbers of health care
providers.
Robocallers use the names and numbers of
these organizations, to aid their scam of telling
people that they owe money and requesting
private information.
We are all aware of the difficulty millions of
Americans face in attaining affordable health
care.
Robocallers are maliciously taking advan-
tage of these circumstances and seek to profit
from the exacerbation of the stress that fami-
lies are challenged with.
The federal government as well as multiple
large telecommunications corporations are
equipped with information on these robocallers
and the groups whom they seek to take ad-
vantage of.
The virulent aspirations of these callers
must be met with the commitment of our gov-
ernment to protect our citizens by placing the
responsibility on these corporations to protect
consumers.
I urge all members to join me in voting to
pass H.R. 3375, the ‘‘Stopping Bad Robocalls
Act.’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
DELGADO). The question is on the mo-
tion offered by the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. PALLONE) that the
House suspend the rules and pass the
bill, H.R. 3375, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
AUTISM COLLABORATION, AC-
COUNTABILITY, RESEARCH, EDU-
CATION, AND SUPPORT ACT OF
2019
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1058) to reauthorize certain provi-
sions of the Public Health Service Act
relating to autism, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1058
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Autism Collabo-
ration, Accountability, Research, Education,
and Support Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘Autism
CARES Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. EXPANSION, INTENSIFICATION, AND CO-
ORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES OF THE
NIH WITH RESPECT TO RESEARCH
ON AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER.
Section 409C of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 284g) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘and
toxicology’’ and inserting ‘‘toxicology, and
interventions to maximize outcomes for individ-
uals with autism spectrum disorder’’; and
(B) by striking the second sentence and insert-
ing the following: ‘‘Such research shall inves-
tigate the causes (including possible environ-
mental causes), diagnosis or ruling out, early
and ongoing detection, prevention, services
across the lifespan, supports, intervention, and
treatment of autism spectrum disorder, includ-
ing dissemination and implementation of clinical
care, supports, interventions, and treatments.’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘cause’’
and all that follows through ‘‘disorder’’ and in-
serting ‘‘causes, diagnosis, early and ongoing
detection, prevention, and treatment of autism
spectrum disorder across the lifespan’’; and
(ii) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘neurobiology’’ and all that follows through the
period and inserting ‘‘neurobiology, genetics,
genomics, psychopharmacology, developmental
psychology, behavioral psychology, and clinical
psychology.’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(D) REDUCING DISPARITIES.—The Director
may consider, as appropriate, the extent to
which a center can demonstrate availability and
access to clinical services for youth and adults
from diverse racial, ethnic, geographic, or lin-
guistic backgrounds in decisions about award-
ing grants to applicants which meet the sci-
entific criteria for funding under this section.’’.
SEC. 3. PROGRAMS RELATING TO AUTISM.
(a) DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES SURVEIL-
LANCE AND RESEARCH PROGRAM.—Section 399AA
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280i)
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘adults on
autism spectrum disorder’’ and inserting ‘‘adults
with autism spectrum disorder’’;
(2) in subsection (a)(2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘State and local public health
officials’’ and inserting ‘‘State, local, and Tribal
public health officials’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘or other developmental dis-
abilities’’ and inserting ‘‘and other develop-
mental disabilities’’;
(3) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ‘‘a univer-
sity, or any other educational institution’’ and
inserting ‘‘a university, any other educational
institution, an Indian tribe, or a tribal organi-
zation’’;
(4) in subsection (b)(2)(A), by striking ‘‘rel-
evant State and local public health officials,
private sector developmental disability research-
ers, and advocates for individuals with develop-
mental disabilities’’ and inserting ‘‘State, local,
and Tribal public health officials, private sector
developmental disability researchers, advocates
for individuals with autism spectrum disorder,
and advocates for individuals with other devel-
opmental disabilities’’;
(5) in subsection (d)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as
paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively; and
(B) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so re-
designated, the following new paragraph:
‘‘(1) INDIAN TRIBE; TRIBAL ORGANIZATION.—
The terms ‘Indian tribe’ and ‘tribal organiza-
tion’ have the meanings given such terms in sec-
tion 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement
Act.’’; and
(6) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘2024’’.
(b) AUTISM EDUCATION, EARLY DETECTION,
AND INTERVENTION.—Section 399BB of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280i–1) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘individuals with autism spec-
trum disorder or other developmental disabil-
ities’’ and inserting ‘‘individuals with autism
spectrum disorder and other developmental dis-
abilities’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘children with autism spec-
trum disorder’’ and all that follows through
‘‘disabilities;’’ and inserting ‘‘individuals with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.021 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7304 July 24, 2019
autism spectrum disorder and other develop-
mental disabilities across their lifespan;’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘individ-
uals with’’ before ‘‘autism spectrum disorder’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through
(6) as paragraphs (5) through (7), respectively;
and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) promote evidence-based screening tech-
niques and interventions for individuals with
autism spectrum disorder and other develop-
mental disabilities across their lifespan;’’;
(3) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding
subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘the needs of in-
dividuals with autism spectrum disorder or other
developmental disabilities and their families’’
and inserting ‘‘the needs of individuals with au-
tism spectrum disorder and other developmental
disabilities across their lifespan and the needs of
their families’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking ‘‘care-
givers of individuals with an autism spectrum
disorder’’ and inserting ‘‘caregivers of individ-
uals with autism spectrum disorder or other de-
velopmental disabilities’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B)(i)(II), by inserting
‘‘autism spectrum disorder and’’ after ‘‘individ-
uals with’’; and
(iii) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by inserting ‘‘au-
tism spectrum disorder and’’ after ‘‘individuals
with’’;
(4) in subsection (e)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A),
by inserting ‘‘across their lifespan’’ before ‘‘and
ensure’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B)(iv), by inserting
‘‘across their lifespan’’ after ‘‘other develop-
mental disabilities’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as
paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) DEVELOPMENTAL-BEHAVIORAL PEDIATRI-
CIAN TRAINING PROGRAMS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In making awards under
this subsection, the Secretary may prioritize
awards to applicants that are developmental-be-
havioral pediatrician training programs located
in rural or underserved areas.
‘‘(B) DEFINITION OF UNDERSERVED AREA.—In
this paragraph, the term ‘underserved area’
means—
‘‘(i) a health professional shortage area (as
defined in section 332(a)(1)(A)); and
‘‘(ii) an urban or rural area designated by the
Secretary as an area with a shortage of personal
health services (as described in section
330(b)(3)(A)).’’;
(5) in subsection (f), by inserting ‘‘across the
lifespan of such individuals’’ after ‘‘other devel-
opmental disabilities’’; and
(6) in subsection (g), by striking ‘‘2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘2024’’.
(c) INTERAGENCY AUTISM COORDINATING COM-
MITTEE.—Section 399CC of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280i–2) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘across the
lifespan of such individuals’’ before the semi-
colon; and
(B) in paragraph (5), by inserting ‘‘across the
lifespan of such individuals’’ before ‘‘and the
families’’;
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1)(D), by inserting ‘‘, the
Department of Labor, the Department of Justice,
the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development,’’
after ‘‘Department of Education’’;
(B) in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of
paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘at least two such
members’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘at least three such members’’;
(C) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ‘‘one or
more additional 4-year terms’’ and inserting
‘‘one additional 4-year term’’; and
(3) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘2024’’.
(d) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—Section 399DD of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280i–3)
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Autism
CARES Act of 2014’’ and inserting ‘‘Autism
CARES Act of 2019’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraphs (A), (B), (D), and (E), by
striking ‘‘Autism CARES Act of 2014’’ each place
it appears and inserting ‘‘Autism CARES Act of
2019’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (G), by striking ‘‘age of
the child’’ and inserting ‘‘age of the indi-
vidual’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (H), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting ‘‘;’’;
(iv) in subparagraph (I), by striking the pe-
riod and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(v) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(J) information on how States use home- and
community-based services and other supports to
ensure that individuals with autism spectrum
disorder and other developmental disabilities are
living, working, and participating in their com-
munity.’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the heading, by striking ‘‘YOUNG
ADULTS AND TRANSITIONING YOUTH’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘THE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING OF INDIVID-
UALS WITH AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER ACROSS
THEIR LIFESPAN’’;
(B) by amending paragraph (1) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of the Autism CARES Act
of 2019, the Secretary shall prepare and submit,
to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee
on Energy and Commerce of the House of Rep-
resentatives, a report concerning the health and
well-being of individuals with autism spectrum
disorder.’’; and
(C) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as
follows:
‘‘(A) demographic factors associated with the
health and well-being of individuals with au-
tism spectrum disorder;’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘young
adults’’ and all that follows through the semi-
colon and inserting ‘‘the health and well-being
of individuals with autism spectrum disorder,
including an identification of existing Federal
laws, regulations, policies, research, and pro-
grams;’’; and
(iii) by amending subparagraphs (C), (D), and
(E) to read as follows:
‘‘(C) recommendations on establishing best
practices guidelines to ensure interdisciplinary
coordination between all relevant service pro-
viders receiving Federal funding;
‘‘(D) comprehensive approaches to improving
health outcomes and well-being for individuals
with autism spectrum disorder, including—
‘‘(i) community-based behavioral supports and
interventions;
‘‘(ii) nutrition, recreational, and social activi-
ties; and
‘‘(iii) personal safety services related to public
safety agencies or the criminal justice system for
such individuals; and
‘‘(E) recommendations that seek to improve
health outcomes for such individuals, including
across their lifespan, by addressing—
‘‘(i) screening and diagnosis of children and
adults;
‘‘(ii) behavioral and other therapeutic ap-
proaches;
‘‘(iii) primary and preventative care;
‘‘(iv) communication challenges;
‘‘(v) aggression, self-injury, elopement, and
other behavioral issues;
‘‘(vi) emergency room visits and acute care
hospitalization;
‘‘(vii) treatment for co-occurring physical and
mental health conditions;
‘‘(viii) premature mortality;
‘‘(ix) medical practitioner training; and
‘‘(x) caregiver mental health.’’.
(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Sec-
tion 399EE of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 280i–4) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘$22,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2015 through 2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘$23,100,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘$48,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2015 through 2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘$50,599,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024’’; and
(3) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘there is au-
thorized to be appropriated $190,000,000 for each
of fiscal years 2015 through 2019’’ and inserting
‘‘there are authorized to be appropriated
$296,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through
2024’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. PALLONE) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 1058.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise in
support of H.R. 1058, the Autism
CARES Act, which will continue crit-
ical research, surveillance, education,
early detection, and intervention pro-
grams for people living with autism
spectrum disorder, also known as ASD,
and their families.
The number of children diagnosed
with ASD has risen dramatically over
recent years. While 1 in every 150 chil-
dren was diagnosed with ASD in 1992,
that number grew to 1 in every 59 chil-
dren born in 2006.
While some of this increase may be
attributed to an overall higher number
of people with ASD, a significant por-
tion is likely due to increased efforts
to diagnose people to get them the
treatment they need. As efforts to
identify individuals with autism have
improved, so has the ability to inter-
vene and treat them. Early interven-
tion for children with ASD is associ-
ated with a positive outcome on devel-
opmental concerns.
It is important that we continue to
improve outcomes for children and all
individuals with ASD, and that is what
we are doing with this reauthorization
of the Autism CARES program today.
This bill would reauthorize funding for
programs at the National Institutes of
Health, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, and Health Resources and
Services Administration through 2024.
The bill also expands efforts to conduct
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.020 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7305
July 24, 2019
research and intervene with better
treatment options for all individuals
with ASD across their lifespan, regard-
less of age. Additionally, the bill aims
to reduce disparities among individuals
from diverse racial, ethnic, geographic,
or linguistic backgrounds, and directs
additional care to rural and under-
served areas.
Mr. Speaker, I am confident that this
legislation will improve health out-
comes and quality of life for millions of
Americans living with ASD, as well as
their families. For that reason, I urge
all of my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting the bill today.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in
favor of H.R. 1058, the Autism Collabo-
ration, Accountability, Research, Edu-
cation, and Support Act of 2019, also
known as the Autism CARES Act.
H.R. 1058 builds upon a strong foun-
dation that Congress laid by passing
the Combating Autism Act in 2006.
This legislation, in 2006, expanded re-
search, surveillance, and treatment of
autism spectrum disorder, and it has
equipped our Federal agencies with en-
hanced resources to expand its knowl-
edge of this complex disorder.
The number of children diagnosed
with autism spectrum disorder has in-
creased. It is even more imperative
that we reauthorize this program and
ensure the continuation of the Inter-
agency Autism Coordinating Com-
mittee. As families across our Nation
navigate raising children with autism,
the Autism CARES Act would provide
hope by authorizing funding for contin-
ued research, surveillance and edu-
cation at the National Institutes of
Health, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, and Health Resources and
Services Administration, and it would
continue this through calendar year
2024.
I thank Representatives CHRIS SMITH
and MICHAEL DOYLE for their tireless
work to reauthorize this program and
better the lives for individuals with au-
tism and their families.
As Dr. Amy Hewitt pointed out at
our hearing, the number of autism
spectrum disorder diagnoses has risen
more than 600 percent in the past few
decades.
In 2018, the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention determined that 1
in 59 children is diagnosed with an au-
tism spectrum disorder, and that boys
are four times more likely to be diag-
nosed with autism than are girls. As
more individuals are diagnosed, it be-
comes even more important for Con-
gress to ensure that there is adequate
research and support services for these
individuals and their families.
Early detection and intervention for
individuals with autism and their fami-
lies help to increase the communica-
tion and social skills, preparing chil-
dren for a successful future. The Au-
tism CARES Act reauthorizes these
early detection and intervention pro-
grams, in addition to workforce pro-
grams for health professionals. The
Leadership Education in
Neurodevelopmental and Related Dis-
abilities, LEND, programs provide
training for healthcare professionals to
address intellectual disabilities, in-
cluding autism.
As we continue to support research
efforts at the National Institutes of
Health and through the Interagency
Autism Coordinating Committee, we
will learn more about autism and how
to best address it. As we gain knowl-
edge, our healthcare system needs to
stand ready to implement the best
practices obtained, which is why work-
force programs are important.
It is critical that we reauthorize the
Autism CARES Act on time so that the
Interagency Autism Coordinating Com-
mittee does not lapse, and so that our
Nation’s research can seamlessly con-
tinue.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bill, and I hope that the Sen-
ate will swiftly take up this legislation
after its passage here today.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE), the
Democratic sponsor of the bill.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of
the Autism CARES Act of 2019.
My good friend and colleague, CHRIS
SMITH, and I formed the Autism Caucus
in 2001 to raise awareness in Congress
about autism spectrum disorder, ASD
for short, to advocate for greater Fed-
eral involvement in understanding
ASD, and to help individuals and fami-
lies get the support they need.
Nearly 20 years later, we have made
significant progress, but we are still far
behind where we would like to be and
where individuals and families need us
to be. In 2000, the CDC reported ap-
proximately 1 in 150 children with
ASD. The latest report found that
number had increased to 1 in 59 chil-
dren.
Similarly, even though ASD can be
diagnosed as early as 2 years old, most
children are not diagnosed with ASD
until after age 4. Children and adoles-
cents with ASD have had average med-
ical expenditures that were $4,000 to
$6,000 higher than children without
ASD.
We also don’t have a reliable esti-
mate of autism’s prevalence among
adults. As autism is a lifelong condi-
tion, an estimated 50,000 teens and
young adults with autism age out of
school-based services each year. That
is why it is so important that we pass
this bill: to continue to close the gaps
in knowledge and services surrounding
ASD.
The Autism CARES Act of 2019 in-
creases authorized program levels to
match our recent success in the Appro-
priations Committee: $296 million an-
nually at NIH, $23 million at CDC, and
$55 million at HRSA. This money will
be used for research, surveillance, edu-
cation, detection, and intervention for
individuals with autism spectrum dis-
orders of all ages, not just children.
The bill also supports training the
healthcare workforce to better under-
stand and treat individuals with au-
tism, and it prioritizes awards to medi-
cally underserved areas.
b 1515
It also directs HHS to submit a re-
port to Congress on the health and
well-being of individuals on the autism
spectrum, an often-overlooked aspect
of ASD.
The bill also adds important voices
to the Interagency Autism Coordi-
nating Committee, including rep-
resentatives from the Department of
Labor, the Department of Justice, the
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment, and the VA.
Finally, it increases the minimum
number of self-advocates included in
the public membership of the com-
mittee, an important step for a com-
munity whose voices are invaluable.
I am proud of the progress that we
have made over the last 20 years, but I
know we have to do more. Autism
CARES Act of 2019 takes important
steps toward our ultimate goal to en-
sure that every individual has access to
the treatment and support that is a
right for them.
I thank Congressman SMITH, Chair-
man PALLONE, Ranking Member WAL-
DEN, Chairwoman ESHOO, and Ranking
Member BURGESS, as well as Autism
Speaks, Autism Society of America,
Association of University Centers on
Disabilities, Autistic Self Advocacy
Network, and other stakeholders for
their input and support for this legisla-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, reauthorization of the
Autism CARES Act means a great deal
to millions of Americans affected by
autism spectrum disorder. I urge my
colleagues to give this bill their whole-
hearted support and vote in favor of
this legislation.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. SMITH), the principal au-
thor of this bill and the intellectual
driving force behind getting this legis-
lation reauthorized.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my good friend, Dr.
BURGESS.
Mr. Speaker, the Autism CARES Act
of 2019, I say to my colleagues, is a
comprehensive reauthorization and
strengthening of America’s whole-of-
government autism spectrum disorder
initiative.
As the prime author of the bill, let
me extend very special thanks to co-
sponsor MIKE DOYLE from Pennsyl-
vania for his extraordinary leadership,
his partnership, and his friendship over
these many years; to Health Sub-
committee Chairwoman ANNA ESHOO
for expertly shepherding this bill
through her subcommittee with Rank-
ing Member Dr. BURGESS; and my deep
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.062 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7306 July 24, 2019
gratitude to the full committee Chair
FRANK PALLONE and Ranking Member
GREG WALDEN.
Mr. Speaker, I also thank staff, in-
cluding Kelsey Griswold, Kate Werley,
Rachel Fybel, Dr. Kristen Shatynski,
and Stephen Holland, for their tremen-
dous help and assistance on this legis-
lation.
Frankly, we couldn’t have done this
without so many autism advocates, in-
cluding and especially Stuart Spielman
of Autism Speaks and Scott Badesch of
the Autism Society.
Mr. Speaker, this bipartisan legisla-
tion powerfully supports and pursues
durable remedies and effective inter-
ventions for the approximately 1.5 mil-
lion children with ASD. That is an esti-
mated 1 in 59 children in the U.S. In
my home State of New Jersey, that is
1 in 34. We do have the highest rate, ac-
cording to the CDC.
This bill also helps adults with au-
tism who were and are today often
misdiagnosed, underdiagnosed, and
overlooked. Language throughout the
bill emphasizes that causes, diagnosis,
detection, prevention, and treatment of
autism spectrum disorder must be
throughout the lifespan of that person.
According to Drexel University’s au-
tism center—and this is a very impor-
tant number—in our last bill that the
gentleman, MIKE DOYLE, and I did just
5 years ago, it pointed out that the
number of young people who become
adults is increasing every year. Now, it
is about 50,000 to 60,000 children who
age out every year, creating challenges
for education, housing, employment,
and access to healthcare.
This legislation also assists parents,
families, and caregivers who deeply
love and cherish their children and
want the brightest future for them. In
addition to its groundbreaking preva-
lence studies and crafting a whole myr-
iad of intervention work, CDC’s ‘‘Learn
the Signs. Act Early.’’ program is just
one more amazing tool for parents.
At its core, the bill authorizes a lit-
tle over $1.8 billion over 5 years for
NIH, the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, and HRSA.
Looking back, Mr. Speaker, it was
two dedicated parents from New Jersey
who helped launch the comprehensive
Federal policy we are now reauthor-
izing. In September 1997, Bobbi and
Billy Gallagher of Brick, New Jersey,
my constituents, parents of two con-
stituent autistic children, walked into
my Ocean County office looking for
help.
They believed that Brick had a dis-
proportionate number of students with
autism and wanted action, especially
for their son Austin and daughter
Alana.
I invited the CDC, the ATSDR, and
other Federal agencies to Brick for an
investigation, only to learn when they
did the study that prevalence rates
were high in other communities as
well.
Believing we had a serious spike in
prevalence everywhere, I introduced
the ASSURE Act, cosponsored by 199
Members, which was incorporated as
title I of the Children’s Health Act of
2000.
Progress, Mr. Speaker, has been
made over the many years, particu-
larly in the area of looking at risk fac-
tors, but also the overwhelming impor-
tance of early intervention.
Mr. Speaker, as my colleagues have
pointed out, this legislation reauthor-
izes and expands the interagency co-
ordinating committee, or IACC, man-
aged so effectively and professionally
by Dr. Susan Daniels, the director of
the Office of Autism Research Coordi-
nation.
Speaking to this, the Director of the
National Institute of Mental Health,
Dr. Joshua Gordon, said yesterday:
The National Institutes of Health is proud
to work hand-in-hand with the Interagency
Autism Coordinating Committee to ensure
the coordination of research efforts focusing
on critical topics related to autism, such as
developing early detection and screening
tools, understanding the genetic and biologi-
cal underpinnings of autism, and developing
and testing the effectiveness of services and
supports to improve functional and health
outcomes of individuals with autism.
As my colleague, Mr. DOYLE, said a
moment ago, we have expanded IACC.
The Departments of Labor, Justice,
Veterans Affairs, and HUD are now
part of it, and there has been an expan-
sion from two to three members for
self-advocates, parents, legal guard-
ians, and advocates.
Let me remind Members, and I en-
courage them even to go online and
check this out.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
an additional 30 seconds to the gen-
tleman from New Jersey.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, IACC has a strategic plan
that is updated every year, so there is
no duplication of efforts. They ask sev-
eral essential questions, and all the re-
search revolves around trying to find
answers to those seven questions.
HRSA is all about helping the geo-
graphically isolated and economically
or medically vulnerable. There are 52
Leadership Education in
Neurodevelopmental and Other Related
Disabilities, or LEND, training pro-
grams and 10 developmental-behavioral
pediatric training programs.
They are reauthorized, and we have
one at Rutgers right in my home State.
They are doing an amazing job. There
are 38 organizations that support this,
and I hope all Members will support it
as well.
Mr. Speaker, autism spectrum disorder
(ASD), is ‘‘a neurodevelopmental condition
characterized by persistent impairments in so-
cial communication and social interaction, as
well as restricted and repetitive patterns of be-
havior, leading to difficulty in developing,
maintaining and understanding relationships
with others.’’
As Autism Speaks notes ‘‘it is often accom-
panied by sensory sensitivities and medical
issues such as gastrointestinal (GI) disorders,
seizures or sleep disorders, as well as mental
health challenges such as anxiety, depression
and attention issues.’’
The Autism Collaboration, Accountability,
Research, Education and Support Act—or
simply the Autism CARES Act of 2019—is a
comprehensive reauthorization and strength-
ening of America’s whole-of-government Au-
tism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) initiative.
As prime author of the bill let me extend
special thanks to cosponsor Mike Doyle of
Pennsylvania for his extraordinary leadership,
partnership and friendship and to the Chair-
woman of the Health subcommittee Anna
Eshoo for expertly shepherding this through
the committee with ranking member Dr. Mi-
chael Burgess and my deep gratitude to full
committee chair Frank Pallone and ranking
member Greg Walden.
I also want to thank staff including Kelsey
Griswold, Kate Werley, Rachel Fybel, Dr.
Kristen Shatynski, and Stephen Holland for
their tremendous help and assistance.
And frankly, we couldn’t have done this
without so many autism advocates especially
Stuart Spielman of Autism Speaks and Scott
Badesch of Autism Society.
Mr. Speaker, this bipartisan, bicameral legis-
lation powerfully supports and pursues durable
remedies and effective interventions for the
approximately 1.5 million children with ASD,—
that is an estimated 1 in 59 children in the
United States, in my home State of New Jer-
sey, 1 in 34 children, the highest rate in the
CDC study.
This bill also helps adults with autism who
were and are today often misdiagnosed,
underdiagnosed and overlooked. Language
throughout the bill emphasizes that causes, di-
agnosis, detection, prevention and treatment
of autism spectrum disorder must be through-
out the lifespan of a person.
According to Drexel University’s AJ Drexel
Autism Center, about fifty to sixty thousand
children ‘‘age out’’ to adulthood each year cre-
ating challenges for education, housing, em-
ployment and access to health care. Autism
CARES of 2019 continues the work on aging
out begun under the Autism CARES Act of
2014.
The Autism CARES Act of 2019 assists the
parents, families and caregivers who deeply
love and cherish children with ASD and want
the brightest future possible for them. In addi-
tion to its groundbreaking prevalence studies
and early intervention work, CDC’s Learn the
Signs. Act Early is an amazing tool for par-
ents.
The legislation also robustly supports the
dedicated physicians, scientists and support
teams who daily strive to treat, research and
provide meaningful answers.
The Autism CARES Act of 2019 authorizes
a little over $1.8 billion over five years for the
National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and
the Health Resources and Services Adminis-
tration (HRSA).
Looking back, Mr. Speaker, it was two dedi-
cated parents from New Jersey who helped
launch the comprehensive Federal policy we
seek to reauthorize today.
In September of 1997, Bobbie and Billy Gal-
lagher of Brick, New Jersey—parents of two
small autistic children—walked into my Ocean
County office looking for help.
They believed Brick had a disproportionate
number of students with autism and wanted
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.076 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7307
July 24, 2019
action, especially for their son Austin and
daughter Alana, so I invited the CDC, ATSDR
and other Federal agencies to Brick for an in-
vestigation, only to learn that prevalence rates
were high not only in Brick, but in nearby com-
munities as well.
Believing we had a serious spike in preva-
lence, I introduced the ASSURE Act, cospon-
sored by 199 members, which was incor-
porated as title I of the Children’s Health Act
of 2000.
Mr. Speaker, much progress has been
made since. Today, the evidence suggests
there is no single cause of autism or type. Ge-
netic risk, coupled with environmental factors,
including advanced parental age, low birth
weight, and prematurity—among other fac-
tors—may be triggers. Other studies have
identified ASD risk factors including pesticides,
air pollutants, dietary factors.
Early intervention is making a major positive
impact in the lives of children with ASD but
parents need more support. In 2016, Bobbi
Gallagher wrote a book: A Brick Wall—How a
Boy with No Words Spoke to the World. In this
highly personal, extraordinarily moving must
read account of raising two children with au-
tism, Bobbi writes: ‘‘This mom thing is hard.’’
Mr. Speaker, Autism CARES Act of 2019
ensures that the federal government continues
to help hundreds of thousands of parents like
the Gallaghers—funding research and support
programs and sharing best practices. The bill
reauthorizes and expands the lnteragency Au-
tism Coordinating Committee (IACC) managed
so effectively and professionally by Dr. Susan
Daniels, Director of the Office of Autism Re-
search Coordination (OARC).
Coordination is key to maximizing out-
comes. The Director of the National Institutes
of Mental Health (NIMH) Dr. Joshua Gordon—
who also serves as IACC chair said yesterday:
‘‘The National Institutes of Health is proud to
work hand-in-hand with the lnteragency Au-
tism Coordinating Committee to ensure the co-
ordination of research efforts focusing on crit-
ical topics related to autism, such as devel-
oping early detection and screening tools, un-
derstanding the genetic and biological
underpinnings of autism, and developing and
testing the effectiveness of services and sup-
ports to improve functional and health out-
comes of individuals with autism.’’
New members of IACC added by our new
bill are representatives from the Departments
of Labor, Justice, Veterans Affairs and Hous-
ing and Urban Development as well as raising
from two to three members who are self-advo-
cates, parents or legal guardians and advo-
cacy/service organizations.
IACC not only includes a cross section of
knowledgeable stakeholders, but periodically
develops the IACC Strategic Plan for ASD and
most recently the 2018 update.
The IACC strategic plan asks the seven
most essential questions and helps steer re-
search projects and resources to find answers
including: How can I recognize the signs of
ASD, and why is early detection so impor-
tant?; What is the biology underlying ASD?;
What causes ASD, and can disabling aspects
of ASD be prevented or preempted?; Which
treatments and interventions will help?; What
kinds of services and supports are needed to
maximize quality of life for people on the Au-
tism spectrum?; How can we meet the needs
of people with ASD as they progress into and
through adulthood?; and How do we continue
to build, expand, and enhance the infrastruc-
ture system to meet the needs of the ASD
community?
Also, each year since 2007, IACC has pub-
lished a Summary of Advances in Autism
Spectrum Disorder Research.
Dr. Ann Wagner does an extraordinary job
as National Autism Coordinator—created by
Autism CARES Act of 2014—ensuring the im-
plementation of national autism spectrum dis-
order (ASD) research, services, and support
activities across federal agencies.
As my colleagues know, the Health Re-
sources and Services Administration (HRSA)
is the ‘‘primary federal agency for improving
healthcare to people who are geographically
isolated, economically or medically vulner-
able.’’ The work begun under Autism CARES
Act of 2014 continues and is expanded with
this legislation including the training of health
care professionals ‘‘to provide screening, diag-
nostic and early, evidence-based intervention
services . . . ’’. This includes the 52 Leader-
ship Education in Neurodevelopmental and
other Related Disabilities (LEND) training pro-
grams like the one at Rutgers in my state and
10 Developmental-Behavior Pediatric (DBP)
training programs.
The HHS Secretary is empowered by the
new legislation to prioritize DBP grants to
‘‘rural and underserved areas.’’
According to the April 2019 Report to Con-
gress, most children who have autism are not
diagnosed until after they reach age 4 years—
or later—even though many children can be
identified before age 2 years. Recent studies
supported by NIH have uncovered distinct dif-
ferences in the brain development of children
with ASD, as early as 6 months. The earlier
ASD is found, the earlier interventions can
begin.
Finally, not later than 2 years after enact-
ment, the Autism CARES Act requires a com-
prehensive report on the demographic factors
associated with the health and well-being of
individuals with ASD, recommendations on es-
tablishing best practices to ensure interdiscipli-
nary coordination, improvements for health
outcomes, community based behavioral sup-
port and interventions, nutrition and rec-
reational and social activities, personal safety
and more.
Mr. Speaker, more than three dozen major
organizations have helped shape this legisla-
tion and strongly support passage including:
Autism Society of America, Autism Speaks,
Autism New Jersey, American Academy of
Neurology, American Academy of Pediatrics,
American Association on Health and Disability,
American Psychological Association, American
Therapeutic Recreation Association, Associa-
tion of Maternal & Child Health Programs, As-
sociation of Special Children and Families, As-
sociation of University Centers on Disability,
Autism Science Foundation, Children’s Hos-
pital Association, Council on Exceptional Chil-
dren, Easterseals, EveryLife Foundation, Fam-
ily Voices, Family Voices New Jersey, Family
Voices North Dakota, Lakeshore Foundation,
Madison House Autism Foundation, Maine
Parent Federation, Marcus Autism Center, Na-
tional Alliance on Mental Illness, National As-
sociation of Councils on Developmental Dis-
abilities, National Association of Pediatric
Nurse Practitioners, National Association of
State Directors of Developmental Disabilities
Services, National Center for Learning Disabil-
ities, National Council on Severe Autism, Na-
tional Down Syndrome Congress, National
Down Syndrome Society, National Fragile X
Foundation, Network of Jewish Human Serv-
ice Agencies, SPAN Parent Advocacy Net-
work, TASH, The Independence Center, The
Jewish Federations of North America, Thomp-
son Center for Autism & Neurodevelopmental
Disorders.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. ESHOO), chairwoman of our
Health Subcommittee.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
chairman of the full committee. I want
to acknowledge the ranking member of
the Health Subcommittee, Dr. BUR-
GESS. I want to salute Mr. DOYLE and
Mr. SMITH for their passion and their
advocacy inside the Congress and all
the advocates and their organizations
outside the Congress, without whom we
wouldn’t be on the floor today on this
bill.
I am so proud that our Health Sub-
committee advanced this bipartisan
legislation, sponsored by Mr. DOYLE
and Mr. SMITH.
The legislation extends the Autism
CARES Act for 5 years, and that is
very important. The other very impor-
tant bookend is that the bill funds re-
search at the NIH to understand the bi-
ology behind autism. It will help to
build the infrastructure at CDC to ad-
vance our understanding of autism, and
it trains medical providers on screen-
ing, on diagnosis, and on intervention.
I think what is so important in the
paragraph that I just stated is under-
standing the biology behind autism.
There is so much that we still don’t
know today. This act renews the Fed-
eral Government’s commitment to get-
ting the answers.
During the hearing on the bill at our
Health Subcommittee, we heard how
critical the Autism CARES programs
are. Researchers, physicians, parents,
and patients rely on Autism CARES to
fund the support services, research,
training, and surveillance programs to
get people the diagnoses and the serv-
ices they need.
The act expands research, and it pro-
vides services to people who are autis-
tic, with an important focus on ad-
dressing racial disparities. Black and
Latino children tend to go diagnosed
later than White children and are often
misdiagnosed. They have less access to
services, and they are underrepresented
in most autism research. This 5-year
renewal addresses these disparities, as
well as other challenges related to au-
tism research, education, and detec-
tion.
My congressional district benefits di-
rectly from the act. I am proud that
Stanford University receives CARES
funding to research how certain inno-
vative treatments can improve social
behavior. Between 2014 and 2017, Cali-
fornia received $237 million from the
NIH to study autism.
When the Federal Government in-
vests in research, the return on invest-
ment can improve the lives of all
Americans. I hope that the House votes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.024 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7308 July 24, 2019
unanimously for this legislation. It
certainly deserves it.
Those families with loved ones who
do have autism, I know that their grat-
itude will be unending for what is built
into this act. It is worthy of them, and
it is worthy of our vote.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. CARTER).
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, reauthorizing the Au-
tism CARES Act will continue the sci-
entific development in understanding
autism and support those with autism
spectrum disorder.
Since its original passage in 2006, we
have invested over $3 billion for the
National Institutes of Health, the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Preven-
tion, and Health Resources and Serv-
ices Administration to help the autism
community.
We provided services through pro-
grams and grants to benefit individuals
with autism. We have improved train-
ing for those working with autistic pa-
tients, including how to better deter
and diagnose autism.
We have expanded prevalence moni-
toring to improve our understanding of
our population, and we have also in-
vested in research that transforms our
understanding of autism spectrum dis-
order and how we were able to treat
and care for that community.
In Georgia, we are able to see up
close what a big impact these programs
can make in our children’s lives. Chil-
dren’s Hospital of Atlanta’s Marcus
Autism Center is one of the largest au-
tism centers in the U.S. Since opening,
they have treated more than 40,000
children from Georgia and across the
country, and we are blessed to have
them in our State.
This reauthorization builds on our
good work from the past, ensuring that
places like the Marcus Autism Center
can continue helping our children mov-
ing forward. I encourage my colleagues
to support this legislation.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Rhode
Island (Mr. LANGEVIN).
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I thank both the chair-
man and the ranking member of the
committee and the sponsors of this im-
portant piece of legislation. I am proud
to rise in support of the Autism
CARES reauthorization act.
This issue is very personal to me. As
an uncle of a young man with autism,
my nephew, Joshua, I know how chal-
lenging this condition can be.
I also know that, unfortunately, we
still don’t know the causes, let alone
how to cure autism. It underscores the
importance of why this legislation is so
important to continue to invest in re-
search and, at best, treatments for the
condition.
We do know, Mr. Speaker, that early
intervention and early treatments do
make a difference in the long-term out-
comes.
b 1530
So the provisions in this bill, the Au-
tism CARES Act, are right on point. It
is well thought-out and, again, encour-
ages both research through NIH and
the talented researchers who do this
important work and, again, those who
also treat both children and adults
with autism. It is essential we pass this
bill.
We also need to pay attention to the
long-term care components. There are
long-term care challenges that families
have to contend with. We need to do
our best to support them, and Mr.
Speaker, I urge passage.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Once again, I want to thank my col-
league, Mr. SMITH from New Jersey, for
being the intellectual driver and pro-
viding the enthusiasm for getting this
bill to the floor and getting it passed.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all colleagues to
support this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I don’t think I can
stress enough how important this legis-
lation is. I do want to thank my col-
league from New Jersey, the chief
sponsor, and also our Democratic spon-
sor, Mr. DOYLE, for pushing very hard
to make sure that this bill went
through regular order in a timely fash-
ion. I agree with Dr. BURGESS that,
hopefully, this is something the Senate
will take up and will get to the Presi-
dent quickly.
Mr. Speaker, I ask support by all of
our colleagues for the bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
support of H.R. 1058, the Autism Collabora-
tion, Accountability, Research, Education, and
Support Act, or Autism CARES Act. This im-
portant bill, led by Representatives CHRIS
SMITH and MIKE DOYLE, reauthorizes the Inter-
agency Autism Coordinating Committee along
with funding for research, public health surveil-
lance, and workforce development programs
that directly impact patients with autism spec-
trum disorder. Reauthorization of these impor-
tant initiatives demonstrates our commitment
to provide a coordinated federal response to
the needs of individuals diagnosed with autism
and related neurodevelopmental disabilities.
I’d like to thank Representatives SMITH and
DOYLE for their tireless work on this important
legislation and I urge my colleagues to vote
yes.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PALLONE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1058, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to enhance activi-
ties of the National Institutes of
Health with respect to research on au-
tism spectrum disorder and enhance
programs relating to autism, and for
other purposes.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
LIFESPAN RESPITE CARE
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2035) to amend title XXIX of the
Public Health Service Act to reauthor-
ize the program under such title relat-
ing to lifespan respite care, as amend-
ed.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2035
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Lifespan Res-
pite Care Reauthorization Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF LIFESPAN RES-
PITE CARE PROGRAM.
(a) DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING.—Sec-
tion 2904 of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 290ii–3) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 2904. DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING.
‘‘Each eligible State agency awarded a grant
or cooperative agreement under section 2902
shall collect, maintain, and report such data
and records at such times, in such form, and in
such manner as the Secretary may require to en-
able the Secretary—
‘‘(1) to monitor State administration of pro-
grams and activities funded pursuant to such
grant or cooperative agreement; and
‘‘(2) to evaluate, and to compare effectiveness
on a State-by-State basis, of programs and ac-
tivities funded pursuant to section 2902.’’.
(b) FUNDING.—Section 2905 of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300ii–4) is amend-
ed by striking paragraphs (1) through (5) and
inserting the following:
‘‘(1) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2020;
‘‘(2) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2021;
‘‘(3) $40,000,000 for fiscal year 2022;
‘‘(4) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2023; and
‘‘(5) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2024.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. PALLONE) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 2035.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2035, the Lifespan Respite Care Reau-
thorization Act of 2019 sponsored by my
colleague from Rhode Island, Congress-
man LANGEVIN. I am proud to support
this program because it provides much-
needed respite services and educational
resources to family caregivers of chil-
dren and adults of all ages with special
needs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.065 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7309
July 24, 2019
Caring for a loved one can be incred-
ibly rewarding but also demanding
work. Surveys have shown respite is
among the most frequently requested
services by family caregivers. However,
only a small percentage of caregivers
can afford respite care. By reauthor-
izing and growing this program, we can
expand access to these services across
the country.
States who receive grants under the
Lifespan Respite Care program have
the flexibility to support family care-
givers in a variety of ways. For exam-
ple, some States use funds for con-
sumer-directed vouchers or for the
training of volunteer and paid respite
providers.
My home State of New Jersey re-
ceived a grant in 2011 and today still
offers robust scheduled and emergency
respite services to family caregivers.
Without this program many families
cannot afford these services.
In addition to helping relieve the
emotional and financial stresses asso-
ciated with caregiving, respite care can
also save families and the healthcare
system money. Research has shown
that supporting caregivers with respite
services reduces the odds of hos-
pitalization and nursing home entry.
We know that more than 43 million
adults are family caregivers of an adult
or child with a disability or chronic
condition, and the estimated economic
value of family caregiving is approxi-
mately $470 billion annually. As our
population ages, the need for long-term
services and supports delivered in the
home will continue to increase and, as
a result, so will the burden on family
caregivers.
The Lifespan Respite Care program is
the only Federal program that sup-
ports respite services for all ages and
conditions, so I am glad that we are re-
newing our commitment to the pro-
gram today.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support for the
passage of H.R. 2035, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in favor
of H.R. 2035, the Lifespan Respite Care
Reauthorization Act of 2019. As many
of us know from personal experience,
being a caregiver for a loved one is a
challenging and exhausting job, and for
many Americans, it is a second full-
time job. A number of those Americans
are also caring for both aging parents
and their own children. That is over 40
million Americans who have taken on
the role of unpaid caregiver in the past
year, and as our Nation’s population
ages, there will be an increasing num-
ber of caregivers who are struggling to
balance the demands of caregiving with
the rest of their lives.
The Lifespan Respite Care program
aims to assist caregivers by providing
them with the opportunity for a small,
much-needed break from those respon-
sibilities. H.R. 2035 would reauthorize
funding for this program through fiscal
year 2024, which is important because
this authorization had technically ex-
pired but continued to receive appro-
priations. Respite care is a critical re-
source for our caregivers who spend
much of their time helping their loved
ones each day.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Rhode
Island (Mr. LANGEVIN), who is the spon-
sor of this legislation.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the gentleman for yielding
and his important leadership on this
bill and on the committee.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 2035, the Lifespan Res-
pite Care Reauthorization Act of 2019,
legislation that I introduced with my
good friend and colleague from Wash-
ington State, Mrs. RODGERS.
In 2002, I authored the Lifespan Res-
pite Care Act to create a network of
services and supports for family care-
givers across the Nation. In the years
since the bill was signed into law in
2006, the Lifespan Respite Care pro-
gram has provided grants to 37 States
and the District of Columbia to
streamline the delivery of planned and
emergency respite services, provide ac-
cess to direct care services, and address
the direct service worker shortage by
training respite providers. I am thrilled
to be here today to continue building
on Lifespan Respite Care’s successes
and reauthorize the program.
Mr. Speaker, family caregivers are a
critical part of the long-term services
and supports system in the United
States. Approximately 43 million fam-
ily caregivers provide hundreds of bil-
lions of dollars—and yes, that is bil-
lions with a B—in uncompensated care
each year. In fact, in 2013, the last time
that statistics were updated, uncom-
pensated family care totaled—if you
had to put a dollar figure to it—ap-
proximately $470 billion. That is more
than Medicaid spending for that year.
Respite care services provide short-
term relief for family caregivers, al-
lowing them time to account for their
own health and wellness needs. Despite
respite care being one of the services
most often requested by caregivers, 85
percent of family members caring for
adults don’t receive any respite serv-
ices at all.
For many older adults and people
with disabilities, receiving care in the
home is preferable, both from a quality
of life perspective and a financial per-
spective. In addition to improving
caregiver health, researchers also
found that providing access to services
such as respite care can reduce the
need for admission to more costly in-
stitutional settings and allow individ-
uals to remain in their own homes.
Mr. Speaker, the Lifespan Respite
Care program is the only Federal effort
that provides family caregivers access
to respite care services regardless of
the age or type of disability of their
loved one. This is especially important
for family members caring for individ-
uals with chronic illnesses or disabil-
ities with an early onset, such as mul-
tiple sclerosis, brain injury, spinal cord
injury, or ALS. Programs that are
predicated on age or a certain degree of
disability can often struggle when
adapting to the needs of a young per-
son with a degenerative disease, and
the Lifespan Respite Care program
helps to bridge those gaps.
For example, Lifetime Respite Care
funds were used in my home State of
Rhode Island to establish the
CareBreaks program which helps fam-
ily members caring for an individual of
any age access respite when they have
nowhere else to turn.
Reauthorizing the Lifespan Respite
Care program at $20 million in the first
year and steadily increasing funding
each year after will allow each State
and territory to establish and maintain
a respite care program. In authoring
the original bill, I recognized that dif-
ferent States have different needs for
caregivers. Expanding funding will
grow additional, unique programs that
directly address community needs. By
taking this important step to support
family caregivers, we move forward in
our efforts to provide quality, commu-
nity-based care for the millions of
Americans with special needs.
Mr. Speaker, as an American with a
disability—in fact, the first quad-
riplegic elected to the United States
Congress—I know the immense service
that caregivers provide. I am privileged
enough to have paid home health aides,
and I want to thank my CNAs, Dave,
Valerie, Carolyn, Kelly, and many oth-
ers over the years, for the vital assist-
ance they provide me each and every
day. But, injured as I was at the age of
16, I also relied on my family members;
my brothers, Rick and Dave, and my
sister, Joanne, and especially my
mother and my late father, Richard,
for their support over the decades. I
would not be here before you today
without their help, and I am forever
grateful to them for their love and
their care.
For so many families in a similar po-
sition around the Nation, this bill rec-
ognizes their sacrifice and the immense
support that they provide to their
loved ones while reducing the strain on
our healthcare system. Indeed, Mr.
Speaker, our family caregivers are
truly unsung heroes.
Beyond those who helped me person-
ally, Mr. Speaker, I want to recognize
the many people who were instru-
mental in bringing this bill to the
floor. In addition to the chair and the
ranking member, I also want to recog-
nize Jill Kagan with the ARCH Na-
tional Respite Network for her coali-
tion and her coalition partners for
their tireless work to help families ac-
cess respite care and provide technical
assistance to States building respite
programs.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentleman from Rhode Island an
additional 1 minute.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.068 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7310 July 24, 2019
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, on my
staff, I am indebted to my health and
disabilities LA Katie Lee and also Todd
Adams, my Chief of Staff, who has been
intimately involved in these issues for
more years than he probably would
like to admit.
I also want to thank again Chairman
PALLONE and his staff, as well as Rank-
ing Member WALDEN, for supporting
this effort through the committee.
I also must acknowledge the leader-
ship of Senator COLLINS. I hope that
our actions today will help her in her
effort to get this important bill
through our sister Chamber.
Finally, again, I want to thank the
gentlewoman from Washington State,
my colleague, Mrs. RODGERS, for
partnering with me on this bill when
we first attempted to reauthorize this
program in 2011 and for her continued
leadership on this issue in Congress
and on many others in the disability
community.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support family caregivers and vote in
favor of the Lifespan Respite Care Re-
authorization Act. I thank the gen-
tleman for yielding.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Washington State (Mrs. RODGERS).
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I want to first just say how
much I admire and appreciate the lead-
ership of Mr. JAMES LANGEVIN from
Rhode Island on this important legisla-
tion. I am proud to have joined with
him partnering to lead the legislation
this year, the Lifespan Respite Care
Act of 2019.
This is important legislation. I think
he laid it out really well. It is sup-
ported with bipartisan support. It
would authorize $200 million in funding
over the next 5 years for improved res-
pite care services for families caring
for loved ones battling chronic, debili-
tating conditions.
Today more than 43 million people
are providing long-term care for family
members in America. The role these
caregivers play cannot be understated.
They ensure that their loved ones re-
ceive the care that they desperately
need in their homes and often at a
lower cost.
Respite care providers relieve their
family caregivers, and it is an essential
part of our comprehensive healthcare
approach. This legislation will support
respite care agencies so that they can
support family caregivers in commu-
nities across the country.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support it. It expands services and ac-
cess to care, and it will improve
healthcare outcomes.
b 1545
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, most insurance plans do
not cover the cost of respite care, but
the Administration for Community
Living at the Department of Health
and Human Services works with the
ARCH National Respite Network and
Resource Center to provide respite care
to caregivers across the United States
of America. This legislation is vital to
ensuring that we maintain our access
to respite care for our caregivers and
their loved ones.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port H.R. 2035, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time and just
urge support for this legislation.
Again, this is bipartisan, and I thank
everyone who worked on it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
strong support of H.R. 2035, the Lifespan
Respite Care Reauthorization Act. This legisla-
tion, led by Representatives JAMES LANGEVIN
and CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS, reauthorizes
critical grants to states to implement coordi-
nated systems of respite services for care-
givers, provide planned and emergency res-
pite services, recruit and train workers and
volunteers, and provide information to family
caregivers to help them access these critical
services. Many of us have had a loved one
with a caregiver—this bill provides those care-
givers with the support they need and de-
serve. I urge my colleagues to vote yes on
this legislation.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support
of H.R. 2035, the Lifespan Respite Care Re-
authorization Act. I’m proud that my Sub-
committee on Health advanced this bipartisan
bill, authored by Representatives LANGEVIN
and MCMORRIS RODGERS.
This legislation is now being extended for
five years and the funding for the program is
being increased. The program is administered
by the Administration for Community Living
and has provided grants to 37 states and
Washington, D.C. since it was created in
2009.
More than 40 million Americans serve as
family caregivers and this program is their life-
line. Being an unpaid caregiver for a loved
one can be physically and emotionally ex-
hausting and isolating. The average family
caregiver is a woman who works full-time and
is providing care to both aging parents and
children living at home.
This bill allows caregivers to take a break
from their caregiving responsibilities. About 85
percent of family caregivers of adults are not
receiving any respite services whatsoever but
through the Lifespan Respite Care Program,
caregivers can receive support services from
highly qualified, well-trained staff.
Grant programs through the program sup-
port day care, transportation and summer
camp for Americans living with disabilities. For
their caregivers, these programs give them
much needed time off, time to do chores
around the house or just take a breather.
These programs are critical to the many
Americans, mostly women, who are taking
care of their loved ones every day. I’m proud
to support this important legislation and I urge
my colleagues to vote for H.R. 2035.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PALLONE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2035, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed. Votes will be taken
in the following order:
Ordering the previous question on
House Resolution 509;
Adoption of House Resolution 509, if
ordered; and
The motion to suspend the rules and
pass H.R. 3375.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 397, REHABILITATION
FOR MULTIEMPLOYER PENSIONS
ACT OF 2019; PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 3239, HU-
MANITARIAN STANDARDS FOR
INDIVIDUALS IN CUSTOMS AND
BORDER PROTECTION CUSTODY
ACT; PROVIDING FOR PRO-
CEEDINGS DURING THE PERIOD
FROM JULY 29, 2019, THROUGH
SEPTEMBER 6, 2019; AND FOR
OTHER PURPOSES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on ordering
the previous question on the resolution
(H. Res. 509) providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 397) to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to create
a Pension Rehabilitation Trust Fund,
to establish a Pension Rehabilitation
Administration within the Department
of the Treasury to make loans to mul-
tiemployer defined benefit plans, and
for other purposes; providing for con-
sideration of the bill (H.R. 3239) to re-
quire U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion to perform an initial health
screening on detainees, and for other
purposes; providing for proceedings
during the period from July 29, 2019,
through September 6, 2019; and for
other purposes, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 234, nays
198, not voting 0, as follows:
[Roll No. 500]
YEAS—234
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:34 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.069 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7311
July 24, 2019
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—198
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
b 1614
Messrs. RUTHERFORD, JOHNSON of
Ohio, and KATKO changed their vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut changed
his vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 234, nays
195, not voting 3, as follows:
[Roll No. 501]
YEAS—234
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—195
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.028 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7312 July 24, 2019
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—3
Gibbs Turner Westerman
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1621
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated against:
Mr. TURNER. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoid-
ably detained. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 501.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 501.
f
MOMENT OF SILENCE IN MEMORY
OF OFFICER JACOB J. CHESTNUT
AND DETECTIVE JOHN M. GIB-
SON
The SPEAKER. The Chair thanks Of-
ficer Jacob Chestnut’s wife, Gwenling
Chestnut, for being here with us today
in the Capitol, along with her son, Wil-
liam Chestnut, and grandson, Jacob.
The Chair asks that the House now
observe a moment of silence in mem-
ory of Officer Jacob J. Chestnut and
Detective John M. Gibson of the United
States Capitol Police, who were killed
in the line of duty defending the Cap-
itol on July 24, 1998.
f
STOPPING BAD ROBOCALLS ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
DELGADO). Pursuant to clause 8 of rule
XX, the unfinished business is the vote
on the motion to suspend the rules and
pass the bill (H.R. 3375) to amend the
Communications Act of 1934 to clarify
the prohibitions on making robocalls,
and for other purposes, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PALLONE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 429, nays 3,
not voting 0, as follows:
[Roll No. 502]
YEAS—429
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—3
Amash Biggs Massie
b 1631
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
AFFIRMING THE VALIDITY OF
SUBPOENAS DULY ISSUED AND
INVESTIGATIONS UNDERTAKEN
BY ANY STANDING OR PERMA-
NENT SELECT COMMITTEE OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES PURSUANT TO AUTHORI-
TIES DELEGATED BY THE CON-
STITUTION AND THE RULES OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
DINGELL). Pursuant to House Resolu-
tion 509, House Resolution 507 is con-
sidered as adopted.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 507
Whereas Congress’ power to conduct over-
sight and investigations is firmly rooted in
its legislative authority under Article I of
the Constitution, which commits to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.029 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7313
July 24, 2019
House of Representatives alone the author-
ity to establish its rules governing the proce-
dures and methods for the conduct of over-
sight and investigations, as well as to deter-
mine the powers that it delegates to its var-
ious committees;
Whereas those powers delegated to the
committees include the power to conduct
oversight into and to investigate, pursuant
to the legitimate legislative purposes of the
respective committees, matters involving,
referring, or related, directly or indirectly,
to the persons, entities, and organizations
specified in this resolution;
Whereas committees of the House, pursu-
ant to the authority delegated by clause 2(m)
of rule XI and clause 11(d) of rule X of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, have
undertaken investigations and issued related
subpoenas seeking personal, financial, bank-
ing, and tax information related to the
President, his immediate family, and his
business entities and organizations, among
others;
Whereas the validity of some of these in-
vestigations and subpoenas has been incor-
rectly challenged in Federal court on the
grounds that the investigations and sub-
poenas were not authorized by the full House
and lacked a ‘‘clear statement’’ of intent to
include the President, which the President’s
personal attorneys have argued in Federal
court is necessary before the committees
may seek information related to the Presi-
dent; and
Whereas while these arguments are plainly
incorrect as a matter of law, it is neverthe-
less in the interest of the institution of the
House of Representatives to avoid any doubt
on this matter and to unequivocally reject
these challenges presented in ongoing or fu-
ture litigation: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives ratifies and affirms all current and fu-
ture investigations, as well as all subpoenas
previously issued or to be issued in the fu-
ture, by any standing or permanent select
committee of the House, pursuant to its ju-
risdiction as established by the Constitution
of the United States and rules X and XI of
the Rules of the House of Representatives,
concerning or issued directly or indirectly
to—
(1) the President in his personal or official
capacity;
(2) his immediate family, business entities,
or organizations;
(3) the Office of the President;
(4) the Executive Office of the President;
(5) the White House;
(6) any entity within the White House;
(7) any individual currently or formerly
employed by or associated with the White
House;
(8) any Federal or State governmental en-
tity or current or former employee or officer
thereof seeking information involving, refer-
ring, or related to any individual or entity
described in paragraphs (1) through (7); or
(9) any third party seeking information in-
volving, referring, or related to any indi-
vidual or entity described in paragraphs (1)
through (7).
f
REPORT ON H.R. 3931, DEPART-
MENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
APPROPRIATIONS BILL, 2020
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, from the
Committee on Appropriations, sub-
mitted a privileged report (Rept. No.
116–180) making appropriations for the
Department of Homeland Security for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes, which was
referred to the Union Calendar and or-
dered to be printed.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1, rule XXI, all points of
order are reserved on the bill.
f
ELECTING A MEMBER TO A CER-
TAIN STANDING COMMITTEE OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, by di-
rection of the Republican Conference, I
offer a privileged resolution and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 516
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
ber be, and is hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing standing committee of the House of
Representatives:
(1) COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND
TECHNOLOGY.—Mr. Rooney of Florida.
Ms. CHENEY (during the reading).
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be considered
as read and printed in the RECORD.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Wyoming?
There was no objection.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, I re-
spectfully urge the Speaker to imme-
diately schedule this important bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
PROMOTING RESPECT FOR INDI-
VIDUALS’ DIGNITY AND EQUAL-
ITY ACT OF 2019
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 3299) to permit
legally married same-sex couples to
amend their filing status for income
tax returns outside the statute of limi-
tations, to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to clarify that all provi-
sions shall apply to legally married
same-sex couples in the same manner
as other married couples, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3299
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Promoting
Respect for Individuals’ Dignity and Equal-
ity Act of 2019’’ or as the ‘‘PRIDE Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF PERIOD OF LIMITATION
FOR CERTAIN LEGALLY MARRIED
COUPLES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In the case of an indi-
vidual first treated as married for purposes
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 by the
application of the holdings of Revenue Rul-
ing 2013–17—
(1) if such individual filed a return (other
than a joint return) for a taxable year ending
before September 16, 2013, for which a joint
return could have been made by the indi-
vidual and the individual’s spouse but for the
fact that such holdings were not effective at
the time of filing, such return shall be treat-
ed as a separate return within the meaning
of section 6013(b) of such Code and the time
prescribed by section 6013(b)(2)(A) of such
Code for filing a joint return after filing a
separate return shall not expire before the
date prescribed by law (including extensions)
for filing the return of tax for the taxable
year that includes the date of the enactment
of this Act, and
(2) in the case of a joint return filed pursu-
ant to paragraph (1)—
(A) the period of limitation prescribed by
section 6511(a) of such Code for any such tax-
able year shall be extended until the date
prescribed by law (including extensions) for
filing the return of tax for the taxable year
that includes the date of the enactment of
this Act, and
(B) section 6511(b)(2) of such Code shall not
apply to any claim of credit or refund with
respect to such return.
(b) AMENDMENTS, ETC. RESTRICTED TO
CHANGE IN MARITAL STATUS.—Subsection (a)
shall apply only with respect to amendments
to the return of tax, and claims for credit or
refund, relating to a change in the marital
status for purposes of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 of the individual.
SEC. 3. RULES RELATING TO ALL LEGALLY MAR-
RIED COUPLES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended—
(1) in section 21(d)(2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘HIMSELF’’ in the heading
and inserting ‘‘SELF’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘any husband and wife’’
and inserting ‘‘any married couple’’;
(2) in section 22(e)(1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘husband and wife who
live’’ and inserting ‘‘married couple who
lives’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘the taxpayer and his
spouse’’ and inserting ‘‘the taxpayer and the
spouse of the taxpayer’’;
(3) in section 38(c)(6)(A), by striking ‘‘hus-
band or wife who files’’ and inserting ‘‘mar-
ried individual who files’’;
(4) in section 42(j)(5)(C), by striking clause
(i) and inserting the following new clause:
‘‘(i) MARRIED COUPLE TREATED AS 1 PART-
NER.—For purposes of subparagraph (B), indi-
viduals married to one another (and their es-
tates) shall be treated as 1 partner.’’;
(5) in section 62(b)(3)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘husband and wife who lived
apart’’ and inserting ‘‘married couple who
lived apart’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘the taxpayer and his
spouse’’ and inserting ‘‘the taxpayer and the
spouse of the taxpayer’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:34 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.033 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7314 July 24, 2019
(B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘hus-
band and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘married cou-
ple’’;
(6) in section 121—
(A) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ‘‘hus-
band and wife who make’’ and inserting
‘‘married couple who makes’’; and
(B) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ‘‘hus-
band and wife make’’ and inserting ‘‘married
couple makes’’;
(7) in section 165(h)(4)(B), by striking ‘‘hus-
band and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘married cou-
ple’’;
(8) in section 179(b)(4), by striking ‘‘a hus-
band and wife filing’’ and inserting ‘‘individ-
uals married to one another who file’’;
(9) in section 213(d)(8), by striking ‘‘status
as husband and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘marital
status’’;
(10) in section 219(g)(4), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘A hus-
band and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘Married indi-
viduals’’;
(11) in section 274(b)(2)(B), by striking
‘‘husband and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘married
couple’’;
(12) in section 643(f), by striking ‘‘husband
and wife’’ in the second sentence and insert-
ing ‘‘married couple’’;
(13) in section 761(f)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘husband
and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘married couple’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘hus-
band and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘married cou-
ple’’;
(14) in section 911—
(A) in subsection (b)(2), by striking sub-
paragraph (C) and inserting the following
new subparagraph:
‘‘(C) TREATMENT OF COMMUNITY INCOME.—In
applying subparagraph (A) with respect to
amounts received from services performed by
a married individual which are community
income under community property laws ap-
plicable to such income, the aggregate
amount which may be excludable from the
gross income of such individual and such in-
dividual’s spouse under subsection (a)(1) for
any taxable year shall equal the amount
which would be so excludable if such
amounts did not constitute community in-
come.’’; and
(B) in subsection (d)(9)(A), by striking
‘‘where a husband and wife each have’’ and
inserting ‘‘where both spouses have’’;
(15) in section 1244(b)(2), by striking ‘‘a
husband and wife filing’’;
(16) in section 1272(a)(2)(D), by striking
clause (iii) and inserting the following new
clause:
‘‘(iii) TREATMENT OF A MARRIED COUPLE.—
For purposes of this subparagraph, a married
couple shall be treated as 1 person. The pre-
ceding sentence shall not apply where the
spouses lived apart at all times during the
taxable year in which the loan is made.’’;
(17) in section 1313(c)(1), by striking ‘‘hus-
band and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘spouses’’;
(18) in section 1361(c)(1)(A)(i), by striking
‘‘a husband and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘a mar-
ried couple’’;
(19) in section 2040(b), by striking ‘‘CERTAIN
JOINT INTERESTS OF HUSBAND AND WIFE’’ in
the heading and inserting ‘‘CERTAIN JOINT IN-
TERESTS OF MARRIED COUPLE’’;
(20) in section 2513—
(A) by striking ‘‘GIFT BY HUSBAND OR WIFE
TO THIRD PARTY’’ in the heading and inserting
‘‘GIFT BY SPOUSE TO THIRD PARTY’’; and
(B) by striking paragraph (1) of subsection
(a) and inserting the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A gift made by one indi-
vidual to any person other than such individ-
ual’s spouse shall, for the purposes of this
chapter, be considered as made one-half by
the individual and one-half by such individ-
ual’s spouse, but only if at the time of the
gift each spouse is a citizen or resident of the
United States. This paragraph shall not
apply with respect to a gift by an individual
of an interest in property if such individual
creates in the individual’s spouse a general
power of appointment, as defined in section
2514(c), over such interest. For purposes of
this section, an individual shall be consid-
ered as the spouse of another only if the indi-
vidual is married to the individual’s spouse
at the time of the gift and does not remarry
during the remainder of the calendar year.’’;
(21) in section 2516—
(A) by striking ‘‘Where a husband and wife
enter’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Where a married couple
enters’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(b) SPOUSE.—For purposes of this section,
if the spouses referred to are divorced, wher-
ever appropriate to the meaning of this sec-
tion, the term ‘spouse’ shall read ‘former
spouse’.’’;
(22) in section 5733(d)(2), by striking ‘‘hus-
band or wife’’ and inserting ‘‘married indi-
vidual’’;
(23) in section 6013—
(A) by striking ‘‘JOINT RETURNS OF INCOME
TAX BY HUSBAND AND WIFE’’ in the heading and
inserting ‘‘JOINT RETURNS OF INCOME TAX BY A
MARRIED COUPLE’’;
(B) in subsection (a), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘husband
and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘married couple’’;
(C) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘either
the husband or wife’’ and inserting ‘‘either
spouse’’;
(D) in subsection (a)(2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘husband and wife’’ and in-
serting ‘‘spouses’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘his taxable year’’ and in-
serting ‘‘such spouse’s taxable year’’;
(E) in subsection (a)(3)—
(i) by striking ‘‘his executor or adminis-
trator’’ and inserting ‘‘the decedent’s execu-
tor or administrator’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘with respect to both him-
self and the decedent’’ and inserting ‘‘with
respect to both the surviving spouse and the
decedent’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘constitute his separate
return’’ and inserting ‘‘constitute the sur-
vivor’s separate return’’;
(F) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph
(1) and inserting the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), if an individual has filed a sep-
arate return for a taxable year for which a
joint return could have been made by the in-
dividual and the individual’s spouse under
subsection (a) and the time prescribed by law
for filing the return for such taxable year
has expired, such individual and such spouse
may nevertheless make a joint return for
such taxable year. A joint return filed under
this subsection shall constitute the return of
the individual and the individual’s spouse for
such taxable year, and all payments, credits,
refunds, or other repayments made or al-
lowed with respect to the separate return of
either spouse for such taxable year shall be
taken into account in determining the ex-
tent to which the tax based upon the joint
return has been paid. If a joint return is
made under this subsection, any election
(other than the election to file a separate re-
turn) made by either spouse in a separate re-
turn for such taxable year with respect to
the treatment of any income, deduction, or
credit of such spouse shall not be changed in
the making of the joint return where such
election would have been irrevocable if the
joint return had not been made. If a joint re-
turn is made under this subsection after the
death of either spouse, such return with re-
spect to the decedent can be made only by
the decedent’s executor or administrator.’’;
(G) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘husband
and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘spouses’’;
(H) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ‘‘status
as husband and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘the
marital status with respect to each other’’;
(I) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ‘‘his
spouse’’ and inserting ‘‘the spouse of the in-
dividual’’;
(J) in subsection (f)(2)(B), by striking
‘‘such individual, his spouse, and his estate
shall be determined as if he were alive’’ and
inserting ‘‘such individual, the individual’s
spouse, and the individual’s estate shall be
determined as if the individual were alive’’;
and
(K) in subsection (f)(3)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘for
which he is entitled’’ and inserting ‘‘for
which such member is entitled’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘for
which he is entitled’’ and inserting ‘‘for
which such employee is entitled’’;
(24) in section 6014(b), by striking ‘‘husband
and wife’’ in the second sentence and insert-
ing ‘‘a married couple’’;
(25) in section 6017, by striking ‘‘husband
and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘married couple’’;
(26) in section 6096(a), by striking ‘‘of hus-
band and wife having’’ and inserting ‘‘report-
ing’’;
(27) in section 6166(b)(2), by striking sub-
paragraph (B) and inserting the following
new subparagraph:
‘‘(B) CERTAIN INTERESTS HELD BY MARRIED
COUPLE.—Stock or a partnership interest
which—
‘‘(i) is community property of a married
couple (or the income from which is commu-
nity income) under the applicable commu-
nity property law of a State, or
‘‘(ii) is held by a married couple as joint
tenants, tenants by the entirety, or tenants
in common,
shall be treated as owned by 1 shareholder or
1 partner, as the case may be.’’;
(28) in section 6212(b)(2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘return filed by husband
and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘return’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘his last known address’’
and inserting ‘‘the last known address of
such spouse’’;
(29) in section 7428(c)(2)(A), by striking
‘‘husband and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘married
couple’’;
(30) in section 7701(a)—
(A) by striking paragraph (17); and
(B) in paragraph (38), by striking ‘‘husband
and wife’’ and inserting ‘‘married couple’’;
and
(31) in section 7872(f), by striking para-
graph (7) and inserting the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(7) MARRIED COUPLE TREATED AS 1 PER-
SON.—A married couple shall be treated as 1
person.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) The table of sections for subchapter B
of chapter 12 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended by striking the item relating
to section 2513 and inserting the following
new item:
‘‘Sec. 2513. Gift by spouse to third party.’’.
(2) The table of sections for subpart B of
part II of subchapter A of chapter 61 of such
Code is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 6013 and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Sec. 6013. Joint returns of income tax by a
married couple.’’.
SEC. 4. RULES RELATING TO THE GENDER OF
SPOUSES, ETC.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The following provisions
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 are each
amended by striking ‘‘his spouse’’ each place
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.035 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7315
July 24, 2019
it appears and inserting ‘‘the individual’s
spouse’’:
(1) Subsections (a)(1) and (d) of section 1.
(2) Section 2(b)(2)(A).
(3) Subsections (d)(1)(B) and (e)(3) of sec-
tion 21.
(4) Section 36(c)(5).
(5) Section 179(d)(2)(A).
(6) Section 318(a)(1)(A)(i).
(7) Section 408(d)(6).
(8) Section 469(i)(5)(B)(ii).
(9) Section 507(d)(2)(B)(iii).
(10) Clauses (ii) and (iii) of section
613A(c)(8)(D).
(11) Section 672(e)(2).
(12) Section 704(e)(2).
(13) Subparagraphs (A) and (B)(ii) of sec-
tion 911(c)(3).
(14) Section 1235(c)(2).
(15) Section 1563(e)(5).
(16) Section 3121(b)(3)(B).
(17) Section 4946(d).
(18) Section 4975(e)(6).
(19) Subparagraphs (A)(iv) and (B) of sec-
tion 6012(a)(1).
(20) Section 7703(a).
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) The following provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 are each amended by
striking ‘‘his spouse’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘the taxpayer’s spouse’’:
(A) Section 2(a)(2)(B).
(B) Subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section
2(b)(2).
(C) Paragraphs (2) and (6)(A) of section
21(e).
(D) Section 36B(e)(1).
(E) Section 63(e)(3)(B).
(F) Section 86(c)(1)(C)(ii).
(G) Section 105(c)(1).
(H) Section 135(d)(3).
(I) Section 151(b).
(J) Subsections (a) and (d)(7) of section 213.
(K) Section 1233(e)(2)(C).
(L) Section 1239(b)(2).
(M) Section 6504(2).
(2) The following provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 are each amended by
striking ‘‘his spouse’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘the employee’s spouse’’:
(A) Section 132(m)(1).
(B) Section 401(h)(6).
(C) Section 3402(l)(3).
(3) The following provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 are each amended by
striking ‘‘his taxable year’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘the individual’s taxable
year’’:
(A) Section 2(b)(1).
(B) Section 7703(a)(1).
(4) The following provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 are each amended by
striking ‘‘his taxable year’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘the taxpayer’s taxable
year’’:
(A) Subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section
2(b)(2) (as amended by paragraph (1)(B)).
(B) Section 63(f)(1)(A).
(5) The following provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 are each amended by
striking ‘‘his home’’ and inserting ‘‘the indi-
vidual’s home’’:
(A) Section 2(b)(1)(A).
(B) Section 21(e)(4)(A)(i).
(C) Section 7703(b)(1).
(6) The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended by this section, is amended—
(A) in section 2(a)(1)(A), by striking ‘‘his
two taxable years’’ and inserting ‘‘the tax-
payer’s two taxable years’’;
(B) in section 2(a)(1)(B), by striking ‘‘his
home’’ and inserting ‘‘the taxpayer’s home’’;
(C) in paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A) of sec-
tion 63(f), by striking ‘‘for himself if he’’
both places it appears and inserting ‘‘for the
taxpayer if the taxpayer’’;
(D) in section 63(f)(4), by striking ‘‘his’’
both places it appears and inserting ‘‘the in-
dividual’s’’;
(E) in section 105(b)—
(i) by striking ‘‘his spouse, his dependents’’
and inserting ‘‘the taxpayer’s spouse, the
taxpayer’s dependents’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘by him’’;
(F) in the heading of section 119(a), by
striking ‘‘, HIS SPOUSE, AND HIS DEPEND-
ENTS’’ and inserting ‘‘AND THE EMPLOYEE’S
SPOUSE AND DEPENDENTS’’;
(G) in section 119(a), by striking ‘‘him, his
spouse, or any of his dependents by or on be-
half of his employer’’ and inserting ‘‘the em-
ployee or the employee’s spouse or depend-
ents by or on behalf of the employer of the
employee’’;
(H) in section 119(a)(2), by striking ‘‘his’’
both places it appears and inserting ‘‘the em-
ployee’s’’;
(I) in section 119(d)(3)(B), by striking ‘‘his
spouse, and any of his dependents’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the employee’s spouse, and any of
the employee’s dependents’’;
(J) in section 129(b)(2), by striking ‘‘him-
self’’ and inserting ‘‘the spouse’s self’’;
(K) in section 170(b)(1)(F)(iii)—
(i) by striking ‘‘his spouse’’ and inserting
‘‘the spouse of such donor’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘his death or after the
death of his surviving spouse if she’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the death of the donor or after the
death of the donor’s surviving spouse if such
surviving spouse’’;
(L) in section 213(c)(1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘his estate’’ and inserting
‘‘the estate of the taxpayer’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘his death’’ and inserting
‘‘the death of the taxpayer’’;
(M) in section 213(d)(7), by striking ‘‘he’’
and inserting ‘‘the taxpayer’’;
(N) in section 217(g)—
(i) by striking ‘‘, his spouse, or his depend-
ents’’ in paragraph (2) and inserting ‘‘or the
spouse or dependents of such member’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘his dependents’’ in para-
graph (3) and inserting ‘‘dependents’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘his spouse’’ each place it
appears in paragraph (3) and inserting ‘‘the
member’s spouse’’;
(O) in section 217(i)(3)(A), by striking
‘‘his’’;
(P) in section 267(c), by striking ‘‘his’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘the individ-
ual’s’’;
(Q) in section 318(a)(1)(A)(ii), by striking
‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the individual’s’’;
(R) in section 402(l)(4)(D), by striking ‘‘, his
spouse, and dependents’’ and inserting ‘‘and
the spouse and dependents of such officer’’;
(S) in section 415(l)(2)(B), by striking ‘‘, his
spouse, or his dependents’’ and inserting ‘‘or
the participant’s spouse or dependents’’;
(T) in section 420(f)(6)(A), by striking ‘‘his
covered spouse and dependents’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘the covered spouse
and dependents of such retiree’’;
(U) in section 424(d)(1), by striking ‘‘his’’
and inserting ‘‘the individual’s’’;
(V) in section 544(a)(2), by striking ‘‘his’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘the indi-
vidual’s’’;
(W) in section 911(c)(3), by striking ‘‘him’’
each place it appears in subparagraphs (A)
and (B)(ii) and inserting ‘‘the individual’’;
(X) in section 1015(d)(3), by striking ‘‘his
spouse’’ and inserting ‘‘the donor’s spouse’’;
(Y) in section 1563(e)—
(i) by striking ‘‘his children’’ both places it
appears in paragraphs (5)(D) and (6)(A) and
inserting ‘‘the individual’s children’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘his parents’’ both places it
appears in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of para-
graph (6) and inserting ‘‘the individual’s par-
ents’’;
(Z) in section 1563(f)(2)(B), by striking
‘‘him’’ and inserting ‘‘the individual’’;
(AA) in section 2012(c), by striking ‘‘his
spouse’’ and inserting ‘‘the decedent’s
spouse’’;
(BB) in section 2032A(e)(10), by striking
‘‘his surviving spouse’’ and inserting ‘‘the de-
cedent’s surviving spouse’’;
(CC) in section 2035(b)—
(i) by striking ‘‘his estate’’ and inserting
‘‘the decedent’s estate’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘his spouse’’ and inserting
‘‘the decedent’s spouse’’;
(DD) in subsections (a) and (b)(5) of section
2056, by striking ‘‘his’’;
(EE) in section 2523(b)—
(i) by striking ‘‘(or his heirs or assigns) or
such person (or his heirs or assigns)’’ in para-
graph (1) and inserting ‘‘(or the donor’s heirs
or assigns) or such person (or such person’s
heirs or assigns)’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘himself’’ in paragraph (1)
and inserting ‘‘the donor’s self’’;
(iii) by striking ‘‘he’’ in paragraph (2) and
inserting ‘‘the donor’’; and
(iv) by striking ‘‘him’’ each place it ap-
pears in the matter following paragraph (2)
and inserting ‘‘the donor’’;
(FF) in section 2523(d), by striking ‘‘him-
self’’ and inserting ‘‘the donor’s self’’;
(GG) in section 2523(e), by striking ‘‘his
spouse’’ and inserting ‘‘the donor’s spouse’’;
(HH) in section 3121(b)(3)—
(i) by striking ‘‘his father’’ in subpara-
graph (A) and inserting ‘‘the child’s father’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘his father’’ in subpara-
graph (B) and inserting ‘‘the individual’s fa-
ther’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘his son’’ in subparagraph
(B) and inserting ‘‘the individual’s son’’;
(II) in section 3306(c)(5)—
(i) by striking ‘‘his son’’ and inserting ‘‘the
individual’s son’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘his father’’ and inserting
‘‘the child’s father’’;
(JJ) in section 3402(l)—
(i) by striking ‘‘he’’ each place it appears
in paragraphs (2) and (3)(A) and inserting
‘‘the employee’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘his taxable year’’ both
places it appears in paragraph (3)(B) and in-
serting ‘‘the employee’s taxable year’’;
(KK) in section 4905(a), by striking ‘‘his
spouse’’ and inserting ‘‘such person’s
spouse’’;
(LL) in section 6046(c), by striking ‘‘his’’
both places it appears and inserting ‘‘the in-
dividual’s’’;
(MM) in section 6103(e)(1)(A)(ii), by strik-
ing ‘‘him’’ and inserting ‘‘the individual’’;
(NN) in section 7448(a)(8), by striking ‘‘his
death’’ and inserting ‘‘the individual’s
death’’;
(OO) in subsections (d), (m), and (n) of sec-
tion 7448, by striking ‘‘his’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘the individual’s’’;
(PP) in subsection (m) of section 7448, as so
amended, by striking ‘‘he’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘such judge or special
trial judge’’; and
(QQ) in section 7448(q)—
(i) by striking ‘‘his’’ both places it appears
and inserting ‘‘such judge’s’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘to bring himself’’ and in-
serting ‘‘to come’’.
SEC. 5. INCREASE IN PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO
FILE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The second sentence of
subsection (a) of section 6651 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
‘‘$330’’ and inserting ‘‘$435’’.
(b) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—Section
6651(j)(1) of such Code is amended by striking
‘‘$330’’ and inserting ‘‘$435’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to returns
required to be filed after December 31, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.035 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7316 July 24, 2019
SEC. 6. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. JUDY CHU) and the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. REED) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the bill
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I rise today in strong support of the
PRIDE Act, the bill I authored with
Congressman ANDY LEVIN of Michigan,
to bring equality to our tax law.
Last month, we celebrated the 50th
anniversary of the Stonewall riots,
which marked the launch of a pivotal
movement for gay rights in our coun-
try and across the world. Since then,
the LGBT movement has fought bat-
tles on the local and Federal level to
gain the equal rights that all Ameri-
cans deserve. To the enormous joy of
millions of American families, the Su-
preme Court ultimately ruled that
same-sex marriages are equal.
‘‘Love is love’’ went the cry, but you
would not know it by looking at our
Tax Code. Today, a same-sex couple fil-
ing their taxes is still forced to con-
tend with out-of-date references that
no longer reflect what marriage looks
like in this country.
Filing taxes can be unpleasant
enough as it is. No family should feel
excluded in this process. Most impor-
tantly, our Tax Code should not be de-
fining families in outdated and dis-
criminatory ways. That is what this
legislation will fix.
With a simple change to gender lan-
guage removing requirements for ‘‘hus-
band and wife,’’ instead using words
like ‘‘they’’ and ‘‘married couple,’’ we
can put the equality promised by our
Constitution into the Code.
This bill corrects a second injustice,
as well.
For years, the Defense of Marriage
Act prevented the Federal Government
from recognizing same-sex marriage,
even as States began allowing for it.
That meant that married couples were
being denied the Federal tax refunds
they earned simply because of whom
they loved. That was blatantly wrong,
which is why DOMA was struck down
by the Supreme Court in 2013.
But though DOMA was gone, many of
the impacted families were unable to
amend their tax returns because of a
restriction in the Tax Code that only
allows married couples to amend re-
turns from 3 years ago. That restric-
tion was keeping money out of the
pockets of families who had earned it.
That is why my bill corrects this, to
allow the IRS to provide refunds to
same-sex couples who married in
States that recognized same-sex mar-
riage before DOMA was overturned.
This is expected to give over $50 mil-
lion back to the families who should
never have had to file separately in the
first place.
These are commonsense changes that
recognize the reality that marriage
does not just mean one man and one
woman. That is a lesson already recog-
nized by children across the country
who know that no matter who their
parents are, they are a family. They
should not be told otherwise by an out-
dated Tax Code.
I urge my colleagues to support this
measure, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1645
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, first, I rise to thank
my colleague, Ms. CHU, on the other
side of the aisle for her efforts on this
legislation.
As we are proposing this legislation,
Madam Speaker, we recognize that dis-
crimination in any form is never ac-
ceptable and that also the PRIDE Act
would remove that gender language in
our Tax Code of ‘‘husband and wife,’’
consistent with that of the U.S. Su-
preme Court and now as recognized as
the law of the land.
As we have expressed previously in
some of our hearings on this matter,
there are some administrative con-
cerns that we still hold on our side of
the aisle in regard to this legislation,
in regard to the audit function, the
look-back opportunities that are there
in regard to the removal of IRS tax
records after 6 years, and some issues
technical in nature that deal with com-
pliance with this legislation.
We hope that those concerns can be
dealt with administratively, but at its
heart, I personally stand here and join
with my colleague from California in
support of this legislation and look for-
ward to the adoption of it, as I antici-
pate the passage of it here on the floor.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts (Mr.
NEAL), the chair of our committee who
has led us in such an excellent way.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
JUDY CHU) for the really extraordinary
job and leadership that she offered on
this legislation.
For far too long, LGBTQ Americans
have been denied equal treatment
under the Tax Code. Six years after the
Supreme Court found it unconstitu-
tional to deny same-sex couples the
full rights and privileges of marriage,
Congress has yet to rectify the con-
sequences of the Tax Code’s discrimi-
nation against LGBTQ couples.
We must live up to our duty to gov-
ern in a manner such that everyone is
treated equally under the law, which is
why I stand in support today of this
legislation.
Last month marked the 50th anniver-
sary of the Stonewall riots. Recog-
nizing the deep historical importance
of this event in a decades-long fight for
equality, the PRIDE Act—which, by
the way, passed the Ways and Means
Committee unanimously—seeks to end
and correct discriminatory practices in
our tax system affecting LGBTQ com-
munity members.
The PRIDE Act essentially clarifies
that all Federal tax provisions respect-
ing marriage will apply to legally mar-
ried same-sex couples by removing gen-
der language related to married cou-
ples from the Tax Code.
Additionally, this bill will reconcile
discriminatory Federal policies by en-
suring fair tax treatment for those cou-
ples for every year of their marriage.
This is the way anybody is treated in
the Tax Code if they choose to take ad-
vantage of that deduction.
I take pride in hailing from Massa-
chusetts, which was the first State to
legalize same-sex marriage. While Mas-
sachusetts has issued marriage licenses
to all couples since 2004, 15 years now,
the Federal Government has failed to
recognize the full tenure of legal mar-
ried status for those couples who have
been married since 2010.
The PRIDE Act extends to same-sex
couples the opportunity to amend their
returns to reflect their marital status
and claim the ensuing tax benefits
wrongfully denied to them before 2010.
So part of this is legislative, but part
of this is also clarification.
The changes in the bill state loudly
and clearly that the Federal Govern-
ment respects the dignity and equality
of all married couples, regardless of
gender or sexual orientation.
For this reason, Madam Speaker, it
is my sincere wish that all of our col-
leagues once again will join in sup-
porting this legislation.
America’s opinions have changed,
and we would like the Tax Code to re-
flect the changes that the American
people have clearly led the way on.
Madam Speaker, I thank Ms. CHU.
This was really complicated work that
she began undertaking, but she also
made it clear that this legislation
moves us closer to ensuring that our
laws respect the dignity of all Ameri-
cans.
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ari-
zona (Mr. SCHWEIKERT), one of the
members of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee, who does great work.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:45 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.035 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7317
July 24, 2019
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
I thank the gentleman from New York
(Mr. REED) for yielding.
Madam Speaker, the reason I am be-
hind the microphone is because, in the
committee, we actually asked the
question of staff and others who were
testifying that this look-back to be
able to file for the marriage deduction
and benefits would not create a new av-
enue of audit, would not create a new
channel for opening up someone’s tax
records for a new line of investigation.
The feedback we received as a com-
mittee was saying, no, this was very
specifically just to this benefit.
Did the gentleman from Massachu-
setts (Mr. NEAL) hear the same thing?
Mr. NEAL. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. I yield to the
gentleman from Massachusetts.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, that was
carefully tailored, yes.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
I just thought it is important for all of
us to hear it on the RECORD that we are
not opening up a new avenue of inves-
tigation because I need to be brutally
honest that the language of the legisla-
tion, I don’t think, is crisp enough on
that point. Let’s make sure it is clean-
ly in at least the RECORD we have pro-
duced here today.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his friendly inquiry.
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. LEVIN),
who is the coauthor of this bill and in-
troduced this bill with me.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Speaker, I thank my colleague, the
gentlewoman from California (Ms.
JUDY CHU) for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to rise
in strong support of the Promoting Re-
spect for Individuals’ Dignity and
Equality, or PRIDE, Act, which I have
been privileged to colead with Con-
gresswoman CHU.
This bill is about moving our country
closer to true equality and equity for
the LGBTQ community. We have an
opportunity today to send a message to
LGBTQ married couples across Amer-
ica that their unions are recognized,
valued, and dignified by the U.S. Gov-
ernment.
I am especially proud that this bill
includes the text of my bill, H.R. 1244,
the Equal Dignity for Married Tax-
payers Act, which addresses the glaring
problem that the Tax Code is replete
with out-of-date references to marriage
that no longer reflect the institution of
legal marriage in this country.
Our Tax Code, like all of our laws,
should accurately represent and in-
clude all the people to whom it applies.
Gendered language in the Tax Code
represents a time when LGBTQ couples
could not get married. Fortunately,
those days are over, and marriage
equality is the law of the land.
We need to ensure that our laws re-
flect the vibrant diversity of our de-
mocracy, and this legislation will re-
move another vestige of discrimination
from our country’s code of laws.
Including language that is inclusive
of LGBTQ couples and families is a
small change that will have a huge im-
pact, affirming loud and clear to all of
our brothers and sisters and siblings in
spirit in the LGBTQ community that
we love them, that they are part of our
Nation.
We also have an opportunity with the
PRIDE Act to correct an injustice ex-
perienced by LGBTQ couples who mar-
ried in States before marriage equality
was finally recognized nationwide in
the Supreme Court’s Obergefell v.
Hodges decision.
For years, LGBTQ couples in States
that recognized legal marriage were
wrongfully denied Federal tax refunds.
The PRIDE Act will allow those cou-
ples to amend their past tax returns
and receive the corresponding benefits.
Protecting LGBTQ families is not
just about the LGBTQ community. It
is about our never-ending pursuit to
move America closer to freedom and
justice for all.
Madam Speaker, I thank Congress-
woman CHU for her tremendous leader-
ship and for her partnership, and I
thank Chairman NEAL for prioritizing
this effort.
Madam Speaker, I also thank my
predecessor and my dad, Congressman
Sandy Levin, who first introduced the
Equal Dignity for Married Taxpayers
Act in 2015.
Madam Speaker, I urge strong sup-
port for this legislation across the
aisle, both sides, and I look forward to
the day when it becomes law.
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I would be remiss if
I did not take a moment to recognize
my colleague from Michigan, Mr.
LEVIN, and his efforts on this matter,
as well to recognize the service of our
fellow member of the Ways and Means
Committee, his father, Sandy Levin.
Sandy Levin was an individual who,
even though we passionately disagreed
ideologically and philosophically often,
was a gentleman I enjoyed getting to
know. I appreciate his commitment to
this issue, as well as now his son car-
rying on that legacy. That, to me, is a
shining example of this institution,
where people can believe passionately
in their ideology and still work to-
gether in order to deal in a positive
way for the American people.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. TAKANO),
who is the co-chair of the Equality
Caucus.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
thank my colleague, Ms. CHU, for yield-
ing.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to join
my colleagues in affirming the dignity
and respect for married LGBTQ cou-
ples.
H.R. 3299, the PRIDE Act, would
bring parity to LGBTQ couples and the
benefits afforded to heterosexual mar-
ried couples in our Tax Code.
The PRIDE Act allows married same-
sex couples to file claims for tax cred-
its and refunds back to the year of
their marriage. Allowing these claims
to be dated back to the original mar-
riage dates respects the spirit of the
Supreme Court’s Windsor decision and
underscores that the IRS must recog-
nize same-sex marriages and afford
them equal protection under the law.
Equality takes many forms. It means
civil, social, and financial equality.
This legislation directly tackles finan-
cial inequality created by parts of our
Tax Code head-on.
The PRIDE Act also modifies the Tax
Code to change language used to distin-
guish married couples to be gender-
neutral. By changing dated and limited
terms such as ‘‘husband and wife,’’ our
laws will become more inclusive.
Language is powerful. We must en-
sure that the language in our laws re-
flects our values and does not exclude
members of the LGBTQ community
from enjoying the same benefits as
their heterosexual counterparts.
Congress must do everything it can
to guarantee equal treatment under
the law for every person, regardless of
their gender identity or sexual orienta-
tion.
This bill upholds our commitment to
family values by ensuring that every
family, including LGBTQ families, can
enjoy the same benefits in our Tax
Code, and it helps us get one step clos-
er to full equality.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill.
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, in clos-
ing, I would just echo as we started. I
thank my colleague from California
(Ms. JUDY CHU) for her efforts on this
issue. I thank our chairman, Mr. NEAL,
who has artfully indicated his words on
the RECORD in regard to this issue.
Madam Speaker, what I would en-
courage Members to do is to consider
passage of this legislation—I know I
personally will be supporting this legis-
lation—to make sure that our Tax
Code is reflective of the law of the land
as it has been declared by the Supreme
Court.
We recognize the administrative
problems that have been raised
through the hearing process and the
colloquy with the chairman of the
Ways and Means Committee, and we
hope that those issues can be adminis-
tratively resolved.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
b 1700
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, it is long overdue for Con-
gress to take action to ensure equal
dignity in our Tax Code. The product
will send a strong message to our
LGBT brothers and sisters to say that
our Tax Code should represent you,
too.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.082 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7318 July 24, 2019
I am proud that this bill is endorsed
by the Human Rights Campaign and
passed unanimously out of the Ways
and Means Committee. I strongly urge
my colleagues to continue to build on
this progress and support its passage
on the House floor.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
JUDY CHU) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3299, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REHABILITATION FOR MULTIEM-
PLOYER PENSIONS ACT OF 2019
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution
509, I call up the bill (H.R. 397) to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to create a Pension Rehabilitation
Trust Fund, to establish a Pension Re-
habilitation Administration within the
Department of the Treasury to make
loans to multiemployer defined benefit
plans, and for other purposes, and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 509, in lieu of
the amendments in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor and the
Committee on Ways and Means printed
in the bill, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the
text of Rules Committee Print 116–24 is
adopted, and the bill, as amended, is
considered read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 397
Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Rehabilitation
for Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PENSION REHABILITATION ADMINISTRA-
TION; ESTABLISHMENT; POWERS.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established in
the Department of the Treasury an agency to be
known as the ‘‘Pension Rehabilitation Adminis-
tration’’.
(b) DIRECTOR.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION.—There shall
be at the head of the Pension Rehabilitation Ad-
ministration a Director, who shall be appointed
by the President.
(2) TERM.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term of office of the Di-
rector shall be 5 years.
(B) SERVICE UNTIL APPOINTMENT OF SUC-
CESSOR.—An individual serving as Director at
the expiration of a term may continue to serve
until a successor is appointed.
(3) POWERS.—
(A) APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTY DIRECTORS, OF-
FICERS, AND EMPLOYEES.—The Director may ap-
point Deputy Directors, officers, and employees,
including attorneys, in accordance with chapter
51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5,
United States Code.
(B) CONTRACTING.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Director may contract
for financial and administrative services (in-
cluding those related to budget and accounting,
financial reporting, personnel, and procure-
ment) with the General Services Administration,
or such other Federal agency as the Director de-
termines appropriate, for which payment shall
be made in advance, or by reimbursement, from
funds of the Pension Rehabilitation Administra-
tion in such amounts as may be agreed upon by
the Director and the head of the Federal agency
providing the services.
(ii) SUBJECT TO APPROPRIATIONS.—Contract
authority under clause (i) shall be effective for
any fiscal year only to the extent that appro-
priations are available for that purpose.
SEC. 3. PENSION REHABILITATION TRUST FUND.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter A of chapter 98
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by adding at the end the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 9512. PENSION REHABILITATION TRUST
FUND.
‘‘(a) CREATION OF TRUST FUND.—There is es-
tablished in the Treasury of the United States a
trust fund to be known as the ‘Pension Reha-
bilitation Trust Fund’ (hereafter in this section
referred to as the ‘Fund’), consisting of such
amounts as may be appropriated or credited to
the Fund as provided in this section and section
9602(b).
‘‘(b) TRANSFERS TO FUND.—
‘‘(1) AMOUNTS ATTRIBUTABLE TO TREASURY
BONDS.—There shall be credited to the Fund the
amounts transferred under section 6 of the Re-
habilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act of
2019.
‘‘(2) LOAN INTEREST AND PRINCIPAL.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Pen-
sion Rehabilitation Administration established
under section 2 of the Rehabilitation for Multi-
employer Pensions Act of 2019 shall deposit in
the Fund any amounts received from a plan as
payment of interest or principal on a loan under
section 4 of such Act.
‘‘(B) INTEREST.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (A), the term ‘interest’ includes points
and other similar amounts.
‘‘(3) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Amounts cred-
ited to or deposited in the Fund shall remain
available until expended.
‘‘(c) EXPENDITURES FROM FUND.—Amounts in
the Fund are available without further appro-
priation to the Pension Rehabilitation Adminis-
tration—
‘‘(1) for the purpose of making the loans de-
scribed in section 4 of the Rehabilitation for
Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019,
‘‘(2) for the payment of principal and interest
on obligations issued under section 6 of such
Act, and
‘‘(3) for administrative and operating expenses
of such Administration.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sec-
tions for subchapter A of chapter 98 of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 9512. Pension Rehabilitation Trust
Fund.’’.
SEC. 4. LOAN PROGRAM FOR MULTIEMPLOYER
DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS.
(a) LOAN AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Pension Rehabilitation
Administration established under section 2 is
authorized—
(A) to make loans to multiemployer plans (as
defined in section 414(f) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986) which are defined benefit plans
(as defined in section 414(j) of such Code) and
which—
(i) are in critical and declining status (within
the meaning of section 432(b)(6) of such Code
and section 305(b)(6) of the Employee Retirement
and Income Security Act) as of the date of the
enactment of this section, or with respect to
which a suspension of benefits has been ap-
proved under section 432(e)(9) of such Code and
section 305(e)(9) of such Act as of such date;
(ii) as of such date of enactment, are in crit-
ical status (within the meaning of section
432(b)(2) of such Code and section 305(b)(2) of
such Act), have a modified funded percentage of
less than 40 percent, and have a ratio of active
to inactive participants which is less than 2 to
5; or
(iii) are insolvent for purposes of section 418E
of such Code as of such date of enactment, if
they became insolvent after December 16, 2014,
and have not been terminated; and
(B) subject to subsection (b), to establish ap-
propriate terms for such loans.
For purposes of subparagraph (A)(ii), the term
‘‘modified funded percentage’’ means the per-
centage equal to a fraction the numerator of
which is current value of plan assets (as defined
in section 3(26) of such Act) and the denomi-
nator of which is current liabilities (as defined
in section 431(c)(6)(D) of such Code and section
304(c)(6)(D) of such Act).
(2) CONSULTATION.—The Director of the Pen-
sion Rehabilitation Administration shall consult
with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Sec-
retary of Labor, and the Director of the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation before making
any loan under paragraph (1), and shall share
with such persons the application and plan in-
formation with respect to each such loan.
(3) ESTABLISHMENT OF LOAN PROGRAM.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A program to make the
loans authorized under this section shall be es-
tablished not later than September 30, 2019, with
guidance regarding such program to be promul-
gated by the Director of the Pension Rehabilita-
tion Administration, in consultation with the
Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Cor-
poration, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the
Secretary of Labor, not later than December 31,
2019.
(B) LOANS AUTHORIZED BEFORE PROGRAM
DATE.—Without regard to whether the program
under subparagraph (A) has been established, a
plan may apply for a loan under this section be-
fore either date described in such subparagraph,
and the Pension Rehabilitation Administration
shall approve the application and make the loan
before establishment of the program if necessary
to avoid any suspension of the accrued benefits
of participants.
(b) LOAN TERMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The terms of any loan made
under subsection (a) shall state that—
(A) the plan shall make payments of interest
on the loan for a period of 29 years beginning
on the date of the loan (or 19 years in the case
of a plan making the election under subsection
(c)(5));
(B) final payment of interest and principal
shall be due in the 30th year after the date of
the loan (except as provided in an election
under subsection (c)(5)); and
(C) as a condition of the loan, the plan spon-
sor stipulates that—
(i) except as provided in clause (ii), the plan
will not increase benefits, allow any employer
participating in the plan to reduce its contribu-
tions, or accept any collective bargaining agree-
ment which provides for reduced contribution
rates, during the 30-year period described in
subparagraphs (A) and (B);
(ii) in the case of a plan with respect to which
a suspension of benefits has been approved
under section 432(e)(9) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 and section 305(e)(9) of the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
or under section 418E of such Code, before the
loan, the plan will reinstate the suspended bene-
fits (or will not carry out any suspension which
has been approved but not yet implemented);
(iii) the plan sponsor will comply with the re-
quirements of section 6059A of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986;
(iv) the plan will continue to pay all premiums
due under section 4007 of the Employee Retire-
ment Income Security Act of 1974; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.085 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7319
July 24, 2019
(v) the plan and plan administrator will meet
such other requirements as the Director of the
Pension Rehabilitation Administration provides
in the loan terms.
The terms of the loan shall not make reference
to whether the plan is receiving financial assist-
ance under section 4261(d) of the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C.
1431(d)) or to any adjustment of the loan
amount under subsection (d)(2)(A)(ii).
(2) INTEREST RATE.—Except as provided in the
second sentence of this paragraph and sub-
section (c)(5), loans made under subsection (a)
shall have as low an interest rate as is feasible.
Such rate shall be determined by the Pension
Rehabilitation Administration and shall—
(A) not be lower than the rate of interest on
30-year Treasury securities on the first day of
the calendar year in which the loan is issued,
and
(B) not exceed the greater of—
(i) a rate 0.2 percentage points higher than
such rate of interest on such date, or
(ii) the rate necessary to collect revenues suf-
ficient to administer the program under this sec-
tion.
(c) LOAN APPLICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In applying for a loan under
subsection (a), the plan sponsor shall—
(A) demonstrate that, except as provided in
subparagraph (C)—
(i) the loan will enable the plan to avoid in-
solvency for at least the 30-year period described
in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection
(b)(1) or, in the case of a plan which is already
insolvent, to emerge from insolvency within and
avoid insolvency for the remainder of such pe-
riod; and
(ii) the plan is reasonably expected to be able
to pay benefits and the interest on the loan dur-
ing such period and to accumulate sufficient
funds to repay the principal when due;
(B) provide the plan’s most recently filed
Form 5500 as of the date of application and any
other information necessary to determine the
loan amount under subsection (d);
(C) stipulate whether the plan is also apply-
ing for financial assistance under section
4261(d) of the Employee Retirement Income Se-
curity Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1431(d)) in com-
bination with the loan to enable the plan to
avoid insolvency and to pay benefits, or is al-
ready receiving such financial assistance as a
result of a previous application;
(D) state in what manner the loan proceeds
will be invested pursuant to subsection (d), the
person from whom any annuity contracts under
such subsection will be purchased, and the per-
son who will be the investment manager for any
portfolio implemented under such subsection;
and
(E) include such other information and certifi-
cations as the Director of the Pension Rehabili-
tation Administration shall require.
(2) STANDARD FOR ACCEPTING ACTUARIAL AND
PLAN SPONSOR DETERMINATIONS AND DEM-
ONSTRATIONS IN THE APPLICATION.—In evalu-
ating the plan sponsor’s application, the Direc-
tor of the Pension Rehabilitation Administration
shall accept the determinations and demonstra-
tions in the application unless the Director, in
consultation with the Director of the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Secretary of
the Treasury, and the Secretary of Labor, con-
cludes that any such determinations or dem-
onstrations in the application (or any under-
lying assumptions) are unreasonable or are in-
consistent with any rules issued by the Director
pursuant to subsection (g).
(3) REQUIRED ACTIONS; DEEMED APPROVAL.—
The Director of the Pension Rehabilitation Ad-
ministration shall approve or deny any applica-
tion under this subsection within 90 days after
the submission of such application. An applica-
tion shall be deemed approved unless, within
such 90 days, the Director notifies the plan
sponsor of the denial of such application and
the reasons for such denial. Any approval or de-
nial of an application by the Director of the
Pension Rehabilitation Administration shall be
treated as a final agency action for purposes of
section 704 of title 5, United States Code. The
Pension Rehabilitation Administration shall
make the loan pursuant to any application
promptly after the approval of such application.
(4) CERTAIN PLANS REQUIRED TO APPLY.—The
plan sponsor of any plan with respect to which
a suspension of benefits has been approved
under section 432(e)(9) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 and section 305(e)(9) of the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 or
under section 418E of such Code, before the date
of the enactment of this Act shall apply for a
loan under this section. The Director of the
Pension Rehabilitation Administration shall
provide for such plan sponsors to use the sim-
plified application under subsection (d)(2)(B).
(5) INCENTIVE FOR EARLY REPAYMENT.—The
plan sponsor may elect at the time of the appli-
cation to repay the loan principal, along with
the remaining interest, at least as rapidly as
equal installments over the 10-year period begin-
ning with the 21st year after the date of the
loan. In the case of a plan making this election,
the interest on the loan shall be reduced by 0.5
percentage points.
(d) LOAN AMOUNT AND USE.—
(1) AMOUNT OF LOAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B) and paragraph (2), the amount
of any loan under subsection (a) shall be, as
demonstrated by the plan sponsor on the appli-
cation under subsection (c), the amount needed
to purchase annuity contracts or to implement a
portfolio described in paragraph (3)(C) (or a
combination of the two) sufficient to provide
benefits of participants and beneficiaries of the
plan in pay status, and terminated vested bene-
fits, at the time the loan is made.
(B) PLANS WITH SUSPENDED BENEFITS.—In the
case of a plan with respect to which a suspen-
sion of benefits has been approved under section
432(e)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
and section 305(e)(9) of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C.
1085(e)(9)) or under section 418E of such Code—
(i) the suspension of benefits shall not be
taken into account in applying subparagraph
(A); and
(ii) the loan amount shall be the amount suffi-
cient to provide benefits of participants and
beneficiaries of the plan in pay status and ter-
minated vested benefits at the time the loan is
made, determined without regard to the suspen-
sion, including retroactive payment of benefits
which would otherwise have been payable dur-
ing the period of the suspension.
(2) COORDINATION WITH PBGC FINANCIAL AS-
SISTANCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a plan which
is also applying for financial assistance under
section 4261(d) of the Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1431(d))—
(i) the plan sponsor shall submit the loan ap-
plication and the application for financial as-
sistance jointly to the Pension Rehabilitation
Administration and the Pension Benefit Guar-
anty Corporation with the information nec-
essary to determine the eligibility for and
amount of the loan under this section and the
financial assistance under section 4261(d) of
such Act; and
(ii) if such financial assistance is granted, the
amount of the loan under subsection (a) shall
not exceed an amount equal to the excess of—
(I) the amount determined under paragraph
(1)(A) or (1)(B)(ii) (whichever is applicable);
over
(II) the amount of such financial assistance.
(B) PLANS ALREADY RECEIVING PBGC ASSIST-
ANCE.—The Director of the Pension Rehabilita-
tion Administration shall provide for a sim-
plified application for the loan under this sec-
tion which may be used by an insolvent plan
which has not been terminated and which is al-
ready receiving financial assistance (other than
under section 4261(d) of such Act) from the Pen-
sion Benefit Guaranty Corporation at the time
of the application for the loan under this sec-
tion.
(3) USE OF LOAN FUNDS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
432(f)(2)(A)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 and section 305(f)(2)(A)(ii) of such Act, the
loan received under subsection (a) shall only be
used to purchase annuity contracts which meet
the requirements of subparagraph (B) or to im-
plement a portfolio described in subparagraph
(C) (or a combination of the two) to provide the
benefits described in paragraph (1).
(B) ANNUITY CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.—The
annuity contracts purchased under subpara-
graph (A) shall be issued by an insurance com-
pany which is licensed to do business under the
laws of any State and which is rated A or better
by a nationally recognized statistical rating or-
ganization, and the purchase of such contracts
shall meet all applicable fiduciary standards
under the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974.
(C) PORTFOLIO.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—A portfolio described in this
subparagraph is—
(I) a cash matching portfolio or duration
matching portfolio consisting of investment
grade (as rated by a nationally recognized sta-
tistical rating organization) fixed income invest-
ments, including United States dollar-denomi-
nated public or private debt obligations issued
or guaranteed by the United States or a foreign
issuer, which are tradeable in United States cur-
rency and are issued at fixed or zero coupon
rates; or
(II) any other portfolio prescribed by the Sec-
retary of the Treasury in regulations which has
a similar risk profile to the portfolios described
in subclause (I) and is equally protective of the
interests of participants and beneficiaries.
Once implemented, such a portfolio shall be
maintained until all liabilities to participants
and beneficiaries in pay status, and terminated
vested participants, at the time of the loan are
satisfied.
(ii) FIDUCIARY DUTY.—Any investment man-
ager of a portfolio under this subparagraph
shall acknowledge in writing that such person is
a fiduciary under the Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act of 1974 with respect to the
plan.
(iii) TREATMENT OF PARTICIPANTS AND BENE-
FICIARIES.—Participants and beneficiaries cov-
ered by a portfolio under this subparagraph
shall continue to be treated as participants and
beneficiaries of the plan, including for purposes
of title IV of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974.
(D) ACCOUNTING.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Annuity contracts purchased
and portfolios implemented under this para-
graph shall be used solely to provide the benefits
described in paragraph (1) until all such bene-
fits have been paid and shall be accounted for
separately from the other assets of the plan.
(ii) OVERSIGHT OF NON-ANNUITY INVEST-
MENTS.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—Any portfolio implemented
under this paragraph shall be subject to over-
sight by the Pension Rehabilitation Administra-
tion, including a mandatory triennial review of
the adequacy of the portfolio to provide the ben-
efits described in paragraph (1) and approval (to
be provided within a reasonable period of time)
of any decision by the plan sponsor to change
the investment manager of the portfolio.
(II) REMEDIAL ACTION.—If the oversight under
subclause (I) determines an inadequacy, the
plan sponsor shall take remedial action to en-
sure that the inadequacy will be cured within 2
years of such determination.
(E) OMBUDSPERSON.—The Participant and
Plan Sponsor Advocate established under sec-
tion 4004 of the Employee Retirement Income Se-
curity Act of 1974 shall act as ombudsperson for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.036 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7320 July 24, 2019
participants and beneficiaries on behalf of
whom annuity contracts are purchased or who
are covered by a portfolio under this paragraph.
(e) COLLECTION OF REPAYMENT.—Except as
provided in subsection (f), the Pension Rehabili-
tation Administration shall make every effort to
collect repayment of loans under this section in
accordance with section 3711 of title 31, United
States Code.
(f) LOAN DEFAULT.—If a plan is unable to
make any payment on a loan under this section
when due, the Pension Rehabilitation Adminis-
tration shall negotiate with the plan sponsor re-
vised terms for repayment (including installment
payments over a reasonable period or forgive-
ness of a portion of the loan principal), but only
to the extent necessary to avoid insolvency in
the subsequent 18 months.
(g) AUTHORITY TO ISSUE RULES, ETC.—The Di-
rector of the Pension Rehabilitation Administra-
tion, in consultation with the Director of the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of
Labor, is authorized to issue rules regarding the
form, content, and process of applications for
loans under this section, actuarial standards
and assumptions to be used in making estimates
and projections for purposes of such applica-
tions, and assumptions regarding interest rates,
mortality, and distributions with respect to a
portfolio described in subsection (d)(3)(C).
(h) REPORT TO CONGRESS ON STATUS OF CER-
TAIN PLANS WITH LOANS.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act, and
annually thereafter, the Director of the Pension
Rehabilitation Administration shall submit to
the Committee on Ways and Means and the
Committee on Education and Labor of the
House of Representatives, and the Committee on
Finance and the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor and Pensions of the Senate, a re-
port identifying any plan that—
(1) has failed to make any scheduled payment
on a loan under this section,
(2) has negotiated revised terms for repayment
of such loan (including any installment pay-
ments or forgiveness of a portion of the loan
principal), or
(3) the Director has determined is no longer
reasonably expected to be able to—
(A) pay benefits and the interest on the loan,
or
(B) accumulate sufficient funds to repay the
principal when due.
Such report shall include the details of any such
failure, revised terms, or determination, as the
case may be.
(i) COORDINATION WITH TAXATION OF UNRE-
LATED BUSINESS INCOME.—Subparagraph (A) of
section 514(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of clause (i);
(2) by striking the period at the end of clause
(ii)(II) and inserting ‘‘, or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(iii) indebtedness with respect to a multiem-
ployer plan under a loan made by the Pension
Rehabilitation Administration pursuant to sec-
tion 4 of the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer
Pensions Act of 2019.’’.
SEC. 5. COORDINATION WITH WITHDRAWAL LI-
ABILITY AND FUNDING RULES.
(a) AMENDMENT TO INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
OF 1986.—Section 432 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(k) SPECIAL RULES FOR PLANS RECEIVING
PENSION REHABILITATION LOANS.—
‘‘(1) DETERMINATION OF WITHDRAWAL LIABIL-
ITY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If any employer partici-
pating in a plan at the time the plan receives a
loan under section 4(a) of the Rehabilitation for
Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019 withdraws
from the plan before the end of the 30-year pe-
riod beginning on the date of the loan, the with-
drawal liability of such employer shall be deter-
mined under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974—
‘‘(i) by applying section 4219(c)(1)(D) of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 as if the plan were terminating by the with-
drawal of every employer from the plan, and
‘‘(ii) by determining the value of nonforfeit-
able benefits under the plan at the time of the
deemed termination by using the interest as-
sumptions prescribed for purposes of section 4044
of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as prescribed in the regulations under
section 4281 of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 in the case of such a mass
withdrawal.
‘‘(B) ANNUITY CONTRACTS AND INVESTMENT
PORTFOLIOS PURCHASED WITH LOAN FUNDS.—An-
nuity contracts purchased and portfolios imple-
mented under section 4(d)(3) of the Rehabilita-
tion for Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019
shall not be taken into account as plan assets in
determining the withdrawal liability of any em-
ployer under subparagraph (A), but the amount
equal to the greater of—
‘‘(i) the benefits provided under such con-
tracts or portfolios to participants and bene-
ficiaries, or
‘‘(ii) the remaining payments due on the loan
under section 4(a) of such Act,
shall be taken into account as unfunded vested
benefits in determining such withdrawal liabil-
ity.
‘‘(2) COORDINATION WITH FUNDING REQUIRE-
MENTS.—In the case of a plan which receives a
loan under section 4(a) of the Rehabilitation for
Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019—
‘‘(A) annuity contracts purchased and port-
folios implemented under section 4(d)(3) of such
Act, and the benefits provided to participants
and beneficiaries under such contracts or port-
folios, shall not be taken into account in deter-
mining minimum required contributions under
section 412,
‘‘(B) payments on the interest and principal
under the loan, and any benefits owed in excess
of those provided under such contracts or port-
folios, shall be taken into account as liabilities
for purposes of such section, and
‘‘(C) if such a portfolio is projected due to un-
favorable investment or actuarial experience to
be unable to fully satisfy the liabilities which it
covers, the amount of the liabilities projected to
be unsatisfied shall be taken into account as li-
abilities for purposes of such section.’’.
(b) AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT
INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974.—Section 305 of
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1085) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(k) SPECIAL RULES FOR PLANS RECEIVING
PENSION REHABILITATION LOANS.—
‘‘(1) DETERMINATION OF WITHDRAWAL LIABIL-
ITY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If any employer partici-
pating in a plan at the time the plan receives a
loan under section 4(a) of the Rehabilitation for
Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019 withdraws
from the plan before the end of the 30-year pe-
riod beginning on the date of the loan, the with-
drawal liability of such employer shall be deter-
mined—
‘‘(i) by applying section 4219(c)(1)(D) as if the
plan were terminating by the withdrawal of
every employer from the plan, and
‘‘(ii) by determining the value of nonforfeit-
able benefits under the plan at the time of the
deemed termination by using the interest as-
sumptions prescribed for purposes of section
4044, as prescribed in the regulations under sec-
tion 4281 in the case of such a mass withdrawal.
‘‘(B) ANNUITY CONTRACTS AND INVESTMENT
PORTFOLIOS PURCHASED WITH LOAN FUNDS.—An-
nuity contracts purchased and portfolios imple-
mented under section 4(d)(3) of the Rehabilita-
tion for Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019
shall not be taken into account in determining
the withdrawal liability of any employer under
subparagraph (A), but the amount equal to the
greater of—
‘‘(i) the benefits provided under such con-
tracts or portfolios to participants and bene-
ficiaries, or
‘‘(ii) the remaining payments due on the loan
under section 4(a) of such Act,
shall be taken into account as unfunded vested
benefits in determining such withdrawal liabil-
ity.
‘‘(2) COORDINATION WITH FUNDING REQUIRE-
MENTS.—In the case of a plan which receives a
loan under section 4(a) of the Rehabilitation for
Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019—
‘‘(A) annuity contracts purchased and port-
folios implemented under section 4(d)(3) of such
Act, and the benefits provided to participants
and beneficiaries under such contracts or port-
folios, shall not be taken into account in deter-
mining minimum required contributions under
section 302,
‘‘(B) payments on the interest and principal
under the loan, and any benefits owed in excess
of those provided under such contracts or port-
folios, shall be taken into account as liabilities
for purposes of such section, and
‘‘(C) if such a portfolio is projected due to un-
favorable investment or actuarial experience to
be unable to fully satisfy the liabilities which it
covers, the amount of the liabilities projected to
be unsatisfied shall be taken into account as li-
abilities for purposes of such section.’’.
SEC. 6. ISSUANCE OF TREASURY BONDS.
The Secretary of the Treasury shall from time
to time transfer from the general fund of the
Treasury to the Pension Rehabilitation Trust
Fund established under section 9512 of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 such amounts as
are necessary to fund the loan program under
section 4 of this Act, including from proceeds
from the Secretary’s issuance of obligations
under chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 7. REPORTS OF PLANS RECEIVING PENSION
REHABILITATION LOANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subpart E of part III of sub-
chapter A of chapter 61 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 6059A. REPORTS OF PLANS RECEIVING PEN-
SION REHABILITATION LOANS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a plan re-
ceiving a loan under section 4(a) of the Reha-
bilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act of
2019, with respect to the first plan year begin-
ning after the date of the loan and each of the
29 succeeding plan years, not later than the 90th
day of each such plan year the plan sponsor
shall file with the Secretary a report (including
appropriate documentation and actuarial cer-
tifications from the plan actuary, as required by
the Secretary) that contains—
‘‘(1) the funded percentage (as defined in sec-
tion 432(j)(2)) as of the first day of such plan
year, and the underlying actuarial value of as-
sets (determined with regard, and without re-
gard, to annuity contracts purchased and port-
folios implemented with proceeds of such loan)
and liabilities (including any amounts due with
respect to such loan) taken into account in de-
termining such percentage,
‘‘(2) the market value of the assets of the plan
(determined as provided in paragraph (1)) as of
the last day of the plan year preceding such
plan year,
‘‘(3) the total value of all contributions made
by employers and employees during the plan
year preceding such plan year,
‘‘(4) the total value of all benefits paid during
the plan year preceding such plan year,
‘‘(5) cash flow projections for such plan year
and the 9 succeeding plan years, and the as-
sumptions used in making such projections,
‘‘(6) funding standard account projections for
such plan year and the 9 succeeding plan years,
and the assumptions relied upon in making such
projections,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:35 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.036 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7321
July 24, 2019
‘‘(7) the total value of all investment gains or
losses during the plan year preceding such plan
year,
‘‘(8) any significant reduction in the number
of active participants during the plan year pre-
ceding such plan year, and the reason for such
reduction,
‘‘(9) a list of employers that withdrew from
the plan in the plan year preceding such plan
year, and the resulting reduction in contribu-
tions,
‘‘(10) a list of employers that paid withdrawal
liability to the plan during the plan year pre-
ceding such plan year and, for each employer, a
total assessment of the withdrawal liability
paid, the annual payment amount, and the
number of years remaining in the payment
schedule with respect to such withdrawal liabil-
ity,
‘‘(11) any material changes to benefits, ac-
crual rates, or contribution rates during the
plan year preceding such plan year, and wheth-
er such changes relate to the terms of the loan,
‘‘(12) details regarding any funding improve-
ment plan or rehabilitation plan and updates to
such plan,
‘‘(13) the number of participants during the
plan year preceding such plan year who are ac-
tive participants, the number of participants
and beneficiaries in pay status, and the number
of terminated vested participants and bene-
ficiaries,
‘‘(14) the amount of any financial assistance
received under section 4261 of the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 to pay ben-
efits during the preceding plan year, and the
total amount of such financial assistance re-
ceived for all preceding years,
‘‘(15) the information contained on the most
recent annual funding notice submitted by the
plan under section 101(f) of the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974,
‘‘(16) the information contained on the most
recent annual return under section 6058 and ac-
tuarial report under section 6059 of the plan,
and
‘‘(17) copies of the plan document and amend-
ments, other retirement benefit or ancillary ben-
efit plans relating to the plan and contribution
obligations under such plans, a breakdown of
administrative expenses of the plan, participant
census data and distribution of benefits, the
most recent actuarial valuation report as of the
plan year, copies of collective bargaining agree-
ments, and financial reports, and such other in-
formation as the Secretary, in consultation with
the Director of the Pension Rehabilitation Ad-
ministration, may require.
‘‘(b) ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION.—The report re-
quired under subsection (a) shall be submitted
electronically.
‘‘(c) INFORMATION SHARING.—The Secretary
shall share the information in the report under
subsection (a) with the Secretary of Labor and
the Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation.
‘‘(d) REPORT TO PARTICIPANTS, BENE-
FICIARIES, AND EMPLOYERS.—Each plan sponsor
required to file a report under subsection (a)
shall, before the expiration of the time pre-
scribed for the filing of such report, also provide
a summary (written in a manner so as to be un-
derstood by the average plan participant) of the
information in such report to participants and
beneficiaries in the plan and to each employer
with an obligation to contribute to the plan.’’.
(b) PENALTY.—Subsection (e) of section 6652 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘, 6059A (relating to reports of
plans receiving pension rehabilitation loans)’’
after ‘‘deferred compensation)’’;
(2) by inserting ‘‘($100 in the case of failures
under section 6059A)’’ after ‘‘$25’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘In
the case of a failure with respect to section
6059A, the amount imposed under this sub-
section shall not be paid from the assets of the
plan.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sec-
tions for subpart E of part III of subchapter A
of chapter 61 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Sec. 6059A. Reports of plans receiving pension
rehabilitation loans.’’.
SEC. 8. PBGC FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 4261 of the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1431) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(d)(1) The plan sponsor of a multiem-
ployer plan—
‘‘(A) which is in critical and declining sta-
tus (within the meaning of section 305(b)(6))
as of the date of the enactment of this sub-
section, or with respect to which a suspen-
sion of benefits has been approved under sec-
tion 305(e)(9) as of such date;
‘‘(B) which, as of such date of enactment,
is in critical status (within the meaning of
section 305(b)(2)), has a modified funded per-
centage of less than 40 percent (as defined in
section 4(a)(1) of the Rehabilitation for Mul-
tiemployer Pensions Act of 2019), and has a
ratio of active to inactive participants which
is less than 2 to 5; or
‘‘(C) which is insolvent for purposes of sec-
tion 418E of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 as of such date of enactment, if the plan
became insolvent after December 16, 2014,
and has not been terminated;
and which is applying for a loan under sec-
tion 4(a) of the Rehabilitation for Multiem-
ployer Pensions Act of 2019 may also apply
to the corporation for financial assistance
under this subsection, by jointly submitting
such applications in accordance with section
4(d)(2) of such Act. The application for finan-
cial assistance under this subsection shall
demonstrate, based on projections by the
plan actuary, that after the receipt of the
anticipated loan amount under section 4(a)
of such Act, the plan will still become (or re-
main) insolvent within the 30-year period be-
ginning on the date of the loan.
‘‘(2) In reviewing an application under
paragraph (1), the corporation shall review
the determinations and demonstrations sub-
mitted with the loan application under sec-
tion 4(c) of the Rehabilitation for Multiem-
ployer Pensions Act of 2019 and provide guid-
ance regarding such determinations and
demonstrations prior to approving any appli-
cation for financial assistance under this
subsection. The corporation may deny any
application if any such determinations or
demonstrations (or any underlying assump-
tions) are unreasonable, or inconsistent with
rules issued by the corporation, and the plan
and the corporation are unable to reach
agreement on such determinations or dem-
onstrations. The corporation shall prescribe
any such rules or guidance not later than
December 31, 2019.
‘‘(3)(A) In the case of a plan described in
paragraph (1)(A) or (1)(B), the total financial
assistance provided under this subsection
shall be an amount equal to the smallest
portion of the loan amount with respect to
the plan under paragraph (1)(A) or (1)(B)(ii)
of section 4(d) of the Rehabilitation for Mul-
tiemployer Pensions Act of 2019 (determined
without regard to paragraph (2) thereof)
that, if provided as financial assistance
under this subsection instead of a loan,
would allow the plan to avoid the projected
insolvency.
‘‘(B) Such amount shall not exceed the
present value of the maximum guaranteed
benefit with respect to all participants and
beneficiaries of the plan under sections 4022A
and 4022B. For purposes of the preceding sen-
tence, the present value of the maximum
guaranteed benefit amount shall be deter-
mined by disregarding any loan available
from the Pension Rehabilitation Administra-
tion and shall be determined as if the plan
were insolvent on the date of the applica-
tion, and the present value of the maximum
guaranteed benefit amount with respect to
such participants and beneficiaries may be
calculated in the aggregate, rather than by
reference to the benefit of each such partici-
pant or beneficiary.
‘‘(4) In the case of a plan described in para-
graph (1)(C), the financial assistance pro-
vided pursuant to such application under
this subsection shall be the present value of
the amount (determined by the plan actuary
and submitted on the application) that, if
such amount were paid by the corporation in
combination with the loan and any other as-
sistance being provided to the plan by the
corporation at the time of the application,
would enable the plan to emerge from insol-
vency and avoid any other insolvency pro-
jected under paragraph (1).
‘‘(5)(A)(i) Except as provided in subpara-
graph (B), if the corporation determines at
the time of approval, or at the beginning of
any plan year beginning thereafter, that the
plan’s 5-year expenditure projection (deter-
mined without regard to loan payments de-
scribed in clause (iii)(III)) exceeds the fair
market value of the plan’s assets, the cor-
poration shall (subject to the total amount
of financial assistance approved under this
subsection) provide such assistance in an
amount equal to the lesser of—
‘‘(I) the amount by which the plan’s 5-year
expenditure projection exceeds such fair
market value, or
‘‘(II) the plan’s expected expenditures for
the plan year.
‘‘(ii) For purposes of this subparagraph, the
term ‘5-year expenditure projection’ means,
with respect to any plan for a plan year, an
amount equal to 500 percent of the plan’s ex-
pected expenditures for the plan year.
‘‘(iii) For purposes of this subparagraph,
the term ‘expected expenditures’ means,
with respect to any plan for a plan year, an
amount equal to the sum of—
‘‘(I) expected benefit payments for the plan
year,
‘‘(II) expected administrative expense pay-
ments for the plan year, plus
‘‘(III) payments on the loan scheduled dur-
ing the plan year pursuant to the terms of
the loan under section 4(b) of the Rehabilita-
tion for Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019.
‘‘(iv) For purposes of this subparagraph, in
the case of any plan year during which a
plan is approved for a loan under section 4 of
such Act, but has not yet received the pro-
ceeds, such proceeds shall be included in de-
termining the fair market value of the plan’s
assets for the plan year. The preceding sen-
tence shall not apply in the case of any plan
that for the plan year beginning in 2015 was
certified pursuant to section 305(b)(3) as
being in critical and declining status, and
had more than 300,000 participants.
‘‘(B) The financial assistance under this
subsection shall be provided in a lump sum if
the plan sponsor demonstrates in the appli-
cation, and the corporation determines, that
such a lump sum payment is necessary for
the plan to avoid the insolvency to which the
application relates. In the case of a plan de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(C), such lump sum
shall be provided not later than December 31,
2020.
‘‘(6) Subsections (b) and (c) shall apply to
financial assistance under this subsection as
if it were provided under subsection (a), ex-
cept that the terms for repayment under
subsection (b)(2) shall not require the finan-
cial assistance to be repaid before the date
on which the loan under section 4(a) of the
Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions
Act of 2019 is repaid in full.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.036 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7322 July 24, 2019
‘‘(7) The corporation may forgo repayment
of the financial assistance provided under
this subsection if necessary to avoid any sus-
pension of the accrued benefits of partici-
pants.’’.
(b) APPROPRIATIONS.—There is appropriated
to the Director of the Pension Benefit Guar-
anty Corporation such sums as may be nec-
essary for each fiscal year to provide the fi-
nancial assistance described in section
4261(d) of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1431(d)) (as
added by this section) (including necessary
administrative and operating expenses relat-
ing to such assistance).
SEC. 9. MODIFICATION OF REQUIRED DISTRIBU-
TION RULES FOR DESIGNATED
BENEFICIARIES.
(a) MODIFICATION OF RULES WHERE EM-
PLOYEE DIES BEFORE ENTIRE DISTRIBUTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 401(a)(9) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
adding at the end the following new subpara-
graph:
‘‘(H) SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN DEFINED
CONTRIBUTION PLANS.—In the case of a de-
fined contribution plan, if an employee dies
before the distribution of the employee’s en-
tire interest—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except in the case of a
beneficiary who is not a designated bene-
ficiary, subparagraph (B)(ii)—
‘‘(I) shall be applied by substituting ‘10
years’ for ‘5 years’, and
‘‘(II) shall apply whether or not distribu-
tions of the employee’s interests have begun
in accordance with subparagraph (A).
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION ONLY FOR ELIGIBLE DES-
IGNATED BENEFICIARIES.—Subparagraph
(B)(iii) shall apply only in the case of an eli-
gible designated beneficiary.
‘‘(iii) RULES UPON DEATH OF ELIGIBLE DES-
IGNATED BENEFICIARY.—If an eligible des-
ignated beneficiary dies before the portion of
the employee’s interest to which this sub-
paragraph applies is entirely distributed, the
exception under clause (iii) shall not apply
to any beneficiary of such eligible designated
beneficiary and the remainder of such por-
tion shall be distributed within 10 years after
the death of such eligible designated bene-
ficiary.
‘‘(iv) APPLICATION TO CERTAIN ELIGIBLE RE-
TIREMENT PLANS.—For purposes of applying
the provisions of this subparagraph in deter-
mining amounts required to be distributed
pursuant to this paragraph, all eligible re-
tirement plans (as defined in section
402(c)(8)(B), other than a defined benefit plan
described in clause (iv) or (v) thereof or a
qualified trust which is a part of a defined
benefit plan) shall be treated as a defined
contribution plan.’’.
(2) DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE DESIGNATED BEN-
EFICIARY.—Section 401(a)(9)(E) of such Code
is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(E) DEFINITIONS AND RULES RELATING TO
DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY.—For purposes of
this paragraph—
‘‘(i) DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY.—The term
‘designated beneficiary’ means any indi-
vidual designated as a beneficiary by the em-
ployee.
‘‘(ii) ELIGIBLE DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY.—
The term ‘eligible designated beneficiary’
means, with respect to any employee, any
designated beneficiary who is—
‘‘(I) the surviving spouse of the employee,
‘‘(II) subject to clause (iii), a child of the
employee who has not reached majority
(within the meaning of subparagraph (F)),
‘‘(III) disabled (within the meaning of sec-
tion 72(m)(7)),
‘‘(IV) a chronically ill individual (within
the meaning of section 7702B(c)(2), except
that the requirements of subparagraph (A)(i)
thereof shall only be treated as met if there
is a certification that, as of such date, the
period of inability described in such subpara-
graph with respect to the individual is an in-
definite one which is reasonably expected to
be lengthy in nature), or
‘‘(V) an individual not described in any of
the preceding subclauses who is not more
than 10 years younger than the employee.
‘‘(iii) SPECIAL RULE FOR CHILDREN.—Subject
to subparagraph (F), an individual described
in clause (ii)(II) shall cease to be an eligible
designated beneficiary as of the date the in-
dividual reaches majority and any remainder
of the portion of the individual’s interest to
which subparagraph (H)(ii) applies shall be
distributed within 10 years after such date.
‘‘(iv) TIME FOR DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBLE
DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY.—The determina-
tion of whether a designated beneficiary is
an eligible designated beneficiary shall be
made as of the date of death of the em-
ployee.’’.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in this
paragraph and paragraphs (4) and (5), the
amendments made by this subsection shall
apply to distributions with respect to em-
ployees who die after December 31, 2019.
(B) COLLECTIVE BARGAINING EXCEPTION.—In
the case of a plan maintained pursuant to 1
or more collective bargaining agreements be-
tween employee representatives and 1 or
more employers ratified before the date of
enactment of this Act, the amendments
made by this subsection shall apply to dis-
tributions with respect to employees who die
in calendar years beginning after the earlier
of—
(i) the later of—
(I) the date on which the last of such col-
lective bargaining agreements terminates
(determined without regard to any extension
thereof agreed to on or after the date of the
enactment of this Act), or
(II) December 31, 2019, or
(ii) December 31, 2021
For purposes of clause (i)(I), any plan amend-
ment made pursuant to a collective bar-
gaining agreement relating to the plan
which amends the plan solely to conform to
any requirement added by this section shall
not be treated as a termination of such col-
lective bargaining agreement.
(C) GOVERNMENTAL PLANS.—In the case of a
governmental plan (as defined in section
414(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986),
subparagraph (A) shall be applied by sub-
stituting ‘‘December 31, 2021’’ for ‘‘December
31, 2019’’.
(4) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN EXISTING ANNU-
ITY CONTRACTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made
by this subsection shall not apply to a quali-
fied annuity which is a binding annuity con-
tract in effect on the date of enactment of
this Act and at all times thereafter.
(B) QUALIFIED ANNUITY.—For purposes of
this paragraph, the term ‘‘qualified annuity’’
means, with respect to an employee, an an-
nuity—
(i) which is a commercial annuity (as de-
fined in section 3405(e)(6) of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986);
(ii) under which the annuity payments are
made over the life of the employee or over
the joint lives of such employee and a des-
ignated beneficiary (or over a period not ex-
tending beyond the life expectancy of such
employee or the joint life expectancy of such
employee and a designated beneficiary) in
accordance with the regulations described in
section 401(a)(9)(A)(ii) of such Code (as in ef-
fect before such amendments) and which
meets the other requirements of section
401(a)(9) of such Code (as so in effect) with re-
spect to such payments; and
(iii) with respect to which—
(I) annuity payments to the employee have
begun before the date of enactment of this
Act, and the employee has made an irrev-
ocable election before such date as to the
method and amount of the annuity payments
to the employee or any designated bene-
ficiaries; or
(II) if subclause (I) does not apply, the em-
ployee has made an irrevocable election be-
fore the date of enactment of this Act as to
the method and amount of the annuity pay-
ments to the employee or any designated
beneficiaries.
(5) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN BENEFICIARIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If an employee dies be-
fore the effective date, then, in applying the
amendments made by this subsection to such
employee’s designated beneficiary who dies
after such date—
(i) such amendments shall apply to any
beneficiary of such designated beneficiary;
and
(ii) the designated beneficiary shall be
treated as an eligible designated beneficiary
for purposes of applying section
401(a)(9)(H)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 (as in effect after such amendments).
(B) EFFECTIVE DATE.—For purposes of this
paragraph, the term ‘‘effective date’’ means
the first day of the first calendar year to
which the amendments made by this sub-
section apply to a plan with respect to em-
ployees dying on or after such date.
(b) PROVISIONS RELATING TO PLAN AMEND-
MENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If this subsection applies
to any plan amendment—
(A) such plan shall be treated as being op-
erated in accordance with the terms of the
plan during the period described in para-
graph (2)(B)(i); and
(B) except as provided by the Secretary of
the Treasury, such plan shall not fail to
meet the requirements of section 411(d)(6) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and sec-
tion 204(g) of the Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act of 1974 by reason of such
amendment.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO WHICH SUBSECTION AP-
PLIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—This subsection shall
apply to any amendment to any plan or
which is made—
(i) pursuant to any amendment made by
this section or pursuant to any regulation
issued by the Secretary of the Treasury
under this section or such amendments; and
(ii) on or before the last day of the first
plan year beginning after December 31, 2021,
or such later date as the Secretary of the
Treasury may prescribe.
In the case of a governmental or collectively
bargained plan to which subparagraph (B) or
(C) of subsection (a)(4) applies, clause (ii)
shall be applied by substituting the date
which is 2 years after the date otherwise ap-
plied under such clause.
(B) CONDITIONS.—This subsection shall not
apply to any amendment unless—
(i) during the period—
(I) beginning on the date the legislative or
regulatory amendment described in para-
graph (1)(A) takes effect (or in the case of a
plan amendment not required by such legis-
lative or regulatory amendment, the effec-
tive date specified by the plan); and
(II) ending on the date described in sub-
paragraph (A)(ii) (or, if earlier, the date the
plan amendment is adopted),
the plan is operated as if such plan amend-
ment were in effect; and
(ii) such plan amendment applies retro-
actively for such period.
SEC. 10. INCREASE IN PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO
FILE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The second sentence of
section 6651(a) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended by the Taxpayer First
Act, is amended by striking ‘‘$330’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$435’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.036 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7323
July 24, 2019
(b) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—Section
6651(j)(1) of such Code, as amended by such
Act, is amended by striking ‘‘$330’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$435’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to returns
the due date for which (including extensions)
is after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 11. INCREASED PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO
FILE RETIREMENT PLAN RETURNS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (e) of section
6652 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘$25’’ and inserting ‘‘$250’’;
and
(2) by striking ‘‘$15,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$150,000’’.
(b) ANNUAL REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND
NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES.—Subsection (d) of
section 6652 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘$1’’ both places it appears
in paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting ‘‘$10’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘$5,000’’ in paragraph (1) and
inserting ‘‘$50,000’’; and
(3) by striking ‘‘$1,000’’ in paragraph (2) and
inserting ‘‘$10,000’’.
(c) FAILURE TO PROVIDE NOTICE.—Sub-
section (h) of section 6652 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘$10’’ and inserting ‘‘$100’’;
and
(2) by striking ‘‘$5,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$50,000’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to returns,
statements, and notifications required to be
filed, and notices required to be provided,
after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 12. INCREASE INFORMATION SHARING TO
ADMINISTER EXCISE TAXES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 6103(o) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(3) TAXES IMPOSED BY SECTION 4481.—Re-
turns and return information with respect to
taxes imposed by section 4481 shall be open
to inspection by or disclosure to officers and
employees of United States Customs and
Border Protection of the Department of
Homeland Security whose official duties re-
quire such inspection or disclosure for pur-
poses of administering such section.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Paragraph
(4) of section 6103(p) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by striking ‘‘or
(o)(1)(A)’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘, (o)(1)(A), or (o)(3)’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill,
as amended, shall be debatable for 1
hour equally divided among and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minor-
ity member of the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor and the chair and
ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
After 1 hour of debate on the bill, as
amended, it shall be in order to con-
sider the further amendment printed in
part A of House Report 116–178, if of-
fered by the Member designated in the
report, which shall be considered read,
shall be separately debatable for the
time specified in the report equally di-
vided and controlled by the proponent
and an opponent, and shall not be sub-
ject to a demand for a division of the
question.
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
SCOTT), the gentlewoman from North
Carolina (Ms. FOXX), the gentleman
from Massachusetts (Mr. NEAL), and
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. BRADY)
each will control 15 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Virginia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks and insert extraneous
material on H.R. 397, the Rehabilita-
tion for Multiemployer Pensions Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Virginia?
There was no objection.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself 21⁄2 minutes.
Madam Speaker, over the last few
decades, construction workers, truck
drivers, industrial bakers, coal miners,
and other hardworking Americans,
some of whom are here today, did ev-
erything they could to prepare them-
selves and their families for a secure
retirement. Year after year, these
workers negotiated with their employ-
ers to defer wages in return for a prom-
ise of a pension that would allow them
to retire with dignity.
Now, through no fault of their own,
the pensions they earned over their
lifetimes and the retirement security
they were promised are in jeopardy.
Today, approximately 130 multiem-
ployer pension plans, covering about 1
million participants, are in severe fi-
nancial distress. Several plans are fac-
ing insolvency in the next few years,
while many others are projected to fail
over the next 20 years.
Making matters worse, the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which
insures these pension plans, is pro-
jected to run out of money by 2025 as
large plans face insolvency. If multi-
employer pension plans go broke and
the PBGC’s multiemployer program
collapses, there will be catastrophic
consequences to retirees, workers,
businesses, and taxpayers.
The Rehabilitation for Multiem-
ployer Pensions Act, commonly known
as the Butch Lewis Act, is a bipartisan
solution to avert this financial dis-
aster, and it will actually end up sav-
ing taxpayers billions of dollars.
According to one estimate, a multi-
employer pension system collapse
would cost the Federal Government at
least $170 billion over 10 years, and pos-
sibly $400 billion over 30 years, due to
lost tax revenue and increased reliance
on social programs.
According to the CBO, to solve the
problem, this bill is estimated to cost
not $400 billion over 30 years, but $55
billion, total, over those 30 years. This
bill will solve the problem. And that is
just the cost to the Federal budget, ig-
noring the pain and suffering of people
losing their pensions and businesses
going out of business.
That is the choice we have today. We
can support a bipartisan bill that saves
retirees’ hard-earned pensions, protect
businesses from going bankrupt, and
costs far less than doing nothing, or we
can oppose it and end up costing the
taxpayers far more in the long run.
Madam Speaker, I anticipate that my
Republican colleagues will talk about
structural reforms that are needed to
prevent multiemployer plans from fac-
ing bankruptcy in the future. I agree.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself an additional 1
minute.
Madam Speaker, reforms are needed,
and I am committed to working on a
bipartisan basis to enact prospective
reforms. But when the house is on fire,
you don’t debate on how the fire start-
ed or pontificate over how to prevent
fires in the future; you put out the fire.
So today we are putting out the fire
and protecting retirement security for
more than 1 million Americans across
the country and saving the taxpayers
hundreds of billions of dollars.
Madam Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to support this legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Speaker, my colleague on the
other side of the aisle said that we
have a house on fire and we must do
something about it. What this bill does
is it gives more gasoline to the arsonist
who started the fire.
Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition
to H.R. 397, a risky, fiscally irrespon-
sible, politically motivated scheme
that will negatively impact hard-
working Americans and retirees.
Union multiemployer pension plans
are currently underfunded by $638 bil-
lion, and the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation, PBGC, which ensures
these pensions, has a $54 billion deficit.
In other words, workers and retirees
won’t see the benefits they have been
promised because of union and em-
ployer negligence.
This problem requires a serious, bi-
partisan response. That is why, histori-
cally, Members on both sides of the
aisle have worked together on this
issue. But last month, when the Edu-
cation and Labor Committee marked
up H.R. 397, committee Republicans
were shut out of the debate and denied
the opportunity to offer even a single
amendment, a highly unfortunate and
inappropriate decision.
For the first time ever, taxpayers
will prop up failing, mismanaged,
union-run pension plans. These plans,
all 160 of them, can apply for a govern-
ment loan. There is no limit to the
loan amount, and, remarkably, the
loans will be completely forgiven if
they are unable to be repaid after 29
years.
The chairman of the Education and
Labor Committee said: ‘‘If you can’t
pay it back, you can’t pay it back.’’ So,
by the chairman’s own admission, we
are giving failed union pensions a
blank check. What a deal.
All the while, H.R. 397 allows plans to
continue to promise new benefits, al-
lowing their liabilities to grow.
While I strongly oppose what H.R. 397
intends to do, I am equally appalled by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.036 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7324 July 24, 2019
what the bill fails to do. This legisla-
tion fails to include any reforms that
would ensure responsible funding of fu-
ture benefit promises or prevent a
similar situation from recurring.
The bill also fails to address the
chronic underfunding that plagues the
entire union multiemployer system
and passively accepts that plan trust-
ees and actuaries may continue to un-
derestimate pension promises—to the
detriment of workers and retirees. In
fact, under H.R. 397, the situation could
become far worse.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budg-
et Office, CBO, now estimates that H.R.
397 could increase the Federal budget
deficit by more than $48 billion. But
that estimate is based on last-minute,
bogus Democrat pay-fors and covers
only the bill’s first 10 years. If we look
at the 30-year scheme created by the
bill, we will find a price tag of hun-
dreds of billions of dollars. And remem-
ber, it is American taxpayers who are
on the hook.
Madam Speaker, Congress was set up
to be in this position years ago because
Democrats and unions and employers
knew that Members and the public
would feel sorry for the union members
who were not taken care of by those
they trusted to take care of them.
Every Member here should feel angry
about being put in this position. H.R.
397 is a fiscally irresponsible and care-
less approach that will cause far more
harm than good.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself 15 seconds to
remind the ranking member that CBO
estimates that the 30-year cost of this
bill is about $55 billion of money that
will not be paid back, or we can pay up
to $400 billion over 30 years. We have a
choice. I would pick the $55 billion.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
WILSON).
Ms. WILSON of Florida. Madam
Speaker, as chairwoman of the Edu-
cation and Labor Subcommittee on
Health, Employment, Labor, and Pen-
sions, I rise today to urge my col-
leagues to unanimously pass the Butch
Lewis Act of 2019.
Failure to do so will have dire con-
sequences for at least 1.3 million Amer-
icans who did everything right. They
put in decades of hard work to ensure
that their retirement years would be
secure, so many of them in physically
grueling jobs in mining and construc-
tion and on ships and the Nation’s
highways.
They often sacrificed wage increases,
choosing instead a contribution to
their pension plans so that they could
live in their golden years with dignity
and peace, a life well planned. Yet,
after all of that, retired people and fu-
ture retirees are now living in fear of
losing everything they worked so hard
for, and that is a shame.
Failure to pass this legislation also
will have dire consequences for tens of
thousands of current workers and re-
gional economies and could cost Amer-
ican taxpayers between $170 billion and
$240 billion.
b 1715
There is a huge risk, so we must act
now. This is an issue on which both
Democrats and Republicans should
agree. This issue has no party, no race,
no religion. We are all in the same
boat, and we are running out of time.
Our failure to take action to protect
retirees and American taxpayers, our
constituents, is not an option. It is a
necessity, and we must act now. There
is no time to waste. Let’s do the right
thing and pass the Butch Lewis Act of
2019 today.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from South Dakota (Mr. JOHN-
SON).
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota.
Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to
the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer
Pensions Act. It is funny, in this town,
rehabilitation is a word we use to kind-
ly describe a bailout. For normal peo-
ple, rehabilitation is a word that would
conjure up the idea that perhaps today
we are attempting to fix or improve
the $638 billion pension problem before
us.
This bill would, more accurately, be
called the bailout for multiemployer
pensions act, because this bill does not
contain any of the needed reforms to
change the unsustainable trajectory of
these plans.
What does the bill do instead? It cre-
ates a new Federal Government bu-
reaucracy. It allows for billions of dol-
lars of loans to be just forgiven. It pro-
vides loan terms that actually encour-
age not paying down the principal of
these loans.
So to be clear, and to make no doubt,
we do have to fix this pension problem,
but real progress will only come from a
careful, deliberate, and bipartisan
process, and this bill was not designed
to be bipartisan.
In committee, Republicans were ac-
tually blocked from offering amend-
ments that would have improved this
bill. So here we are today, taking up
floor time for a one-sided bill that does
not fix the problem and that will not
become law.
When the majority wants to make
real progress, I will be here, ready to
fix the problem, ready to roll up my
sleeves, ready to invest the bipartisan
effort needed to make meaningful re-
forms. Until then, I will vote ‘‘no’’ on
the bailout.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Mrs. DINGELL).
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairman SCOTT for yielding me the
time.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank both
Chairman SCOTT and Chairman NEAL
for their leadership on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 397, the Butch Lewis Act. This
is a historic moment for working men
and women in this country, and it has
been a long time coming because peo-
ple have been working on this for a
long time.
Today, we are telling millions of
Americans who worked a lifetime for
their pensions that are now in jeop-
ardy, through no fault of their own,
that we are standing with you. We are
listening. We are taking action.
For too long, these working men and
women have worked in fear, not know-
ing what was going to happen. They
have given up pay raises. They played
by the rules. They thought they would
have a safe and secure retirement. By
passing the Butch Lewis Act, we are
sending a loud message that we hear
them and are taking steps to ensure
that their retirement that they worked
for, for a lifetime, will be there when
they need it.
This is money hardworking men and
women earned and counted on to retire
safely, to afford to stay in their homes,
to afford food on their table, and to af-
ford their medicine. American workers
have done their part. The House will
soon do its part.
I hope the Senate will also act quick-
ly because I know the men and women,
they have come to my door at 7 a.m.,
they have threatened suicide. They are
scared.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
two letters in support of this legisla-
tion. One is from the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters, and one is
from UNITE HERE.
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF
TEAMSTERS,
July 18, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: The House of Rep-
resentatives will soon have the opportunity
to ensure that more than a million retirees
and workers who have played by the rules
will receive the pension benefits they have
earned through years of hard work. On be-
half of the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, its retirees and working families,
I ask for a yes vote on H.R. 397, the Rehabili-
tation for Multiemployer Pensions Act
(often referred to as The Butch Lewis Act).
As you know, this legislation is of the high-
est priority for the Teamsters Union.
The multiemployer pension system has for
many decades been an essential foundation
for providing financial security in retire-
ment for millions of Americans and their
families. Now, through no fault of their own,
the earned pension benefits of millions of re-
tirees are being threatened due to the ‘‘crit-
ical and declining’’ (financial) status and the
impending insolvency of a number of multi-
employer pension plans. No doubt you have
heard from retirees and families who live
with this uncertainty and whose lives have
been turned upside down. H.R. 397 will ensure
that we meet our obligations to current re-
tirees and workers for years to come and to
do so without retiree benefit cuts. It will
strengthen these plans and provide a path
forward for financial stability and solvency.
It will provide improved retirement security
for both workers and retirees. And, it will
lessen the financial pressure on the Pension
Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC)
which also faces insolvency.
The bill creates a Pension Rehabilitation
Administration (PRA) which would sell
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.088 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7325
July 24, 2019
Treasury-issued bonds on the open market
and then loan money from the bond sale to
these critical and declining multiemployer
pension plans. Plans borrowing from the
PRA must set aside the money in separate
investments that match pension payments
for retirees. Retirees and their families are
guaranteed their promised benefits. It will
also free up remaining assets and future con-
tributions to protect the benefits for active
workers.
PRA loans will not be sufficient to help all
financially troubled multiemployer pension
plans. Some will need additional help. For
such plans, the bill proposes that the PBGC
provide such help. In doing so, the cost to
the Federal government and the U.S. econ-
omy will be far less than allowing Plans and
the PBGC to fail. Unlike the current federal
pension insurance program, H.R. 397 protects
benefits before plan failure.
The financial distress many of these plans
face were and are beyond the control of these
retirees and workers. Multiemployer pension
plans have been buffeted by economic turbu-
lence over the decades—from deregulation to
financial melt downs to recessions.
Pension statutes and legislation are ex-
traordinarily complex, none more so than
multiemployer and Taft–Hartley pension
plans. They are both unique in their struc-
ture, and the challenges they have faced. If
these plans fail, it will not only impact the
retirees receiving the benefit, there will be a
broader impact on their communities and
the economy—adverse effects on economic
growth and tax losses to state, local and fed-
eral governments.
H.R. 397, the Rehabilitation for Multiem-
ployer Pensions Act provides a mechanism
for ‘‘critical and declining’’ multiemployer
pension plans to address their serious under-
funding problem. It will strengthen these
plans and provide a path forward for finan-
cial stability and solvency. Importantly, the
bill does this while avoiding retiree benefit
cuts.
I hope that I can report to our retirees and
members in your district that you stood
with the International Brotherhood of Team-
sters family to enact this critically impor-
tant legislation. Vote to protect retirement
benefits. Vote yes on H.R. 397.
Sincerely,
JAMES P. HOFFA,
General President.
UNITEHERE!,
Las Vegas, NV, July 17, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
300,000 members of UNITE HERE and their
families, we strongly urge your support for
H.R. 397, the Rehabilitation for Multi-Em-
ployer Pensions Act.
At a time when hard working American’s
are already anxious about an economy where
one job should be enough but often isn’t to
make ends meet, we should also be very con-
cerned about the retirement security of mil-
lions of Americans.
H.R. 397, also known as the ‘‘Butch-Lewis
Act’’, includes a modest, common sense ap-
proach to bringing stability and reassurance
to the retirement pensions of over a million
Americans. Only a small number of multi-
employer plans are facing financial dif-
ficulty, but that does not ease the pain and
potential devastation for the millions who
honorably worked hard for themselves and
their families. We are talking about auto
workers, truck drivers, iron workers and
other impacted workers who live, work and
retire in our communities.
If we do not offer the means to see those
impacted plans through to solvency, we will
all feel the pain of their distress during their
retirement years—a time they have worked
hard to attain.
On behalf of our members, I again urge you
to support H.R. 397 and stand up for millions
of middle-class Americans who should be
able to retire in dignity.
D. TAYLOR,
International President.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairman SCOTT and Chairman NEAL
for their leadership and taking a lot of
words and putting it into real action.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, the gentlewoman from Michi-
gan is correct. The union members are
not at fault. The union bosses are at
fault, and hardworking, nonunion tax-
payers should not be bailing out the
union bosses for their mistakes.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID
P. ROE).
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today in opposition to
H.R. 397 because it is nothing more
than a huge step backwards in our
work to save failing multiemployer
pensions.
It is the government picking retiree
winners and retiree losers. Our work in
Congress, until now, has been bipar-
tisan with both sides realizing that
workers’ retirement security is too im-
portant of an issue to play politics
with. I and others have been willing to
work across the aisle for a bipartisan
solution that works for retirees and for
taxpayers. That offer is still open.
The idea that Congress should bail
out union-negotiated pension plans,
but not the retirement plans of mil-
lions of other Americans who have seen
their companies go under and had their
benefits reduced as a result, is the
most unfair proposal that I have ever
seen on the House floor.
The Democrats are telling hard-
working Americans that they should
not only get stiffed in their retirement,
but that their taxpayer dollars should
be used to bail out someone else’s re-
tirement. To make matters worse, the
bill itself is deeply flawed. It requires
no fundamental changes to pension
plans in poor financial shape, and no
reforms to ensure that troubled plans
and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Cor-
poration don’t wind up in the same sit-
uation.
Again, instead, the bill gives these
plans a so-called loan, and then allows
the loan principal to be forgiven if the
plan cannot repay the loan. Simply
put, this is not a loan. It is a taxpayer-
funded gift. Why would anybody pay it
back? This doesn’t have to be partisan.
In 2014, as chairman of the Health,
Employment, Labor, and Pensions Sub-
committee, I worked with the full com-
mittee chair, Chairman Kline, Ranking
Member Miller, and the Obama admin-
istration to develop a bipartisan solu-
tion to save these plans. Our plan, the
Multiemployer Pension Reform Act
gave plans the tools they needed to
avoid insolvency and continue offering
benefits to retirees.
If we passed such a good bipartisan
bill, why are we here today? Unfortu-
nately, the Obama administration
made a political decision and refused
to approve an application from the
country’s largest troubled plan, Cen-
tral States. And while many supporters
of today’s bill cheered that decision,
the Obama administration virtually
ensured Central States retirees will re-
ceive far less in their retirement than
they would have or could have, all be-
cause the Obama administration pre-
ferred politics over policy.
I still have hope that the Senate will
act in a more responsible manner. The
concept of the multiemployer pension
plan is a good one and an idea worth
saving, but I would say this to sup-
porters of this bill: By choosing to act
in a largely partisan manner, you are
further jeopardizing retiree benefits.
Literally, every day these plans fail
to act, is a step closer to bankruptcy.
Today’s action may be the final nail in
the coffin for Central States, whose
plan is in such dire straits they cannot
wait another 18 months for a fix.
Outside of Central States, there are
many other pension plans in crisis, but
all assuring that the PBGC multiem-
ployer plan will be insolvent by the end
of FY 2025.
We have less than 6 years to solve
this problem before retirees receive
pennies on the dollar for what they
have earned. I recommend voting
against this bill.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Speaker, I
thank Chairman SCOTT for yielding.
In Oregon and across the country,
people have worked hard to provide
themselves and their families with a
secure retirement by contributing a
portion of their income to pensions.
But now, through no fault of their
own, too many of these hardworking
Americans find that their pension
plans are struggling, and without
intervention, these plans will become
insolvent, putting the retirement secu-
rity of about 1.3 million people at risk.
The bipartisan Rehabilitation for
Multiemployer Pensions Act, the
Butch Lewis Act, will help protect re-
tirees, workers, and employers by cre-
ating the Pension Rehabilitation Ad-
ministration to issue bonds to finance
loans for critical and declining status
multiemployer pension plans. Impor-
tantly, this bill does not cut benefits
for workers and retirees, benefits they
have earned.
Workers, families, businesses, and re-
tirees are counting on Congress to ad-
dress the growing retirement security
crisis in our country and protect the
benefits workers have earned over their
lifetime. This bipartisan bill is one im-
portant piece of the solution to address
the multiemployer pension crisis, and I
urge all of my colleagues to join me in
supporting it.
I thank Chairman SCOTT and Chair-
man NEAL for their leadership on this
issue.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.038 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7326 July 24, 2019
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
GROTHMAN).
Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, I
have a great deal of sympathy for the
people we are trying to help in H.R.
397, and that is one of the reasons why
I feel we need a real solution to this.
Obviously, the pension plans are in
such horrible shape that to continue
with the current system and to con-
tinue with this bill would be a very ex-
pensive bailout for the taxpayer.
Unlike some of my colleagues, I real-
ize that the taxpayer will ultimately
have to put something in these plans.
And the reason I say that is the multi-
employer pension plan system was set
up by Congress in the 1950s, and my
guess is, the way it was set up, it is not
surprising that it will fail. While the
Congressmen who are at fault for this
have long since retired and left us, we
as a successor Congress, are supposed
to do something.
However, first of all, I don’t think
this is a sincere proposal. If it was a
sincere proposal, it would have been
passed when President Obama was
President, and when the Democratic
Party was in total control around here,
about 10 years ago.
We are going to have to, as part of
this plan, change things in the future
so we don’t begin to run up more debt
immediately. We are probably going to
have to have the taxpayer do some-
thing to make up for the damage that
has been done in the past, but to pass
this bill will only delay that, in that it
is really, quite frankly, just a political
move.
I strongly recommend that we get to-
gether, put together a new committee
of four or eight people, and begin to do
something. We know something has got
to be done eventually, because not only
do we have these workers hanging out
there, but the way this multiemployer
pension plan is set up, a lot of busi-
nesses are going to go under too unless
something is done.
But I am saddened today that the bill
before us, I don’t believe is a bill that,
for all their talking, people really be-
lieve is a serious solution. Because if it
was a serious solution, they would have
passed that bill 10 years ago.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. NOR-
CROSS).
Mr. NORCROSS. Madam Speaker,
first of all, I want to thank Chairman
NEAL and Chairman SCOTT for bringing
this bill to the floor, and my colleague,
DEBBIE DINGELL, and Dr. ROE who sat
on the supercommittee last time to ad-
dress this.
The Butch Lewis Act is a bill that
makes sure that those Americans re-
ceive the wages that they earned. This
is not a handout. These are deferred
dreams, deferred wages that they said
they will put aside during their active
career so that they can live out the
American Dream; those golden years,
those pension years. They are deferred
wages.
I know firsthand. Over 3 years ago,
my very first speech on the House floor
was right here talking about pensions.
For 37 years, I have been a member of
a multiemployer plan, as a rank-and-
file worker, and as a negotiator. I un-
derstand how they work.
But the cost of doing nothing to the
taxpayers is far greater than the loans
we are giving out now. We bailed out
the banks, gave them billions of dol-
lars, but the people who earn these,
who did nothing wrong, you are saying
no to. We cannot screw the people who
earned the wages. It is important for us
to pass this because they did nothing
wrong. They played by the rules. That
is what we do in America.
b 1730
This is not a grand conspiracy. This
is about doing the right thing for the
right people, for America.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. ALLEN).
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I rise
in opposition to H.R. 397. You can call
it, Madam Speaker, whatever you want
to call it, but the taxpayers are going
to bail out an underwater multiem-
ployer pension plan. It is just that sim-
ple, based on this legislation.
Since my time in Congress, my col-
leagues and I on the House Education
and Labor Committee have held nu-
merous hearings on multiemployer
pension plans. I have learned a few
things. These plans currently are un-
derfunded by $638 billion.
How in the world did that happen?
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Cor-
poration, PBGC, multiemployer insur-
ance program has a $54 billion deficit
and is expected to become insolvent by
the end of fiscal year 2025. According to
the PBGC data, 75 percent of multiem-
ployer participants are in plans that
are less than 50 percent funded.
I think we can all agree that the sys-
tem has failed, and these retirees, I
agree, deserve better.
How were they so misled to believe
their contributions would cover their
retirement? In fact, this is just another
example of unions overpromising and
underdelivering. The union says, hey, if
you pay this, you are going to get this
retirement.
As the owner of a small business, I
like to think of myself as coming to
the table, negotiating, and solving the
problem. However, both parties must
be willing to find a reasonable solution
that works for everyone.
The Democratic solution on the mul-
tiemployer pension program is short-
sighted and partisan. In the business
world, we don’t call that problem-solv-
ing. We call that another massive tax-
payer giveaway.
Taxpayers are not going to stand for
this. Not to my surprise, the Demo-
cratic solution is Big Government and
billions of dollars in new costs. Again,
this bailout is an unserious policy. It
has a zero chance in the Senate, and I
recommend a ‘‘no’’ vote.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
could you advise as to how much time
is still available on each side.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CÁRDENAS). The gentleman from Vir-
ginia has 51⁄2 minutes remaining. The
gentlewoman from North Carolina has
13⁄4 minutes.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Pennsylvania (Ms. WILD).
Ms. WILD. Mr. Speaker, the crisis
facing multiemployer pensions is not
some faraway event, and it is not about
politics or ideology. It is about people’s
lives and whether they will be able to
retire in dignity after a lifetime of
hard work—American people.
By 2025, the Central States Pension
Fund and the PBGC will be insolvent.
That means over a million American
employees’ and retirees’ earned bene-
fits could disappear if we don’t act
right now.
This crisis doesn’t just affect those
enrolled in multiemployer pension
plans. If we don’t act, the consequences
will be detrimental for our local busi-
nesses, economies, and residents, ulti-
mately affecting everyone, including
millions of American families.
Participants nationwide, including
thousands in my district, could lose ev-
erything they have earned if we don’t
act. These folks who came to watch the
proceedings today never wanted a bail-
out, as my colleague across the aisle
termed it. They just want and deserve
what they have earned. They deserve
it.
We need to pass this bill. We must
pass this bill for them and for our
country.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. WRIGHT).
Mr. WRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in opposition to H.R. 397. The Re-
habilitation for Multiemployer Pen-
sions Act is nothing more than a false
promise to American workers, retirees,
and their families. House Democrats,
instead of working together with us as
they have done historically, moved this
bill through committee without one
single hearing or considering one single
amendment.
The result? A bill that makes no
structural reforms to prevent or shore
up future pension plan insolvencies. In
fact, it incentivizes pension plan man-
agers to offer generous underfunded
benefits while taking risky bets at the
cost of the American worker and re-
tiree, knowing full well they have a
forgivable taxpayer-funded loan to fall
back on.
Mr. Speaker, I implore my colleagues
to abandon this bill and instead work
with us so we can achieve forward-
looking solutions to protect workers
and prevent future insolvencies.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the remainder
of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.090 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7327
July 24, 2019
Mr. Speaker, the bottom line is that
retirees and workers in multiemployer
union pension plans deserve better
than a political statement disguised as
a legislative proposal.
Advancing this highly flawed bill,
which has no chance of being passed in
the Senate, will only result in delays
rather than solutions for workers and
retirees who are so rightfully con-
cerned about the state of their pen-
sions.
Mr. Speaker, the individuals in the
unions did trust those in charge. They
are not at fault for what has happened,
but I urge all of my colleagues to join
me in opposing H.R. 397, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
the following five letters in support:
AARP, AFL–CIO, International Asso-
ciation of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers, Service Employees Inter-
national Union, and the United Steel-
workers.
AARP,
Washington, DC, July 22, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Republican Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADER MCCAR-
THY: On behalf of our nearly 38 million mem-
bers nationwide and all Americans age 50 and
older, AARP is pleased to urge House pas-
sage of H.R. 397, the Rehabilitation for Mul-
tiemployer Pensions Act. This bipartisan
legislation would help enable eligible multi-
employer pension plans to continue to pay
earned pensions to retirees and fund their
long-term pension commitments.
Over ten million workers, retirees, and
their families are counting on these earned
retirement benefits for their retirement se-
curity. As part of the FY 2015 Omnibus Ap-
propriations Act, with almost no debate,
Congress permitted underfunded multiem-
ployer pension plans to cut the earned pen-
sions of current retirees. Congress’ action
broke forty years of settled pension law and
put hundreds of thousands of retirees at risk
of having their retirement benefits and fi-
nancial security undermined. Instead of cut-
ting earned pensions, Congress should in-
stead enact reasonable solutions to help en-
able multiemployer pension plans to pay
earned benefits and fully fund their pension
plans over time.
We commend the bipartisan group of spon-
sors on their bill’s proposed creation of a
Pension Rehabilitation Administration,
within the Treasury Department, to provide
low-cost loans to qualified underfunded mul-
tiemployer pension plans. Plans would have
up to thirty years to pay earned retiree ben-
efits, prudently invest the loan proceeds, and
re-pay the loan. During the loan period, em-
ployers may not reduce contributions and
the plan may not increase promised benefits.
The plan must also demonstrate that receipt
of the loan will enable the plan to avoid in-
solvency, pay benefits and loan interest, and
accumulate sufficient funds to repay the
loan principal when due.
AARP urges passage of the Rehabilitation
of Multiemployer Pensions Act to protect
the hardearned pensions of retirees. We look
forward to working with Congress to enact
this important bill, as well as additional leg-
islation to adequately fund all earned multi-
employer retiree pensions and the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation. If you have
any questions, please feel free to contact me.
Sincerely,
NANCY A. LEAMOND,
Executive Vice President and
Chief Advocacy and Engagement Officer.
AFL–CIO,
Washington, DC, July 22, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: The AFL–CIO is
pleased that the ‘‘Rehabilitation for Multi-
employer Pensions Act’’ (H.R. 397) will be on
the House floor this week. We urge you to
support this bill, as it is the first step to-
wards enactment of legislation to address
our nation’s looming pension crisis.
Absent federal action, the retirement in-
come security of over one million American
workers, retirees, and their spouses across
the country will be in jeopardy because of
the impending failure of their multiemployer
pension plans. By establishing a federal loan
program for troubled plans meeting certain
criteria, H.R. 397 reflects the fact that allow-
ing these plans to fail will have a dev-
astating impact not only on individual retir-
ees and their families, but also on their com-
munities and their employers.
The working men and women whose retire-
ment income security is at risk have not for-
gotten the 2008 record-setting federal rescue
of Wall Street. Multiemployer pension plan
participants and retirees are no less worthy
than the financial services firms who were
the beneficiaries of the $700 billion Troubled
Asset Relief Program. Moreover, unlike the
Wall Street banks, they played no part in ei-
ther the industry deregulation or financial
crisis that weakened many multiemployer
pension plans.
Congress has the ability to avert the im-
pending retirement security crisis if it acts
expeditiously. The ‘‘Rehabilitation for Mul-
tiemployer Pensions Act’’ is an important
bill because it is the only legislation that,
thus far, offers a solution to that crisis. On
behalf of the AFL–CIO, I urge you to support
it.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM SAMUEL,
Director, Government Affairs Department.
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MA-
CHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORK-
ERS,
July 22, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
International Association of Machinists and
Aerospace Workers (IAM), I strongly urge
you to vote ‘‘Yes’’ on H.R. 397, The Rehabili-
tation for Multiemployer Pensions Act of
2019. Commonly referred to as the ‘‘Butch
Lewis Act’’, this highly important and inno-
vative legislation would help save those mul-
tiemployer pension plans which are finan-
cially-troubled while protecting the earned
and vested benefits of current and future re-
tirees.
The multiemployer pension system is on
the brink of a real and disastrous crisis.
While the majority of multi employer pen-
sion plans are financially sound, the PBGC
estimates that over 100 multiemployer pen-
sion plans, covering more than a million par-
ticipants, are in ‘‘critical and declining sta-
tus’’ and will become insolvent within the
next twenty years. Currently, the only Fed-
eral assistance offered to these troubled
plans comes from the PBGC and only after
the plan has already failed. Given the num-
ber of plans on the brink of failure, the
PBGC’ s multiemployer insurance program is
projected to become insolvent by 2025.
The Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pen-
sions Act of 2019 offers a real, proactive solu-
tion which rehabilitates failing plans, bol-
sters the PBGC, and protects the earned ben-
efits of millions of retirees, workers, and
their families. This innovative legislation
would allow the Treasury to provide low-cost
loans to qualified underfunded multiem-
ployer pension plans. Under the legislation,
the troubled plans would have up to thirty
years to prudently invest the loaned funds
and would use the investment earnings to
pay retiree benefits, improve the plan’s fi-
nancial position, and pay interest on the
loan to the Treasury. At the end of the thir-
ty year period, the plan would pay back the
loan in full. In order to be eligible for the
loan, the plan would have to demonstrate
that the loan would enable the plan to re-
main solvent, pay all retiree benefits and
loan interest, and repay the loan principle
when due. During the loan period, contrib-
uting employers would have to maintain
their contribution levels and the plan would
not be allowed to make any increases to re-
tiree benefits.
In the wake of the Multiemployer Pension
Reform Act of 2014, a brutal scheme to steal
the pension promises made to retirees, the
Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions
Act provides a much needed correction and
remedy. This legislation will work to lift
troubled multiemployer plans out of their fi-
nancial hole, while maintaining the financial
integrity of the PBGC. Most importantly,
the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pen-
sions Act provides a pathway to accom-
plishing these venerable goals without steal-
ing from retirees, workers, and their fami-
lies.
The Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pen-
sions Act is the only solution put forth to
date which appropriately and adequately ad-
dresses the multiemployer pension crisis by
providing a lifeline to plans in critical finan-
cial status while maintaining the integrity
of healthy multiemployer plans and the
PBGC without cutting the earned benefit
promises made to our nation’s retirees and
working families.
For these reasons, I urge you to support
this vitally important legislation and vote
‘‘Yes’’ on H.R. 397, The Rehabilitation for
Multiemployer Pensions Act of 2019.
Thank you,
ROBERT MARTINEZ, Jr.,
International President.
SEIU,
Washington, DC, July 24, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
two million members of the Service Employ-
ees International Union (SEIU), I write to
urge you to support H.R. 397, the Rehabilita-
tion for Multiemployer Pensions Act. Im-
proving the solvency of troubled multiem-
ployer pension plans and the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation (‘‘PBGC’’) are the two
critical issues that need to be addressed, and
this legislation will accomplish that without
jeopardizing plans that are already solvent.
SEIU and its Locals sponsor 19 multiem-
ployer pension plans covering over 800,000 re-
tired and active participants and their bene-
ficiaries. The health of the multiemployer
retirement community is very important to
our union, our members, and the employers
from the health and service industries which
participate in these funds. We support a re-
silient multiemployer pension system that
provides continued retirement security to
millions of American workers and their fam-
ilies.
Fortunately, none of SEIU’s plans are clas-
sified as ‘‘critical and declining.’’ Neverthe-
less we have followed closely developments
in plans that are facing possible insolvency
as we believe that such a development would
cause serious harm to thousands of workers
and retirees, to employers, to the economy
and to the multiemployer pension system as
a whole.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.092 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7328 July 24, 2019
The loan program which the Rehabilita-
tion for Multiemployer Pensions Act would
establish should maximize the chances that
troubled plans avoid insolvency. Thousands
of workers and retirees in these plans will be
able to avoid devastating benefit cuts. Also,
the legislation would dramatically reduce
the expected liabilities of the PBGC and can
save the PBGC’s insurance program for all
multiemployer plans.
We thank you for your support for workers
and their retirement security.
Sincerely,
MARY KAY HENRY,
International President.
UNITED STEELWORKERS,
Pittsburgh, PA, July 24, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the 1.2
million active and retired members of the
United Steelworkers, I urge you to pass H.R.
397, the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer
Pensions Act. Otherwise known to most as
the ‘‘Butch-Lewis Act’’ scheduled for the
floor this week. The legislation will reassert
our nation’s commitment to millions of re-
tirees in the multi-employer pension system,
and ensure that they receive the benefits
they have earned without needless cuts to
pensioner incomes.
Pensions are one of the most secure forms
of long-term retirement if government, in-
dustry and workers operate in a cooperative
manner to ensure long-term sustainability.
Unfortunately, small subsets of plans, bat-
tered by federal deregulation, changing in-
dustries, and unfair trade, have fallen into
decline. After a decade of effort by these pen-
sion plans to recover since the Great Reces-
sion, the damage done by inadequate federal
policy could cause almost 1.5 million to lose
their retirement and impact all of the 10 mil-
lion participants who are enrolled in multi-
employer pension plans.
Representative Neal’s bipartisan legisla-
tion is the guidepost to ensuring millions of
retired Americans receive the benefits they
are promised. The legislation will create a
Pension Rehabilitation Administration
under the Department of Treasury and per-
mit the sale of bonds to finance long-term,
low-interest loans to troubled pension plans.
By shoring up critical and declining status
pension plans, millions of retirees will be as-
sured of a continued secure retirement with-
out forcing cuts to retiree benefits.
During the loan period, employers may not
reduce contributions and the plan may not
increase promised benefits. The plan must
demonstrate that receipt of the loan will en-
able the plan to avoid insolvency, pay bene-
fits and loan interest, and accumulate suffi-
cient funds to repay the loan principal when
due. Providing federal oversight and access
to capital, multi-employer pension funds will
be able to manage the long-term commit-
ments to retirees which in turn will reduce
long-term government risk of default at the
Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation
(PBGC).
For these reasons, I urge you to pass H.R.
397, the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer
Pensions Act.
Sincerely,
THOMAS M. CONWAY,
International President.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
when it comes to the multiemployer
crisis, the most expensive and harmful
thing the Congress can do is nothing.
Over the course of 4 years and multiple
hearings, including five hearings of a
joint select committee, we have repeat-
edly heard the need to address this
issue.
We have also heard about process.
Let me tell you about the process. We
had 1 year of a select committee—no
plan from the Republicans. This bill
was introduced in January—no plan.
We had a hearing in March—no plan.
We had a markup in June—no plan or
amendment until shortly before the
markup occurred. Then, instead of seri-
ously considering those amendments,
they required us to read the whole bill.
Mr. Speaker, we have a choice to
make. Members of Congress can con-
tinue to wring our hands and listen to
complaints while the catastrophe con-
tinues to unfold and unnecessarily adds
hundreds of billions of dollars in costs
to the Federal budget, or we can act on
this bipartisan solution.
The only bipartisan solution pending
in Congress today is the Butch Lewis
Act. This bill addresses the immediate
crisis, protects hard-earned pensions,
protects many businesses from bank-
ruptcy, avoids misery, and saves the
taxpayers money.
In fact, according to the CBO, this
bill, over 30 years, will cost less than
$60 billion. Doing nothing over 30 years
will cost $300 billion to over $400 bil-
lion.
Mr. Speaker, I am voting for the so-
lution. I urge my colleagues to do the
same to ensure that all workers can re-
tire with stability and dignity.
Mr. Speaker, I yield the balance of
my time to the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. NEAL), and I ask unani-
mous consent that he may control that
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Virginia?
There was no objection.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I stand in support of
H.R. 397, the Rehabilitation for Multi-
employer Pensions Act, commonly re-
ferred to as the Butch Lewis Act.
Contrary to what you have heard,
Mr. Speaker, this is a bipartisan bill. It
has Republican sponsors. PETER KING is
about to speak next. At different inter-
vals, there have been up to 20 Repub-
licans who have signed on to this legis-
lation.
This addresses a real problem that,
for 2 years, Congress has talked about
and not moved on. For 2 years, we have
worked on this. I sat on the special
commission for 2 years. It became a de-
bating society rather than an oppor-
tunity to act on a measured response
to a crisis that is now pending that
could be averted by the work that we
undertake today. There are 200 bipar-
tisan sponsors of this legislation in
this House.
Ten million Americans participate in
multiemployer plans, and about 1.3
million of them are in plans that are
quickly running out of money. And,
yes, we have a plan.
These are American workers who
planned for their retirement. Now,
after working for 30-plus years, they
are facing financial uncertainty at a
time when they are often unable to re-
turn to the workforce.
It is worth noting that we have not
arrived here because of malfeasance or
corruption. These are forces of the
marketplace that have caused this dis-
tortion.
When I heard the gentleman from
South Dakota say earlier that this is a
bailout, this is not a bailout. This is a
backstop.
Do you know what a bailout is? It is
the savings and loan crisis. That is a
bailout.
Do you know what a bailout is? Wall
Street. That is a bailout.
Do you know what a bailout is? When
Enron made sure that the people at the
top of the corporation kept their
money and that the people at the bot-
tom lost their pensions. That is a bail-
out.
We are talking about a sensible plan.
As I have noted, I have worked for al-
most 2 years to build within the De-
partment of the Treasury an oppor-
tunity for a super-administrator to
help to nurse these plans back to good
health.
Rita Lewis is in this gallery today,
and she is a beneficiary of the Central
States Pension Plan, which is the larg-
est of the underfunded multiemployer
pension plans.
She and Butch Lewis did nothing
wrong. They played by the rules, pre-
cisely as we would ask people to do.
So then we hear that this is about
union bosses. Then we hear that this is
about malfeasance. This is entirely
about people who have been cir-
cumspect in the manner in which they
have treated their pension plans.
She is looking at a significant cut in
her pension after years of hard work
and when retirement is finally in sight.
Many workers and retirees have stories
very similar to Mrs. Lewis’. These are
real people with a very real problem if
Congress doesn’t act.
The American people sent us here to
address problems like multiemployer
pension plans, and the legislation be-
fore us today, despite what anybody
and everybody says, accomplishes that.
It would give millions of workers and
retirees like those who have joined
Mrs. Lewis in the gallery today the se-
curity and the retirement that they
have worked and planned for in their
golden years.
The Butch Lewis Act would allow
pension plans to borrow money they
need to remain solvent—borrow, em-
phasis on ‘‘borrow’’—and continue to
provide retirement security for retirees
and workers for decades to come while
the plan is nursed back to health.
Let me remind my colleagues: Plans
that receive loans under this bill are
subject to numerous requirements and
ample oversight. They are not per-
mitted to increase benefits or to reduce
contributions, and loan proceeds must
be invested in conservative invest-
ments, grade-A instruments. This is
not a bailout. This is a loan program.
It is a commonsense solution. It is the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:49 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.039 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7329
July 24, 2019
private sector coming together with
public-sector opportunities to address
this crisis.
Mr. Speaker, I will have more to say
about it when I close, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to avoid references
to occupants of the gallery.
Mr. BRADY of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposi-
tion to H.R. 397, which is truly unfortu-
nate because I know the authors’ goals
here are very well-intended.
I have worked as a meatpacker; I
have worked as a sheet metal worker;
and I have worked construction. I
know how hard these union families
work, both for their wages and for
their retirement.
It is why Republicans and Democrats
agree we are in a multiemployer pen-
sion crisis. When there are over 1.3 mil-
lion workers covered by these union-
managed plans whose pensions are set
to be drained entirely over the next
decade, that is a crisis. These figures
only scratch the surface. If we are to
look at the bigger picture of every
union-managed pension, less than half
the promises made by trustees to these
union workers are actually funded—
less than half.
To put it simply, there is $638 billion
promised to workers’ retirement that
is absolutely imaginary. That is wrong.
This bill, I think, doubles down on
the worst aspects of the pension sys-
tem that have these workers in a pick-
le today.
b 1745
Congress has tried to kick the can
down the road before. In 2006, Congress
waived the required contributions for
plans that said: We just can’t make the
contributions.
And what happened? Things got
worse for the workers.
2007, plans were $193 billion under-
funded. A couple years ago, it had tri-
pled. They were three times worse off.
PBGC—they are the Federal insurer
of these plans—went from a deficit of
$739 million; their deficit increased
seventyfold. That is even worse for the
workers.
So rather than continuing the status
quo in today’s partisan exercise—and
just be honest. Having nine Repub-
licans does not make this a bipartisan
bill. And we already know, unfortu-
nately, because it is one party, this bill
is dead on arrival in the Senate. Demo-
crats acknowledge it. Republicans do.
Even some of the unions do.
That is why I think a solution needs
to happen this year, getting it to the
President’s desk so we say: Let’s find a
bipartisan solution to offer certainty,
stability, and accountability and save
these union-managed plans.
We ought to be working together to
ensure that the plans can make good
on their promises to our union work-
ers. This means eliminating the var-
ious gimmicks some of these plans are
allowed to use.
Plans have to accurately measure
their pension promises in a way similar
to insurance companies making those
same promises. For example, I don’t
understand: Why are promises to
unions worth only one-third of the pen-
sion promises made to workers who are
working for a single company? Aren’t
union workers just as important, and
aren’t those promises just as important
for them as other workers?
Equally important, we have folks on
accountability. A promise is a promise,
and companies need to be on the hook
for every pension promise they made to
their workers. And so, by the way, do
the trustees.
Why do we allow the same people to
operate the same way and leave the
same union workers behind? What
sense does that make?
And, finally, one of the reasons we
oppose this bill is we need to prevent
the severely underfunded plans from
digging themselves even deeper in the
hole under the guise of protecting
workers. We have to wall off the con-
tributions that fund these new prom-
ises that we know will be broken in-
stead of perpetuating what now is sort
of a Ponzi scheme: Retirees are paid
out of the contributions that are sup-
posed to fund benefits to younger
workers. That is double counting, and
that is what gets people in trouble.
I believe our union workers deserve
better. The companies in these plans
deserve better.
This bill doesn’t make these plans
more stable. It doesn’t end under-
funding. It doesn’t make them secure
for the long term. And our biggest
worry as Republicans, it doesn’t solve
the problem. So these same workers,
years down the road, are going to be in
the same problem. We haven’t helped
them.
I think our workers deserve better,
which is why I strongly urge all my
colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on this bill.
I give my commitment for the Ways
and Means Republicans to work with
you, Mr. Chairman, to find a real solu-
tion. Our workers really do deserve
this.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. KING), and I believe he is a
Republican demonstrating that this is
a bipartisan piece of legislation.
Mr. KING of New York. Mr. Speaker,
I thank the chairman for yielding, and
I address this to my Republican and
Democratic friends.
I am the lead Republican sponsor of
this bill and I am proud to be because,
as far as I am concerned, this bill pro-
tects and helps the men and women
that we Republicans claim to care
about: hardworking, middle-income
people who play by the rules.
They are not looking for welfare.
They are not looking for a free ride.
They have played by the rules. They
are the backbone of our communities.
They are Democrats. They are Re-
publicans. They are Black. They are
White. They are people we rely on all
the time. They have done everything
they have been asked to do.
Now, they are not high-paid CEOs.
They are not big bankers. They are or-
dinary, day-to-day Americans, the peo-
ple we claim to represent. And to allow
them not to be taken care of, not to be
protected, that this ‘‘not be done to
me’’ just flies in the face of our oath of
office.
We have an obligation to these men
and women who have done so much for
their country, and there is no example
of malfeasance. We are not talking
about that. We are talking about
changing economic conditions that
have affected these multiemployer pen-
sion plans. That is the reality. Our
economy is moving fast, so there are
people getting ahead. There are also
people being left behind.
It is our duty to make sure that ev-
eryone gets the opportunity to go for-
ward, that those who are entering their
golden years, who planned, did every-
thing they had to do, were asked to do,
were expected to do, that they not be
left out.
It is easy to look at some actuarial
chart and put on the green eyeshade
and say: Well, this may cause this; this
may cause that.
In fact, even if we do that, to me, the
economic loss by not protecting these
workers is far worse than whatever the
cost may be. And as Congressman NEAL
said, this is not a bailout. It is a back-
stop. It is doing what has to be done.
And, again, they are not high-priced
CEOs. They are not looking for a free
ride. They are not trying to get a tax
reduction for their jet or anything like
that. They just want to get what they
are entitled to, what they have earned,
and what they played by the rules to
get.
So, again, as a Republican, I am
proud to stand for this and, also, for all
Republicans in my district who are
proud Teamsters, proud union mem-
bers, as I was a union member.
Again, we should not be setting class
against class, not talking about union
bosses and union corruption. That stuff
should have gone out in the 1930s.
We are all Americans. They are hard-
working Americans. They deserve to
receive the protection that we, as
Members of the Congress, can give
them.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge support
of this bill.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ari-
zona (Mr. SCHWEIKERT), one of the key
members of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
BRADY) for yielding.
I may come to the microphone with a
slightly different message, having been
on the bipartisan multiemployer pen-
sion commission, having hundreds of
staff-hours into digging into the num-
bers and desperately trying to come up
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.093 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7330 July 24, 2019
with an honest, holistic, complete solu-
tion.
I fear we are about to do a level of vi-
olence here financially that we don’t
mean to. A previous Democrat speaker
in the previous testimony actually
spoke about we need to do a lifeboat.
If you do the math here, we are not
doing a lifeboat. We are putting a little
life preserver out when we need a big
lifeboat. And the math—let’s be honest
about the math. If we actually come
here, and I know this chart is too small
to read, but I brought it up because we
have all seen the actuarial report that
makes it very clear.
If we actually use anything even
close to what a union worker for a sin-
gle employer plan—the protection, the
rate of return, the net present value
calculations they get—if we do that to
these multiemployers, the vast major-
ity of the multiemployer plans are in
the red.
And we are, right now, about to fix
an offer—whether you want to call it a
bailout, whether you want to call it a
subsidy, it is really expensive, and we
are only taking care of a small portion
of the problem.
What are we about to do to all the
others, saying: Well, you were close to
the cutoff; you are on your own?
Is that the type of cruelty you are
actually about to pass, telling every-
one we took care of the problem when
the vast majority of the workers in
these plans are on the other side of the
cliff?
I beg of you, come back. We were so
close in the commission work, and it
was painful. Everyone was going to be
mad at us, and it got a little too politi-
cally difficult.
But there is a mathematical way to
get there. And for once, can we use our
calculators to actually solve the prob-
lem and be honest rather than the po-
litical rhetoric that is absolutely vacu-
ous on the scale of this problem.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Flor-
ida (Mrs. MURPHY).
Mrs. MURPHY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of the Butch Lewis Act.
Passage of this bill is vital to mil-
lions of Americans who have worked
hard and played by the rules. That in-
cludes tens of thousands of workers
and retirees who live in Florida and
hundreds of workers and retirees who
reside in my Orlando area district.
I want to highlight section 4(h) of the
bill, which was added at my request be-
tween committee markup and floor
consideration. This provision requires
the Pension Rehabilitation Adminis-
tration to provide an annual report to
Congress on pension plans that have re-
ceived a loan under this bill and that
are at risk of failing to repay interest
or principal on that loan. Such a fail-
ure would require Federal taxpayers to
absorb the cost of the loan.
This provision to increase congres-
sional oversight will maximize the
number of plans that repay their loans
and minimize the financial burden on
Federal taxpayers.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chair-
man NEAL for working with me to
make this important change, and I
urge my colleagues to support this leg-
islation.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. KELLY), a key member of
the Ways and Means Committee, a bus-
inessperson, and who funds retirements
and know how hard these workers
work.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the chairman for
yielding.
Listen, I share the same concerns. I
don’t think there is anybody I agree
with, probably, on 99 percent of what
we talk about than Mr. NEAL; and I
have been, for the last couple years,
trying to figure out how to fix this.
If this would actually fix it, that
would be great. We look at this like it
is some type of a government program
that hasn’t been run right; and Lord
knows, there is enough of those out
there. This is a private plan.
We keep talking about union mem-
bers, and I have to tell you, I live in a
union town. I grew up with union mem-
bers. I work with people. My dad was
the first Kelly to wear a white shirt to
work for crying out loud.
But the question isn’t about union
members being irresponsible. It is
about union plans that just didn’t func-
tion the way they are supposed to.
If I knew going out of here today and
voting for this legislation would fix the
problem, I would do it in a minute. But
we know it is not going to. And then
we will have people who will clap and
say, yes, they passed it. Well, we are
going in the right direction. And we
know it is not going any further than
the floor of the House.
Fixing the plan is paramount. Let’s
quit figuring out who we are going to
put the blame on and figure out how we
are going to fix it.
I am not saying it is anybody’s fault
on their own. But, collectively, you
have got to look at, if I am a member
of a union, I am saying: So all those
things that I won at the bargaining
table, all that compensation I passed
up, all those things that I could have
asked for but didn’t because I was plan-
ning for the future, I found out that
the people who I entrusted my future
to weren’t capable of running the pro-
gram the right way.
The program that we have at my
small business is okay. We are going to
be able to meet our obligations. We
have got to stop using taxpayer money
to fix irresponsible decisions or actions
by people who didn’t—maybe they
knew what they were doing; maybe
they didn’t know what they were
doing. I am not blaming anybody. But
the real problem sits on our doorstep
right now today.
And believe me, there is nothing easi-
er than loaning other people’s money
to somebody who needs it. I get that.
But the truth of the matter is every
single penny we talk about comes out
of hardworking American taxpayers’
pockets. They had no role to play in
this, and what we are saying is you are
going to have to bail them out.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I want to fix this. I want to
see it fixed, and I want to see every-
body in labor feel that all those genera-
tional gains, all of that negotiation ac-
tually meant something.
I think it is a shame when they look
at, well, why isn’t it functioning the
way we were told it was functioning
when we signed that contract? It
wasn’t their fault. It certainly wasn’t
the rest of America’s taxpayers. Some-
thing failed, probably a lot more than
one instance’s worth.
But today, we aren’t fixing this. We
are putting it across something that
isn’t going to get through the Senate,
and we are giving people false hope,
which I think is the worst thing we can
do. Let’s not make promises we can’t
keep.
Chairman NEAL, I would be glad to
work with you any amount of time.
However we have to do it to get this
fixed, it has to get fixed.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, might I
inquire as to how much time is remain-
ing.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Massachusetts has 101⁄2
minutes remaining. The gentleman
from Texas has 51⁄2 minutes.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. BLUMENAUER).
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Massachu-
setts (Mr. NEAL), and I appreciate his
laser-like focus on this issue.
We are hearing people in an alter-
native universe. The problems that we
are facing financially are not an issue
of mismanagement. It is the near col-
lapse of the economy that plunged it
into a downward spiral and the fact
that the deregulation by the Congress
in the trucking industry meant that
there were many, many jobs that dis-
appeared. Many plans were no longer
sustainable.
But I find it rich to hear my friends
on the other side of the aisle talk
about fiscal conservatism and pro-
tecting the taxpayer’s money. These
are the folks who passed a tax bill,
without the benefit of a hearing, that
added $2.3 trillion to the deficit. And
they are ignoring the fact that, if we
allow these plans to go over the edge,
it will cost five, six, eight times as
much money.
Let’s get real here.
I appreciate the commitment that we
have, Mr. Chairman, to a bipartisan so-
lution. There are people on the other
side of the aisle who want to work on
that. This isn’t the last word. We have
things to do, but this is, however, the
first step to get us there.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.096 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7331
July 24, 2019
b 1800
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Ne-
braska (Mr. SMITH), one of the leaders
of our Tax Policy Subcommittee ef-
forts.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, I agree we have a serious problem
with multiemployer pensions which
needs to be addressed. However, this
bill, I believe, will actually set us back.
It does nothing to address the under-
lying structural issues of these plans.
It actually does nothing to protect
younger workers, who will be asked to
keep paying into a system which re-
mains troubled. And it saddles tax-
payers with liabilities which are un-
likely to be paid back, at a massive
cost to taxpayers.
Let me provide just one alarming ex-
ample of how flawed this proposal is,
which I also highlighted in our com-
mittee markup.
Under this legislation, if a pension
plan applies for a loan and the newly
created Pension Rehabilitation Admin-
istration cannot make a determination
on that plan’s ability to repay in order
to approve or deny the loan within 90
days, the loan would be automatically
deemed approved.
Taxpayers deserve timely responses
from Treasury, but no reputable finan-
cial institution would rubberstamp
loans like this.
Pensioners and taxpayers both de-
serve better. Let’s work together to de-
liver a real solution.
Mr. Speaker, I certainly urge opposi-
tion to this bill so that we can, to-
gether, focus on a better solution.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. PASCRELL), the always eru-
dite Congressman.
Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Speaker, for
years, multiemployer pension plans of-
fered working-class Americans some-
thing almost priceless: a nest egg for
their retirement. This security was
provided through collective bargaining
benefit plans. Workers put in their own
hard-earned dollars—they did not fall
down on their obligations—for the
promise of a safe and secure retire-
ment.
Workers entered into a contract. You
know what a contract is?
Industry deregulation, the decrease
in the unionized workforce after dec-
ades of concerted political attacks, and
the devastating—the other side had the
House of Representatives for so many
years in the last 20 years; they never
even introduced a labor bill. What are
they talking about—bipartisan?
This means almost 200 multiem-
ployer plans are projected to fail. Some
of them are going to be in your dis-
trict, in your district. Plans are pro-
jected to fail, many within the next 10
years. Mr. Speaker, 1.3 million are at
risk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentleman from New Jersey an addi-
tional 30 seconds.
Mr. PASCRELL. At the Joint Select
Committee on Solvency of Multiem-
ployer Pension Plans hearing last year,
my constituent Carol Podesta-Smallen
said that her monthly benefits were on
the verge of being cut by 61 percent—
read that—from $2,600 to $1,022. Imag-
ine that loss.
‘‘My biggest fear,’’ she told the com-
mittee, ‘‘is losing my home’’ and ‘‘end-
ing up in a shelter.’’
Thanks to the Butch Lewis Act,
which creates a unique public-private
partnership, 1.3 million working Amer-
icans might not have to fear any
longer.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Kansas
(Mr. ESTES), a member of the Ways and
Means Committee who, as a State
treasurer, has worked with these public
pension programs.
Mr. ESTES. Mr. Speaker, I rise in op-
position to H.R. 397.
Protecting pensions and retirement
security for all Americans should be
one area where Republicans and Demo-
crats can agree. It should be a top pri-
ority in Congress.
As the gentleman from Virginia indi-
cated earlier, these plans need struc-
tural reform. Sadly, this bill does not
include any.
H.R. 397 falls short of making any
meaningful structural reforms to ad-
dress the problems of underfunding or
provide a method to pay back the
loans. Instead, H.R. 397 provides tax-
payer-subsidized loans to multiem-
ployer pension plans that are insolvent
or in danger of becoming insolvent.
This only throws out more taxpayer
dollars while kicking the can down the
road. This is unacceptable. We can and
should do better.
However, my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle have rushed this par-
tisan legislation to the House floor
with almost zero Republican feedback
or amendments.
Instead of a partisan bill with no
chance of going anywhere, I believe we
should work together on serious bipar-
tisan solutions to make the needed re-
forms so that we don’t get right back
in this situation again.
As Kansas State treasurer, we re-
formed the public pension system. We
should do that with this system as
well.
As Kansas State Treasurer, I helped reform
the Kansas public pension program when it
was facing a financial crisis and set it on a
path to being solvent.
In fact, when I was sworn-in as state treas-
urer, Kansas had the second worst funded
pension in the nation. But thanks to reforms
we enacted, KPERS is now funded at 67%
and ranked 29th in the country.
This was a big turnaround and is also the
same kind of leadership and action we need
now to preserve and protect pensions across
the country. Pension plans can be reformed
even after 2008 stockmarket decline.
Unfortunately, today’s bill does nothing to
keep pensions solvent in the future.
American workers and families deserve bet-
ter and I urge my colleagues to vote against
this bill.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Chicago,
Illinois (Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS).
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I rise in strong support of the
Butch Lewis Act, and I do so because
we are not talking about bailing out
savings and loans. We are not talking
about giving tax breaks to the wealthi-
est 1 percent.
We are talking about protecting the
benefits of hardworking men and
women who have worked for decades:
truck drivers, bakers, grocery clerks,
coal miners, people who have given
their all to make sure that our commu-
nities continue to live and thrive.
I commend Chairman NEAL and
Chairman SCOTT, the Democratic lead-
ership, for bringing this bill to the
floor. I urge that everybody vote for it.
Vote for the men and women who
have kept America strong.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. HIGGINS).
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Mr.
Speaker, 10 years ago this Congress
saved the American economy by ex-
tending Federally secured low- or no-
interest loans to the banking and in-
surance industries and the American
automakers. In many cases, it was the
reckless activity of those industries
that caused the economic crisis.
And nothing for hardworking Amer-
ican families.
In 2017, this Congress passed a 14 per-
cent corporate tax cut, creating a $2
trillion debt, to many of the same in-
dustries that almost destroyed the
American economy.
And, again, nothing for America’s
working families.
Today, more than 200 pension plans
covering 1.5 million Americans are se-
riously in danger of failing. Working
families from Buffalo to Boston are
threatened with their pensions and
their retirement savings being ripped
away from them.
Mr. Speaker, the Butch Lewis Act,
brought to the floor today under the
leadership of Chairman RICHARD NEAL
and BOBBY SCOTT, will provide stability
and retirement security for millions of
humble, hardworking Americans, and I
urge its passage.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. JUDY CHU).
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to offer my strong sup-
port of the Butch Lewis Act.
This bill would ensure that multiem-
ployer pension plans can continue to
provide security to millions of retired
workers, everybody from the Team-
sters to the United Food and Commer-
cial Workers.
This is particularly important for my
district in Los Angeles County, which
is home to thousands of actors, musi-
cians, and so many more creative pro-
fessionals.
But the American Federation of Mu-
sicians and Employers’ Pension Fund is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.098 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7332 July 24, 2019
set to run out of money within 20
years, putting their 50,000 members in
danger. In fact, it is tragic that this
fund has been put in the position of ap-
plying to the U.S. Treasury for a reduc-
tion in benefits, the benefits that these
workers put in a lifetime of hard work
to earn.
Instead, the Butch Lewis Act would
give pension funds like this loans for 30
years to help build up their funds, en-
suring that workers can keep the full
benefits that they earned and counted
on.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to vote for the Butch Lewis Act.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. SUOZZI).
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, every
Democrat and every Republican in this
House believes, or at least should be-
lieve, that if you are willing to go to
work every single day, you are willing
to work 40 or 50 hours a week, you are
willing to work 48 or 50 weeks a year,
you should have a decent life in Amer-
ica.
That is the American Dream: If you
work hard, you make enough money so
you can find a place to live, you can
educate your children, you can retire
one day without being scared.
And, right now, 1.3 million Ameri-
cans are scared that they are going to
lose the retirement benefits that they
negotiated for.
We have got to work together to try
and solve this problem on their behalf.
Chairman NEAL has stated he has
been working on this for the past 2
years. People say, ‘‘Oh, we have got to
work together. We have got to work to-
gether.’’
Let’s do it already. This is your op-
portunity to try and move together to
help hardworking people in America, to
save the American Dream for people
that have put the time in, that have
done the hard work, that have nego-
tiated for their benefits.
It is time to protect these people.
And it is time to stop saying we are
going to work together; it is time to
work together now and pass the Butch
Lewis Act.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self 2 minutes.
Mr. Speaker, we have heard repeat-
edly during the course of this conversa-
tion and debate that somehow this is a
bailout.
I even heard one speaker reference
public pension plans. What has that got
to do with this?
The subject in front of us today is
the multiemployer pension plan sys-
tem that is under duress through no
fault of the individuals who were sup-
posed to receive the derived benefit on
a date certain based upon the contribu-
tion that they made.
Instead, we find ourselves in a posi-
tion where the argument has become
that somehow this is a bailout of spe-
cial interests.
This is a backstop of hardworking
men and women who have set aside
prescribed numbers of dollars for the
purpose of enjoying a period of time in
their lives that they have carefully
planned for.
Now, let me draw attention to the
following. For 2 years we have worked
on this legislation, and I know there
are men and women of goodwill on both
sides who would like to find a solution.
But the truth is, this is the only plan
in town. This is the only plan that has
been submitted, formally or infor-
mally, after 2 years of planning and
work and an exhaustive 1 year of a spe-
cial commission that came up with no
solution to the multiemployer pension
plan problem.
So, instead, we constructed, through
a careful process, an opportunity where
everybody on the Ways and Means
Committee was heard.
I have been around long enough to
have a special regard for the minority
in a legislative institution. They get to
be heard. They get to offer amend-
ments.
They offered those amendments.
Now, I was prepared to accept a couple
of those amendments that I thought
were actually pretty good, the provi-
sion being that I attached to that, to
accept the amendment, they would
have to vote for the legislation.
So I hope—and despite what we are
hearing, by the way, that this doesn’t
have a chance in the Senate——
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self an additional 1 minute.
The idea that we are hearing that
this has no chance in the Senate, I dis-
agree with that. I disagree with that
profoundly.
There is an opportunity, once this
moves to the Senate, to at least have
something to negotiate with, the Butch
Lewis Act.
And I think that there are men and
women, again, in the Senate who are
prepared to act on this problem, large-
ly because the contagion from this plan
will eventually make its way and leach
into the PBGC.
The head of the PBGC, while not en-
dorsing this specific plan, said to me:
Mr. Chairman, I am glad you are doing
what you are doing because you are
going to invite further opportunities to
address this problem, short of, in the
end, having to bail out the PBGC,
which will happen if we don’t formally
address the measure that is in front of
us today.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Look, it is not enough to do some-
thing. We have to do the right thing.
We know the Senate isn’t going to con-
sider this bill. They have told every-
one. There is no one in the Senate pre-
dicting this bill will be taken up.
The White House certainly won’t sup-
port it in its current form. But, like us,
they believe we need to find a solution.
When all is said and done, I know
this bill is well intended. I know the
author and leader is well intended be-
cause I know him.
I think this will actually delay Con-
gress from making the progress we
really need to on this issue.
So, today, after what will be a large-
ly partisan vote, we are going to be
forced to start over at step one.
I just think union workers and their
families, who work incredibly hard
every day, that promises to them
ought to be kept. And they demand
better from us.
b 1815
To solve this issue, we have to work
together to get to the root cause,
which is that there are lower standards
and less accountability for these union-
managed plans. That is why the prom-
ises to union workers are worth a third
what the promises are to workers in
other plans. That isn’t right.
This bill doesn’t take any steps to
make these failing plans more stable.
It won’t end underfunding. It doesn’t
make them more solvent over time for
their children, who are working, by the
way, in these same companies.
Families of these union workers are
counting on these plans, and these
workers have put their trust in these
trustees to make good on their prom-
ises. Too many failed, and too many
are still failing.
The truth is, we are in this crisis
today because not all managers, by the
way, did a bad job, but too many did.
They dramatically overpromised and
underdelivered. Will we rely on the
same people who created this mess to
do the same thing to the same workers
they have already let down?
It is the workers we worry about the
most. I have been on the factory floors
with these men and women. They are
good people. They care deeply about
providing for themselves and their
families. They just want their promises
kept.
What our union workers need is for
Congress to come up with a long-term,
bipartisan solution now. We will need
to start over, Republicans and Demo-
crats working together to develop seri-
ous bipartisan reforms.
Again, I pledge to our chairman that
Republicans are eager to engage, if
asked, to try to find this solution—for
the first time, if we are asked, to find
a solution.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
letters in opposition to the bill from
Heritage Action for America, Ameri-
cans for Tax Reform, and National
Taxpayers Union.
HERITAGE ACTION FOR AMERICA,
July 23, 2019.
Hon. KEVIN BRADY,
Ranking Member, House Ways and Means Com-
mittee, House of Representatives, Wash-
ington, DC.
DEAR RANKING MEMBER BRADY: This week,
the House is expected to consider H.R. 397,
the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pen-
sions Act (previously known as the Butch-
Lewis Act). The bill would essentially bail
out over $600 billion in pension liabilities at
taxpayer expense without making any re-
forms to ensure future shortfalls will be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.099 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7333
July 24, 2019
avoided. This bill would also set a dangerous
precedent for other insolvent pensions, in-
cluding the $6 trillion in unfunded pension li-
abilities currently held by state and local
governments.
Politically, this is not an easy issue for
many offices. Every member wants to assure
their constituents that he or she is doing ev-
erything possible to protect their retirement
security. But there are four important con-
siderations representatives should take into
account before voting on this bill: 1) Existing
policies have allowed pensions shortfalls to
grow uncontrollably and must be fixed before
any other actions are taken; 2) Private sec-
tor workers were promised their pensions by
their employers and their unions, not by fel-
low taxpayers or the government; 3) There
are alternative ways to ensure workers re-
ceive most or all of their pensions without a
taxpayer bailout if action is taken quickly;
4) bailouts set dangerous precedents, create
moral hazard, and shield bad actors.
Rather than bailing out multiemployer
pensions plans through costly loans that will
never be paid back, lawmakers should make
them solvent by applying some of the tighter
rules that govern single-employer pensions
(which were 79% funded in 2015 vs. 43% for
multiemployer), increasing PBGC premiums,
placing reasonable restrictions on growth as-
sumptions, and giving workers a buyout op-
tion.
Allowing taxpayer dollars to flow to pri-
vate pensions without even addressing the
underlying causes of the shortfall is an irre-
sponsible non-solution to a growing national
problem. Heritage Action opposes this legis-
lation and urges all members of Congress to
oppose it.
All the best,
GARRETT BESS,
Director of Government Relations,
Heritage Action for America.
AMERICANS FOR TAX REFORM,
Washington, DC, November 1, 2018.
Re Multiemployer Pension Solvency.
Hon. ORRIN HATCH,
Chairman, Joint Select Committee on Solvency
of Multiemployer Pension Plans. U.S. Sen-
ate, Washington, DC.
Hon. SHERROD BROWN,
Co-Chairman, Joint Select Committee on Sol-
vency of Multiemployer Pension Plans, U.S.
Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR CO-CHAIRMEN HATCH AND BROWN: As
the Joint Select Committee on Multiem-
ployer Pension Solvency considers proposals
to address the multiemployer pension crisis
we urge Congress to enact meaningful reform
aimed at preventing the situation from reoc-
curring and protecting taxpayers from future
burden. This crisis has created uncertainty
for millions of American workers planning
their retirement and we appreciate the com-
mittee’s attention to this issue.
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
(PBGC) currently estimates that there are
100 multiemployer pension plans in danger of
insolvency if benefits are not reduced. The
Heritage Foundation assesses that multiem-
ployer pensions hold roughly $638 billion in
unfunded pension promises with only 7 years
before plans begin collapsing. Insolvency on
this widespread scale would likely bankrupt
the PBGC, itself underfunded, as it is re-
quired by law to insure retirees’ benefits up
to $12,870 per year.
While promises were made to participants
in multiemployer plans, they were made by
private labor unions, not the government
and certainly not taxpayers. While the enor-
mity of the problem may make government
intervention a political inevitability, tax-
payers have no direct responsibility to inter-
vene. Any action considered by the com-
mittee should therefore focus on minimizing
taxpayers’ burden and enacting serious re-
form to prevent a future crisis from occur-
ring again.
Any proposal seeking to provide federal as-
sistance to multiemployer pensions should
include the following reforms:
1. Improved Solvency of the PBGC. The
first priority should be ensuring the PBGC is
capable of providing its intended level of in-
sured benefits to retirees. While the PBGC is
not taxpayer funded, it is still an entity of
the government and has failed to meet its
obligations. Efforts at properly funding the
PBGC should focus upon raising standard
multiemployer premiums significantly to in-
crease PBGC revenues, requiring termi-
nation plans for insolvent plans and intro-
ducing a standard PBGC eligibility age for
new individuals receiving PBGC benefits. An
underfunded PBGC has contributed to this
crisis and increases the burden placed on
taxpayers, this problem must be addressed.
2. Accrual of new benefits should freeze
while switching employees to 401(k) plans. It
is standard practice for single-employer pen-
sion funds to immediately freeze accrual of
new benefits and switch employees to 401(k)
plans when seeking assistance from the Pen-
sion Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Multi-
employer pensions must be held to the same
standard. Despite approaching insolvency,
multiemployer pension plans continue to
promise benefits several times more gen-
erous than the typical employer contribu-
tion to 401(k)s. Almost two-thirds of con-
tributions made by multiemployer plans
simply cover newly earned benefits, an irra-
tional amount for plans approaching insol-
vency and seeking taxpayer aid. Halting ac-
cruals will free up funds to pay current bene-
fits while new benefits will be more appro-
priately funded through both employer and
employee contributions.
3. Multiemployer plans must be held to ap-
propriate funding standards. Taxpayers
should not be on the hook for pensions tak-
ing on greater risk. Multiemployer pensions
have been granted special funding rules that
allow them to set lower employer contribu-
tion levels and rely on higher returns than
comparative single-employer plans. For ex-
ample, while single-employer plans are ex-
pected to resume full funding in seven years,
multiemployer employer plans are given
thirty years to payoff unfunded liabilities.
Allowing multiemployer plans this substan-
tially larger time period has allowed the
funding shortage to snowball. As several par-
ticipating employers went bankrupt or with-
drew over time, the remaining employers
were on the hook for guaranteeing the same
investment returns to participants of these
‘‘orphaned plans.’’
4. Beneficiaries should be protected within
reason. Retirees should be granted protec-
tion to their benefits, but that protection
must be given within fiscally responsible
limits. 401(k) holders don’t receive a bailout
if their account drops, despite plans being
funded by the employees themselves. Retir-
ees under single-employee pensions don’t re-
ceive unlimited PCGC protection despite
more stringent funding rules. Beneficiaries
of multiemployer plans shouldn’t receive
special treatment from the government sim-
ply because their union representatives over-
promised on returns. Perhaps most impor-
tantly, having taxpayers fully cover the loss
for retirees will be a signal to employees
that their union representatives successfully
advocated to protect them, when in reality
union leadership overpromised and under-
funded their pensions. To avoid a repeat sce-
nario, this situation must be recognized as a
pension crisis, not business as usual with a
taxpayer safety net.
As the Joint Committee continues to con-
sider a potential solution, Americans for Tax
Reform hopes that the committee will work
to lessen the burden on taxpayers and will
pursue a solution that prevents a similar
pension crisis from happening again.
Thank you for your consideration.
Onward,
GROVER G. NORQUIST,
President, Americans for Tax Reform.
NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION,
Washington, DC, July 23, 2019.
National Taxpayers Union urges all Rep-
resentatives to vote ‘‘NO’’ on H.R. 397, the
Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions
Act. This legislation would bail out failing
private pension plans with few guardrails for
taxpayers and cost at least $67 billion over
the next decade. Congress should instead
pursue legislation that tackles the multiem-
ployer pension plan (MPP) crisis in a pru-
dent, determined, patient and gradual way.
NTU has noted before that the MPP crisis,
which affects 1.5 million Americans, deserves
attention from Congress. However, H.R. 397
is a flawed piece of legislation. We wrote last
month and in 2018 that, when it comes to
MPPs, ‘‘[i]nfusions of cash from the Treas-
ury with few restrictions tend to charac-
terize overreaction rather than corrective
action.’’ Unfortunately, this is exactly what
H.R. 397 does, by providing 30–year loans to
failing MPPs with few guardrails for tax-
payer dollars. We believe that H.R. 397 will
hurt workers in the long run, by allowing
plan sponsors to double down on unrealistic
promises and assumptions.
H.R. 397 will also exacerbate the troubled
state of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Cor-
poration (PBGC), which is scheduled to reach
insolvency during fiscal year (FY) 2025. Por-
tions of PBGC’s operations have appeared on
the Government Accountability Office’s High
Risk List for over a decade, and H.R. 397 fails
to introduce real reforms to PBGC.
Finally, we are alarmed by the Congres-
sional Budget Office (CBO) report that
pegged the cost of H.R. 397 at more than $67
billion over the next decade. NTU must add,
though, that even this troubling CBO score
fails to account for the 30-year timeframe on
the repayment of loans issued to failing
MPPs. It is reasonable to assume that the 30-
year costs to taxpayers will be at least tens
of billions of dollars more, and even greater
if MPPs fail to pay back the full principal
and interest on Treasury Department loans.
We have outlined more prudent reforms be-
fore: require PBGC to more fully embrace
risk pricing and other management tools to
safeguard against liability surprises in the
future; include a uniform, significant benefit
reduction to show good faith in, the reform
effort; and require that loans be
collateralized with real-world assets that en-
sure the loans will be entirely repaid over a
term measured in years rather than decades.
We believe any of these reforms would
present far better options to solving the
MPP crisis than H.R. 397.
NTU strongly urges Representatives to op-
pose H.R. 397, and instead work towards pru-
dent, determined, patient and gradual solu-
tions to the MPP crisis that avoid putting
taxpayers on the hook for multibillion-dollar
bailouts.
Roll call votes on H.R. 397 will be included
in our annual Rating of Congress and a ‘‘no’’
vote will be considered the pro-taxpayer po-
sition.
Mr. BRADY. I am convinced we can
find a solution. This isn’t the right
thing for our workers, but there is a
right way to help them. We are serious
about making that happen.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:35 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.041 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7334 July 24, 2019
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, might I in-
quire as to how much time is remain-
ing.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Massachusetts has 1
minute remaining.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, this has been edifying.
There has been an opportunity here for
a full discussion about this impending
problem that threatens the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation. This is
an acknowledgment of the threat that
is before us.
There is one thing that we have in
common today. Nobody doubts the
gravity of the situation that is in front
of us. Nobody doubts just how serious
this is for financial markets going for-
ward if we don’t address this issue,
given the contagion that I referenced
earlier that is likely to occur in other
pension plans across the country if we
don’t address this issue forthwith.
When I hear people say we want to do
this in a spirit of bipartisanship, when?
For 2 years, we talked about this, and
finally, there is a plan that the House
is about to vote on in the next few min-
utes. I am ever so hopeful and opti-
mistic that we, in fact, are going to be
able to see the opportunity to pass this
legislation and get it over to the Sen-
ate.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to support the bipartisan bill H.R. 397,
the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions
Act. This bill would allow pension plans to get
back on their feet and ensure retirees receive
their promised benefits.
We must act quickly to ensure that Ameri-
cans who contributed to their multiemployer
pension plans will not have their financial se-
curity at risk. That is why I am proud to co-
sponsor H.R. 397. This bill provides financial
assistance to financially troubled multiem-
ployer defined benefit pension plans covering
about 10 million, mostly working-class, Ameri-
cans across the country.
The financial assistance provide by the bill
consists of loans with a 30-year repayment
term. Multiemployer pension plans are collec-
tively bargained pension plans covering em-
ployees with two or more employers. Retirees,
workers and their families, who rely on these
plans are losing benefits earned over a life-
time of work through no fault of their own.
As an example, the Central States Pension
Fund in my district has 10 employers covering
more than 1,500 participants. Some of the top
employers using Central States Pension Fund
are YRC Inc., ABF Freights Systems, Penske
Truck Leasing Co., DHL Express, and Air Ex-
press International. Without this financial as-
sistance, pensions of truck drivers, elec-
tricians, ironworkers, bakers, and many more
would continue to be cut significantly—putting
their families’ financial security and future at
risk.
Mr. Speaker, the growing number of families
in our country relying on their pension plans is
growing and can no longer go unnoticed. We
now have an opportunity to help these families
protect their financial security.
Mr. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, it is with great
pleasure today that I rise in support of strong,
bipartisan passage of the Butch Lewis Act.
The Butch Lewis Act will provide the eco-
nomic security this body ripped out from under
millions of hardworking Americans.
Across our country, 1.3 million workers and
retirees face serious and significant threat of
cuts to their hard earned multiemployer pen-
sion plans, through no fault of their own. Sev-
eral of these plans are large enough to take
down the entire Pension Benefit Guarantee
Corporation, threatening the guaranteed secu-
rity of 10 million Americans.
I have heard the message time and again
from retirees in my district and across this na-
tion: they worked for decades to earn these
pensions. Now they are too old, or their health
too unstable, to return to the workforce. The
stress and anxiety are sapping their will. Some
have taken their own lives.
The Butch Lewis Act will provide much
needed and long-overdue relief.
The Butch Lewis Act keeps the promises
made to retirees. It guarantees pension bene-
fits they have earned into the future. It does
so by allowing troubled pension plans to bor-
row the money needed to remain solvent in
30-year, low interest loans. The plan will
repay.
Pensions-have afforded millions of middle-
class Americans the opportunity to enjoy their
golden years with economic peace of mind.
Let us restore this peace with swift and just
passage of the Butch Lewis Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate on the bill has expired.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. DAVID P.
ROE OF TENNESSEE
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Amend section 4(b)(2) to read as follows:
(2) INTEREST RATE.—Loans made under sub-
section (a) shall have an interest rate of 5
percent for each of the first 5 years and 9
percent thereafter.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 509, the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) and a Member opposed each will
control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Tennessee.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
One talking point that I have heard a
lot from my friends across the aisle in
support of this bill is that Congress has
already bailed out our Nation’s finan-
cial institutions so we should bail out
the pension plans.
While I don’t agree with that senti-
ment, if that is the argument, then we
should treat these bailouts the same.
Using this logic, my amendment would
set the loan interest rates in the bill at
5 percent for the first 5 years and 9 per-
cent after that, the same rate given to
banks under the Troubled Asset Relief
Program.
While I wasn’t in Congress at the
time TARP was passed, the situation
we are in today, considering a union
pension bailout, is the best evidence of
why we shouldn’t have interfered with
a bailout of our private financial insti-
tutions. Nevertheless, that decision
was made, and now one bailout is being
used to justify another. If we believe
Congress should be in the business of
bailing out privately negotiated, col-
lectively bargained benefit arrange-
ments of private employers, we should
do so using the same terms as TARP.
A key feature of TARP was the Cap-
ital Purchase Program, which provided
capital to finance institutions by pur-
chasing senior preferred shares. My
amendment would set the interest rate
of loans authorized under this bill to
the same rate that senior preferred
stock dividends paid under TARP’s
Capital Purchase Program. If these
terms were good enough for the TARP
bailout, they should be good enough for
the bailout offered by this bill.
The majority refuses to accept the
outrageous risk associated with mak-
ing loans in these plans. Instead, this
bill offers low-interest loans to mas-
sively underfunded, failing pension
plans and allows loan principal forgive-
ness if the plans can’t be repaid. This is
unbelievable. This proves the majority
has no belief that the loans will ever be
repaid and is simply looking to gift
hundreds of billions of dollars of tax-
payer funds to these failing pension
plans.
What about the retirement plans af-
fected during the same time? What are
we going to bail out next? Are we going
to continue having the Federal Govern-
ment come along and throw money at
badly managed investments?
If we do make these loans, the gov-
ernment shouldn’t just throw the
money at a problem without some
guardrails. With TARP, banks were not
given low-interest loans over 30 years
and told it really doesn’t matter if
they repay them or not, that we will
forgive them anyway. In fact, those
loans were repaid, and the government
made money doing that.
Mr. Speaker, having said that, I
served as chairman of the Health, Em-
ployment, Labor, and Pension Sub-
committee for 6 years. I worked on the
bill with Chairman Kline and Ranking
Member MILLER to help solve this prob-
lem. It is a huge problem.
My father was a union member who
lost his job 30 years after World War II,
so I have been down that road with my
own family.
I am willing to work across the aisle.
As Mr. NEAL stated, I was on that com-
mittee that didn’t do anything. I am
willing now to work on this.
This bill, I disagree with him, is not
going anywhere. The PBGC chairman
today said that we should work in a bi-
partisan way, and I am sitting here
today telling the gentleman that I am
willing to do that. I have been willing
to for the past 6 years. We did pass that
bill back about 4 years ago, which will
help with the plans, so I am willing to
do that. This plan is not it.
I urge support of my amendment, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I rise in opposition to the amendment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.102 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7335
July 24, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois). The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. PELOSI), the dis-
tinguished Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding. I thank
him for his leadership on behalf of
America’s working families, and I
thank him for his role in bringing this
important legislation to the floor.
I thank Chairman NEAL as well for
his chairmanship of the Ways and
Means Committee, so essential in our
being able today to come to respect the
work of America’s workers.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the
legislation and in opposition to the
amendment. Again, this is about the fi-
nancial security and future of Amer-
ica’s workers.
Our House Democratic majority was
elected to fight for the people. Today,
as we pass the Butch Lewis bill that is
bipartisan, that has bipartisan support,
that is exactly what we are doing.
The Butch Lewis Act delivers justice
for 1.3 million workers and retirees fac-
ing devastating cuts to pensions earned
over a lifetime of work. It protects the
financial security of families, ensuring
workers have the benefits they have
earned and need to provide for spouses,
children, and grandchildren. It honors
the sacred pension promise in America,
that if you work hard, you deserve the
dignity of a secure retirement.
Sadly, years of relentless special in-
terest agendas have put that promise
in peril. Unchecked recklessness on
Wall Street ignited a financial melt-
down that dealt a devastating blow to
multiemployer pension plans while
dangerous deregulation and relentless
attacks against unions have eaten
away at these plans’ health.
If we do not act, the pensions of
many workers and retirees will be cut
to the bone, and the financial security
and futures of their families and com-
munities will be thrown into jeopardy.
Workers are the backbone of our Na-
tion, and we cannot accept a single
penny to be cut from their pensions.
Congress has a responsibility to do
right by hardworking Americans.
We have a responsibility to Ameri-
cans like Sam, a retired coal miner
from southwest Virginia who has sec-
ond-stage black lung and relies on a
$475 a month pension to pay for his
healthcare because he has been denied
Federal black lung benefits.
We have a responsibility to Ameri-
cans like Kenneth from Wisconsin, who
needs his pension to provide for his five
children, nine grandkids, and, until re-
cently, his beloved wife, Beverly, who
he just lost to cancer. Yet, his pension
faces a 55 percent cut.
We have a responsibility to Ameri-
cans like Rita Lewis, who is here with
us today, wife to Butch Lewis, this
bill’s namesake, who so heroically
fought until his death to protect pen-
sions, including Rita’s survivor bene-
fits.
As Rita testified before Congress:
‘‘This pension was not a gift. He
worked hard for every penny of that
pension. He gave up wages and vaca-
tion pay and other benefits . . . so I
would be taken care of if something
happened to him.’’
Now that pension risks being slashed
to the core.
Workers, retirees, and survivors like
Sam, Kenneth, and Rita are forgoing
much-needed medicines, or working
into their eighties for more income,
and are being robbed of their benefits
that they need to help out their fami-
lies.
Not Rita. She is not working into her
eighties.
We must act now. We will swiftly
pass this bill to honor workers’ dig-
nity, support their families, and pro-
tect their futures.
We must always remember that the
middle class is the backbone of our de-
mocracy, and our workers are the
strength of that middle class. In fact, I
do believe that the middle class has a
union label on it.
In the coming months, the House will
continue to build on this progress,
passing future legislation on behalf of
working families. Our majority is for
the people, and we will work relent-
lessly to restore a government that
works for the people’s interest, not the
special interests.
I urge a strong bipartisan vote to
protect the pensions of workers and re-
tirees, and I urge Senator MCCONNELL
to immediately take up this bill so
that we can send it to the President’s
desk and give comfort to so many fami-
lies in America.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to
the amendment. The intent of this bill
is to keep loan interest rates as low as
possible for two reasons, to get finan-
cially distressed plans back on their
feet and to maximize the chance of full
repayment of the loan.
CBO estimates that, under the provi-
sions of the bill, the cost of the loans,
after some defaults, will cost less than
$60 billion over 30 years, much less
than the hundreds of billions of dollars
if we do nothing.
This bill specifies an interest rate to
be around the 30-year U.S. Treasury se-
curities rate with a 20 basis-point in-
crease to cover costs of administration.
For those plans that elect to repay the
loan principal on an accelerated sched-
ule, there is an incentive of a 50 basis-
point reduction in the interest rate.
The bottom line here is that this is
not a program from which the Federal
Government intends to make a profit.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
Business Roundtable, and many em-
ployer organizations have not endorsed
the bill. However, they did send a let-
ter last year that said: ‘‘The financial
and demographic circumstances of cer-
tain plans will not allow them to sur-
vive without responsible financial as-
sistance. Consequently, we recommend
long-term, low-interest loans that will
protect taxpayers from financial liabil-
ity.’’
These business groups recognize that
doing nothing is more expensive to tax-
payers than the provisions of this bill
and a low-interest loan.
b 1830
The amendment before us mandates
the interest rate to be 5 percent for the
first 5 years and 9 percent thereafter.
This is not a low-interest loan in to-
day’s environment where a 30-year
Treasury security rate is 2.6 percent.
Raising the interest rates to the lev-
els prescribed by my friend from Ten-
nessee would entirely subvert the loan
program. Nobody would apply, and
those who did apply would have to rep-
resent an earnings rate that would not
be realistic.
This amendment would increase loan
defaults, and its effect, whether in-
tended or not, would doom the loan
program before it starts. Therefore,
Mr. Speaker, I would recommend that
we reject the amendment.
Before I yield back, I want to say
that the gentleman from Tennessee
and I disagree on this amendment and
the underlying bill, but I appreciate his
leadership and expertise. We served on
the Joint Select Committee last year,
and we agree that something needs to
be done because we have a crisis. So I
look forward to working with him and
his colleague from Tennessee, the
Chair of the Senate Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions Committee, Mr.
ALEXANDER, as this process moves for-
ward.
Now, I want to remind everybody, if
we do nothing, over a million hard-
working Americans will lose their pen-
sions, businesses will go bankrupt, and
the Federal Government will unneces-
sarily spend hundreds of billions of dol-
lars.
This amendment will not help. It will
actually make matters worse, and,
therefore, we should defeat the amend-
ment and then pass the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the previous question
is ordered on the bill, as amended, and
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE).
The question is on the amendment
offered by the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. DAVID P. ROE).
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I demand a recorded vote.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered
by the gentleman from Tennessee will
be postponed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.104 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7336 July 24, 2019
HUMANITARIAN STANDARDS FOR
INDIVIDUALS IN CUSTOMS AND
BORDER PROTECTION CUSTODY
ACT
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on H.R. 3239,
the Humanitarian Standards for Indi-
viduals in Customs and Border Protec-
tion Custody Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York). Is there objection
to the request of the gentlewoman
from California?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 509 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 3239.
The Chair appoints the gentleman
from California (Mr. CARBAJAL) to pre-
side over the Committee of the Whole.
b 1836
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 3239) to
require U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection to perform an initial health
screening on detainees, and for other
purposes, with Mr. CARBAJAL in the
chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall not exceed 1
hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on the Judiciary.
The gentlewoman from California
(Ms. LOFGREN) and the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. STEUBE) each will control
30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I rise in support of H.R.
3239, the Humanitarian Standards for
Individuals in Customs and Border Pro-
tection Custody Act, a bill that will ad-
dress an important piece of the human-
itarian crisis at the border, ensuring
the delivery of basic standards of care
for individuals who are detained in
CBP custody.
Many of us, including myself, have
traveled to our southern border over
the past couple of months and wit-
nessed firsthand the effects of the situ-
ation that continues to unfold. No one
who has made that journey has not
been deeply moved by the severe over-
crowding and inhumane conditions at
some CBP facilities.
If you have not observed these condi-
tions in person, you have undoubtedly
seen pictures or read the latest DHS in-
spector general report and know how
serious this situation is:
Families, children, and single adults
housed outside or in severely over-
crowded cells;
Lack of access to showers, func-
tioning toilets, and basic personal hy-
giene products;
Flu outbreaks, lice infestations, and
other conditions that threaten the
health and safety of everyone who is
exposed to them.
Mr. Chairman, I will include in the
RECORD a copy of the report submitted
by the inspector general of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security on the sit-
uation at the border.
The situation is so dire that no less
than three children and seven other in-
dividuals have died in CBP custody so
far this fiscal year. By comparison, not
a single child died in CBP custody in
the previous decade.
Although the administration asserts
that these conditions are the inevitable
result of the increase in the number of
people seeking protection at our bor-
der, it is not just the numbers that are
the problem. It is the administration’s
mission to deter migration through
heavy-handed enforcement and its
steadfast refusal to address the crisis
competently that has gotten us where
we are today.
H.R. 3239 will literally save lives by
restoring order and basic standards in
the processing of immigrants at the
border.
H.R. 3239 requires CBP to ensure that
all individuals arriving at our border
receive a basic health screening, and
the bill also requires other emergency
care professionals to be available at
least by phone so that, if a life-threat-
ening situation arises, it can be ad-
dressed quickly instead of hours later
when it is too late.
H.R. 3239 would also prohibit over-
crowding and requires migrants to
have access to showers, basic hygiene
products, and clean clothing so they
are not forced to sit in clothing soiled
from dirt and sweat for weeks and days
at a time. Detainees would have access
to water and standard age-appropriate
diets comprised of food that follows ap-
plicable safety standards.
My colleagues across the aisle have
claimed that H.R. 3239 is unworkable
because CBP lacks the funding to im-
plement it, but just a few weeks ago
Congress passed a $4.6 billion spending
measure to send emergency funding to
the border. The Trump administration
has yet to prove that it can put this
money to good use and treat arriving
migrants competently. H.R. 3239 would
do just that.
I would like to commend our col-
league, Representative and Dr. RAUL
RUIZ, for his efforts in moving this bill
forward and for his commitment to en-
suring the dignity and safety of those
seeking protection in our country.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
the Humanitarian Standards for Indi-
viduals in CBP Custody Act, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume, and
rise in opposition to the bill.
Despite months of opportunities for
Congress to intervene in the border cri-
sis and actually fix our laws, the Dem-
ocrat majority has done nothing except
stand by, at first denying that there
was a crisis, and then watching as a
chaotic and dangerous situation devel-
oped.
The administration repeatedly
warned us that the unprecedented mi-
grant flow was overwhelming the gov-
ernment’s ability to adequately re-
spond and that the facilities were over-
crowded because they were not de-
signed as long-term holding facilities.
Yet the Democrat majority brought
forth no legislation to fix the problems.
Instead, they passed the Dream Act, a
bill which will only incentivize more il-
legal immigration.
So, aside from the Dream Act, what
is the majority’s next idea? H.R. 3239,
the Humanitarian Standards for Indi-
viduals in Customs and Border Protec-
tion Custody Act, a bill that will not
solve the border crisis and, in fact, will
make the crisis worse.
H.R. 3239 does nothing to address the
root causes of this crisis:
It does nothing to address the push-
and-pull factors that drive illegal im-
migration, including loopholes in our
own laws;
It does nothing to fix the Flores set-
tlement agreement’s guarantee of
catch and release for almost all family
units;
It does nothing to fix the provision in
the Trafficking Victims Protection Re-
authorization Act that prevents the
safe repatriation of children from non-
contiguous countries;
It does not introduce reasonable re-
forms to our asylum laws. Instead, it
imposes onerous and burdensome re-
quirements on the hundreds of CBP fa-
cilities at a time when the government
is already overwhelmed.
Of course, CBP should always strive
to comply with their custodial care
standards, and I know that the men
and women of CBP are treating mi-
grants with respect. But H.R. 3239 does
not address the root causes of the con-
ditions at CBP facilities: that ICE and
HHS do not have enough space avail-
able to take custody of these individ-
uals.
The bill does not increase funding for
ICE detention beds to ensure single
adults do not have to be in CBP cus-
tody beyond 72 hours. It does not fund
additional permanent HHS shelter ca-
pacity for unaccompanied children.
Instead, in the midst of a chaotic sit-
uation, H.R. 3239 imposes extensive
medical screening, medical care, and
facilities requirements on to CBP that
are, in many cases, simply unworkable.
This bill’s onerous requirements sig-
nificantly impact CBP’s mission and
ignore the reality that CBP is con-
fronting an influx of migrants that has
overwhelmed the system and caused a
crisis.
b 1845
H.R. 3239 requires a fully documented
medical screening of each and every
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.107 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7337
July 24, 2019
person entering CBP custody, to in-
clude a full physical exam, risk assess-
ment, interview, medical intake ques-
tionnaire, and taking of all vital signs.
In addition, the bill requires CBP to
require additional follow-up medical
care, including psychological and men-
tal health care.
The bill even requires that CBP shall
have onsite, to the extent practicable,
in addition to the medical profes-
sionals employed to conduct the initial
medical screenings, ‘‘ . . . licensed
emergency care professionals, specialty
physicians (including physicians spe-
cializing in pediatrics, family medi-
cine, obstetrics and gynecology, geri-
atric medicine, internal medicine, and
infectious diseases), nurse practi-
tioners, other nurses, physician assist-
ants, licensed social workers, mental
health professionals, public health pro-
fessionals, dieticians, interpreters, and
chaperones.’’ If it is impracticable to
have them onsite, CBP must have them
on call.
May I remind you that our own vet-
erans do not have access to the same
list of healthcare specialists at an ini-
tial request at their clinics.
I offered an amendment that was not
made in order that stated that this bill
would not go into effect until the VA
confirms that medical care that meets
the standards listed in this bill for de-
tainees is made available to every vet-
eran seeking medical care at a facility
of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
CBP personnel should be interdicting
narcotics, preventing illegal immigra-
tion, stopping child trafficking, and fa-
cilitating lawful trade and travel, yet
H.R. 3239 would have them, instead,
setting up full-service hospitals at hun-
dreds of facilities.
The requirements of H.R. 3239 apply
not only to border patrol stations, but
also to ports of entry, including land,
sea, and air ports of entry, check-
points, forward operating bases, and
secondary inspection areas.
As if the current crisis weren’t
enough of a challenge, the bill requires
updates to hundreds of CBP facilities,
requisition of personnel and equip-
ment, and training for all CBP per-
sonnel at covered facilities, all at an
immense cost.
May I mention again, I offered an
amendment that would require the
DHS Secretary to also report on the
cost of implementation of this legisla-
tion.
My amendment would have also de-
layed the 6-month implementation re-
quirement if Congress does not appro-
priate sufficient funds to carry out the
requirements of this bill, yet H.R. 3239
does not authorize any appropriations.
The requirements apply to facilities
no matter the size, the location, or
even the amount of traffic. So it ap-
plies equally to a very busy airport,
processing millions of passengers a
year, just as it would to an extremely
remote port of entry or to an isolated
checkpoint.
Under this bill, there could be more
medical personnel working at the facil-
ity than aliens on any given day.
H.R. 3239 will also weaken border se-
curity at a time when we should be en-
hancing CBP’s ability to respond to the
surge.
The bill would limit CBP’s ability to
house migrants that come during a
surge, while simultaneously limiting
the number of people that could be
housed in existing CBP processing fa-
cilities, yet CBP cannot simply process
those individuals out to ICE custody,
because, again, H.R. 3239 does not fund
any additional ICE detention beds.
The practical effects of H.R. 3239 are
simply more catch-and-release.
The majority has made no secret
that CBP will be forced to release even
more people into the United States.
This is not a design flaw; it is a feature
of the bill.
H.R. 3239 also increases the incentive
to exploit children to gain entry into
the United States. Smugglers know mi-
grants will be released into the U.S. in-
terior if they bring a child, because of
a legal loophole created by the Flores
settlement agreement preventing those
family units from being detained for a
sufficient amount of time to complete
their immigrant court proceedings.
DHS continues to see adults fraudu-
lently posing as a parent. This loophole
is exploited by smugglers and human
traffickers on a daily basis, as children
are being rented and purchased like
chattel.
H.R. 3239 broadens this loophole even
further, extending it beyond parents to
any adult relative of a child. The in-
centive to bring a child will be even
greater, and human traffickers would
now be able to pose as a child’s distant
relative to evade detection and take
advantage of the Flores loophole.
CBP is already confronting a crisis
that is worsening by Congressional in-
action to fix the loopholes in our laws
that fuel illegal immigration. Congress
shouldn’t make the crisis worse by
passing H.R. 3239.
Mr. Chair, I oppose the bill and urge
my colleagues to do the same. I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
5 minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. RUIZ), my colleague and the
author of the bill.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Chair, I thank Chair
LOFGREN for her leadership on address-
ing the humanitarian crisis at our bor-
der.
I rise in support of H.R. 3239, the Hu-
manitarian Standards for Individuals
in Customs and Border Protection Cus-
tody Act.
My legislation is meant to prevent
children from dying at the border, and
promote a professional, humane way to
treat children and families under the
custody, and therefore, the responsi-
bility of CBP. But before I explain my
bill’s American-values-based, humani-
tarian, public health approach, I want
to refute a few myths.
First, the myth that this bill costs
too much.
My bill will not raise the deficit one
penny and does not require any in-
crease in mandatory spending. Instead,
it provides the blueprint for how CBP
should use its current budget and the
$4.6 billion in emergency funding we re-
cently passed to address the humani-
tarian crisis.
Second, the myth that my bill will
make it more difficult for CBP to pre-
vent human trafficking.
My bill specifically allows for CBP to
separate a child from an adult if ‘‘ . . .
such an arrangement poses safety or
security concerns . . . ’’, such as in in-
stances of suspected human traf-
ficking.
Furthermore, my bill requires CBP
personnel to receive training on indica-
tors of child sexual exploitation and
abuse.
Third, the myth that my bill requires
medical specialists onsite at all times.
That is simply not true. It is simply
false.
My bill only requires a licensed
health provider like a nurse, a physi-
cian assistant, an EMT, or paramedic
to conduct health screenings, and it
empowers CBP to call an emergency
care provider to help with emergency
triage decisions. That is it. And those
emergency care providers can include
those specialists, but it doesn’t require
them, all of them, to be on call at all
times or to be onsite.
Finally, the myth that my bill is too
cumbersome for CBP and will distract
agents from safety and security con-
cerns.
One, CBP agents want the assistance
in my bill because it provides them
with humanitarian and health assist-
ance to free up their time to focus on
safety and security issues; therefore,
my bill will make our country safer.
And, two—look, I was an early re-
sponder after the Haiti earthquake and
medical director for the largest inter-
nally-displaced camp in Haiti.
If nonprofits can meet the humani-
tarian standards in this bill in the
worst circumstances in the poorest
country in the Western Hemisphere,
then we can meet them in the greatest
country known to man.
So here is what my bill actually does.
It creates a simple health triage sys-
tem and basic humanitarian public
health standards.
It ensures that every individual in
CBP custody receives a health screen-
ing to triage for acute conditions and
high-risk vulnerability, something that
is easy to do. And, no, you don’t need
a full physical exam. You are just
triaging. You need vital signs and a
cursory physical exam. In fact, for
most people, it would take less than 5
minutes to perform.
It ensures that every individual in
CBP custody receives a health screen-
ing to triage for acute conditions and
high-risk vulnerabilities so people
don’t die under the responsibility of
CBP.
It ensures that an emergency care
provider is on call to pick up the phone
and help make triage decisions for life-
threatening medical emergencies. That
is it. That is all we are asking for.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.109 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7338 July 24, 2019
My bill also prioritizes high-risk pop-
ulations, the most vulnerable to severe
illnesses and dying, to receive a health
screening within 6 hours, including
children, pregnant women, and the el-
derly.
My bill requires very basic and nec-
essary things like toothbrushes and
diapers.
It includes nutrition standards to
make sure that infants have formula
and babies have baby food. How hard is
that?
In terms of shelter, my bill will en-
sure that people are no longer packed
and piled on top of each other; that the
temperature is not too cold, weakening
a child’s immune system; and that tod-
dlers don’t have to sleep on a cold con-
crete floor.
Finally, my bill addresses the chal-
lenges of surge capacity, adds training,
and requires reporting.
The straightforward reforms in my
bill are essential to protecting the
health and safety of agents and the
children and families in their custody.
Let me repeat myself. Let me reit-
erate. This is not just for asylum-seek-
ing children and families. This bill will
help CBP agents.
The CHAIR. The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Chair, it will empower
CBP to meet the basic provisions for
human dignity.
Mr. Chair, I sincerely urge my fellow
representatives to listen to their better
angels, do the right thing, and vote for
H.R. 3239, the Humanitarian Standards
for Individuals in CBP Custody Act, to
prevent another child from dying in
the custody of CBP and to promote a
professional, humane approach to ad-
dressing the humanitarian challenges
at our border and create the basic con-
ditions for human dignity.
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
I want to bring attention to page 8 of
the bill, line 16. I am going to read it
verbatim: ‘‘The Commissioner or the
Administrator of General Services
shall ensure that each location to
which detainees are first transported
after an initial encounter has onsite at
least one licensed medical professional
to conduct health screenings. Other
personnel that are or may be necessary
for carrying out the functions de-
scribed in subsection (e), such as li-
censed emergency care professionals,
specialty physicians (including physi-
cians specializing in pediatrics, family
medicine, obstetrics and gynecology,
geriatric medicine, internal medicine,
and infectious diseases), nurse practi-
tioners, other nurses, physician assist-
ants, licensed social workers, mental
health professionals, public health pro-
fessionals, dieticians, interpreters, and
chaperones, shall be located onsite, to
the extent practicable, or if not prac-
ticable, shall be available on call.’’
In the medical field, ‘‘on call’’ means
30 minutes or closer.
So this bill absolutely requires that
all of these specialty physicians are
available either onsite or within 30
minutes or closer to being able to be at
the location, any of these CBP loca-
tions, and they have to be provided this
healthcare within 12 hours of mani-
festing themselves at these facilities.
Right now our veterans don’t have
access to this healthcare that is en-
sured in this bill for illegal immigrants
coming into our country. If you go to a
clinic at a VA facility, they don’t have
specialty physicians. You have to wait
30 to 60, maybe 90 days to get an ap-
pointment with a specialty physician
in order to get the care that that vet-
eran wants or needs, not 12 hours.
So we are providing through this bill
better healthcare opportunities for il-
legal immigrants showing up at the
border than we are for our veterans
who have served our country, who have
raised their right hand to swear an
oath to our Constitution, who have
service-connected disability, and have
the ability to use Veterans Affairs fa-
cilities. They only get 30 to 60 days to
get those medical needs taken care of;
illegal immigrants get it in 12 hours,
according to this bill.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I just
would note that we went through this
in committee during the markup. All
of the specialty positions listed need
not be available at the site, as is men-
tioned on line 23.
As we mentioned, if you took a pic-
ture of a rash on a child, you could text
that picture to a pediatrician, say, ‘‘Is
this a communicable disease or is this
a small rash?’’ and that would meet the
requirements of this.
Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. GARCIA).
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Chair, I
rise in support of H.R. 3239, a bill intro-
duced by my friend and colleague from
California, Congressman RAUL RUIZ,
and which I proudly cosponsor.
The humanitarian crisis at the
southern border is greatly worsened by
understaffed, unprepared, and under-
equipped CBP facilities.
I know this. I have seen them first-
hand in visits that I have made to some
of these facilities not only in Texas,
but also in New Mexico.
This bill will alleviate these prob-
lems by requiring CBP facilities to
maintain the personnel and equipment
necessary to screen all individuals in
custody and provide emergency care as
needed.
b 1900
Our American values, moral con-
science, and the Constitution require
that we treat all individuals on Amer-
ican soil humanely and respectfully.
For this purpose, border agents must
have the equipment, resources, and
training necessary to carry out this
mission and save lives.
Congress must continue working to
solve the immigration issue and finally
end the humanitarian crisis at the
southern border.
Mr. Chairman, I urge all of my col-
leagues to join me in supporting H.R.
3239.
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Chairman, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. LEE), my colleague.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Chairman,
I thank the chairwoman for yielding
and for her tremendous leadership.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 3239, the Humanitarian
Standards for Individuals in Customs
and Border Protection Custody Act.
I thank Dr. RAUL RUIZ for bringing
his medical expertise to this body and
introducing this bill to bring some hu-
mane treatment to families and chil-
dren seeking refuge in the United
States.
This critical bill creates basic stand-
ards for humanitarian care of all de-
tainees within CBP facilities. By estab-
lishing health screenings, emergency
medical care, appropriate access to
water, nutrition, and shelter, these
critical standards are a step in the
right direction.
Last year, when I traveled to Browns-
ville and McAllen, Texas, I saw the
horrors of the Trump administration’s
family detention jails. I saw children
sleeping on concrete floors. It is cruel
and inhumane. And I, quite frankly,
wrote a letter to the United Nations
asking the secretary general to send
observers to report on the conditions
and treatment of these children and
adults.
Mr. Chairman, I include in the
RECORD my letter.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, June 19, 2018.
His Excellency Mr. ANTONIO GUTERRES,
Secretary General United Nations Headquarters,
New York, NY.
DEAR SECRETARY-GENERAL GUTERRES: I
write today to request your urgent assist-
ance in the ongoing crisis our country is fac-
ing at our Southern Border with Mexico.
As the Democratic Congressional Rep-
resentative to the United Nations (UN), I am
formally requesting UN observers travel to
the United States to report on the conditions
of detention facilities and treatment of chil-
dren, based on relevant international law
and human rights principles.
I am appalled by the reports and images
from detention facilities in Texas and other
states along the border, where more than
2,300 children have been separated from their
parents by border patrol agents.
This weekend, I will be traveling to the
border myself, to witness first-hand the con-
ditions adults and children are facing while
in detention.
I urge you to send experts from relevant
UN agencies to observe conditions in both
Department of Homeland Security (OHS) and
Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) facili-
ties both at the border and throughout the
more than 17 states around the country that
are now housing children who have been sep-
arated from their families.
As a mother, a grandmother, and as a psy-
chiatric social worker, I am most concerned
for the physical and mental well being of
children separated from their parents at
their most vulnerable time. The American
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:35 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.110 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7339
July 24, 2019
Academy of Pediatrics has warned that this
practice of family separation can cause ir-
reparable harm to lifelong development by
disrupting a child’s brain architecture.’’
You recently said in a statement, ‘‘As a
matter of principle, the Secretary-General
believes that refugees and migrants should
always be treated with respect and dignity,
and in accordance with existing inter-
national law.’’ And you added, ‘‘children
must not be traumatized by being separated
from their parents. Family unity must be
preserved.’’
I sincerely hope that you will consider this
urgent humanitarian request in a timely
manner.
Sincerely,
BARBARA LEE,
Member of Congress.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
an additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Chairman,
it is really our responsibility to protect
the health and safety of individuals in
CBP custody and, yes, we have failed.
By passing this bill today, we are
putting critical protocol and protec-
tions in place for individuals and mak-
ing sure that their well-being and
health are a priority. We can no longer
allow individuals to suffer, be abused,
or die under CBP. Our values demand
that we take this action. It is past
time for us to protect adults and chil-
dren fleeing violence, seeking a safe
haven in America.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to vote yes on this vital bill. And I
thank Dr. RUIZ for giving us a chance
to do the right thing.
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Chairman, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. CASTRO).
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Mr. Chairman,
I stand in support and the Hispanic
Caucus stands in support of H.R. 3239.
We had an opportunity, not too long
ago, to visit rural New Mexico and An-
telope Wells, a forward operating base,
and another Border Patrol station. It
became very clear to Dr. RUIZ, and to
all of us, that the Border Patrol is not
prepared for medical emergencies that
migrants may encounter or that their
own agents may encounter.
Something must be done. These folks
are not livestock. They are not ani-
mals. They shouldn’t be treated in a
subhuman way.
Mr. Chairman, this bill establishes
minimum standards for humane care,
and I, wholeheartedly, support it.
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself the balance of my time to close.
Mr. Chairman, I will make this very
quick and to the point. If this bill were
to become law, illegal immigrants ille-
gally crossing our border will have bet-
ter access to healthcare at government
expense than our veterans with service-
connected disabilities. And not just
better healthcare access to specialty
doctors and psychiatric care, not just
that, but within a timeframe 30 to 60
days faster than veterans can get ap-
pointments for medical care at a VA
facility.
The requirements in this bill show
that, depending on the scenario, CBP
has 6 to 12 hours to provide care to the
immigrant. A veteran under the MIS-
SION Act that was passed by Congress
last session, has 30 to 60 days to get an
appointment. So we are treating an il-
legal immigrant within a day, a re-
quirement by law, where veterans have
to wait 30 to 60 days just to get an ap-
pointment.
And let’s discuss the cost. Oh, that is
right, we don’t know the cost because
the majority didn’t consult CBP or
Homeland Security, and we have abso-
lutely no idea how much this is going
to cost. We are going to put this un-
funded mandate on CBP when they are
already taxed and already tolled with
the crisis that we have on the border
and not know how much it is going to
cost them to implement all of these
medical requirements that are in this
bill.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume to
close.
Mr. Chairman, this bill is an impor-
tant step forward to make sure that we
have minimal standards at CBP facili-
ties. It is simply incorrect to assert
that the minimum standards provided
for in this bill are extravagant exten-
sions of healthcare to people seeking
assistance.
If you have a medical emergency, you
should call for an ambulance. If you
are having a heart attack, you should
go to a hospital and be treated. If you
have a medical emergency, you have to
be dealt with under the section on page
4. If there is an indication of a problem,
you have to have the ability to reach
out to an expert by phone, if necessary,
or to get some guidance on what to do.
This is just common sense.
We have relied on Dr. RUIZ, who saw
this very system work in one of the
hemisphere’s poorest nations—Haiti—
after an earthquake where they had no
infrastructure. The nonprofits working
there could do this. I have no doubt
that the richest nation on Earth and
the Department of Homeland Security
could do as well as nonprofits in Haiti
after the earthquake. And to suggest
that they couldn’t, I think is really a
problem.
I would like to note that if we said
that veterans are going to get the care
outlined in this bill, it would be a dra-
matic reduction in the care provided to
veterans because this is a minimal
standard. We want to do better for our
veterans always, but to suggest that
they should get this, would be a huge
reduction in what we owe the veterans
of this country.
I thank Dr. RUIZ for the work that he
put into this bill. As an emergency
physician and a public health expert,
checking with the American Pediatric
Association, he came up with a struc-
ture that is doable and will save the
lives of children.
Mr. Chairman, I hope that we can
adopt this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, as a senior
member of the Judiciary Committee, I rise in
support of the H.R. 3239, a the ‘‘Humanitarian
Standards for Individuals in Customs and Bor-
der Protection Custody Act.’’
I support H.R. 3239, because it would re-
quire CBP to perform an initial health screen-
ing on all individuals in CBP custody and en-
sure that everyone in custody has access to
water, sanitation and hygiene, food and nutri-
tion, and safe shelter, among other provisions.
I have also offered two amendments that I
truly believe keeps the CBP staff and detain-
ees safe under the current conditions.
My first amendment to H.R. 3239 requires
retention of video monitoring and certification
that the video is on at all times.
CBP is considered ‘‘at capacity’’ when de-
tainee levels reach 4,000.
However, between May 14 and June 13,
2019, CBP detained more than 14,000 people
per day—and sometimes as many as 18,000.
A cell with a maximum capacity of 12 held
76 detainees; a cell with a maximum capacity
of 8 held 41 detainees, and a cell with a max-
imum capacity of 35 held 155 detainees.
Individuals were standing on toilets in the
cells to make room and gain breathing space,
thus limiting access to the toilets.
There is limited access to showers and
clean clothing, and individuals have been
wearing soiled clothing for days or weeks.
While DHS concurred with the rec-
ommendation made to alleviate overcrowding
at the Del Norte Processing Center, it identi-
fied November 30, 2020 as the date on which
the situation would be corrected.
There have been reports of agitation and
frustration from the CBP staff and the detain-
ees.
This legislation provides some of the trans-
parency, accountability and oversight that pro-
tects the detainees and the CBP employees
and contractors.
My second amendment to H.R. 3239 re-
quires that the Commissioner shall ensure that
language-appropriate ‘‘Detainee Bill of Rights,’’
including indigenous languages, are posted in
all areas where detainees are located.
The ‘‘Detainee Bill of Rights’’ shall include
all rights afforded to the detainee under this
bill.
In July, Border Patrol was holding about
8,000 detainees in custody at the time of the
DHS OIG visit, with 3,400 held longer than the
72 hours generally permitted under the Trans-
port, Escort, Detention, and Search (TEDS)
standards.
Of those 3,400 detainees, Border Patrol
held 1,500 for more than 10 days.
Border Patrol data indicated that 826 (31
percent) of the 2,669 children at these facili-
ties had been held longer than the 72 hours
generally permitted under the TEDS standards
and the Flores Agreement.
The estimated completion date is November
30, 2020 which is too far in the future for the
pressing issue we are having today.
Border Patrol agents has said that some
single adults had been held in standing-room-
only conditions for days or weeks. Border Pa-
trol management on site said there is an on-
going concern that rising.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.048 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7340 July 24, 2019
Currently, there are no regulations to guide
CBP on medical evaluation or sanitation within
the short-term detention facilities.
It is very concerning that CBP has reported
the deaths of four children and six adults in
CBP custody.
The posting of the Detainee Bill of Rights al-
lows the detainees to understand what
screenings will be done during their intake,
and what help is afforded to them during cus-
tody.
The posting will also help the detainees
communicate with the CBP employees about
what needs may not be met under the provi-
sions of this legislation.
I truly believe this will ease some of the ten-
sions and frustrations at the detention facili-
ties.
I applaud Rep. RAUL RUIZ for introducing the
Humanitarian Standards for Individuals in Cus-
toms and Border Protection Custody Act and
my colleagues for working together to ease
tensions in a difficult situation.
I believe that the adoption of the Jackson
Lee amendments strengthen H.R. 3239 by
continuing to provide transparency, account-
ability and oversight.
I also believe that the Jackson Lee amend-
ment that provided transparency for duties that
are outsourced to private contractors to be
subject to FOIA through CBP would have
strengthened the bill more and is also needed
to keep all parties safe.
The CHAIR. All time for general de-
bate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule.
In lieu of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on the Judiciary, print-
ed in the bill, it shall be in order to
consider as an original bill for the pur-
pose of amendment under the 5-minute
rule an amendment in the nature of a
substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 116–26 modified
by the amendment printed in part B of
House Report 116–178. That amendment
in the nature of a substitute shall be
considered as read.
The text of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute is as follows:
H.R. 3239
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Humanitarian Standards for Individuals in
Customs and Border Protection Custody Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Initial health screening protocol.
Sec. 3. Water, sanitation and hygiene.
Sec. 4. Food and nutrition.
Sec. 5. Shelter.
Sec. 6. Coordination and Surge capacity.
Sec. 7. Training.
Sec. 8. Interfacility transfer of care.
Sec. 9. Planning and initial implementation.
Sec. 10. Contractor compliance.
Sec. 11. Inspections.
Sec. 12. GAO report.
Sec. 13. Rule of construction.
Sec. 14. Definitions.
SEC. 2. INITIAL HEALTH SCREENING PROTOCOL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commissioner of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection (referred to in
this Act as the ‘‘Commissioner’’), in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, the Administrator of the Health Re-
sources and Services Administration, and non-
governmental experts in the delivery of health
care in humanitarian crises and in the delivery
of health care to children, shall develop guide-
lines and protocols for the provision of health
screenings and appropriate medical care for in-
dividuals in the custody of U.S. Customs and
Border Protection (referred to in this Act as
‘‘CBP’’), as required under this section.
(b) INITIAL SCREENING AND MEDICAL ASSESS-
MENT.—The Commissioner shall ensure that any
individual who is detained in the custody of
CBP (referred to in this Act as a ‘‘detainee’’) re-
ceives an initial in-person screening by a li-
censed medical professional in accordance with
the standards described in subsection (c)—
(1) to assess and identify any illness, condi-
tion, or age-appropriate mental or physical
symptoms that may have resulted from dis-
tressing or traumatic experiences;
(2) to identify acute conditions and high-risk
vulnerabilities; and
(3) to ensure that appropriate healthcare is
provided to individuals as needed, including pe-
diatric, obstetric, and geriatric care.
(c) STANDARDIZATION OF INITIAL SCREENING
AND MEDICAL ASSESSMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The initial screening and
medical assessment shall include—
(A) an interview and the use of a standard-
ized medical intake questionnaire or the equiva-
lent;
(B) screening of vital signs, including pulse
rate, body temperature, blood pressure, oxygen
saturation, and respiration rate;
(C) screening for blood glucose for known or
suspected diabetics;
(D) weight assessment of detainees under 12
years of age;
(E) a physical examination; and
(F) a risk-assessment and the development of
a plan for monitoring and care, when appro-
priate.
(2) PRESCRIPTION MEDICATION.—The medical
professional shall review any prescribed medica-
tion that is in the detainee’s possession or that
was confiscated by CBP upon arrival and deter-
mine if the medication may be kept by the de-
tainee for use during detention, properly stored
by CBP with appropriate access for use during
detention, or maintained with the detained indi-
vidual’s personal property. A detainee may not
be denied the use of necessary and appropriate
medication for the management of the detainee’s
illness.
(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed as requiring de-
tainees to disclose their medical status or his-
tory.
(d) TIMING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in para-
graph (2), the initial screening and medical as-
sessment described in subsections (b) and (c)
shall take place as soon as practicable, but not
later than 12 hours after a detainee’s arrival at
a CBP facility.
(2) HIGH PRIORITY INDIVIDUALS.—The initial
screening and medical assessment described in
subsections (b) and (c) shall take place as soon
as practicable, but not later than 6 hours after
a detainee’s arrival at a CBP facility if the indi-
vidual reasonably self-identifies as having a
medical condition that requires prompt medical
attention or is—
(A) exhibiting signs of acute or potentially se-
vere physical or mental illness, or otherwise has
an acute or chronic physical or mental dis-
ability or illness;
(B) pregnant;
(C) a child (with priority given, as appro-
priate, to the youngest children); or
(D) elderly.
(e) FURTHER CARE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If, as a result of the initial
health screening and medical assessment, the li-
censed medical professional conducting the
screening or assessment determines that one or
more of the detainee’s vital sign measurements
are significantly outside normal ranges in ac-
cordance with the National Emergency Services
Education Standards, or if the detainee is iden-
tified as high-risk or in need of medical inter-
vention, the detainee shall be provided, as expe-
ditiously as possible, with an in-person or tech-
nology-facilitated medical consultation with a
licensed emergency care professional.
(2) RE-EVALUATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Detainees described in para-
graph (1) shall be re-evaluated within 24 hours
and monitored thereafter as determined by an
emergency care professional (and in the care of
a consultation provided to a child, with a li-
censed emergency care professional with a back-
ground in pediatric care).
(B) REEVALUATION PRIOR TO TRANSPOR-
TATION.—In addition to the re-evaluations
under subparagraph (A), detainees shall have
all vital signs re-evaluated and be cleared as
safe to travel by a medical professional prior to
transportation.
(3) PYSCHOLOGICAL AND MENTAL CARE.—The
Commissioner shall ensure that detainees who
have experienced physical or sexual violence or
who have experienced events that may cause se-
vere trauma or toxic stress, are provided access
to basic, humane, and supportive psychological
assistance.
(f) INTERPRETERS.—To ensure that health
screenings and medical care required under this
section are carried out in the best interests of
the detainee, the Commissioner shall ensure that
language-appropriate interpretation services,
including indigenous languages, are provided to
each detainee and that each detainee is in-
formed of the availability of interpretation serv-
ices.
(g) CHAPERONES.—To ensure that health
screenings and medical care required under this
section are carried out in the best interests of
the detainee—
(1) the Commissioner shall establish guidelines
for and ensure the presence of chaperones for
all detainees during medical screenings and ex-
aminations consistent with relevant guidelines
in the American Medical Association Code of
Medical Ethics, and recommendations of the
American Academy of Pediatrics; and
(2) to the extent practicable, the physical ex-
amination of a child shall always be performed
in the presence of a parent or legal guardian or
in the presence of the detainee’s closest present
adult relative if a parent or legal guardian is
unavailable.
(h) DOCUMENTATION.—The Commissioner shall
ensure that the health screenings and medical
care required under this section, along with any
other medical evaluations and interventions for
detainees, are documented in accordance with
commonly accepted standards in the United
States for medical record documentation. Such
documentation shall be provided to any indi-
vidual who received a health screening and sub-
sequent medical treatment upon release from
CBP custody.
(i) INFRASTRUCTURE AND EQUIPMENT.—The
Commissioner or the Administrator of General
Services shall ensure that each location to
which detainees are first transported after an
initial encounter with an agent or officer of
CBP has the following:
(1) A private space that provides a comfortable
and considerate atmosphere for the patient and
that ensures the patient’s dignity and right to
privacy during the health screening and medical
assessment and any necessary follow-up care.
(2) All necessary and appropriate medical
equipment and facilities to conduct the health
screenings and follow-up care required under
this section, to treat trauma, to provide emer-
gency care, including resuscitation of individ-
uals of all ages, and to prevent the spread of
communicable diseases.
(3) Basic over-the-counter medications appro-
priate for all age groups.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.049 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7341
July 24, 2019
(4) Appropriate transportation to medical fa-
cilities in the case of a medical emergency, or an
on-call service with the ability to arrive at the
CBP facility within 30 minutes.
(j) PERSONNEL.—The Commissioner or the Ad-
ministrator of General Services shall ensure that
each location to which detainees are first trans-
ported after an initial encounter has onsite at
least one licensed medical professional to con-
duct health screenings. Other personnel that are
or may be necessary for carrying out the func-
tions described in subsection (e), such as li-
censed emergency care professionals, specialty
physicians (including physicians specializing in
pediatrics, family medicine, obstetrics and gyne-
cology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine,
and infectious diseases), nurse practitioners,
other nurses, physician assistants. licensed so-
cial workers, mental health professionals, public
health professionals, dieticians, interpreters,
and chaperones, shall be located on site to the
extent practicable, or if not practicable, shall be
available on call.
(k) ETHICAL GUIDELINES.—The Commissioner
shall ensure that all medical assessments and
procedures conducted pursuant to this section
are conducted in accordance with ethical guide-
lines in the applicable medical field, and respect
human dignity.
SEC. 3. WATER, SANITATION AND HYGIENE.
The Commissioner shall ensure that detainees
have access to—
(1) not less than one gallon of drinking water
per person per day, and age-appropriate fluids
as needed;
(2) a private, safe, clean, and reliable perma-
nent or portable toilet with proper waste dis-
posal and a hand washing station, with not less
than one toilet available for every 12 male de-
tainees, and 1 toilet for every 8 female detainees;
(3) a clean diaper changing facility, which in-
cludes proper waste disposal, a hand washing
station, and unrestricted access to diapers;
(4) the opportunity to bathe daily in a perma-
nent or portable shower that is private and se-
cure; and
(5) products for individuals of all age groups
and with disabilities to maintain basic personal
hygiene, including soap, a toothbrush, tooth-
paste, adult diapers, and feminine hygiene
products, as well as receptacles for the proper
storage and disposal of such products.
SEC. 4. FOOD AND NUTRITION.
The Commissioner shall ensure that detainees
have access to—
(1) three meals per day including—
(A) in the case of an individual age 12 or
older, a diet that contains not less than 2,000
calories per day; and
(B) in the case of a child who is under the age
of 12, a diet that contains an appropriate num-
ber of calories per day based on the child’s age
and weight;
(2) accommodations for any dietary needs or
restrictions; and
(3) access to food in a manner that follows ap-
plicable food safety standards.
SEC. 5. SHELTER.
The Commissioner shall ensure that each fa-
cility at which a detainee is detained meets the
following requirements:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), males
and females shall be detained separately.
(2) In the case of a minor child arriving in the
United States with an adult relative or legal
guardian, such child shall be detained with
such relative or legal guardian unless such an
arrangement poses safety or security concerns.
In no case shall a minor who is detained apart
from an adult relative or legal guardian as a re-
sult of such safety or security concerns be de-
tained with other adults.
(3) In the case of an unaccompanied minor ar-
riving in the United States without an adult rel-
ative or legal guardian, such child shall be de-
tained in an age-appropriate facility and shall
not be detained with adults.
(4) A detainee with a temporary or permanent
disability shall be held in an accessible location
and in a manner that provides for his or her
safety, comfort, and security, with accommoda-
tions provided as needed.
(5) No detainee shall be placed in a room for
any period of time if the detainee’s placement
would exceed the maximum occupancy level as
determined by the appropriate building code,
fire marshal, or other authority.
(6) Each detainee shall be provided with tem-
perature appropriate clothing and bedding.
(7) The facility shall be well lit and well venti-
lated, with the humidity and temperature kept
at comfortable levels (between 68 and 74 degrees
Fahrenheit).
(8) Detainees who are in custody for more
than 48 hours shall have access to the outdoors
for not less than 1 hour during the daylight
hours during each 24-hour period.
(9) Detainees shall have the ability to practice
their religion or not to practice a religion, as ap-
plicable.
(10) Detainees shall have access to lighting
and noise levels that are safe and conducive for
sleeping throughout the night between the
hours of 10 p.m. and 6 a.m.
(11) Officers, employees, and contracted per-
sonnel of CBP shall—
(A) follow medical standards for the isolation
and prevention of communicable diseases; and
(B) ensure the physical and mental safety of
detainees who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, and intersex.
(12) The facility shall have video-monitoring
to provide for the safety of the detained popu-
lation and to prevent sexual abuse and physical
harm of vulnerable detainees.
(13) The Commissioner shall ensure that lan-
guage-appropriate ‘‘Detainee Bill of Rights’’,
including indigenous languages, are posted or
otherwise made available in all areas where de-
tainees are located. The ‘‘Detainee Bill of
Rights’’ shall include all rights afforded to the
detainee under this Act.
(14) Video from video-monitoring must be pre-
served for 90 days and the detention facility
must maintain certified records that the video-
monitoring is properly working at all times.
SEC. 6. COORDINATION AND SURGE CAPACITY.
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall
enter into memoranda of understanding with
appropriate Federal agencies, such as the De-
partment of Health and Human Services, and
applicable emergency government relief services,
as well as contracts with health care, public
health, social work, and transportation profes-
sionals, for purposes of addressing surge capac-
ity and ensuring compliance with this Act.
SEC. 7. TRAINING.
The Commissioner shall ensure that CBP per-
sonnel assigned to each short-term custodial fa-
cility are professionally trained, including con-
tinuing education as the Commissioner deems
appropriate, in all subjects necessary to ensure
compliance with this Act, including—
(1) humanitarian response protocols and
standards;
(2) indicators of physical and mental illness,
and medical distress in children and adults;
(3) indicators of child sexual exploitation and
effective responses to missing migrant children;
and
(4) procedures to report incidents of suspected
child sexual abuse and exploitation directly to
the National Center for Missing and Exploited
Children.
SEC. 8. INTERFACILITY TRANSFER OF CARE.
(a) TRANSFER.—When a detainee is discharged
from a medical facility or emergency depart-
ment, the Commissioner shall ensure that re-
sponsibility of care is transferred from the med-
ical facility or emergency department to an ac-
cepting licensed health care provider of CBP.
(b) RESPONSIBILITIES OF ACCEPTING PRO-
VIDERS.—Such accepting licensed health care
provider shall review the medical facility or
emergency department’s evaluation, diagnosis,
treatment, management, and discharge care in-
structions to assess the safety of the discharge
and transfer and to provide necessary follow-up
care.
SEC. 9. PLANNING AND INITIAL IMPLEMENTA-
TION.
(a) PLANNING.—Not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall submit to Congress a
detailed plan delineating the timeline, process,
and challenges of carrying out the requirements
of this Act.
(b) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary of
Homeland Security shall ensure that the re-
quirements of this Act are implemented not later
than 6 months after the date of enactment.
SEC. 10. CONTRACTOR COMPLIANCE.
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall en-
sure that all personnel contracted to carry out
this Act do so in accordance with the require-
ments of this Act.
SEC. 11. INSPECTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Inspector General of
the Department of Homeland Security shall—
(1) conduct unannounced inspections of ports
of entry, border patrol stations, and detention
facilities administered by CBP or contractors of
CBP; and
(2) submit to Congress, reports on the results
of such inspections as well as other reports of
the Inspector General related to custody oper-
ations.
(b) PARTICULAR ATTENTION.—In carrying out
subsection (a), the Inspector General of the De-
partment of Homeland Security shall pay par-
ticular attention to—
(1) the degree of compliance by CBP with the
requirements of this Act;
(2) remedial actions taken by CBP; and
(3) the health needs of detainees.
(c) ACCESS TO FACILITIES.—The Commissioner
may not deny a Member of Congress entrance to
any facility or building used, owned, or oper-
ated by CBP.
SEC. 12. GAO REPORT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General of
the United States shall—
(1) not later than 6 months after the date of
enactment of this Act, commence a study on im-
plementation of, and compliance with, this Act;
and
(2) not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act, submit a report to Congress
on the results of such study.
(b) ISSUES TO BE STUDIED.—The study re-
quired by subsection (a) shall examine the man-
agement and oversight by CBP of ports of entry,
border patrol stations, and other detention fa-
cilities, including the extent to which CBP and
the Department of Homeland Security have ef-
fective processes in place to comply with this
Act. The study shall also examine the extent to
which CBP personnel, in carrying out this Act,
make abusive, derisive, profane, or harassing
statements or gestures, or engage in any other
conduct evidencing hatred or invidious preju-
dice to or about one person or group on account
of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sex-
ual orientation, age, or disability, including on
social media.
SEC. 13. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act may be construed—
(1) as authorizing CBP to detain individuals
for longer than 72 hours;
(2) as contradicting the March 7, 2014, De-
partment of Homeland Security rule adopting
Standards to Prevent, Detect, and Respond to
Sexual Abuse and Assault in Confinement Fa-
cilities, which includes a zero tolerance policy
prohibiting all forms of sexual abuse and as-
sault of individuals in U.S. Customs and Border
Protection custody, including in holding facili-
ties, during transport, and during processing;
(3) as contradicting current protocols related
to Department background checks in the hiring
process;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:35 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.050 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7342 July 24, 2019
(4) as restricting the Department from denying
employment to or terminating the employment of
any individual who would be or is involved with
the handling or processing at holding facilities,
during transport, or during processing, or care
of detainees, including the care of children, and
has been convicted of a sex crime or other of-
fense involving a child victim; or
(5) as affecting the obligation to fully comply
with all applicable immigration laws, including
being subject to any penalties, fines, or other
sanctions
SEC. 14. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) INTERPRETATION SERVICES.—The term ‘‘in-
terpretation services’’ includes translation serv-
ices that are performed either in-person or
through a telephone or video service.
(2) CHILD.—The term ‘‘child’’ has the meaning
given the term in section 101(b)(1) of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(b)(1)).
(3) U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION FA-
CILITY.—The term ‘‘U.S. Customs and Border
Protection Facility’’ includes—
(A) U.S. Border Patrol stations;
(B) ports of entry;
(C) checkpoints;
(D) forward operating bases;
(E) secondary inspection areas; and
(F) short-term custody facilities.
(4) FORWARD OPERATING BASE.—The term
‘‘forward operating base’’ means a permanent
facility established by CBP in forward or remote
locations, and designated as such by CBP.
The CHAIR. No amendment to that
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be in order except those
printed in part C of House Report 116–
178. Each such amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the
report, by a Member designated in the
report, shall be considered as read,
shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and
controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amend-
ment, and shall not be subject to a de-
mand for division of the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MS. KUSTER OF
NEW HAMPSHIRE
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 1 printed in part
C of House Report 116–178.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Chairman, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 16, line 9, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 16, line 10, strike the period at the
end and insert ‘‘; and’’.
Page 16, insert after line 10 the following:
(4) the degree of compliance with part 115
of title 6, Code of Federal Regulations (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Standards To Prevent,
Detect, and Respond to Sexual Abuse and As-
sault in Confinement Facilities’’).
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 509, the gentlewoman from New
Hampshire (Ms. KUSTER) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Hampshire.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Chairman, I yield myself such time as
I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, migrants in Customs
and Border Protection holding facili-
ties deserve to be treated with compas-
sion and respect. Unfortunately, due to
the misguided policies of the Trump
administration, many migrants have
found themselves stuck living in inhu-
mane conditions.
Earlier this month, I visited one of
those facilities in McAllen, Texas, and
I was disturbed by what I saw.
I am proud of my colleague, Con-
gressman RAUL RUIZ, and the Judiciary
Committee and the leadership of Con-
gresswoman ZOE LOFGREN for putting
together a comprehensive piece of leg-
islation that will alleviate the suf-
fering of some of these migrants.
My amendment is very simple. It di-
rects the Department of Homeland Se-
curity’s Office of Inspector General to
pay particular attention to whether
CBP facilities comply with the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security’s sexual
abuse prevention policies while in-
specting detention facilities.
Many provisions in DHS’ standards
to prevent, detect, and respond to sex-
ual abuse and assault are very well in-
tentioned. These include requiring sex-
ual abuse prevention training for staff,
limiting cross-gender searches, ensur-
ing there are plans in place to respond
to sexual violence, and providing sur-
vivors of sexual abuse with access to
sexual assault nurse examiners.
These policies should help reduce the
prevalence of sexual violence, enable
victims to report abuse, and provide
support for survivors after experi-
encing trauma. But I am concerned
that Customs and Border Protection is
not meeting DHS’ own standards.
An Office of Inspector General report
from 2016 recommended that DHS iden-
tify which facilities qualify for routine
auditing and ensure that these facili-
ties are audited by July 2018, as re-
quired by DHS’ own policies.
Today, nearly 1 year after CBP was
supposed to complete these audits,
they have not finished the job. If Cus-
toms and Border Protection is not tak-
ing this basic step of auditing facili-
ties, we cannot be sure they have prop-
erly implemented more onerous, yet
crucial, policies. The best plans to pre-
vent sexual violence are worthless if
they are not followed.
This amendment, which I thank my
colleagues, Representative MOORE and
Representative CISNEROS for cospon-
soring, will help provide clarity about
whether CBP is taking steps to prevent
and respond to sexual violence.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to support it, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
b 1915
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Chair, I rise in op-
position to the amendment; however, I
do not oppose it.
The CHAIR. Without objection, the
gentleman from Florida is recognized
for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Chair, this amend-
ment would direct the DHS Office of
Inspector General to investigate CBP’s
compliance with Federal regulations
promulgated to prevent, detect, and re-
spond to sexual abuse in CBP facilities.
I have no objection to the amend-
ment insofar as the inspector general is
already directed by statute to conduct
audits to ensure compliance with Fed-
eral regulations, and I have no doubt
that the men and women of CBP are ef-
fectively carrying out the mandates of
regulations, implementing a zero toler-
ance for sexual abuse policy.
CBP is currently bound by duly pub-
lished regulation at 6 CFR 115 that the
agency mandate ‘‘zero tolerance to-
ward all forms of sexual abuse.’’ The
regulation contains extensive and de-
tailed requirements implemented to
prevent sexual assault. Those require-
ments detail the steps CBP must take
relating to prevention planning; re-
sponsive planning in the case of an al-
legation; training and education; risk
assessments; reporting mechanisms;
the official response following a de-
tainee report; investigations; discipli-
nary sanctions for staff, contractors,
and volunteers; medical and mental
care; data collection and review; and
audits for compliance. These regula-
tions are designed to ensure the safety
of not only those in custody, but also
of CBP personnel and staff in CBP fa-
cilities.
The Inspector General Act already
requires the DHS Office of Inspector
General ‘‘to conduct, supervise, and co-
ordinate audits and investigations re-
lating to the programs and operations’’
of the DHS. And the inspector general
routinely conducts audits of DHS pro-
grams and facilities to ensure compli-
ance with Federal regulations.
I have no objection to the amend-
ment, which directs the OIG to do what
it already does under the Inspector
General Act, which is to conduct audits
to ensure compliance with regulations
promulgated by the DHS to ensure the
safety of CBP personnel and those in
custody.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Chair, could I inquire as to how much
time I have remaining.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
New Hampshire has 2 minutes remain-
ing.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Chair, I want to thank the gentleman
for agreeing to the amendment.
I yield the balance of my time to the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, I
thank the distinguished gentlewoman,
and I want to personally thank her for
her constant and needed fight for wom-
en’s rights and, particularly, pro-
tecting these women against sexual as-
sault and sexual abuse.
I cannot tell you how many stories
that we have heard at the border of
young women who have come either by
coyotes, or even when they get here to
this country, the fear that they have of
sexual assault and sexual abuse. It is a
long walk and a long journey from the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:35 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.050 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7343
July 24, 2019
Northern Triangle, and I want to thank
the gentlewoman again for recognizing
that.
So, I rise to support the Kuster
amendment, and I rise to support the
underlying bill, H.R. 3239.
I thank the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia for her leadership, and I thank
my good friend Dr. RAUL RUIZ. We have
talked about this. The gentleman has
talked about this. I have heard the gen-
tleman on many occasions speaking to
us as Members of Congress, not Demo-
crats, but Democrats and Republicans
and Independents who would listen.
In his conversation, we did not hear
anything that would suggest that we
would undermine, in any way, our
friends or veterans who are in need of
great medical care. We stand ready, as
we have done over the past, to continue
to try to push dollars to help them.
This bill in particular deals with CBP
to perform an initial health screening
on all individuals in CBP custody, and
ensures that everyone in custody has
access to water, sanitation, hygiene,
food, nutrition, and safe shelter.
But having been to the border, I will
say that they are still in cages. They
are still in small areas where they only
have standing room.
This is to protect both contractors,
employees, and those human beings
who came because they are desperate
and fleeing violence. The stories tell
you of their fathers being murdered,
their husband’s being murdered, and
their sons being taken away.
This underlying bill, its purpose is to
ensure that the American people are
protected so that epidemics don’t start,
so that little babies don’t die—like the
seven who have died on the watch of
the Trump administration.
I am delighted that my amendment
was included, which requires retention
of video monitoring and certification
that the video is on at all times. It will
enhance the amendment of Ms.
KUSTER.
The other amendment I want to ap-
preciate is the Detainee Bill of Rights.
I support the amendment and the un-
derlying bill.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from New Hampshire (Ms.
KUSTER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MS. KUSTER OF
NEW HAMPSHIRE
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 2 printed in part
C of House Report 116–178.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Chairman, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 18, insert after line 10 the following:
(5) PUBLICATION OF DATA ON COMPLAINTS OF
SEXUAL ABUSE AT CBP FACILITIES.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, acting in coordination with the Office
of Inspector General and Office for Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties, shall publicly re-
lease aggregate data on complaints of sexual
abuse at CBP facilities on its website on a
quarterly basis, excluding any personally
identifiable information that may com-
promise the confidentiality of individuals
who reported abuse.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 509, the gentlewoman from New
Hampshire (Ms. KUSTER) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Hampshire.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Brave survivors have begun to come
forward detailing chilling assaults by
Border Protection agents. Some of the
survivors are only in their teens.
Despite these heartbreaking stories,
there is a stunning lack of trans-
parency about sexual abuse at Customs
and Border Protection facilities.
According to the agency’s most re-
cent report on assessing sexual abuse
at holding facilities, in fiscal year 2017,
CBP processed more than 534,000 indi-
viduals in its holding facilities, and yet
the agency itself only received seven
claims of sexual abuse.
Ten months after FY18, CBP has yet
to release its report on abuse last year.
From my own experience working on
sexual violence prevention on college
campuses and in the military, I have
learned that the absence of formal
complaints of sexual abuse does not re-
flect the absence of sexual violence
but, rather, signals a culture that pre-
vents people from reporting violence.
According to a Freedom of Informa-
tion Act request, between January of
2010 and July of 2016, the Department
of Homeland Security Office of Inspec-
tor General received 624 complaints
about sexual abuse at Customs and
Border Protection facilities.
Considering this information, CBP’s
failure to promptly publish its own sex-
ual abuse data, and the stories of sur-
vivors who have come forward, there is
a clear need to improve transparency
about sexual abuse at CBP.
My amendment, which I was proud to
introduce with Representatives MOORE
and CISNEROS, directs the Secretary of
Homeland Security, working with the
DHS office that typically receives com-
plaints of sexual abuse, to release all
complaints of sexual abuse at CBP once
per quarter, removing any information
that would compromise the anonymity
of survivors.
This is an amendment that all Mem-
bers should be able to support. Releas-
ing more data in a timely manner will
help lawmakers grasp the scope of this
problem. Knowing that they are not
alone may also encourage other sur-
vivors to step forward.
I urge my colleagues to support this
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
opposition to the amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentleman from
Florida is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Chair, this amend-
ment is in keeping with the clear hos-
tility with which the majority views
the men and women of U.S. Customs
and Border Protection, including the
Border Patrol agents who have put
their lives on the line to effectuate
over 3,800 migrant rescues so far this
fiscal year and the officers of field op-
erations who are in peril each day
when they search vehicles and pedes-
trians for dangerous and deadly nar-
cotics like fentanyl.
The amendment requires quarterly
publication of complaints of sexual
abuse in CBP facilities. Of course, pre-
venting sexual abuse in any govern-
ment facility is an extremely impor-
tant endeavor, but this amendment
does not do that. Instead, it requires
premature publication of mere allega-
tions without any context. The effect
is the maligning of the men and women
who serve on our border and at our
ports of entry without doing anything
to actually prevent such abuse.
This amendment requires all com-
plaints to be aggregated and published
quarterly, regardless of whether an in-
vestigation is complete, regardless of
whether the complaint was substan-
tiated, and regardless of whether the
victim was a CBP employee, con-
tractor, or detainee.
We will not know whether those com-
plaints were ever substantiated or un-
substantiated pursuant to an investiga-
tion.
We will not know whether those com-
plaints were against CBP personnel,
contracted staff, or against other
aliens in the facility.
We will not know whether the vic-
tims were CBP personnel, contracted
staff, or an alien in the facility.
I am also concerned that the amend-
ment requires CBP to exclude person-
ally identifiable information of the in-
dividual who reported the abuse, but it
is silent as to the personally identifi-
able information of the accused. It
would be inappropriate to publish a
complaint against an individual with-
out any context, especially if an inves-
tigation later determines that the com-
plaint is unsubstantiated.
The Judiciary Committee already
went through a similar situation with
Health and Human Services, where one
member of the majority claimed that
hundreds of sexual abuse allegations
were made against HHS employees
when, in fact, the allegations by unac-
companied alien children were against
contractors and other UACs.
The requirements of this amendment
will simply give the appearance, re-
gardless of the facts or ultimate out-
come of the investigation into the
complaints, that CBP facilities are rife
with sexual abuse. And the further im-
plication is that CBP personnel con-
done sexual violence. Such a character-
ization is offensive to the hardworking
men and women of CBP who follow ex-
isting regulations and policies to pre-
vent sexual abuse in their facilities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.117 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7344 July 24, 2019
In fact, CBP is bound by a duly pub-
lished regulation at 6 CFR 115, that the
agency mandate ‘‘zero tolerance to-
ward all forms of sexual abuse.’’ And
‘‘zero tolerance’’ isn’t a mere buzzword.
The regulation contains extensive and
detailed requirements implemented to
prevent sexual assault. Those require-
ments detail the steps CBP must take
relating to prevention planning; re-
sponsive planning in the case of an al-
legation; training and education; risk
assessments; reporting mechanisms;
the official response following a de-
tainee report; investigations; discipli-
nary sanctions for staff, contractors,
and volunteers; medical and mental
care; data collection and review; and
audits for compliance.
The manager’s amendment to the bill
already makes clear that the bill does
not abrogate existing policies designed
to prevent, detect, and respond to sex-
ual abuse. In fact, it acknowledges that
CBP has a zero-tolerance policy for
sexual abuse.
Furthermore, the DHS OIG is already
directed to conduct unannounced in-
spections of CBP facilities in the bill,
and CBP’s own existing regulations re-
quire periodic audits based on the risk
assessment of the facility.
CBP is already confronting a crisis
that is worsened by congressional inac-
tion to fix the loopholes in our laws
that fuel illegal immigration. The men
and women who protect our border
have been given an enormous task
made more difficult by offensive rhet-
oric. Congress shouldn’t make their job
more difficult by requiring premature
publication of complaints without con-
text, which will have the effect of
wrongfully painting the civil servants
as sexual predators.
I oppose the amendment and urge my
colleagues to do the same.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Chair, contrary to the allegations by
my colleague disparaging our view of
Customs and Border Protection agen-
cies, I was actually very impressed by
the professionalism of many of the Bor-
der Patrol agents that we met and had
the opportunity to tour the facilities in
McAllen and Brownsville with.
I share the gentleman’s commitment
to a zero-tolerance policy. Frankly,
one incident of sexual assault is far too
much. This data will provide more
transparency for Congress and for sur-
vivors and, frankly, more transparency
for those members of the Border Patrol
who are doing their job with respect to
migrants.
Mr. Chair, how much time do I have
remaining?
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
New Hampshire has 1 minute remain-
ing.
Mr. Chair, I am happy to work with
my colleagues to ensure that Customs
and Border Protection has the re-
sources to comply with this provision,
but we need more transparency for sur-
vivors.
Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from California (Ms.
PELOSI), the Speaker of the House.
b 1930
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, let us sa-
lute Congressman RUIZ, Chairman NAD-
LER, Chairwoman LOFGREN, Chair-
woman UNDERWOOD, Chairwoman
SLOTKIN, and Members. I thank my col-
league, Congresswoman KUSTER, for
yielding me time.
These Members have followed the
facts, gone to the border, and raised a
drumbeat on behalf of the children.
I want to add to that Congresswoman
ESCOBAR, who has been so great on all
of this.
The humanitarian situation at the
border challenges the conscience of our
country, yet the Trump administration
has chosen to approach the situation
with cruelty instead of compassion.
Children sleeping on concrete floors,
children eating frozen and inedible
food, and children denied basic sanita-
tion.
As the Gospel of Matthew said,
‘‘When the Son of Man comes in all His
glory,’’ He will speak to the nations
gathered before Him.
You all know the Gospel of Matthew,
‘‘When I was hungry.’’
The American Medical Association
writes, ‘‘It is well known that child-
hood trauma and adverse childhood ex-
periences created by inhumane treat-
ment often create negative health im-
pacts that can last an individual’s en-
tire lifespan.’’
The American Academy of Pediatrics
led a joint letter, writing, ‘‘The tragic
deaths of children in CBP custody are
evidence for why timely, appropriate
medical and mental health screening
and care is so crucial.’’
With Congressman RUIZ’s Humani-
tarian Standards for Individuals in
Customs and Border Protection Cus-
tody Act, we are taking a strong step
to safeguard children and respect their
families.
Mr. Chairman, I am going to submit
most of my statement for the RECORD,
in the interest of time. I know you
have heard it over and over again, Mr.
Chairman. There is no use to just keep
talking. We have to act.
We have sent the money. We have
paid attention. Now, we have to set the
standards that must be met for human-
itarian, hygiene, food, clothing,
healthcare, and the rest.
I thank Mr. RUIZ for bringing his ex-
perience as a public health doctor, as
someone who has dealt with these cri-
ses in other parts of the world. We are
blessed to have his service in the Con-
gress, especially at this time, for the
good of the children.
Mr. Chair, let us salute Congressman RUIZ,
Chairman NADLER, Chairwoman LOFGREN,
Congresswoman UNDERWOOD, Chairwoman
SLOTKIN and Members who have followed the
facts, gone to the border and raised a drum-
beat on behalf of the children.
The humanitarian situation at the border
challenges the conscience of our country. Yet,
the Trump Administration has chosen to ap-
proach this situation with cruelty, instead of
compassion.
The appalling conditions facing children and
families are an affront to our values and our
humanity:
Children sleeping on concrete floors, in
freezing temperatures with constant light expo-
sure;
Children eating frozen or inedible food, and
having insufficient or unclean water to drink;
Children denied basic sanitation, forced to
use open toilets and deprived of showers and
handwashing stations.
The Gospel of Matthew says, ‘‘When the
Son of Man comes in all his glory,’’ he will
speak to the nations gathered before him and
say:
‘‘For I was hungry and you gave me some-
thing to eat, I was thirsty and you gave me
something to drink, I was a stranger and you
invited me in, I needed clothes and you
clothed me, I was sick and you looked after
me, I was in prison and you came to visit me.’’
The Administration’s treatment of little chil-
dren abandons that teaching, ignores the
‘‘least of these’’ and endangers lives.
As the American Medical Association writes:
‘‘Conditions in CBP facilities, including open
toilets, constant light exposure, insufficient
food and water, extreme temperatures, and
forcing pregnant women and children to sleep
on cement floors, are traumatizing.
‘‘It is well known that childhood trauma and
adverse childhood experiences created by in-
humane treatment often create negative health
impacts that can last an individual’s entire life-
span.’’
This week, the American Academy of Pedi-
atrics led a joint letter with other medical ex-
perts to urge action, writing: ‘‘The tragic
deaths of children in CBP custody are evi-
dence for why timely, appropriate medical and
mental health screening and care is so cru-
cial.’’
The deaths of children at the border are un-
conscionable; a profound violation of the moral
responsibility we all have to ensure all children
of God are treated with compassion and de-
cency.
Today, with Congressman RUIZ’s ‘‘Humani-
tarian Standards for Individuals in Customs
and Border Protection Custody Act’’, we are
taking a strong step to safeguard children and
respect their spark of divinity.
This bill protects children and families’
health: requiring the CBP to provide timely,
appropriate and standards-based health
screenings by licensed medical professionals.
It creates water, sanitation, and hygiene
standards: requiring the CBP to provide suffi-
cient drinking water; private, safe and clean
toilets; a handwashing station; and basic per-
sonal hygiene products.
It sets out nutrition standards: requiring that
detainees receive three meals per day, with
age-appropriate caloric intake, and special
diets for babies, pregnant & breastfeeding
women, the elderly & ill.
And it establishes standards for shelters:
specifying space requirements, temperature
ranges and bedding standards, and also pro-
tecting religious freedom, family unity and the
safety of unaccompanied minors and LGBTQ
persons.
Once we pass this bill—and our other legis-
lation for the children—we will call on Senator
MCCONNELL to immediately take them up.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.119 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7345
July 24, 2019
Sadly, some in the Republican Leadership
have not demonstrated a concern for the chil-
dren. The obstruction of the House-passed
border bill dishonored our values, denigrated
our immigrant heritage, and endangered little
children.
Every day that Senator MCCONNELL delays
this bill—and every vote against it—is a stain
on the collective conscience of the Congress.
I urge a strong, bipartisan vote of con-
science for this legislation.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Chairman, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from New Hampshire (Ms.
KUSTER).
The amendment was agreed to.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute, as amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The CHAIR. Under the rule, the Com-
mittee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
HAALAND) having assumed the chair,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Chair of the Committee
of the Whole House on the state of the
Union, reported that that Committee,
having had under consideration the bill
(H.R. 3239) to require U.S. Customs and
Border Protection to perform an initial
health screening on detainees, and for
other purposes, and, pursuant to House
Resolution 509, he reported the bill
back to the House with an amendment
adopted in the Committee of the
Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
amendment to the amendment re-
ported from the Committee of the
Whole?
If not, the question is on the amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute, as
amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of H.R. 3239 is postponed.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed. Votes will be taken
in the following order:
Adopting the amendment to H.R. 397
offered by Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee;
A motion to recommit on H.R. 397, if
offered; and
Passage of H.R. 397, if ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
REHABILITATION FOR MULTIEM-
PLOYER PENSIONS ACT OF 2019
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. DAVID P.
ROE OF TENNESSEE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The un-
finished business is the question on
adoption of amendment No. 1 to H.R.
397, printed in part A of House Report
116–178, offered by the gentleman from
Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P. ROE) on which
a recorded vote was ordered.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. A re-
corded vote has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 186, noes 245,
not voting 1, as follows:
[Roll No. 503]
AYES—186
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—245
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—1
Moulton
b 2003
Ms. SHALALA, Messrs. MCEACHIN,
BRINDISI, STAUBER, Mses. HER-
RERA BEUTLER, CLARKE of New
York, and WILSON of Florida changed
their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Messrs. GREEN of Tennessee, MEAD-
OWS, NORMAN, and HARRIS changed
their vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.056 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7346 July 24, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
AGUILAR). The question is on the en-
grossment and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I have a mo-
tion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. MAST. In its current form, abso-
lutely.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Mast moves to recommit the bill H.R.
397 to the Committee on Education and
Labor with instructions to report the same
back to the House forthwith with the fol-
lowing amendment:
In section 4(b)(1)(C), strike ‘‘and’’ at the
end of clause (iv), redesignate clause (v) as
clause (vi), and insert after clause (iv) the
following:
(v) the plan will not knowingly engage in a
commerce-related or investment-related
boycott, divestment, or sanctions activity in
the course of interstate or international
commerce that is intended to undermine the
existence of, penalize, inflict economic harm
on, or otherwise limit commercial relations
with Israel or persons doing business in
Israel or Israeli-controlled territories for
purposes of coercing political action by, or
imposing policy positions on, the Govern-
ment of Israel; and
Mr. MAST (during the reading). Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
dispense with the reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Florida?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Florida is recognized for 5 minutes in
support of his motion.
Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, this amend-
ment is very simple. It would prohibit
pension plans receiving loans under
this bill from engaging in the Boycott,
Divestment, and Sanctions movement
against Israel.
Understanding this MTR does not
take a lot of words.
Mr. Speaker, I hear colleagues who
must believe that BDS is a 1-day event
occurring, so that is why it makes it
even more important for us to speak
about this MTR.
Now, understanding this MTR takes
very few words. Let me be very blunt
about this. Yesterday, as was aptly
pointed out, this Chamber passed a bi-
partisan resolution—398 in support, 17
opposing—which opposed any efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel, con-
demning the BDS movement as dan-
gerous and anti-Semitic.
Today, let’s simply continue that
progress, understanding that BDS
equals anti-Semitism. While anti-Sem-
itism may be a political investment by
some, it has no place in managing re-
tirement pensions, and BDS has no
place in this House.
Let us say simply, let us agree, let us
plant our bipartisan flag that anti-
Semitism and BDS will have no home
here in Congress and no home in this
bill.
It is simple. If you are one of the 398
Members who voted last night to con-
demn the BDS movement, then you
should support this MTR, stand with
our ally Israel, and continue to combat
this anti-Semitic movement.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in opposition to the motion to recom-
mit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Illinois is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong opposition to the mo-
tion to recommit offered by my Repub-
lican colleagues.
I oppose the Boycott, Divestment,
and Sanctions movement, full stop. It
is a movement that denies the Jewish
people’s connection to the land of
Israel, refuses to accept the basic idea
of a Jewish state, and seeks to
delegitimize Israel in international fo-
rums, on college campuses, and in glob-
al commerce.
Yesterday, this body voted over-
whelmingly to condemn the global BDS
movement. Mr. Speaker, 398 votes in
favor—189 Republicans and 209 Demo-
crats—united together to affirm the
vital relationship between the United
States and Israel, our most important
ally and closest strategic partner in a
difficult region in the world.
We expressed our strong, bipartisan
support for a negotiated two-state so-
lution as the best way to justly resolve
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and en-
sure a future for two peoples living side
by side in peace, security, and pros-
perity.
As the lead sponsor of that resolu-
tion, I believe I speak with credibility
when I say this motion to recommit, in
the context both of last night’s vote
and today’s critically important legis-
lation, would not, in any way, help the
fight against the global BDS movement
or strengthen the U.S.-Israel relation-
ship.
Yesterday’s bipartisan vote sent a
clear, united message. Today, my Re-
publican colleagues are undercutting
this achievement with a cynical, par-
tisan gimmick, continuing a dangerous
effort to make Israel a wedge issue. It
must stop.
Mr. Speaker, the underlying legisla-
tion is too important for this political
ploy. We have an opportunity to pass
legislation addressing a national emer-
gency, the multiemployer pension cri-
sis that threatens the financial secu-
rity of Americans across the Nation
and leaves the taxpayers on the hook
for more than $100 billion over the 10-
year budget window.
Let me remind my colleagues that
these retirees did everything right.
They planned for their retirement, peo-
ple like those in the gallery today who
chose, year after year, to contribute to
their pensions instead of taking a wage
increase.
If you support these hardworking
Americans, vote ‘‘no’’ on this motion.
If you believe the rare effort in this
House to achieve bipartisan progress is
too important to undermine with cyn-
ical partisan games, vote ‘‘no’’ on this
motion.
If you believe it is critical that the
United States-Israel relationship re-
mains bipartisan to ensure Israel’s
long-term security and find a path to
peace, vote ‘‘no’’ on this motion.
Yesterday, we spoke in a united voice
in support of our ally. Let’s do it again
today in support of these workers and
vote down this motion.
Mr. Speaker, I yield the remainder of
my time to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. STEVENS).
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
opposition to this cynical, partisan mo-
tion to recommit.
The bill before us today is not a bail-
out. It is a backstop. It is a solution to
a boiling point that we ignore at the
peril of more than a million workers
who are now faced with financial catas-
trophe in retirement.
If we do nothing with this multiem-
ployer pension crisis, taxpayers will
pay the price.
If we do nothing, our Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation will tumble.
If we do nothing, 1.3 million hard-
working Americans will lose what they
paid into their entire working life.
To the teamster who has played by
the rules, to the carpenter who is al-
ready seeing a drop in his monthly ben-
efits, we are here today to do some-
thing.
But the ringing irony, that the very
people opposing this bill are some of
the very people who rushed to vote to
pass a tax relief act for the wealthiest
corporations and the biggest banks,
ballooning our deficit by $1.9 trillion.
We scratch our heads and we ask, Why
is it that you cannot lift a finger for
the middle class?
Today, we deliver for the American
people, and we save the pensions of
those who have never asked for any-
thing.
Take it from me, my friends, I know
what it is like to be on the phone with
the PBGC when the auto industry need-
ed our help.
I know what that means when they
tell us that these plans will run insol-
vent by 2025.
I know what it is like to be working
in the Department of the Treasury dur-
ing the largest economic crisis of our
times; when Republicans and Demo-
crats came together, shelving political
dogma, to make a uniquely Federal
problem right.
Butch Lewis is a good deal, and the
kind of deal you make to protect our
middle class and the economic security
of so many. This is what you do.
Make government work for us. Con-
tribute to the best action in the out-
come of the very people—pass Butch
Lewis.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.125 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7347
July 24, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I demand a
recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 200, noes 232,
not voting 0, as follows:
[Roll No. 504]
AYES—200
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—232
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
b 2022
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 264, noes 169,
not voting 0, as follows:
[Roll No. 505]
AYES—264
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Bacon
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walberg
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—169
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.128 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7348 July 24, 2019
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Upton
Wagner
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). The Chair will remind all
persons in the gallery that they are
here as guests of the House and that
any manifestation of approval or dis-
approval of proceedings is in violation
of the rules of the House.
b 2034
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will remind all persons in the
gallery that they are here as guests of
the House and that any manifestation
of approval or disapproval of pro-
ceedings is in violation of the rules of
the House.
f
HUMANITARIAN STANDARDS FOR
INDIVIDUALS IN CUSTOMS AND
BORDER PROTECTION CUSTODY
ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of the bill (H.R. 3239) to
require U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection to perform an initial health
screening on detainees, and for other
purposes, will now resume.
The Clerk will report the title of the
bill.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I have
a motion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. KINZINGER. I am in its current
form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Kinzinger moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 3239 to the Committee on the Judiciary
with instructions to report the same back to
the House forthwith with the following
amendment:
Page 18, after line 10, add the following:
SEC. 15. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of the Congress that the men
and women of the U.S. Border Patrol should
be commended for continuing to carry out
their duties in a professional manner, includ-
ing caring for the extraordinarily high num-
bers of family units, unaccompanied alien
children, and single adults processed in
United States Customs and Border Protec-
tion facilities referenced in this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Il-
linois is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, this
motion to recommit is very simple. It
affirms this Chamber’s appreciation of
and support for the men and women of
the United States Border Patrol.
We in this Chamber know that we
can debate and disagree all day long
every day, and we have more than
enough issues to argue about on a reg-
ular basis, but this institution makes
laws. We pass the laws, and we expect
those laws to be carried out faithfully.
This motion to recommit today is
about recognizing the men and women
of our U.S. Border Patrol who carry
out the very laws that we pass for their
hard work and for their dedication.
Without question, we are facing a cri-
sis on our southern border.
Without question, we are facing a cri-
sis on our southern border, and our fa-
cilities are overcrowded and over-
whelmed. And lacking the resources,
our personnel, our CBP agents are
overworked, and I can tell you this be-
cause I saw it firsthand.
Now, I didn’t go in a windbreaker and
get a photo op. I didn’t start a
livestream. Mr. Speaker, I went as a
lieutenant colonel in the Air National
Guard on a deployment to the mission
in Arizona, to the border.
And for me, going to Arizona with
my unit in late February was a nice
respite from the bitter cold of Illinois,
but what I saw truly opened my eyes to
the crisis at hand and the short-
comings that our CBP agents face with
their limited resources.
This, by the way, was my fourth de-
ployment to the border, and it was
only my first under President Trump.
So what does that mean? Yes, that
means that my three other border mis-
sions and my other deployments came
under President Obama, who also saw
the crisis at the border and the dire hu-
manitarian concerns.
In February, I watched from above as
border agents struggled to thwart mi-
grant groups that would systemati-
cally stagger their attempts to run and
cross the open border.
My fellow guardsmen shared their ac-
counts of agents giving their last water
bottles to dehydrated migrants. My fel-
low guardsmen shared various ac-
counts, and one was about agents giv-
ing their last bottle of water as they
came across people who were dehy-
drated and in a bad situation, often
risking their own safety and their own
health.
While my mission was nice in Feb-
ruary, today it is pretty hot out in the
desert. These agents are still expected,
by their oath and by the direction of
the laws of this body, to walk miles
through terrible terrain that, in many
cases, cannot even be accessed by vehi-
cles. They are often met with a foot
chase, sometimes with multiple people
or with dangerous cartel members.
And sometimes this happens even at
the end of their shift, so it means that
later they are going to have to call
home. They are going to have to tell
their loved ones that they are not
going to be home to tuck the kids in
bed or say good night because duty
calls.
I listened to defeated Customs and
Border Protection agents talk about
the emotional and physical tolls that
this crisis was taking on them and
their family as they grappled with
these impossible tasks, and more than
once it was mentioned to me the toxic
rhetoric used in describing them in
many cases in terms reserved for just
our enemies.
I saw the compassion in a CBP agent
during one of my missions as he helped
a young woman we found in the desert
to safety after she was left for dead by
her cartel handlers because they got
spooked and they ran and abandoned
her.
These coyotes work for the cartels,
and these cartels make money on two
primary products: people and drugs.
Human lives are viewed as nothing
more than commodities for them, and
this is what I saw firsthand. This is
what I experienced with the hard-
working men and women of our border,
who are often the first and only defense
against such tragedy.
And it is true, the CBP has effec-
tuated over 3,800 migrant rescues so far
this fiscal year risking their own lives
to save others. If you remove CBP, you
will cost lives.
And maybe people don’t want to be-
lieve that, maybe it doesn’t fit a nar-
rative, but it is an undeniable fact. We
have placed an unprecedented burden
on our agents asking them to handle
some really tough things, and for that
they have been villainized.
The CBP’s facilities were not de-
signed as long-term or even short-term
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.057 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7349
July 24, 2019
shelters for families or children, and
those resources to accommodate them
and handle the influx are limited.
If this Congress cannot agree to pro-
vide these agents the resources they
need, as this bill fails to do, the least
we can do is affirm our appreciation for
their work. Agreeing to this motion to
recommit will not impact the passage
of this bill. Voting in favor of this MTR
will not kill the bill that we are voting
on here today.
Today what we have is an oppor-
tunity and a moment in time to make
a simple statement. This institution
can leave politics aside and take this
time to recognize the mothers and fa-
thers, the brothers and sisters, the sons
and daughters, the husbands and wives,
our neighbors and the constituents we
serve, the men and women of our U.S.
Border Patrol working in these facili-
ties every day. Let’s show our support
by rising above the fray of politics and
vote in favor of this MTR.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise in op-
position to the MTR.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from California is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, my bill, the
Humanitarian Standards for Individ-
uals in CBP Custody Act, honors CBP
agents by giving them the assistance
they have requested and so desperately
need.
This bill gives them the tools to help
protect kids and families.
You see, Mr. Speaker, this bill isn’t
about political trickery. It is not about
partisan gotcha politics.
This bill is about the goodness of the
American people. This bill is a call to
our better angels. This bill, and I say
this wholeheartedly, is inspired
through prayer and by God’s loving
grace.
You see, it asks us to remember and
heed the words of Jesus in the good
news book of Matthew: ‘‘For I was hun-
gry, and you gave me something to eat.
I was thirsty, and you gave me some-
thing to drink. I was a stranger, and
you welcomed me in’’, and, ‘‘Truly I
tell you, whatever you did for one of
the least of these brothers and sisters
of mine, you did for me.’’
This bill asks us to fulfill the Golden
Rule: ‘‘Do unto others as you would
have them do unto you.’’
These principles, you see, are funda-
mental to our American values. They
are shared by the CBP agents and doc-
tors I spoke with at the border.
This bill protects children, women,
and families by setting humanitarian
standards that require basic health
screenings and triage, formula for in-
fants, diapers for toddlers, and simple
necessities like toothbrushes and soap.
This bill also protects the health of
our agents, proud Americans who work
tirelessly in dangerous and inhumane
conditions, who are also parents and
suffer lifelong trauma when someone
else’s child dies under their respon-
sibilities.
Today, I stand before you not only as
a public health professional and an
emergency medicine physician trained
in humanitarian aid, I stand before you
as a parent of two young daughters. I
stand before you as a patriot, whose
faith in our American values, in the
power of basic human decency, has
never been stronger.
Tonight’s vote isn’t about politics, it
isn’t about party, it isn’t even about
immigration policy.
This vote is about the beauty and
power of grace. This vote is about lov-
ing and protecting children, because in
the United States of America, we rec-
ognize the inherent dignity of every
human being, because in the United
States of America, every child is worth
saving, because in the United States of
America, when children die on our
watch, we take action.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘no’’ on the MTR, then vote ‘‘yes’’
for Humanitarian Standards for Indi-
viduals Under CBP Custody.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of passage.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 239, noes 192,
not voting 1, as follows:
[Roll No. 506]
AYES—239
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Chabot
Cheney
Cisneros
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Costa
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Delgado
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Lipinski
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Malinowski
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moulton
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Ryan
Scalise
Schrader
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vela
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—192
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Crist
Crow
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.133 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7350 July 24, 2019
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Vargas
Veasey
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—1
Gabbard
b 2053
So the motion to recommit was
agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, pursu-
ant to the instructions of the House on
the motion to recommit, I report the
bill, H.R. 3239, back to the House with
an amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the amendment.
The Clerk read as follows:
Amendment offered by Ms. LOFGREN:
Page 18, after line 10, add the following:
SEC. 15. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of the Congress that the men
and women of the U.S. Border Patrol should
be commended for continuing to carry out
their duties in a professional manner, includ-
ing caring for the extraordinarily high num-
bers of family units, unaccompanied alien
children, and single adults processed in
United States Customs and Border Protec-
tion facilities referenced in this Act.
Ms. LOFGREN (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that the amendment be considered as
read.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the amendment.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 233, noes 195,
not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 507]
AYES—233
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Young
NOES—195
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—4
Bass
Gonzalez (TX)
Harris
Smith (NE)
b 2102
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, if this
unanimous consent request cannot be
entertained, I urge the Speaker and the
majority leader to immediately sched-
ule the born-alive bill so that we can
stand up and protect the sanctity of
human life.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman is not recognized for debate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.059 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7351
July 24, 2019
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CISNEROS). Pursuant to clause 8 of rule
XX, the Chair will postpone further
proceedings today on additional mo-
tions to suspend the rules on which a
recorded vote or the yeas and nays are
ordered, or votes objected to under
clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
MAKING TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
TO GUAM WORLD WAR II LOY-
ALTY RECOGNITION ACT
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1365) to make technical cor-
rections to the Guam World War II
Loyalty Recognition Act, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1365
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO GUAM
WORLD WAR II LOYALTY RECOGNI-
TION ACT.
Title XVII of division A of Public Law 114–
328 is amended—
(1) in section 1703(e)—
(A) by striking ‘‘equal to’’ and inserting
‘‘not to exceed’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘covered into the Treasury
as miscellaneous receipts’’ and inserting
‘‘used to reimburse the applicable appropria-
tions’’;
(2) in section 1704(a) by striking ‘‘, subject
to the availability of appropriations,’’ and
inserting ‘‘from the Claims Fund’’; and
(3) by striking section 1707(a).
SEC. 2. BUDGETARY TREATMENT OF TECHNICAL
AMENDMENTS.
(a) DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.—As the budgetary effects for spend-
ing provided by this Act were estimated and
offset as part of the enactment of the Guam
World War II Loyalty Recognition Act (title
XVII of division A of Public Law 114–328), the
budgetary effects of this Act shall be deter-
mined as if the amendments made by this
Act were included in the enactment of the
Guam World War II Loyalty Recognition Act
(title XVII of division A of Public Law 114–
328), for purposes of the Congressional Budg-
et Act of 1974 and the Statutory Pay-As-You-
Go Act of 2010.
(b) PAY-AS-YOU-GO COMPLIANCE.—The
budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose
of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by
reference to the latest statement titled
‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation’’
for this Act, submitted for printing in the
Congressional Record by the Chairman of the
House Budget Committee, provided that such
statement has been submitted prior to the
vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Guam (Mr. SAN NICOLAS) and the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. CURTIS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Guam.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Guam?
There was no objection.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
revised CBO materials.
U.S. CONGRESS,
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
Washington, DC, July 12, 2019.
Hon. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA,
Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: The Congressional
Budget Office has prepared the enclosed cost
estimate for H.R. 1365, a bill to make tech-
nical corrections to the Guam World War II
Loyalty Recognition Act. This cost estimate
supersedes the estimate transmitted on July
10, 2019.
If you wish further details on this esti-
mate, we will be pleased to provide them.
The CBO staff contact is Matthew Pickford.
Sincerely,
PHILLIP L. SWAGEL, Director.
Enclosure.
H.R. 1365, A BILL TO MAKE TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO THE GUAM WORLD WAR II LOYALTY RECOGNITION ACT—AS REPORTED BY THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON NATURAL
RESOURCES ON JULY 11, 2019
[By fiscal year, millions of dollars]
2019 2019–2024 2019–2029
Direct Spending (Outlays) .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 40 40
Revenues ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0
Deficit Effect .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 40 40
Spending Subject to Appropriation (Outlays) ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0
Statutory pay-as-you-go procedures apply? .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes Mandate Effects
Increases on-budget deficits in any of the four consecutive 10-year periods beginning in 2030? ........................................................................................................................................... No Contains
intergovernmental
mandate?
No
Contains private-sector
mandate?
No
H.R. 1365 would authorize a portion of cus-
toms duties and federal income taxes col-
lected in Guam to be spent to compensate
certain residents and surviving family mem-
bers for their treatment during the island’s
occupation by Japanese military forces dur-
ing World War II. Those customs duties and
income taxes are currently deposited in the
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
Using information from the Department of
Justice about how much compensation is
due, CBO estimates that enacting H.R. 1365
would increase direct spending by $40 million
for compensation payments as funds become
available over the 2020–2023 period.
The costs of the legislation (detailed in
Table 1) fall within budget function 800 (gen-
eral government).
TABLE 1—ESTIMATED INCREASES IN DIRECT SPENDING UNDER H.R. 1365
[By fiscal year, millions of dollars]
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
2019-
2024
Estimated Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 12 12 12 4 0 40
Estimated Outlays ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 12 12 12 4 0 40
This estimate supersedes the CBO estimate
for H.R. 1365, a bill to make technical correc-
tions to the Guam World War II Loyalty
Recognition Act that was transmitted on
July 10, 2019. Although the five-year and ten-
year totals are correct, the initial estimate
indicated that there would be some costs in
2019. The legislation has not yet passed ei-
ther House of Congress and CBO assumes it
would be enacted near the end of fiscal year
2019. Given that timing, CBO expects spend-
ing would probably commence in fiscal year
2020.
The CBO staff contact for this estimate is
Matthew Pickford. The estimate was re-
viewed by H. Samuel Papenfuss, Deputy As-
sistant Director for Budget Analysis.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, this
marks the first time that I have taken
to this floor to deliver remarks as a
Member of Congress. My constituents
can attest to the fact that I have never
been one known to shy away from a
microphone. However, the gravitas of
H.R. 1365 that I bring to the floor today
is of such consequence that I chose to
withhold the privilege of this floor
until this day.
While H.R. 1365 is a bipartisan bill
that would simply make technical cor-
rections to the current Guam World
War II Loyalty Recognition Act, it is
the final component of a 75-year saga
rooted in loyalty, faith, hope, and love
in the midst of unimaginable suffering.
The Guam World War II Loyalty Rec-
ognition Act was passed by Congress
and signed into law at the end of 2016,
recognizing the sacrifices the people of
Guam endured at the hands of foreign
occupiers during World War II. Nearly
78 years ago, foreign enemies bombed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.140 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7352 July 24, 2019
Pearl Harbor and then made their way
east, taking control of Guam from
United States naval forces, many of
which were evacuated prior to the in-
vasion.
The civilian population of Guam, re-
garded as Americans by the enemy,
were left undefended, for all intents
and purposes. In the 974 days of enemy
occupancy, too many of the people of
Guam, who today are American citi-
zens, were injured, raped, maimed,
murdered, and even forced to dig their
own grave sites or those of their family
and friends.
These atrocities occurred due to the
unwavering patriotism of the people of
Guam.
An 83-year-old survivor clearly re-
members her family risking their lives
to hide and care for the only living
U.S. Navy soldier left on the island,
who was tasked with sending informa-
tion to our forces overseas. She shared
her observations of enemy soldiers
going village to village, looking for ra-
dioman George Tweed and leaving a
trail of tortured and dead in their path.
Another 83-year-old survivor shared
how he witnessed his childhood friend
beaten up every day just for looking
American.
One survivor, who was 5 years old at
the time, testified to remembering her
mother, pregnant with her sibling,
after being severely beaten, hemor-
rhage to a slow death while performing
forced labor under the grueling Sun.
The baby did not survive either.
Though our people experienced such
cruel acts, we remained vigilant with
the hope and faith that the United
States would return and liberate us
from enemy forces. Seventy-five years
ago this past Sunday, true to their
word, our servicemen took to the
shores of Guam, many of whom gave
their lives to reclaim the island, and
rescued those left who survived the
brutality.
These stories are the memories of our
survivors who continue to carry the
heavy burdens of war post-liberation.
These survivors, who were steadfast in
their devotion to this country, the
United States of America, were left out
when America forgave its vanquished
enemies from any form of redress to
those who suffered under their occupa-
tion.
Almost 3 years ago, Congress voted
to pass the Guam World War II Loyalty
Recognition Act, providing those re-
maining survivors with a Federal
claims process to seek adjudicated
compensation for wartime suffering, a
Federal process that, today, 75 years
later, has one final hurdle to clear with
H.R. 1365 to make those who qualified
whole. Of the over 14,000 who suffered,
3,663 survivors have filed claims, with
many of the nearly 11,000 having passed
before this process could even begin.
Nonetheless, the Foreign Claims Set-
tlement Commission, since October of
last year, has certified over 600 claims,
and the Commission continues to adju-
dicate all claims filed.
Unfortunately, pertinent technical
language was left out of the original
bill, preventing the Department of the
Treasury from making payments for
claims adjudicated and certified for
compensation by the Foreign Claims
Settlement Commission. H.R. 1365
makes the necessary corrections to the
Guam World War II Loyalty Recogni-
tion Act to see Congress’ intent
through, and it was drafted in close
consultation with the Department of
the Treasury and the Department of
the Interior, to ensure the language’s
efficacy.
Mr. Speaker, it is important to note
for my colleagues that the moneys
used for payment of these claims does
not create a new expense category for
the budget. I repeat, H.R. 1365 does not
create a new expense category for the
Federal budget. Instead, the moneys
deposited in the Guam War Claims
Fund is funding that originates from
Guam’s section 30 Federal income tax
transfer payments, essentially moneys
already due to the government of
Guam. As such, funding for these
claims do not represent a new expense
but a reprogramming of existing ex-
penses.
It is also important to note that
these claimants are not just constitu-
ents of mine. Many claimants live in 46
other States and territories and are
constituents to 265 districts across our
Nation. We have claimants in Alabama;
Alaska; Arizona; Arkansas; California;
Colorado; Connecticut; Florida; Geor-
gia; Hawaii; Idaho; Illinois; Indiana;
Iowa; Kansas; Kentucky; Louisiana;
Maryland; Massachusetts; Michigan;
Minnesota; Mississippi; Missouri; Mon-
tana; Nebraska; Nevada; New Hamp-
shire; New Jersey; New Mexico; New
York; North Carolina; Ohio; Oklahoma;
Oregon; Pennsylvania; Rhode Island;
South Carolina; South Dakota; Ten-
nessee; Texas; Utah, the great State
that my colleague this evening rep-
resents; Virginia; Washington; Wash-
ington, D.C.; Wisconsin; Wyoming; the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mar-
iana Islands; and Guam.
Over these past 75 years, our World
War II survivors and their families
have made their home throughout this
country. Notwithstanding our current
political status, our sons, daughters,
mothers, fathers, brothers, and sisters
have died defending the freedom that
liberators brought to our shores 75
years ago.
b 2115
While we struggle on Guam under in-
equities and supplemental security in-
come, Medicaid, and even basic voting
rights, we remain the Sparta of Amer-
ica, with the highest per capita armed
services recruitment rates in the coun-
try.
The brutality of the enemy 75 years
ago could not break the resolve of our
relationship with the United States of
America and the generations since
then and, to this very day, reflect this
exemplary patriotism in our rights of
service and those who made the ulti-
mate sacrifice.
Mr. Speaker, I humbly ask my col-
leagues for their support in passing
H.R. 1365 so the Greatest Generation of
Guam who instilled in us this faith in
American democracy can finally re-
ceive the long-awaited closure they
have been seeking since the end of
World War II.
As a gracious victor who assumed the
responsibility for postwar peace, the
passage of H.R. 1365 represents an
unreconciled act of grace by the United
States of America to a people who suf-
fered for their loyalty to America. Per-
haps most importantly, it represents
an affirmation that, while slow to turn,
and sometimes too slow, the wheels of
justice in the land of the free do even-
tually come full circle.
A loyal people await the ultimate
passage of H.R. 1365. And I am humbled
to not only represent them in this
body, but to extend my thanks on their
behalf to the Speaker, majority leader,
majority whip, committee chairs of ju-
risdiction, my minority leader, and
ranking committee members who have
made this moment possible, and to my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle
who, today, do us the tremendous
honor of seeing this measure through
this House.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1365.
As the gentleman has so well already
explained, this bill would authorize the
release of certain funds from the Guam
Treasury that have been set aside to
pay Guam World War II survivor
claims.
Many individuals living on the island
during the Japanese occupation suf-
fered injury and, in some cases, death.
In 2016, Congress enacted the Guam
World War II Loyalty Recognition Act
to provide for the adjudication of
claims and for the payment of com-
pensation as recommended by the
Guam War Claims Review Commission
in their 2004 report. However, legisla-
tion and language in the act uninten-
tionally prevented funds from being
provided to World War II survivors and
their heirs. This bill fixes the original
act’s language to ensure survivors can
receive these claims.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this
measure. I have no additional speakers,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank
my colleague on the other side of the
aisle for his support.
Mr. Speaker, I want to extend my ap-
preciation to various individuals and
entities for their unyielding support
and assistance in pushing this bill for-
ward.
I thank Ms. Irene Sgambelluri, an 89-
year-old war survivor who flew out
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.142 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7353
July 24, 2019
here on her own to take meetings at
the White House and who now has a
White House special assistant on speed
dial; Congressman KILILI SABLAN for
his assistance in moving this bill
through the process; my predecessors
for laying much groundwork over
many years that brings us to this in-
flection point; my leadership counter-
parts in Guam; the speaker of the Leg-
islature of Guam and the Republican
Party of Guam, who recognized and en-
dorsed this very important bipartisan
measure.
Lastly, I want to thank the senior
citizens of Guam, our war survivors
whose sacrifices, patience, and for-
titude have given us the strength and
inspiration to bring this to closure on
their behalf.
I urge my colleagues to support the
legislation, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Guam (Mr. SAN
NICOLAS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1365, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EMANCIPATION NATIONAL
HISTORIC TRAIL STUDY ACT
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 434) to designate the Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 434
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Emancipation
National Historic Trail Study Act’’.
SEC. 2. EMANCIPATION NATIONAL HISTORIC
TRAIL STUDY.
Section 5(c) of the National Trails System Act
(16 U.S.C. 1244(c)) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(47) EMANCIPATION NATIONAL HISTORIC
TRAIL.—The Emancipation National Historic
Trail, extending approximately 51 miles from the
Osterman Building and Reedy Chapel in Gal-
veston, Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate Highway 45 North, to Freedmen’s
Town, then to Independence Heights and Eman-
cipation Park in Houston, Texas, following the
migration route taken by newly freed slaves and
other persons of African descent from the major
19th century seaport town of Galveston to the
burgeoning community of Freedmen’s Town, lo-
cated in the 4th Ward of Houston, Texas.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Guam (Mr. SAN NICOLAS) and the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. CURTIS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Guam.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous materials on the measure
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Guam?
There was no objection.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 434, introduced by
Representative JACKSON LEE of Texas,
celebrates the freedom of the last
American slaves by authorizing the
study of an approximately 51-mile
route for inclusion as a national his-
toric trail in the National Trails Sys-
tem. The study will examine the suit-
ability of designating the Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail from
Galveston to Freedmen’s Town in
Houston.
Nearly 21⁄2 years after President Lin-
coln’s Emancipation Proclamation,
United States General Gordon Granger
rode into Galveston, Texas, to an-
nounce the freedom of the last Amer-
ican slaves.
Upon gaining their freedom, many of
the 250,000 newly freed slaves traversed
the route from Galveston to Freed-
men’s Town in Houston, spreading the
news to neighboring communities. This
bill is a fitting tribute that honors the
historic journey and lasting legacy of
the last American slaves.
I want to thank the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE) for
championing this important legislation
and for her hard work moving this bill
through the legislative process.
I strongly support passing this bill.
I yield such time as she may consume
to the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman very much for
yielding, and I thank him for his lead-
ership and the leadership of Chairman
GRIJALVA, for the full committee, and,
certainly, the ranking member for his
courtesies.
I thank the manager tonight, a friend
from Utah, for their kindness in yield-
ing to me. This is an emotional mo-
ment for me and, as well, for many in
my constituency, and I am delighted to
be able to rise to give strong support to
H.R. 434, the Emancipation National
Historic Trail Study Act.
I thank all of the Members, as I have
indicated, and also thank Congress-
woman HAALAND, chair of the Natural
Resources Committee’s Subcommittee
on National Parks, Forests, and Public
Lands, for holding the hearing that al-
lowed the committee to learn of the
strong support enjoyed by H.R. 434 and
the hard work of dedicated historic
preservationists to preserve the rich
history of former slaves.
I also thank Naomi Mitchell Carrier
of Houston, Texas, for her stalwart ef-
forts to share the stories of newly freed
slaves who settled in Freedmen’s Town,
a section of Houston, to begin their
lives as free persons during the end of
the Civil War. I want to thank Ms. Car-
rier as an educator, historian, and au-
thor with expertise in African Amer-
ican music, Texas history, and heritage
tourism.
I also thank Ms. Eileen Lawal for her
April 2019 oral testimony before the
Natural Resources Committee in an
amazing, passionate expression of how
vital this trail will be. Ms. Lawal is the
president Houston Freedmen’s Town
Conservancy, whose mission is to pro-
tect and preserve the history of Freed-
men’s Town.
I also thank the Mayor of the city of
Houston, Sylvester Turner; Commis-
sioner Rodney Ellis; the mayor of the
city of Galveston; my colleague, my
original cosponsor, Congressman
WEBER, who represents the Galveston
area.
The work of H.R. 434 will result in
only the second trail in the United
States that chronicles the experience
of African Americans.
I am hoping that this will move
swiftly through the United States
House, then to the United States Sen-
ate, and then is signed by the President
of the United States.
Currently, the National Park Service
only has one national historic trail
which centers on the African American
experience. It is a Selma to Mont-
gomery National Historic Trail which
covers a 54-mile path between Selma
and Montgomery.
But as slaves lived in this land from
1619 to 1865 as slaves, a 250-year his-
tory, to think only one trail would
commemorate that historic moment—
although a moment in history that all
of us are saddened by—it is important
to capture the bravery, the courage,
the strength of those families who
managed to stay together.
The establishment of the Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail will be
the second trail for which the National
Park Services would have responsi-
bility and, again, would tell the won-
derful story for future generations of
the rich history of this Nation and the
role that African Americans played in
the economic, political, religious, cul-
tural, and governmental efforts of this
Nation. It ties into the work that we
are continuing to do.
The Emancipation National Historic
Trail Study Act would pave the way to
working to establish an important
story. It will go 51 miles from the his-
toric Osterman Building and Reedy
Chapel in Galveston, Texas, along
Highway 3 and Interstate 45, all the
way up to Freedmen’s Town and Eman-
cipation Park and Independence
Heights, which was the first city orga-
nized by African Americans here in the
Southwest region.
H.R. 434 requires that we study the
post-Civil War history of newly freed
slaves in a major slave-holding State
following the largest military cam-
paign waged on domestic soil in the
history of the United States.
It is important to take note of the
fact that those of us west of the Mis-
sissippi did not know that Abraham
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.143 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7354 July 24, 2019
Lincoln had freed the slaves until 1865.
Captain Granger came to the shores
and said to us in 1865, those of our an-
cestors, that they had been freed.
In a second inaugural address, Presi-
dent Abraham Lincoln declared that
slavery was America’s original sin:
‘‘Yet, if God wills that it continue
until all the wealth piled by the bonds-
man’s 250 years of unrequited toil shall
be sunk, and until every drop of blood
drawn with the lash shall be paid by
another drawn with the sword, as was
said 3,000 years ago, so still it must be
said ‘the judgments of the Lord are
true and righteous altogether.’ ’’
We know that Abraham Lincoln
wanted to maintain the unity of this
Nation, but he wanted it to be without
slaves. The story of the trail will be
one that will be enlightening because
the newly freed slaves established com-
munities. They established schools.
They established churches, and they
migrated into the Houston community,
coming up from that Emancipation Na-
tional Historic Trail.
Today, the city of Houston is fortu-
nate to call those communities Freed-
men’s Town and Emancipation Park.
The first park that was bought in the
State of Texas was bought by freed
slaves in Independence Heights. Freed-
men’s Town survived while other com-
munities did not, and it continues to
have some of the historic buildings.
By 1915, over 400 African American-
owned businesses existed in Freedmen’s
Town. By 1920, one-third of Houston’s
85,000 people lived in Freedmen’s Town.
Freedmen’s Town is recognized as a
historic district. Emancipation Park
was established in 1872 as Texas’ oldest
park, and it was bought, as I indicated,
by freed slaves for a mere $8. After the
emancipation, Freedmen’s Town be-
came one of the only sanctuaries for
free persons in Houston.
The Freedmen’s Town community
has fought to preserve its structures,
and though we are suffering from
gentrification and the movement of our
historic structures, we still have the
character of that community.
I am delighted that the new neigh-
bors, the new residents of that area
will now be able to recognize how im-
portant Freedmen’s Town is, and we
can work together to build the histor-
ical story.
One such struggle was to preserve the
handmade red bricks, and this evi-
dences the restoring, the very impor-
tant ceremony to put the old bricks
that were made by freed slaves, to put
them back into Freedmen’s Town.
There are many stories that have
come with this recurrent retelling of
this trail, and I believe it will be an im-
portant trail and important story as
well.
Let me also indicate that Independ-
ence Heights, as I said, was the first
city, and we have already discussed the
importance of Emancipation Park.
On September 24, 2016, the National
Museum of African American History
and Culture opened its doors, after 13
years of planning and construction and
over 100 years of struggle, to see the
history of former slaves as part of the
complex of the museums of the Smith-
sonian that began in 1915.
I am proud to say that one of my
predecessors, the Honorable Mickey
Leland, was the first to seek to estab-
lish a museum dealing with slaves.
Then came JOHN LEWIS, who intro-
duced his bill in 2003. I was delighted to
be able to be part of it.
I am asking for strong support for
H.R. 434. As I indicated, it brings back
great memories of understanding our
discussion in school about slavery and
its aftermath. There was no commemo-
ration to recognize that historic
march, that historic migration when
the slaves were freed in Galveston at
that time and the settling that went on
in the city of Houston.
b 2130
It is very important to have knowl-
edge of our history. With this trail, not
only will the information about this
historic trail be placed in the annals of
the history of the United States, but I
will be very grateful that the children
and their children’s children will really
understand the important collective
history of this great Nation.
Again, I wish to thank all of those
who supported this. It is important to
be able to thank Harris County Pre-
cinct 1 Commissioner Rodney Ellis, the
African American Library at Gregory
School, the Houston Freedmen’s Town
Conservatory, the Freedmen’s Town
Advisory Committee, the Emanci-
pation Park Conservancy, the Inde-
pendence Heights Redevelopment
Council, the Freedmen’s Town Preser-
vation Coalition, the Kohrville Com-
munity Amos Cemetery Association,
the Texas Center for African American
Living History, the Rutherford B.
Hayes Yates Museum, the Heritage So-
ciety of Sam Houston Park, the Hous-
ton Association of Black Psycholo-
gists, the Kinder Foundation, and Van-
derbilt University.
Ramon Manning, who heads the
Emancipation Park Conservancy, was
an avid and strong supporter, also, as I
mentioned, Sylvester Turner, the
mayor of the city of Houston; Jac-
queline Bostic; the Fourth Ward Rede-
velopment Authority; the head of the
Emancipation Park Conservancy; and
the director of parks. As I said, the
mayor of the city of Galveston was also
a supporter.
Mr. Speaker, I include letters in sup-
port of H.R. 434.
CITY OF HOUSTON
LIBRARY DEPARTMENT,
Houston, TX, July 22, 2019.
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON
LEE: The Houston Public Library, on behalf
of the African American Library at the Greg-
ory School (The Gregory School), endorses
H.R. 434, the Emancipation National Historic
Trail Act, which had a hearing before the
Subcommittee on April 2, 2019.
The Library has a vested interest in the
Emancipation National Historic Trail be-
cause The Gregory School currently holds
and has held a very unique place in the his-
tories of Texas, Houston, and Freedmen’s
Town/Fourth Ward history for more than 152
years.
In 2009, The Gregory School was estab-
lished by the Houston Public Library as an
African American Research and Archival
Center in Houston’s Historic Fourth Ward or
Freedmen’s Town. Freedman’s Town was es-
tablished in 1865 as the destination of former
enslaved people in Texas and Louisiana after
the Civil War. In 1866, the Freedmen’s Bu-
reau opened schools for black children and
adults in the area. The Texas Legislature au-
thorized the creation of public schools for
the black community in 1870. By 1872 most of
the students and teachers who were at the
Bureau schools, which were closing, left
them to attend the state-managed Gregory
Institute. The Gregory Institute was the
first school for freed slaves in Houston. Mike
Snyder of the Houston Chronicle said that it
was ‘‘perhaps the first school for freed slaves
in the State of Texas.’’ By 1876 the Gregory
Institute became a part of the Houston Pub-
lic School System. The building that now
houses the African American Library at the
Gregory School first opened in 1926, as a two-
story public school building for ‘‘colored
children,’’ and was named Gregory Elemen-
tary School. In March 2019, The Gregory
School was designated as a ‘‘site of Memory
associated with the UNESCO Slave Route
Project’’ for being the first public school for
freed slaves in the state of Texas.
This bill will result in the Emancipation
National Historic Trail, which extends ap-
proximately 51 miles from the Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town,
then to Independence Heights, and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly
freed slaves from the major 19th century sea-
port town of Galveston to the burgeoning
community of Freedmen’s Town, which is
now the 4th Ward of Houston, home to the
18th Congressional District.
The start of the trail is located where Gen-
eral Gordon Granger sailed into Galveston,
Texas, with troops on June 19, 1865, to an-
nounce the freedom of the last American
slaves. His announcement belatedly freed
250,000 slaves nearly two and a half years
after Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proc-
lamation. The newly freed slaves traveled
from Galveston to spread the news to neigh-
boring communities.
Should this bill become law it would estab-
lish the first trail in the Southwest United
States that recognizes the role of African
Americans in the legacy of freedom in the
United States. An Emancipation Historic
Trail designation would bring long overdue
historic recognition due to the role African
Americans played in the building of the to-
day’s Houston and the state of Texas. In ad-
dition, the revenue generated by people who
come to visit the area and walk this trail
will result in tourism dollars to the city of
Houston and the adjoining areas.
Sincerely,
RHEA BROWN LAWSON, Ph.D.,
Director of the Houston Public Library.
HARRIS COUNTY PRECINT ONE,
Houston, TX, July 22, 2019.
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON
LEE: I would like to express my strong sup-
port for H.R. 434, ‘‘Emancipation National
Historic Trail Act.’’ The trail will follow the
migration route taken by newly freed slaves
from Galveston to the vibrant settlement of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.145 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7355
July 24, 2019
Freedmen’s Town, which today is located
outside downtown Houston in the 18th Con-
gressional District. The trail would extend
north 51 miles from Galveston’s historic
Osterman Building and Reedy Chapel AME
Church along Highway 3 and Interstate 45 to
Freedmen’s Town and Emancipation Park in
Houston.
As the Harris County Precinct One Com-
missioner, I have the privilege of rep-
resenting the Freedman’s Town and Emanci-
pation Park areas; I firmly believe the trail
will further elevate the historical signifi-
cance of these vibrant communities and tell
an important part of our local and national
history. The Emancipation National Historic
Trail would be the first trail in southwest
United States that recognizes the role of Af-
rican Americans in the legacy of freedom.
I applaud you for introducing the bill,
which I wholeheartedly support, and urge
your support of the creation of the Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail Act. It would
bring national attention to a period of his-
tory when our nation took significant strides
to make real the promise of our founding
documents that give all people the right to
freedom—a worthy goal, indeed.
Thank you for your time and consider-
ation.
Sincerely,
RODNEY ELLIS,
Commissioner.
VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY,
Nashville, TN, July 19, 2019.
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON
LEE: As the U.S. Member of the UNESCO
International Scientific Committee for the
Slave Route Project: ‘‘Resistance, Liberty
and Heritage,’’ I write to endorse H.R. 434,
the Emancipation National Historic Trail
Act, which had a hearing before the Sub-
committee on April 2, 2019.
My UNESCO charge has been to help iden-
tify sites of importance for the history of Af-
ricans and their descendants in our country,
and to support the nomination of these sites
for a UNESCO Slave Route designation.
Since 2017, I have had the pleasure of work-
ing with the organizations and individuals in
Houston who have been dedicated to pre-
serving this important and underappreciated
history. After much hard work on their part,
this year a number of Houston sites won the
UNESCO Slave Route designation. As an his-
torian of the African past in the Americas, I
have long recognized the role Galveston
played in the African slave trade, filtering
newly imported Africans into the U.S.
Southwest. Nor did Galveston’s engagement
in that trade end in 1808 when Congress offi-
cially abolished that trade.
This bill will result in the Emancipation
National Historic Trail, which extends ap-
proximately 51 miles from the Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town,
then to Independence Heights, and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly
freed slaves from the major 19th century sea-
port town of Galveston to the burgeoning
community of Freedmen’s Town, which is
now the 4th Ward of Houston, home to the
18th Congressional District.
The start of the trail is located where Gen-
eral Gordon Granger sailed into Galveston,
Texas, with troops on June 19, 1865, to an-
nounce the freedom of the last American
slaves. His announcement belatedly freed
250,000 slaves nearly two and a half years
after Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proc-
lamation. The newly freed slaves traveled
from Galveston to spread the news to neigh-
boring communities.
Should this bill become law it would estab-
lish the first trail in the Southwest United
States that recognizes the role of African
Americans in the legacy of freedom in the
United States. An Emancipation Historic
Trail designation would bring long overdue
historic recognition due to the role African
Americans played in the building of the to-
day’s Houston and the state of Texas. In ad-
dition, the revenue generated by people who
come to visit the area and walk this trail
will result in tourism dollars to the city of
Houston and the adjoining areas.
This August I will attend the meeting of
the UNESCO International Scientific Com-
mittee for the Slave Route Project in
Cotonou, Benin, where we will celebrate the
25th anniversary of the project and where I
will be proud to report on the successes in
Texas. I hope that the passage of this bill
will be an additional item to celebrate.
Sincerely,
JANE LANDERS,
Gertrude Conaway
Vanderbilt Chair of
History, Vanderbilt
University, Director,
Slave Societies Dig-
ital Archive, Mem-
ber, UNESCO Inter-
national Scientific
Committee for the
Slave Route Project.
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON
LEE: The Kohrville Community Amos Ceme-
tery Association endorses H.R. 434, the
Emancipation National Historic Trail Act,
which had a hearing before the Sub-
committee on April 2, 2019.
The Amos Cemetery is the oldest African-
American burial ground in the Kohrville
community. Amos Cemetery is a significant
part of Texas history by awarding it an Offi-
cial Texas Historical Marker. The designa-
tion honors the cemetery as an important
and educational part of local history. In 1881,
former enslaved blacks from Alabama and
Mississippi settled the area located on Cy-
press Creek. The Kohrville community, cen-
tered on farming, ranching and lumber in-
dustries, and offered schools for black stu-
dents. Families that established this com-
munity are buried here as history is pre-
served by the Kohrville Community Amos
Cemetery Association.
This bill will result in the Emancipation
National Historic Trail, which extends ap-
proximately 51 miles from the Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town,
then to Independence Heights, and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly
freed slaves from the major 19th century sea-
port town of Galveston to the burgeoning
community of Freedmen’s Town, which is
now the 4th Ward of Houston, home to the
18th Congressional District.
The start of the trail is located where Gen-
eral Gordon Granger sailed into Galveston,
Texas, with troops on June 19, 1865, to an-
nounce the freedom of the last American
slaves. His announcement belatedly freed
250,000 slaves nearly two and a half years
after Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proc-
lamation. The newly freed slaves traveled
from Galveston to spread the news to neigh-
boring communities.
Should this bill become law it would estab-
lish the first trail in the Southwest United
States that recognizes the role of African
Americans in the legacy of freedom in the
United States. An Emancipation Historic
Trail designation would bring long overdue
historic recognition due to the role African
Americans played in the building of the to-
day’s Houston and the state of Texas. In ad-
dition, the revenue generated by people who
come to visit the area and walk this trail
will result in tourism dollars to the city of
Houston and the adjoining areas.
Sincerely,
CATHYRINE STEWART,
President Kohrville Community Association.
FREEDMEN’S TOWN
PRESERVATION COALITION
Houston, TX, July 22, 2019.
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON
LEE: This letter is written to advise you that
the Freedmen’s Town Preservation Coalition
was established in June 2014 to preserve and
protect historical sites and properties. We
therefore, enthusiastically endorse H.R. 434,
the Emancipation National Historic Trail
Act, which had a hearing before the Sub-
committee on April 2, 2019.
FTPC is a grassroots citizens-based organi-
zation that saw a problem with the destruc-
tion of historical cultural sites and prop-
erties in Freedmen’s Town, the first place for
settlement of formerly enslaved Africans.
The trail of Freedom led to establishment of
Freedmen’s Town. FTPC stopped the de-
struction and removal of the historic bricks
that were made, paid for and laid by freed-
men and their descendants by first, devel-
oping an awareness campaign, secondly,
placing a human body in the hole of destruc-
tion and finally, through legal action. Hence,
as you can see, we recognize that preserva-
tion must happen and thusly, we are de-
lighted with your proposed action to estab-
lish an Emancipation National Historic
Trail.
This bill will result in the Emancipation
National Historic Trail, which extends ap-
proximately 51 miles from the Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town,
then to Independence Heights, and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly
freed slaves from the major 19th century sea-
port town of Galveston to the burgeoning
community of Freedmen’s Town, which is
now the 4th Ward of Houston, home to the
18th Congressional District.
The start of the trail is located where Gen-
eral Gordon Granger sailed into Galveston,
Texas, with troops on June 19, 1865, to an-
nounce the freedom of the last American
slaves. His announcement belatedly freed
250,000 slaves nearly two and a half years
after Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proc-
lamation. The newly freed slaves traveled
from Galveston to spread the news to neigh-
boring communities.
Should this bill become law it would estab-
lish the first trail in the Southwest United
States that recognizes the role of African
Americans in the legacy of freedom in the
United States. An Emancipation Historic
Trail designation would bring long overdue
historic recognition due to the role African
Americans played in the building of the to-
day’s Houston and the state of Texas. In ad-
dition, the revenue generated by people who
come to visit the area and walk this trail
will result in tourism dollars to the city of
Houston and the adjoining areas.
Sincerely,
DORRIS ELLIS ROBINSON,
Founder and President of the Freedmen’s
Town Preservation Coalition.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:01 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.082 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7356 July 24, 2019
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON
LEE: The Houston Association of Black Psy-
chologists (HABPsi) endorses H.R. 434, the
Emancipation National Historic Trail Act,
which had a hearing before the Sub-
committee on April 2, 2019.
As a group of mental health professionals,
HABPsi is of the opinion that the recogni-
tion of the Emancipation National Historic
Trail would extend further the redemption of
people of African descent who continue to
live with the legacy of enslavement to this
day. Even after more than 150 years since the
Emancipation Proclamation, African Ameri-
cans experience mental, emotional and spir-
itual pain from the experience of generations
of enslavement. Acknowledgement of slavery
ending . . . of free men, women and children
walking away is a powerful remembrance.
This bill will result in the Emancipation
National Historic Trail, which extends ap-
proximately 51 miles from the Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town,
then to Independence Heights, and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly
freed slaves from the major 19th century sea-
port town of Galveston to the burgeoning
community of Freedmen’s Town, which is
now the 4th Ward of Houston, home to the
18th Congressional District.
The start of the trail is located where Gen-
eral Gordon Granger sailed into Galveston,
Texas, with troops on June 19, 1865, to an-
nounce the freedom of the last American
slaves. His announcement belatedly freed
250,000 slaves nearly two and a half years
after Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proc-
lamation. The newly freed slaves traveled
from Galveston to spread the news to neigh-
boring communities.
Should this bill become law it would estab-
lish the first trail in the Southwest United
States that recognizes the role of African
Americans in the legacy of freedom in the
United States. An Emancipation Historic
Trail designation would bring long overdue
historic recognition due to the role African
Americans played in the building of the to-
day’s Houston and the state of Texas. In ad-
dition, the revenue generated by people who
come to visit the area and walk this trail
will result in tourism dollars to the city of
Houston and the adjoining areas.
Sincerely,
MS. ANELLE WILLIAMS,
HABPsi President.
INDEPENDENCE HEIGHTS
REDEVELOPMENT COUNCIL, INC.,
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON
LEE: On behalf of the Board of Directors,
staff and community of historic Independ-
ence Heights. we are pleased to offer this let-
ter supporting the establishment of the Na-
tional Emancipation Heritage Trail. We are
excited about this effort and have been en-
gaged to assure all of our local churches,
businesses and community groups join us as
we endorse H.R. 434: the Emancipation Na-
tional Historic Trail Act, referenced in a
hearing held before the Subcommittee on
April 2, 2019.
As the local convening agency in Independ-
ence Heights, we work everyday to preserve
the rich heritage of Independence Heights,
the first municipality established by African
Americans in the State of Texas. This is es-
pecially important to us as we are amongst
only a handful of communities remaining
across America that still exist today. We are
hopeful that H.R. 434 will serve as a beacon
and give hope to many other places that are
struggling to protect heritage before it is all
erased.
African Americans were tenacious people.
After the Civil War, they united and estab-
lished settlements and even incorporated
towns in the south amidst racial upheaval
and reconstruction. We are proud f this her-
itage and are proud to stand with other com-
munities including Galveston, Emancipation
Park and Freedman’s Town in Houston. The
passing of this bill will result in the Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail, which ex-
tends approximately 51 miles from the
Osterman Building and Reedy Chapel in Gal-
veston, Texas, along Texas State Highway 3
and Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town,
then to Independence Heights, and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly
freed slaves where General Gordon Granger
announced the Emancipation Proclamation
on June 19, 1865, freeing the last American
slaves. The newly freed slaves traveled
spreading the news to neighboring commu-
nities.
Should this bill become law it would estab-
lish the first trail in the Southwest United
States that recognizes the role of African
Americans in the legacy of freedom. It would
also bring awareness highlighting the
undertold story of many African Americans
towns and places. In addition, the revenue
generated by people who come to visit the
area and walk this trail will result in tour-
ism dollars to the city of Houston and the
adjoining areas.
Sincerely,
TANYA DEBOSE,
Executive Director,
Independence
Heights Redevelop-
ment Council, Inc.
EMANCIPATION PARK CONSERVANCY,
April 2, 2019.
Hon. DEB HAALAND,
Chairwoman—House Subcommittee National
Parks, Forest, and Public Lands Natural
Resources Committee, Washington, DC.
Hon. DON YOUNG,
Ranking Member—House Subcommittee Na-
tional Parks, Forest, and Public Lands Nat-
ural Resources Committee, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN HAALAND AND RANKING
MEMBER YOUNG: I write to express strong
support for H.R. 434, the Emancipation Na-
tional Historic Trail Act, introduced by Con-
gresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Enactment
of this bill will make possible an Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail, which will
extend 51 miles from the historic Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Highway 3 and Interstate 45,
north to Freedmen’s Town and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly-
freed slaves from the Galveston, Texas a
major nineteenth century port to the vibrant
settlement of Freedmen’s Town, which is
today the Fourth Ward of Houston, in the
18th Congressional District.
The Emancipation National Historic Trail
would be the first trail in the southwest
United States that recognizes the role of Af-
rican Americans in the legacy of freedom in
the United States. An Emancipation Historic
Trail designation would bring national rec-
ognition to a period of history when our na-
tion took significant strides to make real
the promise of our nation’s founding docu-
ments attesting to the rights of all to live
free.
Sparked by the desire to have a place to
commemorate the anniversary of their
emancipation, known as Juneteenth, former
slaves and community members in the Third
and Fourth Wards led by Reverend Jack
Yates, Richard Allen, Richard Brock, and
Reverend Elias Dibble united to raise $1,000
in 1872 to purchase 10 acres of park land to
host Juneteenth Celebrations. Emancipation
Park is the most historic and culturally sig-
nificant park in the city of Houston and was
formerly one of the only communal spaces
for Blacks in Houston. Over the years,
Emancipation Park’s immediate surrounding
area experienced an economic boom, where
many Black owned and frequented busi-
nesses, financial institutions and venues
flourished in Houston’s Third Ward. Emanci-
pation Park is significant, not only as a rit-
ual of remembrance and celebration, but also
as an early act of exercising the rights of
property ownership, commerce and coopera-
tive economics amongst Blacks, which were
formerly denied, known in our nation’s
founding documents as ‘‘life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness’’. The Emancipation Na-
tional Historic Trail would serve as an in-
valuable opportunity to share rich cultural,
social, historical and economic strides that
have shaped society in the past and present.
Thank you for your consideration in this
designation.
Sincerely,
RAMON MANNING,
Board Chairman,
Emancipation Park Conservancy.
FREEDMEN’S TOWN
ADVISORY COMMITTEE,
Houston, TX, July 20, 2019.
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN JACKSON LEE: The
Freedmen’s Town Advisory Committee
would like to express our enthusiastic sup-
port for H.R. 434, the Emancipation National
Historic Trail Act, which had a hearing be-
fore the Subcommittee on April 2, 2019.
The Freedmen’s Town Advisory Committee
was established by Mayor Sylvester Turner
to help preserve the historical integrity of
Freedmen’s Town for the benefit of genera-
tions to come. Historians have stated that
Freedmen’s Town is potentially the ‘‘largest
linear architectural footprint still preserved
in America’’ of black urban life during the
post-slavery Reconstruction era.
The Committee has worked to promote
Freedmen’s Town and bring international
recognition from the United Nations Edu-
cational, Scientific, and Cultural Organiza-
tion to the area. As a result of this collabo-
ration, multiple sites located on the pro-
posed Trail have been designated as ‘‘Sites of
Memory Associated to the UNESCO Slave
Route Project’’.
This bill will result in the Emancipation
National Historic Trail, which extends ap-
proximately 51 miles from the Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town,
then to Independence Heights, and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly
freed slaves from the major 19th century sea-
port town of Galveston to the burgeoning
community of Freedmen’s Town, which is
now the 4th Ward of Houston, home to the
18th Congressional District.
The start of the trail is located where Gen-
eral Gordon Granger sailed into Galveston,
Texas, with troops on June 19, 1865, to an-
nounce the freedom of the last American
slaves. His announcement belatedly freed
250,000 slaves nearly two and a half years
after Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proc-
lamation. The newly freed slaves traveled
from Galveston to spread the news to neigh-
boring communities. Should this bill become
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.077 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7357
July 24, 2019
law it would establish the first trail in the
Southwest United States that recognizes the
role of African Americans in the legacy of
freedom in the United States.
An Emancipation Historic Trail designa-
tion would bring long overdue historic rec-
ognition to the role African Americans
played in the building of today’s Houston
and the state of Texas. In addition, the rev-
enue generated by people who come to visit
the area and walk this trail will result in
tourism dollars to the city of Houston and
the adjoining areas.
Warm Regards,
EILEEN LAWAL,
Chair.
HOUSTON FREEDMEN’S
TOWN CONSERVANCY,
Houston, TX, July 20, 2019.
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN JACKSON LEE: With
this letter, The Houston Freedmen’s Town
Conservancy would like to express our en-
thusiastic support for H.R. 434, the Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail Act, which
had a hearing before the Subcommittee on
April 2, 2019.
The Houston Freedmen’s Town Conser-
vancy is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation
that was established to protect and preserve
the history of Freedmen’s Town for the ben-
efit of future generations. Freedmen’s Town
was listed on the National Register of His-
toric Places in 1985, by the U.S. Department
of Interior, and some of the historic sites lo-
cated in this ‘‘Mother Ward’’ as it is com-
monly known, were recognized in March, 2019
by the United Nations Educational, Sci-
entific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).
Seven of these historic sites, all located
along the proposed Historic Trail, have been
designated as ‘‘Sites of Memory Associated
with the UNESCO Slave Route Project’’.
This bill will result in the Emancipation
National Historic Trail, which extends ap-
proximately 51 miles from the Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town,
then to Independence Heights, and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly
freed slaves from the major 19th century sea-
port town of Galveston to the burgeoning
community of Freedmen’s Town, which is
now the 4th Ward of Houston, home to the
18th Congressional District.
The start of the trail is located where Gen-
eral Gordon Granger sailed into Galveston,
Texas, with troops on June 19, 1865, to an-
nounce the freedom of the last American
slaves. His announcement belatedly freed
250,000 slaves nearly two and a half years
after Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proc-
lamation. The newly freed slaves traveled
from Galveston to spread the news to neigh-
boring communities. Should this bill become
law it would establish the first trail in the
Southwest United States that recognizes the
role of African Americans in the legacy of
freedom in the United States.
An Emancipation Historic Trail designa-
tion would bring long overdue historic rec-
ognition due to the role African Americans
played in the building of today’s Houston
and the state of Texas. In addition, the rev-
enue generated by people who come to visit
the area and walk this trail will result in
tourism dollars to the city of Houston and
the adjoining areas.
Warm Regards,
EILEEN LAWAL,
Board of Directors President.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding to
me. I ask my colleagues to support
H.R. 434 enthusiastically. We look for-
ward to the history being told for all to
know, to appreciate, and to under-
stand.
Mr. Speaker, as the author and principal
sponsor, I rise today in strong support of H.R.
434, the ‘‘Emancipation National Historic Trail
Act.’’
I thank Chairman RAÚL M. GRIJALVA for
shepherding this legislation to the floor.
I also thank Congresswoman HAALAND,
chair of the Natural Resources Committee’s
Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and
Public Lands for holding the hearing that al-
lowed the Committee to learn of the strong
support enjoyed by H.R. 434, and the hard
work of dedicated historic preservationists to
preserve the rich history of former slaves.
Let me begin by thanking Ms. Naomi Mitch-
ell Carrier of Houston, Texas, for her stalwart
efforts to preserve and share the stories of
newly freed slaves who settled in the Freed-
men’s Town section of Houston to begin lives
as free persons following the end of the Civil
War.
Ms. Mitchell Carrier is an educator, histo-
rian, and author with expertise in African
American music, Texas history, and heritage
tourism.
I also thank Ms. Eileen Lawal for her April
2019 oral testimony before the Natural Re-
sources Committee, in support of H.R. 434.
Ms. Lawal is the president of Houston
Freedmen’s Town Conservancy, whose mis-
sion is to protect and preserve the history of
Freedmen’s Town for the benefit of future gen-
erations.
The work of H.R. 434 will result in the sec-
ond trail in the United States that chronicles
the experience of African Americans.
Currently, the National Parks Service only
has one National Historic Trail, which centers
on the African American experience.
It is the Selma to Montgomery National His-
toric Trail, which covers a 54-mile path be-
tween Selma and Montgomery, Alabama, was
designated a National Historic Trail in 1966.
The Selma to Montgomery Trail tells an im-
portant story about a pivotal moment in the
nation’s struggle with turning away from a his-
tory of segregation and toward a future of
equality and justice.
Establishment of the Emancipation National
Historical Trail will be the second trail for
which that the National Parks Services would
have responsibility, and it will tell the story of
African Americans and will preserve for future
generations the rich history of the newly-freed
slaves who journeyed to Houston in search of
economic and political opportunity, and greater
religious and cultural freedom.
It is a remarkable story and one that all
Americans can be proud to share with the
world.
The Emancipation National Historic Trail Act
would pave the way for the establishment of
only the second nationally-recognized historic
trail that chronicles the experience of African
Americans in their struggle for equality and
justice.
H.R. 434, the Emancipation National Histor-
ical Trail Act, designates as a national historic
trail the 51 miles from the historic Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Highway 3 and Interstate 45,
north to Freedmen’s Town and Emancipation
Park in Houston, Texas.
H.R. 434 requires that we study the post-
Civil War history of newly-freed slaves in a
major slave holding state following the largest
military campaign waged on domestic soil in
the history of the United Sates.
This period is more than just a story about
the North’s victory and the South’s loss—it is
a story about a newly-freed people emerging
from over 250 years of slavery and how they
survived into the 21st century when other simi-
larly situated communities did not.
In his Second Inaugural Address President
Abraham Lincoln declared that slavery was
America’s Original Sin:
Yet, if God wills that it continue [The Civil
War] until all the wealth piled by the bonds-
man’s two hundred and fifty years of unre-
quited toil shall be sunk, and until every
drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be
paid by another drawn with the sword, as
was said three thousand years ago, so still it
must be said ‘‘the judgments of the Lord are
true and righteous altogether.’’
The bloody civil war was one phrase often
used by battlefield survivors to describe what
it was—blood, suffering, tears, and death, but
from this struggle came a new birth of free-
dom for millions of former slaves.
There were thousands of communities com-
prised of freed slaves throughout the United
States—although most of these communities
were found in the South, they could also be
found in the North, South, and Midwestern
sections of the country.
Newly-freed slaves held malice toward
none, including former slave owners.
But the same could not be said for those
who once owned slaves.
Through economic hardship, natural disas-
ters, and the period of 1919–1921 called the
‘‘Burnings,’’ dozens of communities ceased to
exist.
The City of Houston is fortunate that much
of this early history of former slaves has sur-
vived to this day: Freedmen’s Town, Inde-
pendence Heights, and the Emancipation Park
areas, which are treasures in our nation’s his-
tory.
Freedmen’s Town survived where other
communities did not, and it is the only sur-
viving 19th century community built by former
slaves to have a notable number of original
structures that have been protected, pre-
served, or restored.
Freedmen’s Town became the center of op-
portunity for freed slaves throughout the Hous-
ton area.
By 1915, over 400 African American-owned
businesses existed there.
By 1920 one-third of Houston’s 85,000 peo-
ple lived in Freedmen’s Town.
Freedmen’s Town is a recognized Historic
District.
Emancipation Park was established in 1872
and is Texas’s oldest public park.
After emancipation, Freedmen’s Town be-
came one of the only sanctuaries for freed
persons in Houston, Texas.
Today, Freedmen’s Town hosts an impres-
sive number of post-Civil War surviving struc-
tures—which include homes, public buildings,
and commercial spaces built by former slaves.
The Freedmen’s Town community has
fought to preserve structures, unique construc-
tion features, and period materials which are
unique in their continued presence as origi-
nally installed.
One such struggle was the work to preserve
handmade red brick street in Freedmen’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00111 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.078 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7358 July 24, 2019
Town that streets would have been destroyed
had community leaders and preservationists
not fought and succeeded in winning needed
infrastructure improvements, and the re-instal-
lation of the period bricks onto the street.
There are concerns that Texas Department
of Transportation’s announced highway im-
provements on I–45 in the City of Houston
would impact the historic areas of Independ-
ence Heights before the study directed by this
bill could begin.
The reason the National Parks Service ex-
ists is to preserve the public lands for all to
use and enjoy.
The nation has invested a great deal in pro-
tecting national parks and historic places due
to their unique beauty, typographical features,
or historic relevance.
The stories that make up the American ex-
perience have, for far too long, been limited to
those of one group of Americans.
The limited view of what is of value or inter-
est to the American public has changed with
the establishment of a Native American His-
tory Museum and most recently the opening of
the National African American History and Cul-
ture on the Mall.
The ‘‘whites-only’’ version of American his-
tory must end and at the same time we can
make room for other American stories.
In 1915, the first suggestion of creating an
African American History Museum came from
African American Union veterans of the Civil
War.
By 1988, Congressmen JOHN LEWIS and
Mickey Leland introduced legislation for a
stand-alone African American history museum
within the Smithsonian Institution.
Their bill faced significant opposition in Con-
gress due to its cost.
Supporters of the African American museum
tried to salvage the proposal by suggesting
that the Native Indian museum (then moving
through Congress) and African American mu-
seum share the same space.
But the compromise did not work, and Con-
gress took no further action on the bill.
In 2001, Congressman LEWIS and Con-
gressman J.C. Watts reintroduced legislation
for a museum in the House of Representatives
which became law, creating a federal commis-
sion to study the idea of an African American
Museum near Capitol Hill.
After completing a 2-year study the Com-
mission determined that an African American
history museum would be of substantial ben-
efit to the nation.
In 1994, despite winning approval in both
House and Senate committees, the bill died
once more, due to opposition by North Caro-
lina Senator Jesse Helms, who refused to
allow the legislation to come to the Senate
floor despite bipartisan support.
In 2003, the House passed the ‘‘National
Museum of African American History and Cul-
ture Act,’’ which passed the Senate and was
signed into law by President George W. Bush.
On September 24, 2016, the National Mu-
seum of African American History and Culture
(NMAAHC) opened its doors after 13 years of
planning, and construction and over a hundred
years of struggle to see the history of former
slaves as part of the complex of museums on
the Capital Mall began in 1915.
The success of the National Museum of Af-
rican American History and Culture reveals the
hunger in the nation and across the world for
authentic stories from our past.
Since its opening the NMAAHC has gen-
erated a sustained demand for tickets, an un-
precedented problem for a museum—where
interest far outstrips capacity to accommodate
visitors.
About three million people have already vis-
ited the NMAAHC, which is the newest mu-
seum in the Smithsonian Institution and
houses close to 37,000 rare artifacts within
three stories.
Not only is demand for tickets high, accord-
ing to the museum’s associate director, so is
the amount of time visitors spend in the mu-
seum once they get in.
The museum’s associate director told
NPR.com that while most venues have a
‘‘dwell’’ time of an hour and 45 minutes to two
hours, visitors are spending up to six hours
exploring. It’s already an important part of
many people’s list of things to do in Wash-
ington, D.C.’’
There is a hunger in the nation for stories
about African Americans from our past that
link us to our present and act as guideposts
to our future.
This is a momentous opportunity—one that
fires the imagination for fully telling the Amer-
ican story from the voices and perspectives of
all of our nation’s citizens.
The richness of these diverse stories is
found in Houston’s African American historic
areas.
These areas of Houston tell the story of
many peoples who are part of our nation’s his-
tory by filling in gaps of the story of the United
States that too many Americans do not know
or understand because these stories are now
being taught as part of American history.
It is important to ensure that the public trust
to preserve our nation’s history is also a com-
mitment to preserving all of its history, includ-
ing that which reflects both its best and worst
moments.
By way of example, when I was a young
girl, I learned the story of Crispus Attucks—a
key figure in our nation’s history who on the
eve of the American Revolution lost his life
during a protest of British rule prior to the start
of the Revolutionary War.
However, Crispus Attucks was not the sole
person of African descent who wanted to see
freedom from British rule—he fought for the
United States and was joined by thousands of
other persons of African descent who partici-
pated in the Revolutionary War.
Over time the history of the American War
for Independence is revealing a tapestry of di-
versity that had not been well understood.
In the 1980s the daughters of the American
Revolution initially would not accept black
women as members until one stood up and
took a stand.
According to a March 1984 story in the
Washington Post, Lena Lorraine Santos Fer-
guson, a retired school secretary, was denied
membership in a Washington, D.C. chapter of
the DAR because she was black.
Her two white sponsors, Margaret M. John-
ston and Elizabeth E. Thompson, were
shocked at Ms. Ferguson’s rejection.
Ms. Ferguson met the lineage requirements
and could trace her ancestry to Jonah Gay, a
white man who fought in Maine.
When the reason for not admitting Ms. Fer-
guson became known, the public reaction was
swift and negative.
The Daughters of the American Revolution
revisited their denial of Ms. Ferguson, and
upon reconsideration accepted her as a mem-
ber, making her the first of many women of
color who became members of the organiza-
tion.
The history of the United States is more
complex and immensely richer than would be
apparent if we only consider the history of one
group of people.
The tenacity demonstrated and the focus on
historical accuracy and the need to save what
is a unique aspect of American history for fu-
ture generations is important.
For this reason, I ask my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to vote in support of
H.R. 434.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
434, which would authorize the Sec-
retary of the Interior to conduct a spe-
cial resource study of the proposed
Emancipation National Historic Trail.
This 51-mile trail follows the migration
route taken by newly freed slaves and
other persons of African descent from
the major 19th-century seaport town of
Galveston to the burgeoning commu-
nity of Freedmen’s Town in Houston.
Although President Abraham Lincoln
officially ended slavery through the
Emancipation Proclamation on Sep-
tember 22, 1862, many slaves were not
freed until much later when news of
the proclamation reached their towns.
The last of those slaves lived in the
South and were freed on June 19, 1865,
after the Emancipation Proclamation
was read in Galveston.
On January 1, 1866, the Emancipation
Proclamation was read at the African
Methodist Episcopal Church on 20th
and Broadway, now Reedy Chapel. A
large number of the freed slaves
marched from the courthouse on 21st
and Ball Streets to the church, where
the director of the Freedmen’s Bureau
read the proclamation to the marchers.
The Emancipation Proclamation is
still read at the church each year at
the Juneteenth celebration.
Houston, Texas, has rich ties to Afri-
can American history. The Emanci-
pation Trail proposed by H.R. 434 ends
in Freedmen’s Town and Emancipation
Park in Houston. Freedmen’s Town is
one of the first and the largest of the
post-Civil War Black urban commu-
nities in Texas. The community was es-
tablished by former Texas slaves who
left their plantations for the safety of
Houston.
Emancipation Park is also signifi-
cant to Houston African American his-
tory. In the years following the eman-
cipation of slaves in Texas, African
American populations across Texas col-
lected money to buy property dedi-
cated to the Juneteenth celebrations.
In honor of their freedom, they named
it Emancipation Park.
This bill is an important reminder of
the struggles of African Americans
throughout our Nation’s history as we
have worked to form a more perfect
union. I support Ms. JACKSON LEE’s ef-
forts to study the proposed trail and
highlight the important African Amer-
ican history of Texas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00112 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.080 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7359
July 24, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of
this measure.
Mr. Speaker, I have no more speak-
ers, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my colleague for his support,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I include
in the RECORD the following letters in support
of H.R. 434, the Emancipation National His-
toric Trail Act:
CITY OF HOUSTON,
Houston, TX, March 26, 2019.
Hon. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA,
Chairman, Natural Resources Committee,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN GRIJALVA: I write today to
express my support of Representative Sheila
Jackson Lee’s bill, H.R. 434, the Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail Act. Passage
of this bill will pave the way for the Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail, which will
extend approximately 51 miles from the
Osterman Building and Reedy Chapel in Gal-
veston, Texas, along Texas State Highway 3
and Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town
and Emancipation Park in Houston, Texas.
This trail follows the migration route taken
by newly freed slaves from the major 19th
century seaport town of Galveston to the
burgeoning community of Freedmen’s Town,
which is now the 4th Ward of Houston, home
to the 18th Congressional District.
The start of the trail is located where Gen-
eral Gordon Granger rode into Galveston,
Texas, on June 19, 1865, to announce the free-
dom of the last American slaves. His an-
nouncement belatedly freed 250,000 slaves
nearly two and a half years after Abraham
Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation. The
newly freed slaves traveled from Galveston
to spread the news to neighboring commu-
nities.
The Emancipation National Historic Trail
would be the first trail in the Southwest
United States that recognizes the role that
African Americans in the legacy of freedom
in the United States. An Emancipation His-
toric Trail designation would bring long
overdue historic recognition due to the role
African Americans played in the building of
the today’s Houston and the state of Texas.
In addition, the revenue generated by people
who come to visit the area and walk this
trail will result in tourism dollars to the
city of Houston and the surrounding area. I
urge you to pass this bill to create the
Emancipation National Historic Trail.
Sincerely,
SYLVESTER TURNER,
Mayor.
KINDER FOUNDATION,
Houston, TX, July 22, 2019.
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON
LEE: The Kinder Foundation endorses H.R.
434, the Emancipation National Historic
Trail Act, which had a hearing before the
Subcommittee on April 2, 2019.
The Kinder Foundation actively supports
the community development and preserva-
tion of the historic Freedmen’s Town and
Third Ward in Houston, Texas, which has a
direct relationship and serves as a key loca-
tion in H.R. 434, the Emancipation National
Historic Trail Act. The Kinder Foundation is
participating in planning efforts for Freed-
men’s Town and provided early funding for
the renovation of Emancipation Park lo-
cated in Third Ward. Emancipation Park
began as 10 acres of land purchased in 1872,
by Reverend Jack Yates, Richard Allen,
Richard Brock, and Reverend Elias Dibble to
serve as a gathering place for former slaves
living in the Third and Fourth Wards to
commemorate the anniversary of their
emancipation (‘‘Juneteenth’’). The Kinder
Foundation also actively supports the Eman-
cipation Park Conservancy to further pro-
gramming and operations at Emancipation
Park, as well as the Emancipation Commu-
nity Development Partnership and the
Emancipation Economic Development Coun-
cil in an effort to revitalize the area through
affordable housing and education initiatives.
Passing H.R. 434, will have an enormous im-
pact and be a major contribution towards
the historical and cultural preservation of
three of Houston’s most historically signifi-
cant neighborhoods.
This bill will result in the Emancipation
National Historic Trail, which extends ap-
proximately 51 miles from the Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town,
then to Independence Heights, and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly
freed slaves from the major 19th century sea-
port town of Galveston to the burgeoning
community of Freedmen’s Town, which is
now the 4th Ward of Houston, home to the
18th Congressional District.
The start of the trail is located where Gen-
eral Gordon Granger sailed into Galveston,
Texas, with troops on June 19, 1865, to an-
nounce the freedom of the last American
slaves. His announcement belatedly freed
250,000 slaves nearly two and a half years
after Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proc-
lamation. The newly freed slaves traveled
from Galveston to spread the news to neigh-
boring communities.
Should this bill become law it would estab-
lish the first trail in the Southwest United
States that recognizes the role of African
Americans in the legacy of freedom in the
United States. An Emancipation Historic
Trail designation would bring long overdue
historic recognition due to the role African
Americans played in the building of the to-
day’s Houston and the state of Texas. In ad-
dition, the revenue generated by people who
come to visit the area and walk this trail
will result in tourism dollars to the city of
Houston and the adjoining areas.
Sincerely,
NANCY G. KINDER,
President & CEO.
RUTHERFORD B. H. YATES
MUSEUM, INC.,
Houston, TX.
Hon. SHIELA JACKSON LEE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON
LEE: The Rutherford B H Yates Museum, Inc.
endorses H.R. 434, the Emancipation Na-
tional Historic Trail Act, which had a hear-
ing before the Subcommittee on April 2, 2019.
The Rutherford B H Yates Museum, Inc.
believes that the approval of H.R. 434 will be
the first major step toward the goal for the
40 block Freedmen’s Town National Register
Historic Place-TCP and its related sites, to
become U.S. National Landmarks and ulti-
mately to receive UNESCO-World Heritage
Cite recognition. In March 2019, the first six
(6) of the (74) sites that RBHYates Museum,
Inc. had nominated in 2016, have been award-
ed as ‘‘Sites of Memory Associated with the
UNESCO-Slave Route’’. We continue to sub-
mit documents for consideration of the nom-
inated sites, in the UNESCO-Slave Route
process.
This bill will result in the Emancipation
National Historic Trail, which extends ap-
proximately 51 miles from the Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate 45 North to include the Freed-
men’s Town National Register Historic
Place-TCP, then to Independence Heights,
and Emancipation Park in Houston, Texas.
This trail follows a migration route taken by
previously enslaved peoples from the major
19th century seaport town of Galveston to
the founding of the earliest Urban settle-
ment of Freedmen’s Town-4th Ward, Hous-
ton, home to the 18th Congressional District.
The start of the trail is located where Gen-
eral Gordon Granger sailed into Galveston,
Texas, with troops on June 19, 1865, to an-
nounce the freedom of the last American
slaves. His announcement belatedly freed
slaves nearly two and a half years after
Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclama-
tion. The newly freed slaves traveled from
Galveston and from Plantations throughout
Texas. to other cities and states in search of
family members who had been previously
sold into slavery, and to spread the news of
freedom to neighboring communities.
The Emancipation National Historic Trail
Act would bring long overdue historic rec-
ognition for the role African Americans
played in the building of Houston and Texas.
In addition, the revenue generated by herit-
age cultural tourists who visit and walk this
trail will benefit the City of Houston and the
State of Texas.
Sincerely,
THEOPHILUS HERRINGTON, PH.D.
THE HERITAGE SOCIETY
AT SAM HOUSTON PARK,
Houston, TX.
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON
LEE: The Heritage Society endorses H.R. 434,
the Emancipation National Historic Trail
Act, which had a hearing before the Sub-
committee on April 2, 2019.
Since its founding, The Heritage Society, a
non-profit 501(c)(3), has acquired and re-
stored ten historic buildings in the city of
Houston. The result is a treasure for our
city, with buildings that tell the stories of
how diverse segments of society lived daily,
from freed slaves building new lives for
themselves to prosperous merchant families
from Houston’s early years. The Heritage So-
ciety is an educational institution whose
mission is to tell the stories of the diverse
history of Houston and Texas through its
collections, exhibitions and programing.
This bill will result in the Emancipation
National Historic Trail, which extends ap-
proximately 51 miles from the Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town,
then to Independence Heights, and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly
freed slaves from the major 19th century sea-
port town of Galveston to the burgeoning
community of Freedmen’s Town, which is
now the 4th Ward of Houston, home to the
18th Congressional District.
Two of the historic buildings cared for by
The Heritage Society, the Jack Yates House
and the 4th Ward Cottage, have been nomi-
nated as ‘‘Sites of Memory’’ as part of the
UNESCO Slave Route Project. Obtaining
international recognition to the Jack Yates
House signifies its importance as a place
that embodies what is was to be an enslaved
African-American, who, once freed, became a
community leader whose lasting impact is
seen today. Recognizing this Historic Trail
would truly provide a larger understanding
of how Houston’s history is both unique and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00113 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.149 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7360 July 24, 2019
also very much a part of the larger story of
the impact of enslavement of African Ameri-
cans in the United States.
Should this bill become law it would estab-
lish the first trail in the Southwest United
States that recognizes the role of African
Americans in the legacy of freedom in the
United States. An Emancipation Historic
Trail designation would bring long overdue
historic recognition due to the role African
Americans played in the building of the to-
day’s Houston and the state of Texas. In ad-
dition, the revenue generated by people who
come to visit the area and walk this trail
will result in tourism dollars to the city of
Houston and the adjoining areas.
Sincerely,
ALISON A. BELL,
Executive Director.
Hon. SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SHEILA JACKSON
LEE: The Texas Center for African American
Living History endorses H.R. 434, the Eman-
cipation National Historic Trail Act, which
had a hearing before the Subcommittee on
April 2, 2019.
Owing to my research to document historic
sites and markers from Galveston to Hous-
ton Freedmen’s National Historic District, I,
Naomi Carrier, develop a written testimony
that has become a part of the historical
record for H.R. 434, as expressed in this ex-
cerpt from Congresswoman, Sheila Jackson
Lee:
‘‘As the founder and CEO of Texas Center
for African American Living History, your
insight will be beneficial to the effort to see
H.R. 434 become law. In the past thirty
years, you have endeavored to bring a fresh
perspective to Texas History through per-
formance art and education. If you will pre-
pare written remarks in support of the bill,
I will see that your written statement is
placed into the record for the hearing and
that you will be recognized. There will also
be a seat for you to observe this historic
hearing. I ask that you plan to attend, you
should plan to arrive the evening before or
the morning of the hearing to allow us an op-
portunity to speak before the hearing begins.
Your written testimony is welcomed and
appreciated.
Very truly yours,
Sheila Jackson Lee
Member of Congress’’
This bill will result in the Emancipation
National Historic Trail, which extends ap-
proximately 51 miles from the Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate 45 North to Freedmen’s Town,
then to Independence Heights, and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly
freed slaves from the major 19th century sea-
port town of Galveston to the burgeoning
community of Freedmen’s Town, which is
now the 4th Ward of Houston, home to the
18th Congressional District.
The start of the trail is located where Gen-
eral Gordon Granger sailed into Galveston,
Texas, with troops on June 19, 1865, to an-
nounce the freedom of the last American
slaves. His announcement belatedly freed
250,000 slaves nearly two and a half years
after Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proc-
lamation. The newly freed slaves traveled
from Galveston to spread the news to neigh-
boring communities. Should this bill become
law it would establish the first trail in the
Southwest United States that recognizes the
role of African Americans in the legacy of
freedom in the United States. An Emanci-
pation Historic Trail designation would
bring long overdue historic recognition due
to the role African Americans played in the
building of the today’s Houston and the state
of Texas. In addition, the revenue generated
by people who come to visit the area and
walk this trail will result in tourism dollars
to the city of Houston and the adjoining
areas.
My research gathered over the past 30
years will be an invaluable asset to the Na-
tional Park Service in the study of the Trail
and relevant 19th and early 20th century his-
toric sites in the surrounding areas.
Sincerely,
NAOMI MITCHELL CARRIER,
M.Ed.—Professor,
Houston Community
College, Author, Go
Down, Old Hannah,
Founder, Texas Cen-
ter for African Amer-
ican Living History
(TCAALH), Director,
Performing and Vis-
ual Arts Workshop.
FOURTH WARD REDEVELOPMENT AU-
THORITY, TIRZ NO. 14, FREED-
MAN’S TOWN,
Houston, TX, April 1, 2019.
Re H.R. 434, the Emancipation National His-
toric Trail Act
Hon. DEB HAALAND,
Chairwoman, House Subcommittee on National
Parks, Forests and Public Lands, Natural
Resources Committee, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN HAALAND: On behalf of
the Boards of Directors for Tax Increment
Reinvestment Zone Number Fourteen, City
of Houston, Texas (‘‘TIRZ #14’’) and Fourth
Ward Redevelopment Authority (the ‘‘Au-
thority’’), please allow this correspondence
to serve as our expression of support for H.R.
434, the Emancipation National Historic
Trail Act, introduced by Congresswoman
Sheila Jackson Lee.
It is our understanding that the enactment
of this bill will make possible an Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail which will ex-
tend 51 miles from the historic Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas along Highway 3 and Interstate 45
north to Freedman’s Town and Emanci-
pation Park located in Houston, Texas. The
trail will follow the migration route taken
by newly-freed slaves from Galveston, Texas,
a major nineteenth century port, to the vi-
brant settlement of Freedmen’s Town which
today is also referenced as the Fourth Ward
Houston within the 18th Congressional Dis-
trict.
The Emancipation National Historic Trail
would be the first trail in the southwest re-
gion of the United States that recognizes the
role of African Americans in the legacy of
freedom in the United States. An Emanci-
pation Historic Trail designation would
bring national recognition to the period of
time when our nation took significant
strides to make real the promise of our na-
tion’s founding documents attesting to the
rights of all men to live free.
Freedmen’s Town is contained within the
boundaries of TIRZ #14 and within our zone
we have significant structures that are di-
rectly related to the founders of Emanci-
pation Park. Of note are the historic brick
streets that were laid by freed slaves; Bethel
Church founded by Jack Yates which has
been restored as an open space park; and The
African American Library at Gregory School
which originally served as the first public
school for black students. Antioch Mis-
sionary Baptist Church, the oldest African
American church in Houston (1876) whereby
Jack Yates served as pastor still resides in
the historic boundaries of Freedmen’s Town
just east of the TIRZ boundaries.
Through our project plan that directs
TIRZ #14 to allocate its funds to historical
preservation, among other designated
projects, the Authority has set its priorities
on preserving and renovating the institu-
tional vestiges of Freedman’s Town to assure
that for generations to come the story of the
African-American experience in Houston can
be retold and personally experienced. We
strongly believe that The Emancipation Na-
tional Historic Trail will lend itself to act as
the impetus by which the nation will come
to know and experience the tenacity and
strength of the freed slave to build, thrive
and prosper in its own community.
Therefore, it is an honor to lend our sup-
port to the H.R. 434, The Emancipation Na-
tional Historic Trail Act.
Very truly yours,
JACQUELINE BOSTIC,
Chair.
EMANCIPATION PARK CONSERVANCY,
April 2, 2019.
Hon. DEB HAALAND,
Chairwoman, House Subcommittee National
Parks, Forest, and Public Lands, Natural
Resources Committee, Washington, DC.
Hon. DON YOUNG,
Ranking Member, House Subcommittee National
Parks, Forest, and Public Lands, Natural
Resources Committee, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN HAALAND AND RANKING
MEMBER YOUNG: I write to express strong
support for H.R. 434, the Emancipation Na-
tional Historic Trail Act, introduced by Con-
gresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Enactment
of this bill will make possible an Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail, which will
extend 51 miles from the historic Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Highway 3 and Interstate 45,
north to Freedmen’s Town and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly-
freed slaves from the Galveston, Texas a
major nineteenth century port to the vibrant
settlement of Freedmen’s Town, which is
today the Fourth Ward of Houston, in the
18th Congressional District.
The Emancipation National Historic Trail
would be the first trail in the southwest
United States that recognizes the role of Af-
rican Americans in the legacy of freedom in
the United States. An Emancipation Historic
Trail designation would bring national rec-
ognition to a period of history when our na-
tion took significant strides to make real
the promise of our nation’s founding docu-
ments attesting to the rights of all to live
free.
Sparked by the desire to have a place to
commemorate the anniversary of their
emancipation, known as Juneteenth, former
slaves and community members in the Third
and Fourth Wards led by Reverend Jack
Yates, Richard Allen, Richard Brock, and
Reverend Elias Dibble united to raise $1,000
in 1872 to purchase 10 acres of park land to
host Juneteenth Celebrations. Emancipation
Park is the most historic and culturally sig-
nificant park in the city of Houston and was
formerly one of the only communal spaces
for Blacks in Houston. Over the years,
Emancipation Park’s immediate surrounding
area experienced an economic boom, where
many Black owned and frequented busi-
nesses, financial institutions and venues
flourished in Houston’s Third Ward. Emanci-
pation Park is significant, not only as a rit-
ual of remembrance and celebration, but also
as an early act of exercising the rights of
property ownership, commerce and coopera-
tive economics amongst Blacks, which were
formerly denied, known in our nation’s
founding documents as ‘‘life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness’’.
The Emancipation National Historic Trail
would serve as an invaluable opportunity to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:01 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00114 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.087 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7361
July 24, 2019
share rich cultural, social, historical and
economic strides that have shaped society in
the past and present. Thank you for your
consideration in this designation.
Sincerely,
RAMON MANNING,
Board Chairman, Emancipation,
Park Conservancy.
NATIONAL TRUST FOR
HISTORIC PRESERVATION,
March 29, 2019.
Chairman RAUL GRIJALVA,
Washington, DC.
Ranking Member ROB BISHOP,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN GRIJALVA AND RANKING
MEMBER BISHOP: We appreciate the oppor-
tunity to share our support for H.R. 434, the
Emancipation National Historic Trail Act.
The National Trust enthusiastically en-
dorses this legislation and looks forward to
its enactment in this Congress.
INTERESTS OF THE NATIONAL TRUST FOR
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
The National Trust for Historic Preserva-
tion is a privately-funded charitable, edu-
cational, and nonprofit organization char-
tered by Congress in 1949 to ‘‘facilitate pub-
lic participation in historic preservation’’
and to further the purposes of federal his-
toric preservation laws. The intent of Con-
gress was for the National Trust ‘‘to mobi-
lize and coordinate public interest, partici-
pation, and resources in the preservation and
interpretation of sites and buildings.’’ With
headquarters in Washington, D.C., nine field
offices, 27 historic sites, more than one mil-
lion members and supporters, and a national
network of partners in states, territories,
and the District of Columbia, the National
Trust works to save America’s historic
places and advocates for historic preserva-
tion as a fundamental value in programs and
policies at all levels of government.
H.R. 434, EMANCIPATION NATIONAL HISTORIC
TRAIL ACT
We appreciate Representative Sheila Jack-
son Lee’s leadership on this legislation to es-
tablish the Emancipation National Historic
Trail in the state of Texas. The route would
extend approximately 51 miles from the
Osterman Building and Reedy Chapel in Gal-
veston along Texas State Highway 3 and
Interstate Highway 45 North to Freedmen’s
Town and Emancipation Park located in
Houston.
The designation of this historic trail-to be
administered by the National Park Service-
traces the 19th century migration route from
Galveston to Houston of newly freed slaves
and persons of African descent. On June 19,
1865, General Gordon Granger arrived at Gal-
veston to announce the freedom of the last
American slaves, which belatedly freed ap-
proximately 250,000 slaves nearly two and a
half years after Abraham Lincoln’s Emanci-
pation Proclamation. Their migration to the
community of Freedmen’s Town located in
the Fourth Ward of Houston would be codi-
fied in this proposed historic trail designa-
tion and further allow the National Park
Service to tell the stories of all Americans.
National Historic Trails administered by
the National Park Service provide an oppor-
tunity to recognize, commemorate, and in-
terpret travel routes of national historic sig-
nificance while sharing the significant his-
tories of our nation. We urge Congressional
support of this legislation and look forward
to enactment of H.R. 434.
Sincerely,
PAM BOWMAN,
Director of Public Lands Policy.
EMANCIPATION PARK CONSERVANCY,
Houston, TX, April 2, 2019.
Hon. DEB HAALAND,
Chairwoman—House Subcommittee National
Parks, Forest, and Public Lands, Natural
Resources Committee, Washington, DC.
Hon. DON YOUNG,
Ranking Member—House Subcommittee Na-
tional Parks, Forest, and Public Lands,
Natural Resources Committee, Washington,
DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN HAALAND AND RANKING
MEMBER YOUNG: I write to express strong
support for H.R. 434, the Emancipation Na-
tional Historic Trail Act, introduced by Con-
gresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. Enactment
of this bill will make possible an Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail, which will
extend 51 miles from the historic Osterman
Building and Reedy Chapel in Galveston,
Texas, along Highway 3 and Interstate 45,
north to Freedmen’s Town and Emanci-
pation Park in Houston, Texas. This trail
follows the migration route taken by newly-
freed slaves from the Galveston, Texas a
major nineteenth century port to the vibrant
settlement of Freedmen’s Town, which is
today the Fourth Ward of Houston, in the
18th Congressional District.
The Emancipation National Historic Trail
would be the first trail in the southwest
United States that recognizes the role of Af-
rican Americans in the legacy of freedom in
the United States. An Emancipation Historic
Trail designation would bring national rec-
ognition to a period of history when our na-
tion took significant strides to make real
the promise of our nation’s founding docu-
ments attesting to the rights of all to live
free.
Sparked by the desire to have a place to
commemorate the anniversary of their
emancipation, known as Juneteenth, former
slaves and community members in the Third
and Fourth Wards led by Reverend Jack
Yates, Richard Allen, Richard Brock, and
Reverend Elias Dibble united to raise $1,000
in 1872 to purchase 10 acres of park land to
host Juneteenth Celebrations. Emancipation
Park is the most historic and culturally sig-
nificant park in the city of Houston and was
formerly one of the only communal spaces
for Blacks in Houston. Over the years,
Emancipation Park’s immediate surrounding
area experienced an economic boom, where
many Black owned and frequented busi-
nesses, financial institutions and venues
flourished in Houston’s Third Ward. Emanci-
pation Park is significant, not only as a rit-
ual of remembrance and celebration, but also
as an early act of exercising the rights of
property ownership, commerce and coopera-
tive economics amongst Blacks, which were
formerly denied, known in our nation’s
founding documents as ‘‘life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness’’. The Emancipation Na-
tional Historic Trail would serve as an in-
valuable opportunity to share rich cultural,
social, historical and economic strides that
have shaped society in the past and present.
Thank you for your consideration in this
designation.
Sincerely,
RAMON MANNING,
Board Chairman—Emancipation
Park Conservancy.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Guam (Mr. SAN
NICOLAS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 434, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to amend the Na-
tional Trails System Act to provide for
the study of the Emancipation Na-
tional Historic Trail, and for other pur-
poses.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 3877, BIPARTISAN BUDGET
ACT OF 2019; PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 549,
VENEZUELA TPS ACT OF 2019;
AND WAIVING A REQUIREMENT
OF CLAUSE 6(A) OF RULE XIII
WITH RESPECT TO CONSIDER-
ATION OF CERTAIN RESOLU-
TIONS REPORTED FROM THE
COMMITTEE ON RULES
Mr. PERLMUTTER, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–183) on the
resolution (H. Res. 519) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 3877) to
amend the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985, to es-
tablish a congressional budget for fis-
cal years 2020 and 2021, to temporarily
suspend the debt limit, and for other
purposes; providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 549) to designate Ven-
ezuela under section 244 of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act to permit
nationals of Venezuela to be eligible
for temporary protected status under
such section, and for other purposes;
and waiving a requirement of clause
6(a) of rule XIII with respect to consid-
eration of certain resolutions reported
from the Committee on Rules, which
was referred to the House Calendar and
ordered to be printed.
f
YSLETA DEL SUR PUEBLO AND
ALABAMA-COUSHATTA TRIBES
OF TEXAS EQUAL AND FAIR OP-
PORTUNITY SETTLEMENT ACT
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 759) to restore an opportunity
for tribal economic development on
terms that are equal and fair, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 759
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Ysleta del
Sur Pueblo and Alabama-Coushatta Tribes of
Texas Equal and Fair Opportunity Settle-
ment Act’’.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENT.
The Ysleta del Sur Pueblo and Alabama
and Coushatta Indian Tribes of Texas Res-
toration Act (Public Law 100–89; 101 Stat.
666) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 301. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
‘‘Nothing in this Act shall be construed to
preclude or limit the applicability of the In-
dian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.).’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00115 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.084 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7362 July 24, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Guam (Mr. SAN NICOLAS) and the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. CURTIS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Guam.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on the measure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Guam?
There was no objection.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 759, introduced by
Representative BABIN from Texas,
amends the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo and
Alabama-Coushatta Indian Tribes of
Texas Restoration Act of 1987 to clarify
that the Indian Gaming Regulatory
Act applies to both the Pueblo and the
Tribe.
The Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas was federally terminated in 1954,
followed by the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo,
also known as the Tigua Tribe, in 1968.
Congress rightfully restored both the
Pueblo and the Tribe in 1987 at one
time by enacting the aforementioned
Restoration Act.
The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act
was enacted just 1 year later, in 1988.
The framework that it created should
have applied to both the Pueblo and
the Tribe, just as it did to every other
Tribe. However, since the Restoration
Act was passed at a time when Indian
gaming was just emerging and Federal
regulations had not yet been imple-
mented, it contains a section regarding
gaming.
We know from the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD that the intent of this section
of the Restoration Act was to clarify
Indian gaming policy at the time, not
to completely prohibit gaming on these
lands in perpetuity, but that is what is
occurring. The language in the Res-
toration Act has been used by the
State of Texas to completely stymie
the Pueblo’s and the Tribe’s ability to
engage in Class II gaming, much to the
detriment of the economic health and
well-being of both the Pueblo and the
Tribe.
Additionally, the only other federally
recognized Tribe in Texas, the Kick-
apoo Traditional Tribe, is allowed to
operate a Class II gaming facility, as
they were restored by Congress in 1983
without any type of gaming restric-
tions.
H.R. 759 remedies this inequality by
clarifying that the Pueblo and the
Tribe, like the Kickapoo, have the
same rights and responsibilities under
the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act as
virtually every other federally recog-
nized Tribe in the United States. The
legislation confers no new or special
rights to the Pueblo or the Tribe, nor
does it in any way limit the existing
rights of the State of Texas. This is
simply a matter of parity and fairness.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 759, sponsored by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. BABIN),
would amend the act of Congress that
restored Federal recognition to the two
Tribes in Texas that are the subject of
this bill.
The amendment would override a
gaming limitation imposed by Con-
gress on the Tribes, thereby author-
izing the Tribes to operate the casinos
regulated under the Indian Gaming
Regulatory Act of 1988 and not under
Texas law.
The question of whether Texas law or
the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act ap-
plies to the two Tribes is no longer
under serious dispute. Federal courts
have settled the question, and the re-
sult of the litigation is that the two
Tribes may not conduct gaming under
IGRA unless Congress enacts a meas-
ure to allow them to do so.
This bill enjoys significant local sup-
port in the communities around the
reservations of the two Tribes, and the
Members who represent the Tribes
strongly support enactment of the
measure because the reservations,
where the casinos would be operated,
are within their districts.
However, while the bill enjoys sup-
port in Texas, I must note that the
Governor of Texas, Greg Abbott, has
written letters to the House leaders
and committee leaders in opposition to
the legislation. In the view of the Gov-
ernor, this bill allows the Tribes to vio-
late the Texas constitution without
the consent of the State of Texas.
It is my hope that such concerns with
the measure can be worked out as the
legislative process continues.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Alaska (Mr. YOUNG).
(Mr. YOUNG asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the ranking member for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, this is about fairness,
and when you have been in this office
as long as I have been—I was here when
we passed the 1984, the 1985, and the
1986 gaming laws—we tried and ex-
pected to do the right thing for all
Tribes. I say I have been involved with
this. When I was chairman, we tried to
do the same thing. It is the right thing
to do. It is the fair thing to do. The
most important thing is it is a simple
matter of fairness.
I will say it again. These two Tribes
have been denied the same opportunity
of every other federally recognized
Tribe, including the Kickapoo Tribe, to
engage in Class II gaming on their res-
ervation. Class II is bingo.
This legislation opens no new door to
gaming in Texas. The Kickapoo Tribe
has been offering bingo on their res-
ervation for the better part of two dec-
ades with no interference from the
State of Texas.
Second, it should be noted that vir-
tually all communities surrounding the
Alabama-Coushatta reservation have
passed a resolution endorsing this leg-
islation. In fact, over 30 resolutions in
favor of H.R. 759 show that support for
the bill runs from the Gulf of Mexico to
the Red River border on Oklahoma.
This represents genuine grassroots
support for the people who will be most
impacted. Far from thwarting the will
of the people of Texas, this legislation
enables it.
Mr. Speaker, from someone who has
worked on this legislation a long time,
I encourage my colleagues to vote in
favor of this legislation to solve an un-
fair state.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. BABIN).
Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I ran for
Congress to take on and address the
tough issues facing our Nation and the
world and leave it a better place for my
grandchildren, which I will note
climbed to number 16 with the arrival
of Truett Ryan Babin just yesterday.
When I say the tough issues, I mean
the ones most of us would agree on:
border security, immigration, taxes,
trade, national security, and on and on.
But when you take this job, you real-
ize that working on behalf of your con-
stituents as their elected Representa-
tive to the Federal Government can
mean taking on issues that you weren’t
expecting to, and this is certainly one
such case.
But I am proud and honored to be
here, and I thank the leaders from both
sides of the aisle who have come to-
gether and worked with us to get H.R.
759, the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo and Ala-
bama-Coushatta Tribes of Texas Equal
and Fair Opportunity Settlement Act,
passed favorably out of committee and
here to the floor today.
I am not in this fight because of a
love for gaming. I am here because it is
about fairness. It is about equal treat-
ment under the law, jobs, and economic
development and opportunity.
With the exception of a few years in
the military, I have lived in southeast
Texas all of my life, and I have seen
firsthand how these proud Native
Americans have provided jobs and eco-
nomic opportunity not only for mem-
bers of their Tribe but for Texans
throughout our entire region. That is
why the 32 government and civic orga-
nizations who live and work closest to
this reservation have given their
strong endorsement of this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
the letters and resolutions from every
one of them.
GOVERNMENT & COMMUNITY ENTITIES IN
SUPPORT OF H.R. 759
Chambers County, Cherokee County Com-
missioners Court, CHI St. Luke’s Health Me-
morial, Cleveland Chamber of Commerce,
Deep East Texas Council of Governments,
Hardin County Commissioners Court, City of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00116 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.151 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7363
July 24, 2019
Ivanhoe, Jasper County Commissioners
Court, Jasper Economic Development Corp,
Jefferson County Commissioners Court.
City of Livingston, Texas, Livingston Ro-
tary Club, Lufkin & Angelina County Cham-
ber of Commerce, Madison County Commis-
sioners Court, National Congress of Amer-
ican Indians, Newton County Commissioners
Court, City of Onalaska, Texas, Orange
County Commissioners Court, Polk County
Chamber of Commerce, Polk County Com-
missioners Court.
Polk County GOP, The River Church,
Sabine County Commissioners Court, San
Augustine County Commissioners Court, San
Jacinto County, Trinity County Commis-
sioners Court, Tyler County Chamber of
Commerce, Tyler County Hospital District,
USET Sovereignty Protection, Walker Coun-
ty Commissioners Court, Walling Printing
Company, City of Woodville.
RESOLUTION
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas is a federally recognized Indian Tribe
located in Polk County, Texas and is com-
mitted to supporting the economic develop-
ment and creation of jobs within Polk Coun-
ty and surrounding counties of Deep East
Texas; and
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas’ Naskila electronic bingo facility, has
created over 560 new jobs in Deep East Texas
and is the third largest employer in the re-
gion, and is responsible for injecting nearly
$140 million annually in revenue to the re-
gion; and
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas provided over 46 fully paid collegiate
scholarships for graduating high school stu-
dents of the Tribe in 2018; and
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas being a good community partner, con-
tributed $500,000 in donations after Hurricane
Harvey to several counties, and purchased 30
manufactured home units; and
Whereas, United States Congressman Brian
Babin (R–Woodville) has filed H.R. 759 to
clarify conflicting federal statutes regarding
the right of the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas to offer Class II electronic bingo on
their tribal lands pursuant to the Indian
Gaming Regulatory Act, a right enjoyed and
exercised by the Kickapoo Traditional Tribe
ofTexas since 1996; and
Whereas, the passage of H.R. 759 is vital to
continued economic development and health
of both the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas and all Deep East Texas; Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, the Cherokee County Commis-
sioners Court hereby joins the Alabama-
Coushatta Tribe of Texas in support of its ef-
fort for passage of H.R. 759 to clarify that the
Tribe can enjoy the opportunity for tribal
economic development on terms that are
equal and fair, and to protect jobs. Further,
the Cherokee County Commissioners Court
urgently requests that United States Sen-
ators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz of Texas, as
well as the other 35 Texans elected to the
United States House of Representatives, join
Congressman Babin in securing the enact-
ment of H.R. 759 into law.
Witness our hands this 9 day of July, 2019.
CHRIS DAVIS,
County Judge.
KELLY TRAYLOR,
Commissioner, Precinct
1.
STEVEN NORTON,
Commissioner, Precinct
2.
PATRICK REAGAN,
Commissioner, Precinct
3.
BILLY MCCUTCHEON,
Commissioner, Precinct
4.
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas is a federally recognized Indian Tribe
located in Polk County, Texas and is com-
mitted to supporting the economic develop-
ment and creation of jobs within Polk and
surrounding counties of Deep East Texas;
and
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas’ Naskila electronic bingo facility, has
created over 560 new jobs in Deep East Texas
and is the third largest employer in the re-
gion, and is responsible for injecting nearly
$140 million annually in revenue to the re-
gion; and
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas provided over 46 fully paid collegiate
scholarships for graduating high school stu-
dents of the Tribe in 2018; and
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas being a good community partner, con-
tributed $500,000 in donations after Hurricane
Harvey to several counties, and purchased 30
manufactured home units; and
Whereas, United States Congressman Brian
Babin (R–Woodville) has filed H.R. 759 to
clarify conflicting federal statutes regarding
the right of the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas to offer Class II electronic bingo on
their tribal lands pursuant to the Indian
Gaming Regulatory Act, a right enjoyed and
exercised by the Kickapoo Traditional Tribe
of Texas since 1996; and
Whereas, the passage of H.R. 759 is vital to
continued economic development and health
of both the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas and all Deep East Texas; Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, the CHI St. Luke’s Health Memo-
rial hereby joins the Alabama-Coushatta
Tribe of Texas in support of its effort for pas-
sage of H.R. 759 to clarify that the Tribe can
enjoy the opportunity for tribal economic
development on terms that are equal and
fair, and to protect jobs. Further, the CHI St.
Luke’s Health Memorial urgently requests
that United States Senators John Cornyn
and Ted Cruz of Texas, as well as the other
35 Texans elected to the United States House
of Representatives, join Congressman Babin
in securing the enactment of H.R. 759 into
law.
Approved this 26 day of March, 2019.
MONTE BOSTWICK,
Market Chief Executive Officer,
CHI St. Luke’s Health Memorial.
GREATER CLEVELAND CHAMBER,
Cleveland, Texas, April 24, 2019.
NASKILA GAMING,
Yolanda Poncho, Public Relations Manager,
Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of Texas, Living-
ston, Texas.
DEAR MRS. PONCHO: Thanks to you and
your team for the presentation to our Board
on Thursday, April 4, 2019 regarding a resolu-
tion by our board supporting HR 459.
Our Board held its regular meeting on
Thursday, 4/18/19 and discussed the issue.
After review by our board and it has been de-
termined that Greater Cleveland Chamber
By-Laws will not allow a resolution endors-
ing the bill.
The Board did vote to send give the at-
tached letter supporting Naskila.
I hope this helps your cause and thank all
of you a Naskila for the support your give to
the Chamber and the Cleveland community.
Please feel free to contact me if you have
any questions regarding the above.
Respectfully,
CHARLIE RICE,
President & Chairman
of the Board.
JIM CARSON,
Vice President and
COO.
GREATER CLEVELAND CHAMBER,
Cleveland, Texas, April 24, 2019.
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: This is a Letter
of Support for Naskila Gaming, 540 State
Park Road 56, Livingston Texas and the Ala-
bama-Coshatta Tribe of Texas. Naskila Gam-
ing joined the Greater Cleveland Chamber of
Commerce in October 2016 at the ‘‘Distin-
guished Investor’’ membership level. They
are committed to our Chamber events and
were a Bronze Level sponsor of our 2019 an-
nual awards banquet—Cleveland Through the
Ages.
The Greater Cleveland Chamber appre-
ciates the support Naskila gives to both the
people, as well as the businesses in the great-
er Cleveland area.
Sincerely,
CHARLIE RICE,
President & Chairman
of the Board.
JIM CARSON,
Vice President and
COO.
DETCOG RES0LUTION—Deep East Texas
Council of Governments & Economic De-
velopment District
IN SUPPORT OF THE ALABAMA-
COUSHATTA TRIBE OF TEXAS
WHEREAS, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe
of Texas is a federally recognized Indian
Tribe located in Polk County, Texas and is
committed to supporting the economic de-
velopment and creation of jobs within Polk
and neighboring counties of Deep East
Texas; and
WHEREAS, through the creation of
Naskila Gaming, the Alabama-Coushatta
Tribe of Texas has created over 560 new jobs
in Deep East Texas and is the third largest
employer in the region, and is responsible for
injecting nearly $140 million annually into
our regional economy; and
WHEREAS, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe
of Texas is a great asset to our region and a
wonderful neighbor and friend to all of
Texas. When Hurricane Harvey devastated
our state, they were among the first to step
up and provide emergency financial assist-
ance to victims throughout Deep East Texas
and many other hard-hit areas; and
WHEREAS, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe
of Texas supports the youth of Deep East
Texas and provided 46 fully paid collegiate
scholarships for graduating high school stu-
dents in 2018, and
WHEREAS, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe
of Texas deserves to be treated equally and
fairly and enjoy the same opportunities as
other federally recognized Tribes; and
WHEREAS, federal statutes conflict re-
garding the right of the Alabama-Coushatta
Tribe of Texas to offer Class II electronic
bingo on their tribal lands pursuant to the
Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, a right en-
joyed and exercised by the Kickapoo Tradi-
tional Tribe of Texas since 1996, and Rep-
resentative Brian Babin has filed legislation
to clarify the conflicting federal statutes;
Now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED,the Board of Directors of the
Deep East Texas Council of Governments
hereby states its support for the Alabama-
Coushatta Tribe of Texas in the effort to
clarify that the Tribe can enjoy the oppor-
tunity for tribal economic development on
terms that are equal and fair, and to protect
jobs.
ADOPTED by the Board of Directors of
the Deep East Texas Council
Governments and Economic
Development District on the 28th day
of March, 2019.
THE HONORABLE DAPHNE SESSION,
President.
THE HONORABLE ROY BOLDON,
Secretary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00117 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.093 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7364 July 24, 2019
RESOLUTION—12–19
STATE OF TEXAS, §, COMMISSIONERS
COURT.
COUNTY OF HARDIN, §, OF HARDIN
COUNTY, TEXAS.
BE IT REMEMBERED at a meeting of Com-
missioners Court of Hardin County, Texas,
held on this 26TH Day of March. 2019, on mo-
tion by LW Cooper Jr., Commissioner of Pre-
cinct No. 1, and second by . . .. Alvin Rob-
erts, Commissioner of Precinct No. 4, the fol-
lowing RESOLUTION was adopted:
A RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF H.R. 759
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas is a Federally recognized Indian Tribe
located in Polk County, Texas and is com-
mitted to supporting the economic develop-
ment and creation of jobs within Polk and
surrounding counties of Deep East Texas;
and
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas’ Naskila electronic bingo facility has
created over 560 new jobs in Deep East Texas.
and is the third largest employer in the re-
gion and is responsible for injecting nearly
$140 million annually in revenue to the re-
gion; and
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas provided over 46 fully paid collegiate
scholarships for graduating high school stu-
dents of the Tribe in 2018; and
Whereas, the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas being a good community partner con-
tributed $500,000.00 in donations after Hurri-
cane Harvey to several counties, and pur-
chased 30 mobile home units; and
Whereas, United State Congressman Brian
Babin (R-Woodville) has filed H.R. 759 to
clarify conflicting federal statutes regarding
the right of the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas to offer Class II Electronic Bingo on
their tribal lands pursuant to the Indian
Gaming Regulatory Act, a right enjoyed and
exercised by the Kickapoo Traditional Tribe
of Texas since 1996; and
Whereas, the passage of H.R. 759 is vital to
continued economic development and health
of both the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of
Texas and all Deep East Texas; Now, there-
fore, be it
RESOLVED that the Hardin County Com-
missioners Court hereby joins the Alabama-
Coushatta Tribe of Texas in support of its ef-
fort for passage of H.R. 759 to clarify that the
Tribe can enjoy the opportunity for tribal
economic development on terms that are
equal and fair, and to protect jobs. FUR-
THER, the Hardin County Commissioners
Court urgently requests that United States
Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz of
Texas, as well as the other 35 Texans elected
to the United States House of Representa-
tives, join Congressman Babin in securing
the enactment of H.R. 759 into law..
SIGNED this 26th, day of MARCH, 2019.
JUDGE WAYNE MCDANIEL,
County Judge
L.W. COOPER JR.,
County Commissioner, Precinct 1.
COMMISSIONER CHRIS KIRKENDALL,
County Commissioner, Precinct 2.
KEN PELT
COMMISSIONER, KEN PELT,
County Commissioner, Precinct 3.
COMMISSIONER, ALVIN ROBERTS,
County Commissioner, Precinct 4.
Mr. BABIN. All I want is for this
Tribe in my district to simply have the
same rights and the same opportunities
as their counterparts at the Kickapoo
Tribe of Texas facility in Eagle Pass,
Texas, and what they deserve under a
fair interpretation of IGRA, the Indian
Gaming Regulatory Act.
Why should one Tribe be able to play
bingo and another Tribe not be able to
in the same State of Texas?
Poverty and joblessness are a scourge
in many communities across this coun-
try, but the consequences are espe-
cially dire on the reservation lands of
the Native American peoples across
this Nation.
b 2145
This facility has already helped turn
that tide of poverty away from my dis-
trict, creating over 500 jobs, contrib-
uting $140 million in economic activity
each year. But all of those benefits and
more aren’t just at risk if this bill
doesn’t pass. They are guaranteed to go
away.
So please join us today and stop that
from happening, and please support
this bill.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. HURD).
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in support of H.R. 759, the
Ysleta del Sur Pueblo and Alabama-
Coushatta Tribes of Texas Equal and
Fair Opportunity Settlement Act.
As a Representative with more
Tribes in my district than any other
Texan, it is my solemn obligation to
fight on behalf of Texas’ native people.
I am a proud Texan, and there is no
greater State in the Union, no prouder
people than we Texans, and for all the
blessings bestowed upon the Lone Star
State, we still fall short in our efforts
of providing true economic stability to
our Native American Tribes.
The Ysleta del Sur Pueblo are the
oldest community in the State of
Texas claiming a governing body since
1682.
During the Texas Revolution, it was
the Alabama-Coushatta of East Texas
who provided refuge, food, and medi-
cine to the great Sam Houston and his
army. Their story is sewn into the fab-
ric of Texas’ history.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 759 is not about
whether one agrees or disagrees with
gambling. This bill isn’t about gam-
bling. It is about letting two Tribes in
two of Texas’ most economically dis-
tressed zones engage in what every
other Tribe in America engages in.
This bill would allow these two Tribes
in Texas to do bingo.
That is it. Not blackjack. Not poker.
Not craps. Just bingo.
For too long, the Alabama-Coushatta
and the Tigua Tribes have been pre-
vented from achieving self-sufficiency.
It is time we right this wrong.
We will take today efforts to give the
Alabama-Coushatta and Ysleta del Sur
Pueblo Tribes a chance to embark on
the American Dream. We will vote to
lift their families out of poverty. We
will vote to educate their youth, and
we will vote to grow their economies. I
am hoping my 432 colleagues say ‘‘yes’’
with their vote.
I want to thank the distinguished
gentleman from the great State of
Texas, my friend, Dr. BABIN, and I want
to thank my friends on the other side
of the aisle, Chairman GRIJALVA and
others, because without them, this
would not have happened.
Mr. Speaker, we still work in a bipar-
tisan way here in Washington, D.C.,
and the fact that we are going to help
these two Tribes support their commu-
nity is an example of this today.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I have no
more speakers on this bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I, too, do not wish for
my support of this measure to indicate
or to be misconstrued as support for
gaming.
My support of this measure has ev-
erything to do with what my colleague
on the other side of the aisle has stat-
ed. This is about parity, and this is
about the unique sovereignty that rec-
ognized Tribes have with the Federal
Government through our own Constitu-
tion.
If we are going to be recognizing this
unique sovereignty, we should do so
equally among all the other Tribes.
This equality is so necessary if we are
going to maintain the credibility of the
process.
Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for my
colleagues and all the work that they
put into this, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Guam (Mr. SAN
NICOLAS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 759, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
FOR CHILDREN PROGRAM REAU-
THORIZATION ACT OF 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 776) to amend the Public Health
Service Act to reauthorize the Emer-
gency Medical Services for Children
program.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 776
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Emergency
Medical Services for Children Program Reau-
thorization Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF THE EMERGENCY
MEDICAL SERVICES FOR CHILDREN
PROGRAM.
Section 1910(d) of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act (42 U.S.C. 300w–9(d)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘2014, and’’ and inserting
‘‘2014,’’; and
(2) by inserting before the period the fol-
lowing: ‘‘, and $22,334,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. PALLONE) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. CARTER)
each will control 20 minutes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00118 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.089 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7365
July 24, 2019
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 776.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, for 35 years, the Emer-
gency Medical Services for Children, or
EMSC, program has been the only Fed-
eral grant program specifically focused
on addressing the needs of children in
emergency medical systems.
If ever a parent or caregiver is re-
quired to call 911 to get emergency care
for a child, they should know that the
child will receive the medical care that
they need.
The EMSC program helps provide
this peace of mind by enhancing care
for all children, no matter where they
live, travel, or go to school.
The EMSC program invests in re-
search, care delivery enhancements,
data monitoring, innovation in both
prehospital EMS settings as well as
hospital emergency departments.
The program has led to real results
and better care for children. For exam-
ple, research funded by EMSC has led
to a new pediatric head injury algo-
rithm, which has led to a reduction in
unnecessary radiation exposure from
CT scans in children who have suffered
head injuries.
Mental health and substance abuse
screenings have been created to better
assess children in emergency situa-
tions, and a full 50 percent of hospitals
have adopted new guidelines to assist
them in transferring children to appro-
priate facilities when specialized care
is needed.
Any doctor, nurse, or EMS provider
will tell you that we can’t simply treat
children as small adults. They need
specialized treatment and protocols to
ensure that the care they receive is ap-
propriate and available to them when
and where they need it. Passing this 5-
year reauthorization of the EMSC pro-
gram will continue to provide innova-
tive and appropriate care to children.
Mr. Speaker, I hope all of my col-
leagues will join me in supporting this
bill today, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in
support of H.R. 776, the Emergency
Medical Services for Children Program
Reauthorization Act of 2019.
I would like to thank Representa-
tives PETER KING and KATHY CASTOR
for their work on this important legis-
lation.
The Emergency Medical Services for
Children program was enacted in 1984
to provide grant funding to increase
the ability of emergency medical sys-
tems to care for pediatric populations.
Not only does this program provide
funding so that emergency depart-
ments and hospitals can equip them-
selves with the appropriate pediatric
medical tools, it enables partnerships
and drives research and innovation in
emergency care for children.
Whether children require emergency
care following a car crash or fall ill in
the middle of the night with nowhere
else to turn, our emergency medical
system needs to have staff trained in
how to treat children. A major part of
that is providing the resources to equip
healthcare professionals with the right
size medical tools.
The Emergency Medical Services for
Children program provides grants for
the State Partnership Program to inte-
grate pediatric care into the EMS sys-
tem and reduce pediatric morbidity
and mortality. States can focus on pro-
viding quality prehospital and hos-
pital-based care, in addition to estab-
lishing plans to handle disaster and
trauma care.
Our Nation’s healthcare workforce
still has much to learn about the treat-
ment of pediatric populations, which is
why continued research through the
Pediatric Emergency Care Applied Re-
search Network is crucial. This body is
the first federally funded pediatric
emergency medicine research network
in the country and conducts a wide va-
riety of research about acute illness
and injuries in children.
The reauthorization of the Emer-
gency Medical Services for Children
program is critical to maintaining and
improving pediatric emergency care.
Mr. Speaker, I urge strong support of
H.R. 776, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I would
urge support for this bipartisan legisla-
tion, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
support of H.R. 776, the Emergency Medical
Services for Children Program Reauthorization
Act, sponsored by Representatives Peter King
and Kathy Castor. This legislation reauthorizes
grants that focus on addressing the unique
needs of children in emergency medical sys-
tems, with the ultimate goal of reducing the
prevalence of morbidity and mortality in chil-
dren that may occur as a result of acute ill-
ness and severe injury. This is really critical
legislation for parents and children in our com-
munities—no one should have to know the
pain of losing a child. I urge my fellow House
members to support this bill.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as a sen-
ior member of the Committee on the Budget,
I rise in strong support of H.R. 776, the Emer-
gency Medical Services for Children Program
Reauthorization Act of 2019.
The Emergency Medical Services for Chil-
dren Program (EMSC) reduces child and
youth mortality and morbidity due to severe ill-
ness or injury by increasing awareness among
health professionals, providers and planners,
and the general public of the special needs of
children receiving emergency medical care.
Specifically, the EMSC program has pro-
vided grants to all states since I 1985 for the
State Partnership, Targeted Issues, State
Partnership Regionalization of Care, and The
Pediatric Emergency Care Applied Research
Network.
Additionally, the EMSC program has been
used to establish national resource centers
and a pediatric emergency care research net-
work.
Mr. Speaker, the majority of children are
treated in community and rural emergency de-
partments rather than specialized centers such
as large children’s hospitals.
As a result, pediatric visits make up less
than 20 percent of cases at emergency de-
partments, so they lack the quality of pediatric
emergency care needed for established prac-
tice guidelines.
I support H.R. 776 because Congress has a
responsibility to ensure that every child has
access to necessary emergency medical serv-
ices and that no child in our nation is left un-
treated.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 776, the ‘‘Emergency
Medical Services for Children Program Reau-
thorization Act of 2019.’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PALLONE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 776.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
NEWBORN SCREENING SAVES
LIVES REAUTHORIZATION ACT
OF 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2507) to amend the Public Health
Service Act to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under part A of title XI of such
Act relating to genetic diseases, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2507
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Newborn
Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. IMPROVED NEWBORN AND CHILD
SCREENING AND FOLLOW-UP FOR
HERITABLE DISORDERS.
(a) PURPOSES.—Section 1109(a) of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300b–8(a)) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘enhance,
improve or’’ and inserting ‘‘facilitate, en-
hance, improve, or’’;
(2) by amending paragraph (3) to read as
follows:
‘‘(3) to develop, and deliver to parents,
families, and patient advocacy and support
groups, educational programs that—
‘‘(A) address newborn screening counseling,
testing (including newborn screening pilot
studies), follow-up, treatment, specialty
services, and long-term care;
‘‘(B) assess the target audience’s current
knowledge, incorporate health communica-
tions strategies, and measure impact; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00119 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.156 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7366 July 24, 2019
‘‘(C) are at appropriate literacy levels;’’;
and
(3) in paragraph (4)—
(A) by striking ‘‘followup’’ and inserting
‘‘follow-up’’; and
(B) by inserting before the semicolon at
the end the following: ‘‘, including re-engag-
ing patients who have not received rec-
ommended follow-up services and supports’’.
(b) APPROVAL FACTORS.—Section 1109(c) of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
300b–8(c)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or will use’’ and inserting
‘‘will use’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘, or will use amounts re-
ceived under such grant to enhance capacity
and infrastructure to facilitate the adoption
of,’’ before ‘‘the guidelines and recommenda-
tions’’.
SEC. 3. ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON HERITABLE
DISORDERS IN NEWBORNS AND
CHILDREN.
Section 1111 of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 300b–10) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (5), by inserting ‘‘and
adopt process improvements’’ after ‘‘take ap-
propriate steps’’;
(B) in paragraph (7) by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(C) by redesignating paragraph (8) as para-
graph (9);
(D) by inserting after paragraph (7) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(8) develop, maintain, and publish on a
publicly accessible website consumer-friend-
ly materials detailing—
‘‘(A) the uniform screening panel nomina-
tion process, including data requirements,
standards, and the use of international data
in nomination submissions; and
‘‘(B) the process for obtaining technical as-
sistance for submitting nominations to the
uniform screening panel and detailing the in-
stances in which the provision of technical
assistance would introduce a conflict of in-
terest for members of the Advisory Com-
mittee; and’’;
(E) in paragraph (9), as redesignated—
(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (K) and
(L) as subparagraphs (L) and (M), respec-
tively; and
(ii) by inserting after subparagraph (J) the
following:
‘‘(K) the appropriate and recommended use
of safe and effective genetic testing by
health care professionals in newborns and
children with an initial diagnosis of a disease
or condition characterized by a variety of ge-
netic causes and manifestations;’’; and
(2) in subsection (g)—
(A) in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘2024’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2) by striking ‘‘2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘2024’’.
SEC. 4. CLEARINGHOUSE OF NEWBORN SCREEN-
ING INFORMATION.
Section 1112(c) of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act (42 U.S.C. 300b–11(c)) is amended by
striking ‘‘and supplement, not supplant, ex-
isting information sharing efforts’’ and in-
serting ‘‘and complement other Federal new-
born screening information sharing activi-
ties’’.
SEC. 5. LABORATORY QUALITY AND SURVEIL-
LANCE.
Section 1113 of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 300b–12) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘performance evaluation
services,’’ and inserting ‘‘development of new
screening tests,’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘performance test mate-
rials’’ and inserting ‘‘test performance mate-
rials’’; and
(ii) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) performance evaluation services to en-
hance disease detection, including the devel-
opment of tools, resources, and infrastruc-
ture to improve data analysis, test result in-
terpretation, data harmonization, and dis-
semination of laboratory best practices.’’;
and
(2) in subsection (b) to read as follows:
‘‘(b) SURVEILLANCE ACTIVITIES.—The Sec-
retary, acting through the Director of the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
and taking into consideration the expertise
of the Advisory Committee on Heritable Dis-
orders in Newborns and Children established
under section 1111, shall provide for the co-
ordination of national surveillance activi-
ties, including—
‘‘(1) standardizing data collection and re-
porting through the use of electronic and
other forms of health records to achieve real-
time data for tracking and monitoring the
newborn screening system, from the initial
positive screen through diagnosis and long-
term care management; and
‘‘(2) by promoting data sharing linkages
between State newborn screening programs
and State-based birth defects and develop-
mental disabilities surveillance programs to
help families connect with services to assist
in evaluating long-term outcomes.’’.
SEC. 6. HUNTER KELLY RESEARCH PROGRAM.
Section 1116 of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 300b–15) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘may’’ and inserting
‘‘shall’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (D)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, or with a high prob-
ability of being recommended by,’’ after
‘‘recommended by’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘that screenings are ready
for nationwide implementation’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘that reliable newborn screening tech-
nologies are piloted and ready for use’’; and
(2) in subsection (b) to read as follows:
‘‘(b) FUNDING.—In carrying out the re-
search program under this section, the Sec-
retary and the Director shall ensure that en-
tities receiving funding through the program
will provide assurances, as practicable, that
such entities will work in consultation with
State departments of health, as appro-
priate.’’.
SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR NEWBORN SCREENING PRO-
GRAMS AND ACTIVITIES.
Section 1117 of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 300b–16) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘$11,900,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$31,000,000’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘2015’’ and inserting ‘‘2020’’;
and
(C) by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2024’’;
and
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘$8,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$29,650,000’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘2015’’ and inserting ‘‘2020’’;
and
(C) by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2024’’.
SEC. 8. INSTITUTIONAL REVIEW BOARDS; ETHICS
GUIDANCE PROGRAM.
Section 12 of the Newborn Screening Saves
Lives Reauthorization Act of 2014 (42 U.S.C.
289 note) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 12. INSTITUTIONAL REVIEW BOARDS; ETH-
ICS GUIDANCE PROGRAM.
‘‘Research on nonidentified newborn dried
blood spots shall be considered secondary re-
search (as that term is defined in section
46.104(d)(4) of title 45, Code of Federal Regu-
lations (or successor regulations)) with non-
identified biospecimens for purposes of feder-
ally funded research conducted pursuant to
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 200
et seq.).’’.
SEC. 9. NAM REPORT ON THE MODERNIZATION
OF NEWBORN SCREENING.
(a) STUDY.—Not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall seek to enter into an agreement with
the National Academy of Medicine (in this
section referred to as ‘‘NAM’’) (or if NAM de-
clines to enter into such an agreement, an-
other appropriate entity) under which NAM,
or such other appropriate entity, agrees to
conduct a study on the following:
(1) The uniform screening panel review and
recommendation processes to identify fac-
tors that impact decisions to add new condi-
tions to the uniform screening panel, to de-
scribe challenges posed by newly nominated
conditions, including low-incidence diseases,
late onset variants, and new treatments
without long-term efficacy data.
(2) The barriers that preclude States from
adding new uniform screening panel condi-
tions to their State screening panels with
recommendations on resources needed to
help States implement uniform screening
panel recommendations.
(3) The current state of federally and pri-
vately funded newborn screening research
with recommendations for optimizing the ca-
pacity of this research, including piloting
multiple prospective conditions at once and
addressing rare disease questions.
(4) New and emerging technologies that
would permit screening for new categories of
disorders, or would make current screening
more effective, more efficient, or less expen-
sive.
(5) Technological and other infrastructure
needs to improve timeliness of diagnosis and
short- and long-term follow-up for infants
identified through newborn screening and
improve public health surveillance.
(6) Current and future communication and
educational needs for priority stakeholders
and the public to promote understanding and
knowledge of a modernized newborn screen-
ing system with an emphasis on evolving
communication channels and messaging.
(7) The extent to which newborn screening
yields better data on the disease prevalence
for screened conditions and improves long-
term outcomes for those identified through
newborn screening, including existing sys-
tems supporting such data collection and
recommendations for systems that would
allow for improved data collection.
(8) The impact on newborn morbidity and
mortality in States that adopt newborn
screening tests included on the uniform
panel.
(b) PUBLIC STAKEHOLDER MEETING.—In the
course of completing the study described in
subsection (a), NAM or such other appro-
priate entity shall hold not less than one
public meeting to obtain stakeholder input
on the topics of such study.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the effective date of the agreement
under subsection (a), such agreement shall
require NAM, or such other appropriate enti-
ty, to submit to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services and the appropriate com-
mittees of jurisdiction of Congress a report
containing—
(1) the results of the study conducted
under subsection (a);
(2) recommendations to modernize the
processes described in subsection (a)(1); and
(3) recommendations for such legislative
and administrative action as NAM, or such
other appropriate entity, determines appro-
priate.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00120 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.095 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7367
July 24, 2019
$2,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2020
and 2021 to carry out this section.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. PALLONE) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. CARTER)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 2507.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, every year over 12,000
newborns are born with conditions that
require early detection and treatment.
With proper screening, parents can re-
ceive education and children can re-
ceive appropriate follow-up and treat-
ment and, ultimately, better long-term
health outcomes.
Over the years, as more screening
tests and treatments have become
available as we have expanded our
medical and scientific knowledge, we
have also seen greater potential for im-
proving outcomes for children.
However, prior to Congress passing
the first Newborn Screening Saves
Lives Act in 2008, a patchwork of State
requirements for screening led to some
newborns screened for many disorders
and others for very few.
Since the Newborn Screening law was
enacted, we have seen tremendous
progress around the country, with all
50 States screening for at least 29 rec-
ommended conditions. But as we de-
velop new screening tests and treat-
ments for diseases once thought un-
treatable, we must ensure that States
are able to adopt recommended screen-
ing tests more quickly.
The bill we are considering today will
do that by reauthorizing the program
for 5 years, with higher authorization
levels, improved processes and pilot
testing for new screening tests, and a
study focused on how we can better
modernize newborn screening for the
future.
This bipartisan bill will bring us clos-
er to the goal of every child born in the
United States receiving all rec-
ommended screening tests and will im-
prove countless lives of the youngest
Americans.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support it
and ask all of my colleagues to join me
in passing it today, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in sup-
port of H.R. 2507, the Newborn Screen-
ing Saves Lives Reauthorization Act of
2019.
Newborn screening is critical in early
detection and intervention for condi-
tions, some life-threatening, for our
Nation’s infants. These screenings in-
form both physicians and the families
of a newborn what steps may be nec-
essary to treat or prevent further
health complications as the infant
ages.
The Newborn Screening Saves Lives
Act, which passed for the first time in
2008, aims to improve the ability to ad-
dress pediatric health by standardizing
newborn screening programs.
b 2200
Newborn screenings are incredibly
important in providing physicians and
families with information regarding
their baby’s health, enabling them to
practice early intervention and treat-
ment, if necessary.
According to the March of Dimes, in
2017, only 10 States and Washington,
D.C., required infant screening for the
recommended disorders.
Since enactment of the Newborn
Screening Saves Lives Act, all the
States, D.C., and Puerto Rico screen
for at least 29 of the 35 recommended
conditions.
This bill would reauthorize funding
for the Health Resources and Services
Administration, the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention, and the
National Institutes of Health to ensure
that our newborn screening remains
comprehensive and that our Nation’s
healthcare providers are adequately
equipped to conduct the screenings.
Newborn screenings are for serious
but rare conditions that families and
doctors may otherwise be unable to de-
tect at birth.
Newborns are screened in the hos-
pital when they are 1 or 2 days old by
blood tests, in addition to hearing and
heart screenings. About 1 in 300
newborns has a condition that can be
detected via newborn screening.
By catching these disorders early,
many can be managed successfully, al-
lowing children to live fuller, better
lives. However, if not detected and left
untreated, these conditions can impact
a child for the rest of their life by caus-
ing disabilities, delays in development,
illness, or even death.
Prior to the passage of the initial bill
in 2008, States had varying standards
for newborn screening. Some States
were only screening for 4 conditions in
2002, when other States were screening
for more than 30.
Reauthorizing the Newborn Screen-
ing Saves Lives Act will allow the CDC
to work with States to continue to
level the playing field and provide for
equal access to newborn screenings
across the country.
H.R. 2507 also reauthorizes grants
through the Health Resources and
Services Administration that not only
allows for expansion of screening pro-
grams but improved follow-up care
after a detection.
The bill also allows for the continu-
ation of the National Institutes of
Health Hunter Kelly Newborn Screen-
ing program, which helps to identify
new treatments for conditions detected
in newborn screenings.
I applaud Representatives ROYBAL-
ALLARD and SIMPSON for their work on
this bill, and I urge my fellow Members
to support H.R. 2507.
Mr. Speaker, I have no further speak-
ers at this time. I urge passage of this
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as she may consume to the
gentlewoman from California (Ms. ROY-
BAL-ALLARD), the chairwoman of the
Homeland Security Appropriations
Subcommittee.
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Speaker,
I rise to support reauthorization of my
Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act,
which I first introduced in 2002.
Let me begin by extending my sin-
cere gratitude to Congressman MIKE
SIMPSON for our 15-year partnership
championing newborn screening. Many
thanks to Congresswomen KATHERINE
CLARK and JAIME HERRERA BEUTLER
who, this year, joined us as House
champions. And my heartfelt apprecia-
tion to the coalition of public health
groups, who continue to support my
newborn screening efforts, especially
the March of Dimes and the APHL.
Newborn screening involves a baby
receiving a simple blood test to iden-
tify life-threatening diseases before
symptoms begin. Prior to the first new-
born screening test being developed,
these children would have died or suf-
fered lifelong disabilities.
And, until enactment of my original
newborn screening bill in 2008, newborn
screenings and access to follow-up in-
formation were not consistent and
available to families in all commu-
nities. At that time, only 10 States and
the District of Columbia required in-
fants to be screened for a complete
panel of recommended disorders, and
there was no Federal repository of in-
formation on the diseases.
Today, 49 States and D.C. require
screening of at least 31 of the 35 core
treatable conditions, and a national
clearinghouse of newborn screening in-
formation is available for parents and
professionals.
Rapid identification and treatment
make the difference between health
and disability—or even life and death—
for the approximately 12,000 babies
who, each year, test positive for one of
these serious conditions.
In addition, this simple test saves
our healthcare system millions of dol-
lars in care for each child who is iden-
tified and treated early.
This truly public health success
story exemplifies what can be accom-
plished when private and public insti-
tutions, industry, advocates, scientists,
providers, and parents partner to en-
sure a healthier future for our children.
Mr. Speaker, to maintain and ad-
vance the incredible progress that we
have made over the last decade, we
must reauthorize the Newborn Screen-
ing Saves Lives Act.
Passing H.R. 2507 will ensure the ad-
visory committee continues its critical
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00121 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.095 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7368 July 24, 2019
work of recommending new screenings
to State programs. It will guarantee
access to the most current follow-up
programs and educational materials for
parents and providers, as well as high-
quality technical assistance for State
programs and public health labs.
Reauthorization will also commis-
sion a National Academies of Sciences
study to make recommendations for a
21st century newborn screening sys-
tem.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the passage of H.R. 2507 to ensure all
our newborns receive the comprehen-
sive and consistent testing and follow
up that they will need for a healthy
and productive life.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I have
no additional speakers. I would ask my
colleagues, on a bipartisan basis, to
support this legislation. I thank the
sponsor, the chairwoman, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as a sen-
ior member of both the Judiciary Committee
and the Committee on Homeland Security, I
rise in strong support of H.R. 2507, the ‘‘New-
born Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization
Act of 2019.’’
The Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reau-
thorization Act would yield major improve-
ments in both the screening and follow up
processes involved in the testing of infants for
heritable diseases and conditions.
In the United States, more than 4,000,000
infants and children are screened every year,
and up to 4,000 of the children test positive for
one or more disease or disorder.
Mr. Speaker, 4,000 conditions detected are
4,000 young lives saved, as many of the dis-
eases on the uniform screening panel, the list
of conditions that newborns are tested for, are
very treatable but can be deadly if left
unaddressed.
However, there is an ever-present need to
continue adapting the panel of conditions that
newborns and young children are tested for,
as improvements in technology allow medical
professionals to identify new diseases, sooner.
Mr. Speaker, children and their families
should have access to state of the art testing,
and treatments.
H.R. 2507 specifically improves the current
Newborn Screening Act in several ways, in-
cluding:
Creating new educational strategies and
practices regarding the screening and follow-
up treatments for heritable diseases and con-
ditions;
Creating an advisory committee for heritable
diseases in newborns and children;
Creating a Clearinghouse of newborn
screening information;
Improving laboratory quality and surveil-
lance, which includes implementing new tools,
resources and infrastructure, to improve data
analysis, interpretation and lab practices;
Increasing funding for the Hunter Kelly Insti-
tute; and
Authorizing $2 million in Appropriations to
the National Academy of Medicine, to fund
studies dedicated to further improving the
practice and procedure of the Uniform Screen-
ing Panel.
The screening of children has already been
proven to be effective, and improvements and
additions to the panel of diseases that are
tested for can only result in more lives being
saved.
I urge all members to join me in voting to
pass H.R. 2507, the ‘‘Newborn Screening
Saves Lives Reauthorization Act of 2019.’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PALLONE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2507, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CONSENSUS CALENDAR
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s designa-
tion, pursuant to clause 7(a)(1) of rule
XV, of H.R. 693 as the measure on the
Consensus Calendar to be considered
this week.
f
U.S. SENATOR JOSEPH D. TYDINGS
MEMORIAL PREVENT ALL
SORING TACTICS ACT OF 2019
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 693) to amend the Horse Protec-
tion Act to designate additional unlaw-
ful acts under the Act, strengthen pen-
alties for violations of the Act, im-
prove Department of Agriculture en-
forcement of the Act, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 693
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘U.S. Senator
Joseph D. Tydings Memorial Prevent All
Soring Tactics Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘PAST
Act’’.
SEC. 2. INCREASED ENFORCEMENT UNDER
HORSE PROTECTION ACT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 2 of the Horse
Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1821) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), (3),
and (4) as paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5), re-
spectively;
(2) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as so
redesignated) the following new paragraph:
‘‘(1)(A) The term ‘action device’ means any
boot, collar, chain, roller, or other device
that encircles or is placed upon the lower ex-
tremity of the leg of a horse in such a man-
ner that it can—
‘‘(i) rotate around the leg or slide up and
down the leg, so as to cause friction; or
‘‘(ii) strike the hoof, coronet band, fetlock
joint, or pastern of the horse.
‘‘(B) Such term does not include soft rub-
ber or soft leather bell boots or quarter boots
that are used as protective devices.’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(6)(A) The term ‘participate’ means en-
gaging in any activity with respect to a
horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or
auction, including—
‘‘(i) transporting or arranging for the
transportation of a horse to or from a horse
show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auc-
tion;
‘‘(ii) personally giving instructions to an
exhibitor; or
‘‘(iii) being knowingly present in a warm-
up area, inspection area, or other area at a
horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or
auction that spectators are not permitted to
enter.
‘‘(B) Such term does not include spec-
tating.’’.
(b) FINDINGS.—Section 3 of the Horse Pro-
tection Act (15 U.S.C. 1822) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (3)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘and soring horses for
such purposes’’ after ‘‘horses in intrastate
commerce’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘in many ways, including
by creating unfair competition, by deceiving
the spectating public and horse buyers, and
by negatively impacting horse sales’’ before
the semicolon;
(2) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(3) in paragraph (5), by striking the period
at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(6) the Inspector General of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture has determined that the
program through which the Secretary in-
spects horses is inadequate for preventing
soring;
‘‘(7) historically, Tennessee Walking
Horses, Racking Horses, and Spotted Saddle
Horses have been subjected to soring; and
‘‘(8) despite regulations in effect related to
inspection for purposes of ensuring that
horses are not sore, violations of this Act
continue to be prevalent in the Tennessee
Walking Horse, Racking Horse, and Spotted
Saddle Horse breeds.’’.
(c) HORSE SHOWS AND EXHIBITIONS.—Sec-
tion 4 of the Horse Protection Act (15 U.S.C.
1823) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘appointed’’ and inserting
‘‘licensed’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
sentences: ‘‘In the first instance in which the
Secretary determines that a horse is sore,
the Secretary shall disqualify the horse from
being shown or exhibited for a period of not
less than 180 days. In the second instance in
which the Secretary determines that such
horse is sore, the Secretary shall disqualify
the horse for a period of not less than one
year. In the third instance in which the Sec-
retary determines that such horse is sore,
the Secretary shall disqualify the horse for a
period of not less than three years.’’;
(2) in subsection (b) by striking ‘‘ap-
pointed’’ and inserting ‘‘licensed’’;
(3) by striking subsection (c) and inserting
the following new subsection:
‘‘(c)(1)(A) The Secretary shall prescribe by
regulation requirements for the Department
of Agriculture to license, train, assign, and
oversee persons qualified to detect and diag-
nose a horse which is sore or to otherwise in-
spect horses at horse shows, horse exhibi-
tions, or horse sales or auctions, for hire by
the management of such events, for the pur-
poses of enforcing this Act.
‘‘(B) No person shall be issued a license
under this subsection unless such person is
free from conflicts of interest, as defined by
the Secretary in the regulations issued under
subparagraph (A).
‘‘(C) If the Secretary determines that the
performance of a person licensed in accord-
ance with subparagraph (A) is unsatisfac-
tory, the Secretary may, after notice and an
opportunity for a hearing, revoke the license
issued to such person.
‘‘(D) In issuing licenses under this sub-
section, the Secretary shall give a preference
to persons who are licensed or accredited
veterinarians.
‘‘(E) Licensure of a person in accordance
with the requirements prescribed under this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00122 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.159 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7369
July 24, 2019
subsection shall not be construed as author-
izing such person to conduct inspections in a
manner other than that prescribed for in-
spections by the Secretary (or the Sec-
retary’s representative) under subsection (e).
‘‘(2)(A) Not later than 30 days before the
date on which a horse show, horse exhi-
bition, or horse sale or auction begins, the
management of such show, exhibition, or
sale or auction may notify the Secretary of
the intent of the management to hire a per-
son or persons licensed under this subsection
and assigned by the Secretary to conduct in-
spections at such show, exhibition, or sale or
auction.
‘‘(B) After such notification, the Secretary
shall assign a person or persons licensed
under this subsection to conduct inspections
at the horse show, horse exhibition, or horse
sale or auction.
‘‘(3) A person licensed by the Secretary to
conduct inspections under this subsection
shall issue a citation with respect to any vio-
lation of this Act recorded during an inspec-
tion and notify the Secretary of each such
violation not later than five days after the
date on which a citation was issued with re-
spect to such violation.’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(f) The Secretary shall publish on the
public website of the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service of the Department
of Agriculture, and update as frequently as
the Secretary determines is necessary, infor-
mation on violations of this Act for the pur-
poses of allowing the management of a horse
show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auc-
tion to determine if an individual is in viola-
tion of this Act.’’.
(d) UNLAWFUL ACTS.—Section 5 of the
Horse Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1824) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘or (C) respecting’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(C), or (D) respecting’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘and (D)’’ and inserting
‘‘(D) causing a horse to become sore or di-
recting another person to cause a horse to
become sore for the purpose of showing, ex-
hibiting, selling, auctioning, or offering for
sale the horse in any horse show, horse exhi-
bition, or horse sale or auction; and (E)’’;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘appoint’’
and inserting ‘‘hire’’;
(3) in paragraph (4)—
(A) by striking ‘‘appoint’’ and inserting
‘‘hire’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘qualified’’;
(4) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘ap-
pointed’’ and inserting ‘‘hired’’;
(5) in paragraph (6)—
(A) by striking ‘‘appointed’’ and inserting
‘‘hired’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘that the horse is sore’’
after ‘‘the Secretary’’; and
(6) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(12) The use of an action device on any
limb of a Tennessee Walking Horse, a
Racking Horse, or a Spotted Saddle Horse at
a horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale
or auction.
‘‘(13) The use of a weighted shoe, pad,
wedge, hoof band, or other device or material
at a horse show, horse exhibition, or horse
sale or auction that—
‘‘(A) is placed on, inserted in, or attached
to any limb of a Tennessee Walking Horse, a
Racking Horse, or a Spotted Saddle Horse;
‘‘(B) is constructed to artificially alter the
gait of such a horse; and
‘‘(C) is not strictly protective or thera-
peutic in nature.’’.
(e) VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.—Section 6
of the Horse Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1825) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Except as provided in para-
graph (2) of this subsection, any person who
knowingly violates section 5’’ and inserting
‘‘Any person who knowingly violates section
5 or the regulations issued under such sec-
tion, including any violation recorded during
an inspection conducted in accordance with
section 4(c) or 4(e)’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘more than $3,000, or im-
prisoned for not more than one year, or
both.’’ and inserting ‘‘more than $5,000, or
imprisoned for not more than three years, or
both, for each such violation.’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by striking subparagraph (A);
(ii) by striking ‘‘(2)’’; and
(iii) by redesignating subparagraphs (B)
and (C) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respec-
tively, and moving the margins of such para-
graphs (as so redesignated) two ems to the
left; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(4) Any person who knowingly fails to
obey an order of disqualification shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$5,000 for each failure to obey such an order,
imprisoned for not more than three years, or
both.’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘section 5 of this Act’’ and
inserting ‘‘section 5 or the regulations issued
under such section’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘$2,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$4,000’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(5) Any person who fails to pay a licensed
inspector hired under section 4(c) shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$4,000 for each such violation.’’; and
(3) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the first sentence—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, or otherwise partici-
pating in any horse show, horse exhibition,
or horse sale or auction’’ before ‘‘for a period
of not less than one year’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘any subsequent’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the second’’;
(B) by inserting before ‘‘Any person who
knowingly fails’’ the following: ‘‘For the
third or any subsequent violation, a person
may be permanently disqualified by order of
the Secretary, after notice and an oppor-
tunity for a hearing before the Secretary,
from showing or exhibiting any horse, judg-
ing or managing any horse show, horse exhi-
bition, or horse sale or auction, or otherwise
participating in, including financing the par-
ticipation of other individuals in, any horse
show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auc-
tion (regardless of whether walking horses
are shown, exhibited, sold, auctioned, or of-
fered for sale at the horse show, horse exhi-
bition, or horse sale or auction).’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘$3,000’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘$5,000’’.
(f) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Agriculture shall issue reg-
ulations to carry out the amendments made
by this section, including regulations pre-
scribing the requirements under subsection
(c) of section 4 of the Horse Protection Act
(15 U.S.C. 1823(c)), as amended by subsection
(c)(3).
(g) SEVERABILITY.—If any provision of this
Act or any amendment made by this Act, or
the application of a provision to any person
or circumstance, is held to be unconstitu-
tional, the remainder of this Act and the
amendments made by this Act, and the ap-
plication of the provisions to any person or
circumstance, shall not be affected by the
holding.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Or-
egon (Mr. SCHRADER) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. CARTER)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oregon.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 693.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to lead H.R.
693, the U.S. Senator Joseph D. Tydings
Memorial Prevent All Soring Tactics
Act, with my colleague, good friend,
and fellow veterinarian, Congressman
TED YOHO.
The PAST Act would finally end the
incredibly abusive practice of horse
soring. Soring is the act of deliberately
causing pain on a horse’s legs or hooves
to artificially exaggerate the horse’s
normal gait. The gait is called the ‘‘big
lick.’’
Horses can, and are, trained to do
this naturally, but, unfortunately, a
cottage industry has been built up
around this abusive soring practice.
Soring is most commonly done to
Tennessee Walking Horse, Racking
Horse, and Spotted Saddle Horse
breeds.
Soring can be done by applying caus-
tic chemicals to a horse’s lower leg—
imagine that—trimming their hooves
unnaturally, applying weighted shoes
to the horse’s hooves, and wrapping
‘‘action devices’’ like heavy chains
around a horse’s hooves.
The Horse Protection Act of 1970 out-
lawed chemical soring, supposedly,
which causes burning and blistering to
horses’ legs, and soring caused by—ac-
tually, they used to inject nails, tacks,
and chemical agents into the limb of
the horse.
It did not include the action devices,
however, or the stacked shoes which
are also common in today’s soring
techniques.
We have a photo, I think, that shows
very clearly what this is like. The
photo actually shows—which we would
like to get up here at some point in
time, if that is remotely possible—that
it is actually a package.
What they do is use plastic pads and
wedges stacked on one another, actu-
ally nailed together, and then attached
to the bottom of the hoof.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00123 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.097 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7370 July 24, 2019
The package elevates the horse’s
front feet and adds weight and pres-
sure, causing the horse’s foot to strike
at a very unusual and painful angle.
The chains are wrapped over the
horse’s chemically sored and raw front
pastern, increasing the pain felt by the
horse and further exaggerating that big
lick, pain-induced gait, which again, as
I said before, is not necessary. Horses
will move with that action under their
own volition when properly trained by
an actual trainer.
Our bill will make it illegal to use
these and other similar devices in the
show ring, and horses would only be al-
lowed to show with a normal horse-
shoe.
There is the photo I was alluding to
earlier.
Some people may argue that these
action devices are not harmful for
horses, but the experts at the Amer-
ican Veterinary Medical Association,
the American Association of Equine
Practitioners, and the United States
Equine Federation all say that pres-
sure from these items contained in this
package produce pain in the hoof and
in the leg, that the horse lifts its feet
higher and faster in an exaggerated
gait beyond what they are naturally
able to do.
All of these organizations support a
ban on action devices and packages to
protect the health and welfare of the
horse.
As a veterinarian with over 30 years’
experience, I agree with them. I agree
with the AVMA that it is indisputable
that soring causes horses an unneces-
sary and unacceptable level of pain.
These horses—it is horrible when you
see them, you see what is going on in
the legs of these horses.
They used to actually use soldering
irons sometimes to blister the horses’
legs so that they would react to these
chains in an exaggerated manner. I saw
that.
In addition to outlawing action de-
vices and stacked shoes, the PAST Act
will also end the unsuccessful system
of industry self-policing that we tried
for almost 40 years.
The USDA has let it run, and, unfor-
tunately, it has been completely inef-
fective. Our bill will require the USDA
to create a process to train, license, as-
sign, and oversee impartial inspec-
tors—hopefully veterinarians, among
others—who can detect and diagnose
horses that have been sored.
It will also require the USDA’s Ani-
mal and Plant Health Inspection Serv-
ice to publicly publish information on
sorers so that the folks managing the
horse shows, competitions, and sales
know who has broken the law and
abused their horses.
Soring has been illegal since 1970, yet
here we are 50 years later, and soring is
still taking place. Self-policing has not
worked.
There is a clear and demonstrable
need for this bill. To oppose this action
is a disservice to the people who really
work hard and train and show horses
the right way, without abusing them.
That is who we should be focused on
right now—not the abusers but the ani-
mals, these equine athletes that we
love and revere so much.
Our bill is supported by the American
Veterinary Medical Association; the
American Horse Council; American As-
sociation of Equine Practitioners; Na-
tional Sheriffs’ Association; Kentucky-
based United States Equestrian Fed-
eration; the All American Walking
Horse Alliance; Animal Wellness Ac-
tion; Humane Society; veterinary med-
ical associations from all 50 States; and
many, many more.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter from the American Horse
Council.
AMERICAN HORSE COUNCIL,
Washington, DC, July 24, 2019.
Hon. KURT SCHRADER,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. TED YOHO,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVES SCHRADER AND
YOHO: The American Horse Council (AHC)
congratulates you for your leadership and
hard work to position the Sen. Joseph
Tydings Memorial Prevent All Soring Tac-
tics (PAST) Act (H.R. 693) for a vote on the
House floor prior to adjourning for the Au-
gust recess. With more than 300 cosponsors
on your bill, we look forward to a resounding
and long-awaited legislative victory for
equine welfare.
As you know, the PAST Act outlines a
commonsense solution to prevent the contin-
ued practice of taking action on a horse’s
limb to produce an accentuated gait during
competition. The scope of the bill is limited.
It lays out a specific framework that focuses
enforcement efforts on three horse breeds—
the Tennessee Walking Horses, Spotted Sad-
dle Horses, and Racking Horses—that con-
tinue to be the target of soring practices.
The treatment of these select breeds stands
in stark contrast to the dramatic decline in
the overall mistreatment of horses that has
occurred since enactment of the HPA during
the 1970s. AHC, along with most major na-
tional horse show organizations and state
and local organizations, supports the PAST
Act. Also, AHC members have sent hundreds
ofletters to your House colleagues this year
supporting H.R. 693.
Thank you very much for all the efforts
you’re making to push this important bill
across the finish line. If you’d like more in-
formation related to the PAST Act, feel free
to contact me.
Regards,
JULIE M. BROADWAY, CAE,
President, AHC.
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, the
PAST Act will strengthen existing law
to ensure that horse soring becomes a
thing of the past.
It is a commonsense bill and widely
supported. I am proud to have 307 of
my colleagues as cosponsors on this
bill, especially the original cosponsors,
the long-time champions of this bill:
Dr. TED YOHO, Congressman COHEN of
Tennessee, Congresswoman SCHA-
KOWSKY, Congressman ESTES, and Con-
gressman COLLINS.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
the PAST Act, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
b 2215
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 693, the PAST Act. In a bipar-
tisan fashion, this bill takes a step for-
ward to protect horses from abuse and
make the practice of ‘‘soring’’ some-
thing of the past.
As with many other professions, I
know the vast majority of breeders and
trainers care deeply about their horses
and their businesses.
As someone who has been a prac-
ticing pharmacist for over 30 years, I
can tell you that there is nothing more
offensive than people in your profes-
sion who don’t follow the rules. That is
why it is so important to address the
small number of bad actors and ensure
that the men and women who follow
the rules have the ability to operate in
a profession they care so deeply about.
Although the practice of soring is al-
ready banned and the industry takes
action to police itself, there are still
examples of this occurring in the
United States.
Additionally, loopholes in Federal
law often disallowed the United States
Department of Agriculture from taking
action against those individuals who
are soring their horses. That is why
this bill is so important.
H.R. 639 amends the 1976 Horse Pro-
tection Act to make important changes
in enforcement and to address any cri-
teria that could lead to soring.
In addition to the technical provi-
sions laid out in this bill, it is an exam-
ple of the work that can be accom-
plished when both sides of the aisle
work together.
While I would have preferred we ad-
dress this in the Energy and Commerce
Committee, we are here because of the
widespread support for this legislation,
which has 307 cosponsors. Simply put,
we are here because we want to im-
prove the support and strengthen it,
not weaken it.
It is my hope that we can continue to
work on these and other issues to-
gether to ensure a better industry for
all of those involved.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. PALLONE), chairman of the
Energy and Commerce Committee, the
best committee in the House.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the gentleman from Oregon,
particularly for saying we are the best
committee in the House.
I rise in support of his bill, H.R. 693,
the PAST Act.
I want to start by thanking Rep-
resentatives SCHRADER and YOHO for
their work over the past several years
on this important bill that will finally
put an end to the cruel practice of
soring Tennessee Walking Horses,
Spotted Saddle Horses, and Racking
Horses.
This incredibly painful practice has
been illegal in the United States for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00124 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.161 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7371
July 24, 2019
nearly 50 years, since Congress passed
the Horse Protection Act of 1970. But
despite the Federal ban, soring con-
tinues to run rampant in some seg-
ments of the walking horse industry.
The bill would amend the Horse Pro-
tection Act and finally put an end to
the abhorrent practice for good. The
bill bans the use at horse shows of
chains, weighted shoes, and other de-
vices that are commonly used to sore
horses.
It also puts an end to the failed sys-
tem of industry self-policing by giving
the USDA authority to train and li-
cense independent inspectors at horse
shows. The legislation also strengthens
penalties on those who violate the law.
This bill has received endorsements
from hundreds of equine and veterinary
organizations, including more than 60
State and national horse groups, and
all 50 State veterinary medical associa-
tions.
So, again, I thank Representative
SCHRADER for his continued leadership.
It is time that Congress pass this legis-
lation and put an end to soring once
and for all.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield such time as he may con-
sume to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. YOHO), a veterinarian, who has
worked on this bill tirelessly and has
done a yeoman’s job at getting it to
this point here.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I would like
to thank my colleagues. I would like to
thank Dr. SCHRADER, and the leader-
ship of the House to bring this bill up.
I am here today for two reasons: One,
we shouldn’t even be here to have to
run this through this body and take up
valuable time, legislative time, that we
could be talking about our debt, bor-
der, those kinds of things, but we are
here.
First, it saddens me that we have to
pass a bill to stiffen fines and penalties
to keep people from doing the des-
picable act of intentionally soring a
horse’s forelegs. And this is done
through chemical means or mechanical
devices to artificially—understand
this—artificially accentuate the gait of
the Tennessee Walking, Racking, or
Saddle Horse.
Dr. SCHRADER and I are both equine
vets, the only ones in the House. We
know this. We have seen this. We have
dealt with this.
As Dr. SCHRADER brought up, the
Horse Protection Act was passed in
1970 to stop this. It was passed to stop
this. That industry has had 49 years to
bring this to an end, and they wanted
to self-police. They have had 49 years
to self-police, and they have not
brought this to an end.
I have got a shoe here that the gen-
tleman had a picture of. This is a built-
up shoe that we use on horses. I could
drop it on the table, but I don’t want to
get the bill to fix it. This weighs about
10 pounds. This is one foot, on the front
of a leg.
Then they put these devices on there.
After they put the chemical irritant on
the leg to irritate it, then they put this
on there. And you know why they do
that? So they can win a blue ribbon. So
that they can win a blue ribbon and
take it and say, Look what we have ac-
complished.
It makes me sick that we have to
spend the time to do this stuff.
Secondly, it saddens me. We are talk-
ing about preserving a terrible practice
of animal abuse. And I see it very
clearly. You are either supportive of
animal abuse or you are against it.
That is the bottom line here.
Congress shouldn’t have to do this;
but, again, that industry has had 49
years. I had one of the trainers come in
my office with an owner, for an hour
and a half, to try to tell me not to sup-
port this bill. He showed me these
weights and he looked at my watch. He
goes: Congressman, that watch prob-
ably weighs about the same in relation-
ship, body weight, as what you are
wearing.
I said, You know what? You are prob-
ably absolutely right. But there is a
huge difference.
And he goes, What is that?
I said, I choose to put this watch on.
That horse has no option.
This bill is a good bill to get rid of a
practice that is archaic and shouldn’t
be done. And it won’t hurt this indus-
try. It will make this industry strong-
er.
And anybody that says this is going
to kill the Tennessee Walking Horse in-
dustry is equivalent to the guy in the
late 1800s that said, Those automobiles
are bad; if you go over 30 miles an
hour, you are going to die.
We know that was a fallacy. Their ar-
gument is a fallacy.
Every one of these agencies that he
mentioned, the AVMA, the American
Association of Equine Practitioners,
every veterinary college in the United
States of America, 98 percent of the
farrier associations are for this bill.
They are against the opposition to this
bill, and I stand with this.
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
4 minutes to the other gentleman from
Oregon (Mr. BLUMENAUER).
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding the
time and for his tireless efforts on this
with Mr. YOHO. I have watched as the
gentleman has battled this for years. I
have worked with him to get co-
sponsorships.
We have had the Animal Protection
Caucus having sessions, bringing staff
members, having demonstrations of
this horrific practice.
This is the ninth year that this has
been before us. Now, I am pleased that
we are here. I am pleased that we are
making the case. I am pleased that, to-
night, we are going to pass this legisla-
tion, although I wish it weren’t at 10:30
at night for a few minutes; because
there is no guarantee that, even with
this case, with the momentum, that we
are going to be able to get it through
the Senate, where we have seen objec-
tion in the past.
I hope that this legislation occasions
a little bit of soul-searching. The ani-
mal protection agenda of this Congress
is one of the areas that brings people
together, like my two veterinarian
friends have shown bipartisan coopera-
tion dealing with the facts, mustering
support, being far more patient than I
would have.
I mean, the last two Congresses, we
had 280 cosponsors. We couldn’t even
get a hearing, let alone get it on the
floor. That is outrageous.
Now, there is a little bit of political
blowback. Some people who are part of
that aren’t here anymore. I hope that
there are some lessons, both in terms
of the politics and the basic decency
for protection of animal welfare.
I agree with the gentleman from
Georgia, I wish it went through regular
order. I wish that we had an oppor-
tunity in committees of jurisdiction to
give a little bit of the time that is mer-
ited to be able to give the public a view
of what is going on; the bureaucracy
that, for 49 years, has been unable to
take the self-policing mechanism and
be able to make it work.
I hope that this is the first of a series
of items. I plan on talking to our lead-
ership, and I hope we will have leader-
ship on the other side of the aisle who,
in the past have held off, despite over-
whelming support, to the frustration, I
know, of one of the principal sponsors.
I hope that we understand that this
is something that shouldn’t be dealt
with in a partisan fashion, and there
shouldn’t be jurisdictional battles.
People ought to be able to take funda-
mental animal welfare issues and bring
them forward on the merits, have the
debate, and get them enacted. It will
make people in this body feel better,
because for a number of days, I think,
people don’t feel so good watching
what happens around here, and we
don’t have much to show for our ef-
forts.
So I want to commend my colleagues
for their patience and their persever-
ance.
VERN BUCHANAN, my co-chair of the
Animal Protection Caucus, has been
writing op-eds with me and working on
this, so it’s a culmination of a lot of
work.
But I hope it is a first step toward
dealing with an area that is supported
by the American public. It is important
work. It is not particularly controver-
sial, except for a few special interests
who, frankly, don’t have a leg to stand
on, even though they didn’t have one of
those things on their legs.
I hope that we can use this as an op-
portunity to make more progress in a
bipartisan way to solve problems, not
just for animal welfare, but other areas
that the American people would like us
to add.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman
from Tennessee (Mr. DESJARLAIS).
Mr. DESJARLAIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to speak in opposition to H.R.
693, the PAST Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:16 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00125 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.163 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7372 July 24, 2019
The only thing good about the PAST
Act is the name, because it is reflective
of just that, the past.
I have been listening to my col-
leagues, and I don’t think they have
been spending time where I have, in the
inspection barns over the last six-plus
years, where I see people who love their
animals, take care of them, and treat
them like family.
What I have seen is inspectors that
were abusing the process, not self-
policers, people sent by the USDA. And
these people are being disqualified, not
being able to perform, and then not
subsequently being cited or penalized
after the fact.
Now, the last couple of years there
has been an improvement. And today,
the Tennessee Walking Horse has over
96 percent compliance rate, according
to the USDA’s own numbers.
The only problem with the Tennessee
Walking Horse today is that the cur-
rent inspection methods are subjective.
The PAST Act does nothing to change
this.
What is even more concerning is the
PAST Act would increase fines and
penalties, including up to 3 years in
prison, while still utilizing subjective
inspection methods.
I have a bill, H.R. 1157, that numer-
ous groups, including the American
Farm Bureau Federation, believe is a
better course of action, as it would re-
quire all inspections be objective and
science-based.
As a medical professional, I realize
the importance of utilizing science to
identify medical conditions. USDA re-
alizes this problem and has sought to
address it by partnering with the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences to deter-
mine the best objective, science-based
methods to inspect the Tennessee
Walking Horse.
I strongly believe that all legislation
should be held off until this study
reaches its conclusion next May.
This legislation is a product of ani-
mal welfare groups spreading misin-
formation on the status of the Ten-
nessee Walking Horse industry, again,
living in the past. I fear that, to this
point, some Members have been fed one
side of the story from powerful interest
groups like the Humane Society or
PETA who, in advocating for their po-
sition, neglect the fact that numerous
veterinarians, equine experts, and agri-
cultural groups, including the Ten-
nessee and Kentucky Farm Bureaus,
have come out in strong opposition to
the PAST Act.
b 2230
An example of the biased presen-
tation of this bill is the misguided
scrutiny of action devices that are
highlighted in the PAST Act.
The claims put forth by special inter-
ests behind this bill that action devices
are cruel or inhumane rest on very lit-
tle academic evidence. In fact, to the
contrary, a 2018 study by the American
Veterinary Medical Association, the
scientific authority on animal welfare
issues, found that the application of
stacked wedges and action devices to
the forefeet of horses evoke no acute or
subacute stress to the horse.
I heard my colleague and good friend
Dr. YOHO talk about his wristwatch.
Most of you in here are wearing wrist-
watches, or some of you may just use
your smartphones now, but you wear
those all day, and that doesn’t hurt
you. If there is a soring agent applied,
then, yes, that is going to cause prob-
lems. Action devices are pieces of
equipment no different than a saddle or
a bridle or a bit.
This is a slippery slope, folks. What
will these groups seek to ban next?
Saddles, maybe riding horses at all.
Like my colleagues, I feel strong that
animal abusers should be identified and
punished; however, the PAST Act will
not accomplish this goal. These horses
are already incredibly regulated, more
so than any other horse, including
those in rodeo, those that race, and
those that do jumping and dressage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield an additional 30 seconds to
the gentleman from Tennessee.
Mr. DESJARLAIS. No other horses
are subjected to taxpayer-funded in-
spections, and these owners are already
incredibly compliant. Furthermore, it
is not true when groups suggest there
is no additional cost to taxpayers. The
CBO has scored this legislation at $2
million per year.
The PAST Act purports itself to be
an innocent bill that would provide
stricter enforcement of standards in
protecting horses. The fact of the mat-
ter is that it is a Federal overreach
into an issue in which compliance is
higher than any other USDA-regulated
industry, including the food industry.
I strongly urge my colleagues to
carefully consider the consequences of
this bill before casting their votes. It
should go back to committee and be
transparent.
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gen-
tleman from Tennessee coming down
and talking on this, and obviously he is
from Tennessee and has an interest,
maybe a slightly special interest in
talking about the industry from his
perspective.
And if, indeed, most of the industry
is complying, then he shouldn’t object
to this bill. This bill just makes sure
that the bad actors that the gentleman
from Georgia referenced in his opening
remarks are, frankly, taken care of and
they can, therefore, not compete un-
fairly against the other 90 percent that
are doing the right thing.
I will show you a picture here. I don’t
know if it shows up, but look at all the
nails in here. Look at all this stuff.
Congressman YOHO and I in our pre-
vious lives treated a lot of horses,
would see a lot of limb problems, would
see a lot of coffin bone problems in
their feet.
This sort of thing almost guarantees
a horse is going to prematurely get ar-
thritic, end its athletic career, and
have serious problems. It is completely
unnecessary and unfair.
The Veterinary Medical Association
states unequivocally, along with the
American Association of Equine Prac-
titioners, who are the medical ex-
perts—not the Farm Bureau from Ken-
tucky or Tennessee; these are the med-
ical experts—say that pads and chains
cause harm to the horses.
I believe the veterinary experts.
There is no doubt.
I would certainly hope that folks
here would go with the body of evi-
dence, the folks who care about the
horses passionately, deeply, have
worked on them for their entire profes-
sional career. Let’s be fair about this,
and let’s make sure there is no unfair
competition.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman
from Tennessee (Mr. JOHN W. ROSE).
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee. I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Today I rise in opposition to H.R. 693,
the PAST Act.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD a letter from the
Kentucky and Tennessee Farm Bureau
Federations opposing the PAST Act.
KENTUCKY FARM BUREAU,
July 23, 2019.
Hon. MEMBERS OF CONGRESS,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS: Please accept
this letter as a statement of opposition to
H.R. 693, the Prevent All Soring Tactics
(PAST) Act by the Kentucky Farm Bureau
and Tennessee Farm Bureau.
The PAST Act is misleading in its strate-
gies and purpose and sets a dangerous prece-
dent for animal agriculture. Please take the
time to review it closely and understand this
initiative and the agenda of the Humane So-
ciety of the United States (HSUS). While the
PAST Act expressly targets Walking Horses,
this push by the HSUS brings to question
which segment of animal-based agriculture
will be targeted next.
Supporters of the PAST Act argue the bill
will ‘‘eliminate soring’’ within the Walking
Horse Industry. However, soring is essen-
tially nonexistent today. The bill professes
to end soring by banning hoof pads and ac-
tion devices which are used in Walking Horse
performance shows, and implies such items
cause soring. Hoof pads and action devices do
not cause soring. Hoof pads are used to pro-
vide protection from ground force, to accen-
tuate movement, and balance motion. These
pads are used in many breeds other than the
Walking Horse including the American Paint
Horse, American Quarter Horse, American
Saddlebred, and Morgan breeds. An action
device is a band/chain weighing six (6) ounces
or less. We are not aware of a study that in-
dicates action devices or pads produce pain
or cause tissue damage.
The Tennessee Walking Horse is the most
inspected horse in the world. The industry
and its shows maintain a compliance rate
with the Horse Protection Act that averages
92–95%. This rate is significant considering
the inspection process today is almost 100%
subjective.
The PAST Act eliminates the organiza-
tions established by Congress in the original
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00126 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.165 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7373
July 24, 2019
Horse Protection Act called Horse Industry
Organizations (HIOs). These independent or-
ganizations provide inspectors for shows and
are trained and certified by the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture (USDA). Without HIOs,
the PAST Act requires an increase in the
USDA’s workforce as well as additional em-
ployees for the U.S. Department of Justice.
The Congressional Budget Office numbers re-
flect this cost.
We urge you to not accept the mistreat-
ment claims from years past as true today.
Visit a Walking Horse farm and see the
horses. Visit with a horse owner, trainer, far-
rier and their veterinarians. Contact your
state Farm Bureau, the Tennessee Farm Bu-
reau or the Kentucky Farm Bureau if you
want assistance arranging a visit or tour.
We urge you to oppose H.R. 693.
Thank you for your consideration of this
information.
Sincerely,
JEFF AIKEN,
President, Tennessee
Farm Bureau.
MARK HANEY,
President, Kentucky
Farm Bureau.
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, as an eighth-generation farm-
er and Tennessean, the grand tradition
of Tennessee Walking Horses is among
my earliest and fondest memories. We
take great pride in the Tennessee
Walking Horse National Celebration,
drawing neighbors and tourists alike to
Shelbyville, Tennessee, every year for
our world-class showcase.
However, this grand tradition is not
unmarred by a few bad actors looking
to gain at the expense of innocent ex-
hibitors. Soring has been investigated
and debated, and both Congress and in-
dustry leaders have put forth their best
efforts to end this horrible practice.
Tennessee Walking Horses are regal
and strong, but the ones that suffer
from soring are harmed in ways that
are cruel and unjust. The bad actors
who are soring compromise fair com-
petition and the integrity of this great
tradition, but most importantly, they
endanger our prized Tennessee Walking
Horses.
I can assure you we in Tennessee
stand against this vile practice. My
strong opposition to soring is why I
rise today in opposition to the PAST
Act. It is my belief that this bill is not
the best solution to this cruel practice.
While I appreciate the sincere mo-
tives of those who support this bill, I
call on my colleagues to consider an-
other, better solution. I am a cosponsor
of H.R. 1157, the Horse Protection
Amendments Act, authored by my col-
league from Tennessee, Congressman
DESJARLAIS. This bill works to end
soring in a way that is fair to those
acting properly and humanely and pro-
vides timely consequences for those
who are not.
Inspections must be objective, but
the PAST Act does not correct the cur-
rent subjective process that is used. My
colleagues’ bill, H.R. 1157, creates a
framework for consistent, scientific,
and objective inspections.
H.R. 693 does not solve the real issue
here: soring. Industrywide, the current
compliance rate is between 92 and 95
percent. In fact, Tennessee’s celebra-
tion had a compliance rate of 96 per-
cent last year. These compliance rates
are based on the USDA standards.
As the Farm Bureau has pointed out,
the Tennessee Walking Horse is the
most inspected horse in the world.
Overall, the industry has a USDA com-
pliance rate higher than even the food
industry. With that, the rate of catch-
ing bad actors at this point is, of
course, extremely low.
These low rates mean we must be
vigilant if we are going to find and stop
bad actors. Vigilance will require a new
system. The PAST Act does not create
a scientific, objective process for in-
spections, and until we have that, the
remaining bad actors will continue to
go under the radar, while those acting
with integrity could be treated un-
fairly.
It is because of these concerns that I
will oppose the PAST Act today. I call
on my colleagues to oppose the PAST
Act and, instead, stand with me in
truly stopping soring by supporting
H.R. 1157.
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, I
would just point out for those who are
listening that the bill referenced by the
gentleman from Tennessee is another
self-policing bill where you have,
frankly, the industry and the horse
people from those States selecting and
designating these people for inspection.
And contrary to some of the remarks,
the PAST Act has science behind it, li-
censed, trained professionals—again,
probably veterinarians, for the most
part—who are going to be the ones who
are going to be looking at this.
I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. YOHO), my good
friend and colleague.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate
the gentleman yielding the time.
The information you just heard there
is a lot of fallacy in that. He makes it
sound like the Farm Bureau is behind
this. The Farm Bureau is not behind it,
other than in Tennessee and in Ken-
tucky.
I have got a list here of the infrac-
tions, and 90 percent of them are from
Tennessee; a couple from Kentucky, a
couple from North Carolina, but the
majority are from Tennessee.
This bill, we sat down specifically
with the USDA, APHIS, the regulating
body of the USDA on animal cruelty,
and we made sure, being a practicing
veterinarian, that the owner was pro-
tected and that the trainer was pro-
tected from an overzealous USDA in-
spector. They have to be certified and
trained, and they have to be licensed.
And we added the objective testing.
We use thermography. We use radi-
ology. We do swabs of the skin. In fact,
we use the same technology that our
Department of Homeland Security uses
to pick up traces of explosives and
things like that. That is how in-depth
we went. But we also made sure the
safeguards were there for the owner
and for the trainer.
This bill should not have to—he
talked about this is something in the
past. Well, if it was in the past, we
wouldn’t do it.
And he brought up the expense of this
bill. So we are saying it is okay, if it is
too expensive, we can’t do this. We can
sore the horses because it is too expen-
sive. That is a bogus argument, and I
think it is a shameful argument.
And again, the bottom line comes,
you are either for animal cruelty or
you are against it. It is real simple.
And, again, let me show you this.
Look at the nails in this. This is a keg
shoe. A horse doesn’t need that. This is
to win a blue ribbon.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman
from North Carolina (Mr. BUDD).
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for yielding.
As a family owner and a fan of the
Tennessee Walker breed, I rise today in
strong support of this very important
animal protection bill, the PAST Act,
of which I am a cosponsor.
I want to thank my good friend, the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. YOHO) for
his tireless leadership on this bill, as
well as the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. SCHRADER). I thank them.
So the PAST Act bans the practice of
soring, which is a process of inflicting
pain on horses’ hooves and their legs in
order to give them a higher gait.
Breeders sometimes use soring to give
their horses an advantage in competi-
tion, as we have talked about tonight,
but the pain inflicted upon the animals
is inhumane, and it should be stopped.
For years, we have known about this
harmful practice, yet there has been
very little action to remedy or fix the
problem.
A recent story I read described the
process of exposing sensitive tissues
within the hooves of the horse by filing
away the hoof. Sharp objects, such as
screws, are then pierced into the sen-
sitive tissue inflicting pain to the ani-
mal. The damaged tissue that appears
after this process is burned away some-
times with acids that burn the horse’s
skin.
Sadly, this barbaric practice con-
tinues, and sometimes even out in the
open.
The current enforcement mecha-
nisms we have in place are not working
well enough, and it is time to pass this
important bipartisan piece of legisla-
tion. Horses, especially those used in
shows, are beautiful animals that have
done nothing to deserve the pain that
soring causes.
So once enacted into law, the PAST
Act will ensure that we have a more ef-
ficient system in place to protect our
equine companions from unnecessary,
inhumane, and cruel suffering.
So once again, I want to thank my
friend, the veterinarian from Florida,
for his work and also just to let you
know that my Tennessee Walkers, our
family’s Tennessee Walkers, Just
Power and Dancers Boss Lady, thank
you, as well.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I urge my colleagues to join me in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:01 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00127 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.101 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7374 July 24, 2019
supporting H.R. 693, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
I appreciate the discussion here to-
night. I wish we didn’t have to have
this discussion. Unfortunately, soring
is still with us, and it is crystal clear
we need the PAST Act, a commonsense
bill to give USDA and the industry
itself the ability to clean out these bad
actors who are, frankly, a stain on the
Tennessee Walking industry that we
all love and respect. Those horses are
majestic. Anyone that has been around
an equine athlete just can’t be but in
awe of what they are able to do.
Soring is completely unnecessary.
Good trainers, good veterinary help,
these horses are going to perform in a
way that make Americans proud.
I thank my colleagues for the work
on the bill and urge all my colleagues
to support the PAST Act.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr.
SCHRADER) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 693, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
b 2245
MARKING FIRST 200 DAYS AS
MEMBER OF CONGRESS
(Mr. CISNEROS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, this
week marks 200 days into my first term
as a Member of Congress. It has been
an incredible honor to serve the resi-
dents of the 39th Congressional District
in California.
I am very proud of what we have ac-
complished so far in Congress, from the
passage of three of my pieces of bipar-
tisan legislation this week, which will
expand access to benefits for veterans,
servicemembers, and their families; to
the 32 amendments my colleagues and I
have offered that were agreed to on a
bipartisan basis; and the three bipar-
tisan bills that I had the honor of sup-
porting that have been signed into law
by the President.
I am most proud of our constituent
services in the district. In just 200 days
in office, we have retrieved over
$190,000 from Federal agencies for our
constituents and worked on over 250
cases.
I work for the people of my district.
It is why I have attended hundreds of
local events and met with thousands of
my constituents.
I look forward to the next 100 days
and beyond, working for the people;
bringing change to Washington, DC;
and ensuring I give my constituents
the representation they deserve.
f
IT IS GAME OVER FOLLOWING
SPECIAL COUNSEL TESTIMONY
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, today,
the Democrats got their wish. Special
Counsel Robert Mueller testified before
not one but two House committees.
I wonder if they would reconsider
that in hindsight. I don’t think it went
as they had planned.
Today’s hearings only hammered
home the simple fact we already knew.
The special counsel did not find evi-
dence to charge the President with a
crime. Game over.
Sadly, this was nothing more than
political theater and a colossal waste
of time. Democrats wanted reinforce-
ment for their partisan witch hunt
against the President. Didn’t happen.
If anything, today’s testimony is
only going to raise more questions as
to why this entire investigation was
even opened in the first place and why
exculpatory evidence wasn’t included
in the report.
After wasting 22 months, 25 million
taxpayer dollars, and countless other
resources, Americans deserve to know
the truth about how this whole episode
was fabricated and who is responsible.
The Steele dossier, abuse of our intel-
ligence agencies, DNC direct involve-
ment? If Democrats would put as much
effort in improving our country as they
do into baseless attempts to impeach
the President, we might just be able to
get something done around here.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
move on from this disaster and get
back to work for the American people.
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 2249. An act to allow the Deputy Admin-
istrator of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion on the date of enactment of this Act to
continue to serve as such Deputy Adminis-
trator; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
f
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled a bill of the House of the fol-
lowing title, which was thereupon
signed by the Speaker.
H.R. 1327. An act to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund of 2001 through fiscal year 2092, and for
other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 10 o’clock and 49 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, July 25, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MOUTH hereby submits, prior to the
vote on passage, for printing in the
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 693,
the PAST Act, would have no signifi-
cant effect on direct spending or reve-
nues, and therefore, the budgetary ef-
fects of such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1365, a
bill to make technical corrections to
the Guam World War II Loyalty Rec-
ognition Act, as amended, would have
no significant effect on direct spending
or revenues, and therefore, the budg-
etary effects of such bill are estimated
as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, the attached estimate of
the costs of H.R. 3299, the PRIDE Act,
as amended, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 3299
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ................................................................................................................................................................... 0 ¥56 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 5 ¥41 ¥18
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00128 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\K24JY7.168 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7375
July 24, 2019
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 3352, the Department of State Authorization Act of 2019, as amended,
for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 3352
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ................................................................................................................................................................... 0 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 50 100
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 3375, the Stopping Bad Robocalls Act, would have no signifi-
cant effect on direct spending or revenues, and therefore, the budgetary effects of such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 3409, the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2019, as amended, for print-
ing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 3409
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ................................................................................................................................................................... 0 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 15 30
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1752. A letter from the Director, Regula-
tions Management Division, Rural Develop-
ment, Rural Utilities Service, Department of
Agriculture, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Streamlining Electric Program
Procedures (RIN: 0572-AC40) received July 18,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Agriculture.
1753. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Uniformed Services University
of Health Sciences, Privacy Act of 1974
[Docket ID: DOD-2019-OS-0042] (RIN: 0790-
AK61) received July 22, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
1754. A letter from the Program Specialist,
Chief Counsel’s Office, Office of the Comp-
troller of the Currency, Department of
Treasury, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Reduced Reporting for Covered
Depository Institutions [Docket ID: OCC-
2018-0032] (RIN: 1557-AE39) received July 19,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Financial Services.
1755. A letter from the Program Specialist,
Chief Counsel’s Office, Office of the Comp-
troller of the Currency, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Liquidity Coverage Ratio Rule:
Treatment of Certain Municipal Obligations
as High-Quality Liquid Assets [Docket ID:
OCC-2018-0013] (RIN: 1557-AE36) received July
19, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
1756. A letter from the Director, Regula-
tions Management Division, Rural Develop-
ment, Rural Utilities Service, Department of
Agriculture, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Single Family Housing Guaran-
teed Loan Program (RIN: 0575-AD10) received
July 18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
1757. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Ken-
tucky: Jefferson County Definitions and Fed-
erally Enforceable District Origin Operating
Permits [EPA-R04-OAR-2017-0758; FRL-9996-
92-Region 4] received July 19, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
1758. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Mary-
land; Update to Materials Incorporated by
Reference [MD 205-3121; FRL-9992-15-Region
3] received July 19, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1759. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Lactic Acid; Exemption
from the Requirement of a Tolerance [EPA-
HQ-OPP-2018-0157; FRL-9994-63] received July
19, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
1760. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Protection of Human Re-
search Subjects [EPA-HQ-ORD-2018-0280;
FRL-9996-48-ORD] received July 19, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
1761. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Sulfoxaflor; Pesticide Tol-
erances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0179; FRL-9995-63]
received July 19, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1762. A letter from the Deputy Chief, Auc-
tions Division, Office of Economics and Ana-
lytics, Incentive Auction Task Force, Media
Bureau, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting the Commission’s final
rule — Auction of Construction Permits for
Low Power Television and TV Translator
Stations Scheduled for September 10, 2019;
Notice and Filing Requirements, Minimum
Opening Bids, Upfront Payments, and Other
Procedures for Auction 104 [AU Docket No.:
19-16] [GN Docket No.: 12-268] [MB Docket
No.: 16-306] received July 22, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
1763. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulations and removal of temporary regula-
tions — Income Inclusion When Lessee
Treated as Having Acquired Investment
Credit Property [TD 9872] (RIN: 1545-BM74)
received July 23, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
1764. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Indexing adjustments for certain pro-
visions under Sec. 36B of the Internal Rev-
enue Code (Rev. Proc. 2019-29) received July
23, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
1765. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Automatic Consent to Change Meth-
ods of Accounting to Comply with Section
846 (Rev. Proc. 2019-30) received July 23, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
1766. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulations and removal of temporary regula-
tions — Allocation of Creditable Foreign
Taxes [TD 9871] (RIN: 1545-BM56) received
July 23, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:01 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00129 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.064 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7376 July 24, 2019
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
1767. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Agency’s final reg-
ulations and removal of temporary regula-
tions — Regulations on the Requirement To
Notify the IRS of Intent To Operate as a Sec-
tion 501(c)(4) Organization [TD 9873] (RIN:
1545-BN25) received July 23, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
1768. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Notice: Additional Preventive Care
Benefits Permitted to be Provided by a High
Deductible Health Plan Under Sec. 223 [No-
tice 2019-45] received July 23, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 2385. A bill to permit the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to establish a
grant program to conduct cemetery research
and produce educational materials for the
Veterans Legacy Program; with an amend-
ment (Rept. 116–179). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD: Committee on Ap-
propriations. H.R. 3931. A bill making appro-
priations for the Department of Homeland
Security for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes (Rept.
116–180). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. ENGEL: Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs. H.R. 3352. A bill to provide for certain
authorities of the Department of State, and
for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–181). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER; Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 2336. A bill to amend title 11,
United States Code, with respect to the defi-
nition of ‘‘family farmer’’ (Rept. 116–182). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
Mr. PERLMUTTER: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 519. Resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3877) to
amend the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985, to establish a
congressional budget for fiscal years 2020 and
2021, to temporarily suspend the debt limit,
and for other purposes; providing for consid-
eration of the bill (H.R. 549) to designate
Venezuela under section 244 of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act to permit nationals
of Venezuela to be eligible for temporary
protected status under such section, and for
other purposes; and waiving a requirement of
clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to con-
sideration of certain resolutions reported
from the Committee on Rules (Rept. 116–183).
Referred to the House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself and Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER):
H.R. 3927. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to carry out a
pilot program to test the feasibility and out-
comes of integrating a substance use dis-
order and behavioral health treatment loca-
tor tool into the prescription drug moni-
toring programs of 5 eligible States; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 3928. A bill to require the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve to satisfy
certain requirements before providing any
new payment service, or substantially
changing or expanding any existing payment
service, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr.
DESAULNIER, and Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER):
H.R. 3929. A bill to direct the Architectural
and Transportation Barriers Compliance
Board to develop a minimum nonvisual ac-
cess standard for home use medical devices,
exercise equipment, and home appliances,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BRADY (for himself, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Mr. TAYLOR, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. WILLIAMS, and Mr.
WRIGHT):
H.R. 3930. A bill to cap noninterest Federal
Spending as a percentage of potential GDP
to right-size the government, grow the econ-
omy, and balance the budget; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget, and in addition to the
Committee on Rules, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. UNDERWOOD (for herself, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Ohio, and Mr. ZELDIN):
H.R. 3932. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to eliminate copayments by the
Department of Veterans Affairs for medi-
cines relating to preventive health services,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. LEVIN of Michigan:
H.R. 3933. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to establish State and In-
dian tribe grants for community colleges and
grants for Historically Black Colleges and
Universities, Tribal Colleges and Univer-
sities, and Minority-Serving Institutions,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. BRADY (for himself, Mr.
ARRINGTON, Mr. BABIN, Mr. BACON,
Mr. BUCSHON, Mr. BURGESS, Mr. CAR-
TER of Texas, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. FLO-
RES, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms.
GRANGER, Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana,
Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. KEVIN HERN of
Oklahoma, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr.
KING of Iowa, Mr. LATTA, Mr. MARCH-
ANT, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
RATCLIFFE, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. TAY-
LOR, Mr. VELA, Mr. WEBER of Texas,
Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. RICE of South Caro-
lina, and Mr. CRENSHAW):
H.R. 3934. A bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act to replace the windfall
elimination provision with a formula equal-
izing benefits for certain individuals with
non-covered employment, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for him-
self, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. GRAVES of
Georgia, and Mr. BISHOP of Georgia):
H.R. 3935. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to provide for the con-
tinuing requirement of Medicaid coverage of
nonemergency transportation to medically
necessary services; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. CLYBURN (for himself, Mr.
CUNNINGHAM, Mr. WILSON of South
Carolina, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. TIMMONS,
Mr. NORMAN, and Mr. RICE of South
Carolina):
H.R. 3936. A bill to establish in the States
of North Carolina and South Carolina the
Southern Campaign of the Revolution Na-
tional Heritage Corridor, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. NEWHOUSE:
H.R. 3937. A bill to redesignate the facility
of the Bureau of Reclamation located at
Highway-155, Coulee Dam, WA 99116, as the
‘‘Nathaniel ‘Nat’ Washington Power Plant’’;
to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. TAYLOR (for himself, Mr. ARM-
STRONG, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. CREN-
SHAW, Mr. BACON, Mrs. LURIA, Mr.
STEUBE, Mr. BAIRD, Mr. WALTZ, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. PANETTA, and
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ):
H.R. 3938. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to provide that children of cer-
tain permanently disabled or deceased vet-
erans shall be preference eligible for pur-
poses of appointments in the civil service,
and for other purpose; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. BUDD:
H.R. 3939. A bill to require the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System to
carry out a quantitative impact study of any
proposed real-time payment system under
the Faster Payments Initiative before imple-
menting such system; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mr. CARTER of Texas:
H.R. 3940. A bill to amend the William Wil-
berforce Trafficking Victims Protection Re-
authorization Act of 2008 to provide for the
expedited removal of unaccompanied alien
children who are not victims of a severe form
of trafficking in persons and who do not have
a fear of returning to their country of na-
tionality or last habitual residence, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, and in addition to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and
Mr. MEADOWS):
H.R. 3941. A bill to enhance the innovation,
security, and availability of cloud computing
services used in the Federal Government by
establishing the Federal Risk and Authoriza-
tion Management Program within the Gen-
eral Services Administration and by estab-
lishing a risk management, authorization,
and continuous monitoring process to enable
the Federal Government to leverage cloud
computing services using a risk-based ap-
proach consistent with the Federal Informa-
tion Security Modernization Act of 2014 and
cloud-based operations, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself, Mr.
ARMSTRONG, Mr. COLLINS of Georgia,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. WILSON of South
Carolina, Mr. CORREA, Mr. WOMACK,
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. DUFFY, Mr. HILL of
Arkansas, Mr. GALLAGHER, and Mrs.
BEATTY):
H.R. 3942. A bill to apply requirements re-
lating to delivery sales of cigarettes to deliv-
ery sales of electronic nicotine delivery sys-
tems, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 3943. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow accelerated depre-
ciation of certain qualified film and tele-
vision and live theatrical productions in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00130 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L24JY7.000 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7377
July 24, 2019
Puerto Rico; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma (for
himself and Mr. MULLIN):
H.R. 3944. A bill to amend the Water Re-
sources Reform and Development Act of 2014
to modify the procedure for communicating
certain emergency risks, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
H.R. 3945. A bill making supplemental ap-
propriations for the Army Corps of Engineers
for flood control projects and storm damage
reduction projects in areas affected by flood-
ing in the city of Jacksonville, Florida, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on the Budget, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. MARCHANT (for himself, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, and Mr. ARRINGTON):
H.R. 3946. A bill to provide further means
of accountability with respect to the United
States debt and promote fiscal responsi-
bility; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 3947. A bill to lower the cost of pre-
scription drugs, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committees on Ways
and Means, the Judiciary, Armed Services,
and Oversight and Reform, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. MEEKS:
H.R. 3948. A bill to amend the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act to extend the provi-
sions of that Act to cover a debt collector
who is collecting debt owed to a State or
local government, to index award amounts
under such Act for inflation, to provide for
civil injunctive relief for violations of such
Act, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 3949. A bill to amend the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act to provide for drinking water
fountain replacement in playgrounds and
parks, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. KIM, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, and Ms. CRAIG):
H.R. 3950. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to establish a grant pro-
gram for the improvement of remedial edu-
cation programs at institutions of higher
education, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. PRESSLEY (for herself and Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois):
H.R. 3951. A bill to amend the Expedited
Funds Availability Act to require that funds
deposited be available for withdrawal in real
time and to require the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System to create a
real time payment system, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Ms. SCHRIER (for herself and Mr.
COX of California):
H.R. 3952. A bill to amend the Agricultural
Research, Extension, and Education Reform
Act of 1998 to establish a waiver from the
matching requirement for certain grants
under the specialty crop research initiative;
to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia:
H.R. 3953. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to expand the require-
ment for States to suspend, rather than ter-
minate, an individual’s eligibility for med-
ical assistance under the State Medicaid
plan while the individual is an inmate of a
public institution, to apply to inmates of
any age; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself
and Mr. CORREA):
H.R. 3954. A bill to amend title 35, United
States Code, to include the exclusive eco-
nomic zone as part of the United States for
patent infringement, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 3955. A bill to direct the United States
Postal Service to designate a single, unique
ZIP Code for Silver Cliff, Colorado, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, and Ms. FRANKEL):
H.R. 3956. A bill to protect consumers from
deceptive practices with respect to online
booking of hotel reservations, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. STEIL:
H. Con. Res. 54. Concurrent resolution es-
tablishing the Joint Select Committee on
Solvency of Mutiemployer Pension Plans; to
the Committee on Rules.
By Mr. BURGESS:
H. Con. Res. 55. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress on the need to
inform American consumers with more bal-
anced purchasing information for prescrip-
tion drugs through the disclosure of price in-
formation in direct-to-consumer (DTC) ad-
vertisements; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. PENCE (for himself, Mr. GALLA-
GHER, Mr. CARBAJAL, and Mr.
MOULTON):
H. Res. 515. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of October 23, 2019, as a
national day of remembrance of the tragic
1983 terrorist bombing of the United States
Marine Corps Barracks in Beirut, Lebanon;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H. Res. 516. A resolution electing a Member
to a certain standing committee of the
House of Representatives; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself and Mr.
MCCAUL):
H. Res. 517. A resolution supporting the
Global Fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis
(TB), malaria, and its Sixth Replenishment;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself and
Mr. CONNOLLY):
H. Res. 518. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives regard-
ing United States efforts to resolve the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict through a nego-
tiated two-state solution; to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. CORREA:
H. Res. 520. A resolution remembering
kindness in the United States and affirming
our commitment to fostering community
and building resiliency through every day
acts of kindness; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. MCCAUL (for himself and Mr.
ENGEL):
H. Res. 521. A resolution commending the
Government of Canada for upholding the rule
of law and expressing concern over actions
by the Government of the People’s Republic
of China in response to a request from the
United States Government to the Govern-
ment of Canada for the extradition of a
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., executive; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
123. The SPEAKER presented a memorial
of the Senate of the State of California, rel-
ative to Senate Joint Resolution No. 7, urg-
ing the United States Congress to act favor-
ably in regard to legislation to award the
Congressional Gold Medal to the Merrill’s
Marauders; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
124. Also, a memorial of the Senate of the
State of California, relative to Senate Joint
Resolution No. 7, urging the United States
Congress to act favorably in regard to legis-
lation to award the Congressional Gold
Medal to the Merrill’s Marauders; which was
referred to the Committee on Financial
Services.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. MCKINLEY:
H.R. 3927.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
Section 8—Powers of Congress. To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 3928.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 3929.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. BRADY:
H.R. 3930.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion, which gives Congress the authority to
borrow money on the credit of the United
States.
By Ms. UNDERWOOD:
H.R. 3932.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. LEVIN of Michigan:
H.R. 3933.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the Constitution.
By Mr. BRADY:
H.R. 3934.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S.
Constitution: The Congress shall have Power
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00131 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L24JY7.100 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7378 July 24, 2019
to make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. CARTER of Georgia:
H.R. 3935.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. CLYBURN:
H.R. 3936.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. NEWHOUSE:
H.R. 3937.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article One, Section 8, Clause 18 of the
United States Constitution
By Mr. TAYLOR:
H.R. 3938.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution:
‘‘To make all Laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States, or in any
Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. BUDD:
H.R. 3939.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress under Article I, Section 8, Clause
3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. CARTER of Texas:
H.R. 3940.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18—To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof. Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3—To es-
tablish an uniform Rule of Naturalization,
and uniform Laws on the subject of Bank-
ruptcies throughout the United States.
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 3941.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the U.S. Constitution
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 3942.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8; U.S. Constitution
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 3943.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress has the power to enact this
legislation pursuant to Article I, Section 8,
Clauses 1 and 18 of the U.S. Constitution,
which provide as follows:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; [and . . . ]
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma:
H.R. 3944.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
H.R. 3945.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to t] following:
Article 1, Section 8: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof
By Mr. MARCHANT:
H.R. 3946.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, clause 18: The Congress
shall have Power . . . To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by the Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 3947.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . regulate Com-
merce . . . among the several States . . . .’’
By Mr. MEEKS:
H.R. 3948.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 Commerce
Clause
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 3949.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8.
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H.R. 3950.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. PRESSLEY:
H.R. 3951.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Ms. SCHRIER:
H.R. 3952.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia:
H.R. 3953.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
H.R. 3954.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 8 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
U.S. Constitution
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 3955.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 3956.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof . .
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 40: Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 93: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York.
H.R. 95: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 194: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 310: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
H.R. 333: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 336: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 437: Mr. ABRAHAM.
H.R. 497: Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 510: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 571: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 586: Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 587: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH and Mr. BRIN-
DISI.
H.R. 628: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 647: Mr. SCHWEIKERT and Mr. DUFFY.
H.R. 663: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 724: Mr. ABRAHAM and Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 729: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 737: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 830: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 849: Mr. Garcı́a of Illinois, Mr. SCHIFF,
Ms. DELBENE, and Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 886: Mr. YOHO, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr.
STANTON, and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 913: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 961: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 1024: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1025: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 1034: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 1035: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 1049: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1108: Ms. WATERS, Mr. KINZINGER, and
Mr. VELA.
H.R. 1109: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1135: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 1154: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. BUCHANAN, Ms.
SCHRIER, and Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1173: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 1175: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York and Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 1225: Mrs. FLETCHER and Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 1301: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 1380: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 1398: Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. CLOUD, and Mr.
WILLIAMS.
H.R. 1400: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1423: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 1440: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 1452: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1471: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 1511: Ms. TITUS and Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER.
H.R. 1529: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 1533: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1554: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1570: Mr. DUFFY.
H.R. 1597: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 1607: Mr. FULCHER.
H.R. 1629: Mr. FLORES and Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 1678: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 1694: Mr. VARGAS, Mr. KIND, and Mr.
DEUTCH.
H.R. 1695: Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. COLLINS of
New York, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1709: Ms. SHALALA, Ms. TITUS, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. GREEN of Texas, and Mr.
SABLAN.
H.R. 1713: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK and Miss
González-Colón of Puerto Rico.
H.R. 1737: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1766: Mr. MARCHANT.
H.R. 1786: Mr. NORCROSS and Mr. Luján.
H.R. 1864: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 1869: Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. LONG, Mr.
GUTHRIE, Miss RICE of New York, and Mr.
CALVERT.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00132 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.074 H24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7379
July 24, 2019
H.R. 1873: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana and Mr.
NEGUSE.
H.R. 1887: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 1923: Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Ms.
OMAR, and Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 1925: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 1934: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1978: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. MEEKS,
and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1980: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Ms. SE-
WELL of Alabama, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr. SEN-
SENBRENNER, Ms. CRAIG, Mr. SCHWEIKERT,
Mr. CHABOT, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. WILLIAMS,
Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr. KELLY of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. GOODEN, Mr.
EMMER, and Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 1987: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 2026: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2031: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 2046: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 2048: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 2096: Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2118: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 2155: Ms. TITUS and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2167: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2200: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 2201: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2208: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2218: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2219: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 2235: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. SLOTKIN, and Mr.
TONKO.
H.R. 2256: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. GREEN of Texas, and Mr.
RASKIN.
H.R. 2271: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2311: Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
YARMUTH, Mr. KATKO, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. HUFFMAN, and Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 2382: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Ms. Sánchez, Mr. LANGEVIN, and
Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 2404: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 2408: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2411: Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. PETERS, Mr. CHABOT,
Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana, Ms. DELBENE, Ms. SCANLON, Mr.
CALVERT, and Mr. CARTER of Texas.
H.R. 2420: Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. HAYES, Mr.
VISCLOSKY, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
KILMER, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 2431: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2433: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2442: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 2452: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 2501: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 2550: Ms. CLARKE of New York and Ms.
WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 2584: Mr. POCAN and Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 2605: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2616: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2668: Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr. CAL-
VERT, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, Mrs. AXNE, and
Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 2678: Mr. RASKIN, Mr. HECK, and Mr.
PAYNE.
H.R. 2682: Mr. MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 2721: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 2733: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 2747: Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 2751: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2771: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 2775: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 2802: Ms. MENG, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr. VELA,
Mr. RASKIN, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, and Ms.
CRAIG.
H.R. 2847: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 2851: Mr. COHEN and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2856: Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 2958: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 2969: Mr. WEBSTER of Florida and Mr.
YOHO.
H.R. 2970: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2975: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2991: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. NORTON, and
Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 3026: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 3115: Ms. SHALALA, Mr. VAN DREW, and
Mr. KIM.
H.R. 3145: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 3157: Ms. SCANLON and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 3162: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 3182: Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 3195: Mr. PAYNE, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
VARGAS, and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 3205: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 3219: Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. SUOZZI, and
Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 3221: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 3266: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 3280: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 3302: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 3332: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 3356: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3369: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 3388: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 3396: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 3412: Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 3463: Mr. YARMUTH, Ms. SCANLON, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Ms. PORTER, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. TRONE, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. MEEKS, and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 3465: Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 3473: Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. MATSUI, and
Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3497: Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, Mrs. RODGERS of Washington, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Mr. COLE, Mr. BOST, and Ms.
STEVENS.
H.R. 3515: Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. BYRNE, Mr.
MARSHALL, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. WALKER, and
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 3557: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 3575: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 3580: Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 3602: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3604: Ms. ESHOO and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3623: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 3637: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 3654: Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 3663: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, and Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 3666: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 3667: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 3668: Mr. PANETTA, Ms. ESHOO, Mrs.
HAYES, Mr. TRONE, Ms. PINGREE, and Mr.
RUIZ.
H.R. 3670: Mr. WALTZ, Mr. FITZPATRICK, and
Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 3717: Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 3742: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 3744: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 3760: Mr. KHANNA, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
KENNEDY, and Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 3775: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 3783: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 3786: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 3794: Mr. WESTERMAN and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 3799: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 3807: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3816: Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 3828: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico and Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 3829: Mr. RYAN and Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 3846: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 3848: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 3861: Mr. CARTWRIGHT and Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 3862: Mrs. NAPOLITANO and Mr. GRI-
JALVA.
H.R. 3867: Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. COHEN, and
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 3872: Mr. ROSE of New York and Mr.
CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 3874: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 3882: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 3884: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 3909: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 3918: Mr. GARAMENDI and Mr. KEN-
NEDY.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H. Con. Res. 52: Ms. JUDY CHU of California
and Ms. HILL of California.
H. Res. 54: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana and
Mr. EVANS.
H. Res. 60: Mr. EVANS and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H. Res. 217: Mr. RASKIN and Mr. DUNN.
H. Res. 219: Mr. COOK.
H. Res. 255: Mr. PETERS, Ms. SHALALA, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. GIANFORTE, and Mr. VARGAS.
H. Res. 259: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H. Res. 326: Mrs. HAYES.
H. Res. 374: Mr. WITTMAN.
H. Res. 387: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H. Res. 395: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana and Mr.
CARTWRIGHT.
H. Res. 452: Mr. GARAMENDI and Ms. ESHOO.
H. Res. 480: Mr. RUSH and Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois.
H. Res. 493: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H. Res. 499: Mrs. MURPHY.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
34. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
Commission of the City of Miami, FL, rel-
ative to Resolution R-19-0236, urging Presi-
dent Donald J. Trump to prohibit any fur-
ther cultural exchanges between Cuba and
the United States until freedom of expres-
sion is restored for all Cubans; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00133 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY7.068 H24JYPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5027
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JULY 24, 2019 No. 125
Senate
The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, our shelter in the time
of storms, we thank You for this land
we love. We are grateful for its history,
government, discoveries, knowledge,
creativity, and vision. As our law-
makers seek to keep our Nation strong,
may they act and speak in ways that
make us proud to be Americans. Use
our Senators to banish hate and big-
otry, inspiring our citizens to live to-
gether in peace. May the words of our
legislators’ mouths and the medita-
tions of their hearts receive Your ap-
proval.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask permission to speak in morning
business for 1 minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA
TRADE AGREEMENT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Trade Agree-
ment will be a very big boon to the
American worker. In my State, one out
of every four American manufacturing
firms export to Canada and Mexico.
Seventy percent of these are very small
or medium-sized businesses. More than
25,400 Iowans depend on manufacturing
jobs.
By encouraging auto manufacturers
to use more U.S. content in our cars
and high-wage labor, the U.S.-Mexico-
Canada Agreement will help American
workers compete on a level playing
field and benefit from selling to two of
our largest trading partners.
f
IOWA
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
on another matter, at the website
ThisIsIowa.com, you can view a video
of people visiting a fake real estate of-
fice in New York advertising modern,
spacious properties. You can see the as-
tonishment, then, on the faces of New
Yorkers as they are shown beautiful,
modern apartments, as well as homes
near art museums and award-winning
restaurants.
The prices and the neighborhood
amenities seem too good to believe.
The details are real and so are the job
opportunities real. Only the location is
not New York. The location is Iowa.
Check it out on ThisIsIowa.com.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
BUDGET AGREEMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
earlier this week the Trump adminis-
tration and Speaker PELOSI reached an
agreement to avoid a government fund-
ing crisis and provide for our Armed
Forces. In the tough circumstances of
divided government, they achieved the
kind of deal that our national defense
actually needs. The 2-year funding
agreement will secure the resources we
need to continue restoring the readi-
ness of our Armed Forces and modern-
izing them to meet the 21st-century
challenges that face our country.
As I mentioned yesterday, I always
find it curious when our Democratic
colleagues take the negotiating posi-
tion that funding critical Pentagon
missions and providing for the common
defense are partisan Republican prior-
ities. They act like only Republicans
want a modern, ready military, such
that our spending on national defense
needs to be matched up with other
spending in order to make it palatable
to Democrats.
In one sense, my Republican col-
leagues and I will probably say, ‘‘guilty
as charged.’’ Yes, we absolutely
prioritize the national defense and the
U.S. military. Yes, we prioritize keep-
ing Americans safe. This is the funda-
mental obligation of the U.S. govern-
ment.
Over the past 21⁄2 years, it has been a
Republican President who has sought
to reverse the previous 8 years of de-
cline in defense. It has been Repub-
licans in Congress who prioritized re-
building our national defense after the
Obama administration’s neglect and
atrophy. Thanks to the Trump admin-
istration’s tough negotiating, this deal
will secure a larger increase in defense
funding than in nondefense programs
relative to current law. Better than
parity for defense.
I doubt Members need any reminding
about why these investments are so
critical, but if they do, every day’s
newspapers make the case loud and
clear. For years, our adversaries have
methodically stepped up their incur-
sions and their aggressions. They want
to chip away at the peaceful, rules-
based international order that Amer-
ican leadership has helped to establish
and preserve.
Between 2009 and 2018, the Chinese
Communist Party increased its mili-
tary spending—listen to this—by 83
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:57 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.000 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5028 July 24, 2019
percent—83 percent. Talk about a
buildup. The Chinese nearly doubled
their military spending in less than a
decade. This is just the PRC’s publicly
acknowledged funding.
These numbers have very real impli-
cations. When China gets a leg up in
terms of readiness or technology, they
are able to hold a greater number of
U.S. and allied forces at risk. They are
able to push their air and maritime
control further into the Indo-Pacific
region, increasing hegemonic control
and effectively pushing the United
States and our allies back.
So the importance of this funding
agreement is not simply our ability to
provide for the upkeep and regular
maintenance on our military as it cur-
rently exists. We are also talking about
building the U.S. military of the fu-
ture—research, development, and mod-
ernization—so that our Nation and our
servicemembers are equipped to keep
Americans safe and project power as
necessary for years and decades to
come.
In my view, this grave responsibility
should be a top, top priority on both
sides of the aisle, and this funding
agreement will allow us to get it done.
I am proud that it will meet the press-
ing needs of servicemembers stationed
at installations around the country,
like Ft. Campbell, Ft. Knox, and the
Blue Grass Army Depot in Kentucky.
The deal will secure sorely needed in-
vestment in the national defense, and
it contains none of the far-left poison
pills that House Democrats had sought,
like going backward on the issue of life
or stripping away rightful Presidential
authorities. In divided government,
that is what we call a good deal. The
Senate will vote on it before the end of
next week.
f
NOMINATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on another matter, first, the Senate
will confirm several more impressive
nominations. We are currently consid-
ering Stephen Dickson, of Georgia, to
lead the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion. After him, we will turn our atten-
tion to two district court nominees.
Wendy Williams Berger is the Presi-
dent’s choice for the U.S. District
Court for the Middle District of Flor-
ida. She is a two-time graduate of Flor-
ida State University, with nearly three
decades of courtroom experience, half
of which has come on the bench.
Brian Buescher has been tapped for a
vacancy in the District of Nebraska,
where he has spent nearly two decades
practicing law. Throughout his career,
he has gained expertise in a wide array
of legal areas and has earned admira-
tion within the Nebraska legal commu-
nity and beyond.
Those who know Mr. Buescher praise
his ‘‘intelligence, integrity, profes-
sionalism, attentiveness, [and] char-
acter.’’ The mayor of Omaha, where he
has spent his entire legal career said:
‘‘Mr. Buescher would be an impartial
judge capable of setting aside personal
opinion.’’
Despite his objective qualifications
and all this praise, our Senate Demo-
cratic colleagues were not satisfied.
Here was the bombshell that offended
some of our colleagues with respect to
this nominee. Listen to this. The nomi-
nee is a practicing Catholic.
My goodness, imagine that—in the
United States of America, a person of
faith, serving in government. Really?
In particular, some of our Demo-
cratic colleagues raked him over the
coals in committee for his membership
in the Knights of Columbus. It is
shocking that a nominee for Federal
district court would be a member of
the Knights of Columbus.
Of course, we all know the Knights—
a noted worldwide ‘‘extremist sect’’ of
Catholics, which is about 2 million men
strong, known among other things for
their love of their Catholic faith, their
unparalleled commitment to charitable
work, and for hosting barbecues and
pancake breakfasts.
Outrageous. I can’t believe I need to
repeat it in the U.S. Capitol, but there
is nothing about living out one’s faith
that is disqualifying for public serv-
ice—nothing. To the contrary, what
the Constitution does forbid is impos-
ing any kind of religious test for public
office.
It is the Democrats’ opposition to
this nominee’s faith, not his faith
itself, that rubs against the grain of
our Constitution. Fortunately, this
tactic didn’t fly. Our colleagues on the
Judiciary Committee saw this tactic
for what it is and voted to report Mr.
Buescher favorably to the floor. I will
be proud to vote to confirm him later
today.
f
OPIOID EPIDEMIC
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on another matter, the epidemic of
opioid and substance abuse has
wreaked havoc throughout our coun-
try. More than 2 million Americans
suffer from opioid addiction. For years,
the situation only seemed to get worse
and worse. Unfortunately, my home
State of Kentucky saw the pain first-
hand. We are among the hardest hit
States by this crisis.
Last week, both Kentucky and the
entire Nation received a glimmer of
long-awaited good news. Preliminary
figures from the National Center for
Health Statistics show that last year,
2018, saw the first—the first—nation-
wide decline in drug overdose deaths
since 1990. For 28 straight years, over-
dose deaths climbed. But in 2018, that
tragic number finally dropped. It was
approximately a 5-percent decline na-
tionwide.
In Kentucky, the Bluegrass State
saw overdose deaths fall by nearly 15
percent last year, the largest drop in
our State in more than a decade. After
years of working and waiting, we are
finally seeing progress in the fight to
save lives. These numbers didn’t hap-
pen on their own. Our comprehensive
response involves countless law en-
forcement officers, medical profes-
sionals, educators, community leaders,
and family members and friends of
those affected.
I am proud of that. Several times in
recent years, this Senate has done our
part to bolster this fight with sweep-
ing—sweeping—bipartisan action. We
passed wide-ranging legislation to
backstop the work on the frontlines
with new programs, new funding for re-
search, and new Federal resources for
the communities most in need.
Just last year, we passed another
landmark bill to attack the crisis of
abuse from every single angle. Among
its many features, the legislation
makes it harder to traffic illegal drugs
across the border; it supports mothers
and babies struggling with opioid with-
drawal; and it even includes one of my
provisions to help those in recovery
find a good job and stable housing as
they work toward long-term recovery.
I am particularly proud of Ken-
tucky’s own role in leading in this re-
covery. Researchers at the University
of Kentucky received the largest Fed-
eral grant in the school’s history to
fight opioid abuse all across our State.
I was pleased to help them secure these
resources as they aim to achieve a 40-
percent reduction of opioid overdose
deaths in 3 years.
In my hometown of Louisville, a pri-
vate sector research facility received
FDA approval for a medicine to ease
withdrawal symptoms. I have worked
to secure the inclusion of more Ken-
tucky counties under the High Inten-
sity Drug Trafficking Area Program
and increase coordination among local,
State, and Federal law enforcement on
drug interdiction.
This tireless work by Kentuckians
has helped write the headlines we are
celebrating today, but, of course, there
is still much more to do. We know this
is not the end of the battle against ad-
diction—not even close—but it is en-
couraging to see the reduction in over-
dose deaths across the country.
As majority leader, I will continue to
fight to ensure Kentucky and the Na-
tion have the resources to build on this
progress, prevent and treat addiction,
and ultimately save lives.
f
ISRAEL
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on one final matter, yesterday, the
Democratic House of Representatives
took a small step—small—to denounce
the scourge of anti-Semitism. They
passed a symbolic resolution opposing
efforts to delegitimize the State of
Israel and condemn the BDS move-
ment.
It is too bad all of this, of all things,
couldn’t have been a unanimous vote.
It is too bad that 16 Democrats voted
against condemning BDS. Sixteen
Democrats voted against condemning
BDS over in the House yesterday.
It is regrettable that some of the
Democrats who claim to represent the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:57 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.001 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5029
July 24, 2019
future of their party lobbied against
the measure that should be completely
without controversy.
Even more broadly, I am sorry the bi-
partisan Senate-passed bill that would
actually do something about BDS—in
other words, action, not mere rhet-
oric—is still languishing over in the
House without a vote, bipartisan legis-
lation that passed with the support of
77 Senators, including my friend the
Democratic leader—77 votes in the Sen-
ate, thoroughly bipartisan, but the
Democratic House has found a way to
fumble the ball.
Several months back, it took days of
throat-clearing and a whole lot of wa-
tering down before they could even
halfway condemn anti-Semitic re-
marks by one of their own Members.
Now this symbolic BDS resolution is
held up as a major victory, while Sen-
ate-passed legislation that would actu-
ally take action—actually do some-
thing against BDS—doesn’t even get a
vote. They will not even give it a vote
over there in the House.
House Republicans have called for a
vote on S. 1 over and over and over
again, but the Speaker of the House
doesn’t seem interested.
I understand that picking fights with
the President seems to be a higher pri-
ority across the Capitol than joining
with the Senate to get bipartisan legis-
lation actually made into law, but
surely taking action to combat anti-
Semitic efforts to delegitimize Israel
shouldn’t be too much to ask.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Stephen M. Dickson, of Geor-
gia, to be Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration for the term
of five years.
TAX REFORM
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, last
week, Senator CARDIN and I introduced
our S Corporation Modernization Act.
That brings the total of tax reform
bills I have introduced so far this year
to six.
Obviously, 2017 was a banner year for
tax reform. In December of 2017, we
passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, a
historic, comprehensive reform of our
Tax Code that put more money in
American families’ pockets and helped
spur growth at American businesses.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has been
a great success for our economy and for
hard-working Americans, but there are
still things we can do to strengthen our
Tax Code even further.
As I mentioned, last week, Senator
CARDIN and I introduced our S Corpora-
tion Modernization Act. S corporations
are the most common formal business
structure in the United States. There
are nearly 5 million of these businesses
throughout the United States, includ-
ing large numbers in rural America.
Despite the popularity of S corpora-
tions, however, there have been few S
corporation-related changes to the Tax
Code since this business structure was
created.
There are things we can do to make
it easier for these businesses to operate
and raise capital. That is why Senator
CARDIN and I developed the S Corpora-
tion Modernization Act. Our legislation
makes pro-growth reforms that will
make it easier for these businesses to
grow and create new jobs and opportu-
nities in their communities.
Change is a human constant, but
with modern technology, the pace of
change has seemed to accelerate.
American workers and American busi-
nesses face very different situations
than they did even a decade ago. It is
important that our Tax Code keeps
pace with the 21st century economy.
In February, I reintroduced my Mo-
bile Workforce State Income Tax Sim-
plification Act along with Senator
SHERROD BROWN. Today substantial
numbers of workers travel to different
States for temporary work assign-
ments on a regular basis, and they end
up subject to a bewildering variety of
State laws governing State income tax.
Senator BROWN’s and my legislation
would create an across-the-board
standard for mobile employees who
spend a short period of time working
across State lines. It would ensure that
States receive fair tax payments while
substantially simplifying tax require-
ments for employees and employers.
In March, I introduced two other
bills focused on updating the Tax Code
for the 21st century economy. The last
decade or so has seen the rise of the gig
economy—services provided by individ-
uals through apps and websites like
Uber, Lyft, TaskRabbit, Postmates,
Grubhub, and many others. These ar-
rangements have stretched the bound-
aries of current tax law.
My New Economy Works to Guar-
antee Independence and Growth Act, or
the NEW GIG Act, as we call it, up-
dates our tax law to provide clear guid-
ance on the classification of this new
generation of workers. It will ensure
that Uber drivers, Postmates, Taskers,
and others are treated as independent
contractors for purposes of tax law if
they meet a set of objective criteria.
The certainty my bill provides will
benefit not only these workers but also
traditional independent contractors
like freelance writers and delivery
drivers.
I also introduced the Digital Goods
and Services Tax Fairness Act in
March with Senator WYDEN. Our legis-
lation is designed to prevent consumers
from being faced with multiple taxes
for downloading digital products.
For example, right now, a digital
purchase of a television series could
hypothetically be taxed in up to three
States, depending on the circumstances
of the purchase. The Digital Goods and
Services Tax Fairness Act would pro-
vide rules of the road for taxing digital
goods and services and ensure that dig-
ital purchases could only be taxed in
one State—the State in which the con-
sumer resides.
It would also prohibit States and
local governments from taxing digital
goods at higher rates than tangible
goods. In other words, under our bill,
that season of ‘‘The Office’’ that you
want to buy digitally shouldn’t be
taxed at a higher rate than if you were
purchasing the season on DVD.
We have a proud history of charitable
giving in this country. Americans care
about a lot of worthy causes and are
committed to helping those in need.
That is why I have routinely intro-
duced amendments to the Tax Code to
make charitable giving easier, several
of which have been signed into law.
This year, I again introduced the
Charities Helping Americans Regularly
Throughout the Year Act, or CHARITY
Act, with Senator CASEY. This year’s
version of our bill builds on some of the
provisions we succeeded in getting
passed over the past few years and will
continue to help make it easier for
Americans to give—and charities to re-
ceive—money.
Finally, this year I once again intro-
duced legislation to repeal the punitive
double—or triple—taxation known as
the death tax. I have worked a lot on
the death tax issue over the years be-
cause of the way it affects family farms
and ranches. The death tax can make it
difficult or impossible to hand off the
family farm or ranch to the next gen-
eration.
While we gave farmers and ranchers
substantial relief from the death tax in
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, that relief
is only guaranteed for 61⁄2 more years,
which is why I am committed to pass-
ing a permanent death tax repeal.
I am proud of the progress we have
made for American businesses and
American families with the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act, and I will continue work-
ing on these bills and others to further
refine the Tax Code to spur economic
growth and to address the realities of
the 21st century economy.
TRIBUTE TO LYNN TJEERDSMA
Madam President, before I close, I
would like to take a couple of minutes
to recognize a staffer of mine who will
be retiring at the end of this work pe-
riod.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:57 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.003 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5030 July 24, 2019
Lynn Tjeerdsma first came to work
for me in 2007 to help out on the 2008
farm bill. After the bill passed, he
headed back to the Farm Service Agen-
cy at the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture to serve as Assistant Deputy
Administrator for Farm Programs, but
I asked him back in 2011 to work with
me on the 2012—which actually ended
up being the 2014—farm bill, and he has
been with me ever since.
I suppose it is possible that there is
someone out there who knows the ins
and outs of farm policy better than
Lynn, but I have yet to meet that per-
son.
After working with Lynn in 2007 and
2008, I asked him back for the 2012 farm
bill because I wanted the best for
South Dakota’s farmers and ranchers,
and Lynn is the best. There is a reason
for that.
Lynn has an impressive farm policy
résumé on both the administrative and
the legislative side. In addition to
working for me, he worked for Senator
Larry Pressler on the 1990 farm bill,
and he has extensive experience in the
executive branch of our government.
He worked for the Farm Service
Agency at the Department of Agri-
culture for years as a county executive
director in Moody, SD; as a county ex-
ecutive director in Cass County, NB; as
a program specialist and later a branch
chief; and then, as I mentioned, as As-
sistant Deputy Administrator for Farm
Programs. He also worked for the non-
profit Theodore Roosevelt Conserva-
tion Partnership.
As impressive as his farm policy
résumé is, that is not all Lynn has
brought to the table. Lynn often says:
‘‘The best ideas for a farm bill come
from a farm, not from behind a desk in
Washington, DC.’’
Lynn isn’t just an agricultural policy
expert; Lynn is a farmer—not was a
farmer—although he farmed a large
spread for 15 years before going to
work for the Department of Agri-
culture—but is a farmer. Lynn still
owns and operates a corn and soybean
farm near Platte, SD. So he has a deep
insight into the challenges facing
farmers and ranchers and how we can
meet their needs here in Washington,
DC.
I have talked a lot about Lynn’s agri-
cultural expertise. I have relied on it
for almost a decade. South Dakota’s
farmers and ranchers are better off
today because of the knowledge and in-
sight Lynn has brought to the table. I
also want to talk about Lynn person-
ally.
Every one of us in the Senate wants
smart and knowledgeable staffers, but
in an ideal world, our staffers aren’t
just smart and knowledgeable; they
also have the kind of character that
Lynn displays—dedicated, hard-work-
ing, cheerful, generous, humble, and
unfailingly kind.
He is the kind of public servant we
all aim to be and a gentleman in the
very truest sense of the word.
I am not the only one who is going to
miss Lynn. Every one of my staffers is
going to miss him as well. He has been
a mentor to many in the office, and,
perhaps more importantly, he has been
supplying the staff with doughnuts
every Friday for years.
After a tough week, everyone looked
forward to Lynn’s Friday morning
email letting them know the Krispy
Kremes were in the office. The dough-
nut notification email always included
a list of things Lynn was thankful for
that week, whether it was the weather
or the fact that South Dakota farmers
had gotten all their soybeans in the
ground.
Lynn and his wife Mary were gen-
erous hosts, as well, inviting staffers
over for Easter egg hunts and cook-
outs. We will miss other distinctly
Lynn things, too, like his impressive
cowboy boot collection or how we had
to prevent him from biking home in a
torrential downpour. Lynn has logged
more than 5,000 miles on his bike while
working for me, traveling from his
home in Alexandria to the Dirksen
Building on a daily basis.
And, of course, everyone will miss
Lynn’s stories—like the one about the
day that a younger Lynn tried to bring
a rattlesnake home in a burlap bag. As
you can imagine, the snake did not ap-
preciate the accommodations, so he got
loose, slithering under the driver’s seat
of Lynn’s car. Lynn’s abrupt exit from
the vehicle created quite a hazard that
day, with the snake as the only occu-
pant of the now driverless vehicle roll-
ing down the gravel roads near his
childhood home.
When I talk about missing Lynn, I
also have to talk about the farmers and
ranchers in my State who will miss
having him here in Washington. More
than once, agricultural groups in
South Dakota have asked Lynn to key-
note during annual banquets. On one
occasion, I offered to give a speech but
was told that Lynn was the preferred
speaker.
Lynn will be sorely missed, but he
has more than earned his retirement. I
know how much he is looking forward
to spending more time with his wife
Mary and with their 5 children and 10
grandchildren. I know he and Mary
plan to travel to Hawaii and Alaska
and that it is a goal of Lynn’s to visit
as many national parks as he possibly
can.
I know he will enjoy sitting, watch-
ing the waves with Mary at their house
in Alabama and, of course, continuing
to farm his corn and soybeans in South
Dakota.
Lynn, thank you for your service and
your friendship. May God bless you in
your retirement.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
9/11 VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, it is
the morning after. This is a happy
morning after because the 9/11 bill
passed. Now it is on its way to the
President’s desk. My understanding is
he is certain to sign it, and our first re-
sponders can breathe a sigh of relief. It
is wonderful.
I am filled with gratitude for a lot of
people, above all for those who rushed
to the Towers, those patriots, those
brave men and women who put Amer-
ican freedom above their own safety,
defending us at a time when we were
under attack.
God bless them. God bless those who
have passed from the illnesses. God
bless those who are suffering from the
illnesses. God bless those who will get
illnesses yet unknown and their fami-
lies, their friends, their units—fire, po-
lice, port authority, the military, you
name it. Yesterday, I met an FBI
agent—I had not met her before—who
was there and who was suffering from
cancer. God bless them all.
First and foremost, I want to thank
so many people who made this happen,
beginning with Senator GILLIBRAND, a
champion for this issue like no other.
She was constantly here on the floor
buttonholing people—and she is per-
sistent, those of us who know her—over
and over again until she got names like
COTTON and CRUZ to support our bill,
which was a big turning point. I also
thank her legislative director, Brooke
Jamison. She was sort of the quiet
force behind all this, and I thank her as
well as the rest of the Gillibrand staff.
To our cosponsors in the Senate,
every one of them, thank you.
I thank the leaders in the House—
Congressmembers MALONEY, NADLER,
KING, and so many others.
Then there were the great advocates,
Jon Stewart and John Feal. Man oh
man, they were the heart and soul of
this operation, and they kept going and
going and going until they succeeded—
one of my great joys.
My great sadness was meeting some
of the widows. I knew the widow of Ray
Pfeifer, for whom the bill is named. I
met briefly the family of Detective Al-
varez while at his wake, and that was a
sad thing. But a happy thing was see-
ing the genuine smiles on the faces of
Stewart and particularly Feal, who
doesn’t smile that much, but now he
can. That was a joy.
Suzy Ballantyne and Ben Chevat
were just relentless.
What about all the labor leaders and
unions—and by the way, construction
workers were another group who
rushed to the Towers and suffered
many losses; let’s not forget them—the
labor leaders and unions that organized
with us every step of the way: the UFA,
the UFOA, the NYPD and the Port Au-
thority unions, the PBA, the DEA, the
teachers, the laborers, AFL–CIO,
AFGE, AFSCME, and so many more.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.004 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5031
July 24, 2019
The union movement always protects
its workers. We need them to be
stronger in America. That is one of the
reasons income is going up to the top
and not going to the middle class any-
more—because we don’t have as strong
unions as we should. But the unions,
when they get behind something, God
bless them.
Finally, I need to thank the first re-
sponders who came here themselves
and who delayed cancer treatments to
testify at hearings, who wheeled the
Halls of Congress in their wheelchairs
to chase down legislators, who gifted
lawmakers their NYPD badges and
FDNY patches—the sacred totems of
their service—to remind those public
servants to do the right thing. Many
are no longer with us: James Zadroga,
Luis Alvarez, and my dear friend Ray
Pfeifer. Wherever they may now be, let
them breathe a final sigh of relief
knowing their friends are cared for and
the job is well done.
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. President, on another issue, all
eyes are no doubt on the House Judici-
ary Committee, where, as I speak,
former Special Counsel Robert Mueller
is testifying. His testimony is unques-
tionably of great interest and impor-
tance to the Nation. But even without
the special counsel’s testimony today,
Congress must grapple with the report
he has already written.
The principal conclusion of the first
section of the Mueller report was that
Russia interfered in our 2016 elections,
in his words, in a ‘‘sweeping and sys-
tematic’’ fashion. What he described in
that section of his report constitutes
nothing less than an attack on our de-
mocracy. It is almost like going to war
and hurting our men and women in the
Armed Forces.
This administration and this Cham-
ber frankly have done not enough—not
nearly enough—to respond to that at-
tack and to prevent such an attack
from taking place again.
I know we are going to have a great
deal of debate on the obstruction of
justice—I am appalled by what the
President did there—but there should
be no debate on, A, Russian inter-
ference in our election—that is un-
equivocal—and, B, that we must do a
lot more about it to prevent it from
happening in 2020.
The Trump administration has been
horrible on this issue—unpatriotic, un-
American, and almost letting America
fall prey to a nasty, brutal foreign
power: Russia. This administration has
watered down or failed to fully imple-
ment sanctions against Russia for what
they did in 2016, and in the Senate, as
usual, our Republican colleagues bow
down in obeisance.
Leader MCCONNELL—shame on him—
has stymied progress and consigned bi-
partisan bill after bill to his legislative
graveyard. These are bipartisan bills.
There are so many Republicans who
want to do something here. Leader
MCCONNELL doesn’t. And that has noth-
ing to do with Democrat, Republican,
liberal, conservative; that has to do
with patriotism and defending Amer-
ica. Bipartisan bills to harden our elec-
tion structure are languishing. The Re-
publican majority has even blocked
Democratic requests to provide addi-
tional election security funding to the
States.
Just yesterday, the FBI Director con-
firmed that President Putin remains
intent on interfering in our elections,
and we haven’t done enough to deter
that. Next to the brazenness of Presi-
dent Putin’s assault on our democracy
in 2016, the response of the Republican
majority in the Senate has been tepid.
I know there were great divisions
about certain parts of the Mueller re-
port. We are seeing it in the hearings
going on now. But there can be no divi-
sion—and I haven’t heard any Repub-
lican on that panel so far contest the
fact that Russia interfered in our elec-
tions in a strong way in 2016. Why
aren’t we doing something about it
now? Let’s forget the political divi-
sions. Let’s forget the pettiness of
President Trump, who says: Well, my
election may not be legitimate if I
admit that the Russians interfered.
President Trump, the Russians have
interfered, and every American knows
it. Let’s not let it happen in 2020. Let’s
work together on this. It is vital to the
future of American democracy.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON STEPHEN M. DICKSON NOMINATION
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Dickson nomi-
nation?
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
California (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS),
and the Senator from Massachusetts
(Ms. WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 52,
nays 40, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 225 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—40
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Bennet
Booker
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon table, and the President will be
immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Wendy Williams Berger, of Florida,
to be United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Florida.
Mitch McConnell, Bill Cassidy, David
Perdue, John Thune, Roy Blunt, Thom
Tillis, Roger F. Wicker, Mike Braun,
James E. Risch, Mike Rounds, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Johnny Isakson,
John Boozman, Marco Rubio, Kevin
Cramer, Pat Roberts.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Wendy Williams Berger, of Florida,
to be United States District Judge for
the Middle District of Florida, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:57 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.006 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5032 July 24, 2019
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
California (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS),
and the Senator from Massachusetts
(Ms. WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 55,
nays 37, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 226 Ex.]
YEAS—55
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—37
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Bennet
Booker
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 55, the nays are 37.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Wendy Wil-
liams Berger, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Middle
District of Florida.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Brian C. Buescher, of Nebraska, to
be United States District Judge for the Dis-
trict of Nebraska.
Mitch McConnell, Roger F. Wicker, Pat
Roberts, Chuck Grassley, John Cornyn,
Tom Cotton, David Perdue, Ron John-
son, Joni Ernst, Mike Braun, Martha
McSally, John Boozman, Richard Burr,
Lindsey Graham, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, Johnny Isakson, Thom Tillis.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Brian C. Buescher, of Nebraska, to
be United States District Judge for the
District of Nebraska, shall be brought
to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
California (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS),
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms.
WARREN), and the Senator from Rhode
Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) are nec-
essarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 52,
nays 39, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 227 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—39
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wyden
NOT VOTING—9
Bennet
Booker
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
Whitehouse
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 52, the nays are 39.
The motion is agreed to.
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Brian C.
Buescher, of Nebraska, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of Nebraska.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
BUDGET AGREEMENT
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, earlier
this week, the administration and
House Democrats reached a bipartisan
budget deal to deliver on the Presi-
dent’s priorities and prevent a funding
crisis this fall.
As our Armed Forces continue their
global engagements, this agreement
importantly secures the funding nec-
essary to maintain readiness and mod-
ernize the force. It provides increased
defense spending to recover from the
depressed military readiness rates of
the previous administration. It pro-
vides our men and women in uniform
with the resources, equipment, and
training they need in order to defend
our freedoms.
I know Congress deals with a lot of
different topics, and all of them, by and
large, are important, but there is noth-
ing more important, nor is there any-
thing more quintessentially a Federal
Government responsibility than na-
tional security.
All other considerations aside, if this
bipartisan budget deal did nothing
more than fully fund our national secu-
rity efforts, I would support it, but im-
portantly, it also keeps other impor-
tant elements of the congressional con-
sensus intact—things like the Hyde
amendment, which, as the Presiding
Officer knows, since the late 1970s has
ensured that no taxpayer dollars can be
used to fund abortions. In addition,
this agreement prevents our Demo-
cratic colleagues from trying to block
President Trump from using funds to
strengthen border security.
The administration—Secretary
Mnuchin—negotiated a tough deal and
one that excludes any radical, leftwing
poison pills—a difficult task in these
times, to be sure.
We know they wanted to use policy
riders—nearly 30 of them and count-
ing—to try to implement elements of
the Green New Deal to undo the Presi-
dent’s regulatory reforms or to rewrite
our immigration laws through the back
door. Earlier this year, their far-left
policy riders led to the longest govern-
ment shutdown in history and almost
prevented the enactment of bipartisan
border supplemental funding. I saw the
devastating impact that shutdown had
on dedicated public servants across the
country, especially in Texas. This
agreement will prevent another sense-
less shutdown and ensure that the
trains of government run on time.
To be sure, no bipartisan agreement
is ever perfect. That is the definition of
a negotiation—both sides give a little.
It is the nature of compromise, which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:15 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.002 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5033
July 24, 2019
is a necessary part of effective gov-
erning. There is no doubt that there
are other priorities I would have liked
to have seen included in the deal. I
wish we had done something to reform
our entitlement programs, which will
continue to outpace inflation and in-
crease our national deficit. Someday,
we are going to have to deal with our
deficits and debt; I just hope it is not
during the time of a national emer-
gency. But as a practical matter,
Speaker PELOSI wasn’t going to agree
with such far-reaching reforms in the
context of this spending deal and debt
limit provision. Thankfully, the Presi-
dent was able to secure half of the
spending cuts he asked for—roughly
equal to next year’s increase in non-
defense spending.
Above all, this deal carries out the
most critical responsibilities of the
Federal Government, which is to sup-
port our national defense and fully
fund the government’s operation.
Again, I appreciate the President’s
efforts here and particularly those in
his administration who helped nego-
tiate this bipartisan deal—particularly
Secretary Mnuchin. I look forward to
supporting it.
OPIOID EPIDEMIC
Mr. President, last week, the Na-
tional Center for Health Statistics re-
leased preliminary data showing that
drug overdose deaths in America de-
clined by about 5 percent last year. Be-
fore anybody begins to applaud, let me
point out that drug overdoses killed
more than 70,000 Americans the year
before. So a 5-percent reduction is wel-
come, but obviously it is still very
alarming. This 5 percent decline is the
first national drop in three decades,
though, and for communities across
the country that continue to battle the
opioid epidemic, it is a small indica-
tion that our efforts here in Congress
are having an impact. We certainly
have a long fight ahead of us, but this
is an encouraging sign.
If you look closer, the data shows
that the decline is due almost entirely
to a decrease in prescription opioid-re-
lated deaths. Those caused by other
opioids—particularly fentanyl and her-
oin—remain on the rise.
The cruel reality is that the more we
step up our efforts to limit prescription
opioid diversion, the higher the de-
mand is for other illegal drugs, many
of which come across our southern bor-
der. We can’t limit our efforts to what
can be done here at home. In order for
our work to be successful and for us to
save more lives, we have to stop this
poison from entering our country in
the first place.
I have the honor of cochairing the
Senate Caucus on International Nar-
cotics Control with Senator DIANNE
FEINSTEIN of California, where we are
working on ways to do exactly that—to
slow down the poison coming across
our borders.
If you look at many of the challenges
we face here at home—whether it is the
opioid epidemic, the humanitarian cri-
sis at the border, the criminal gangs on
our streets—much of that can be di-
rectly traced to the violence that ex-
ists in Central America and Mexico.
This morning, I had the pleasure of
speaking at the Hudson Institute about
my proposal to attack this crisis from
every angle, an all-government ap-
proach, something we call the New
Americas Recommitment to Counter-
narcotics Operations and Strategy. As
the Presiding Officer knows, we love a
good acronym here in Washington, DC,
so we can simply refer to this initiative
as the NARCOS Initiative.
First, it takes aim at the dangerous
substances that are crossing our south-
ern border. Customs and Border Pro-
tection officers are incredibly well-
trained and equipped to find illegal
drugs, and seize an average of 5,800
pounds of narcotics each day. By the
way, on June 16, Customs and Border
Protection seized 20 tons of cocaine—
which is the largest seizure in the 230-
year history of Customs and Border
Protection—with an estimated street
value of $1.3 billion. So good for them.
They are extremely professional and
well-trained law enforcement officers.
As we know, many of these drugs
managed to make their way into the
interior of our country and into local
communities, causing untold misery
and grief. Stopping their production
and movement is not a fight we can
win alone. It will take a bipartisan,
long-term commitment from the Fed-
eral Government, as well as our foreign
partners. An important step is to
strengthen law enforcement coopera-
tion by improving intelligence-sharing
and providing training for some of our
foreign partners. It is an important
force multiplier and a necessary com-
ponent of our counternarcotics efforts.
In addition to attacking the drugs
themselves, the NARCOS Initiative
goes after the cartels and
transnational criminal organizations
that profit from this business. These
groups are what I call commodity-ag-
nostic. They really don’t care who they
hurt or what they ply. The only thing
they care about is making money. It is
not just narcotics they are dealing; it
is human trafficking, migrant smug-
gling, money laundering, counterfeit
goods, public corruption. The list of
crimes is long, indeed, and they do all
of it.
These transnational criminal organi-
zations turn an enormous profit from
their corrupt dealings, and then they
have to launder the money they use to
finance their operation. We know that
one of the most effective ways to suf-
focate criminal networks is to cut off
the money, so that is precisely where
we should aim.
The Senate Judiciary Committee re-
cently passed legislation to combat
money laundering and other illicit fi-
nancing, which includes a provision
that I offered that has to do with the
role of remittances. According to the
United Nations, over $300 billion in il-
licit transnational crimes proceeds
likely flows through the U.S. financial
system. The provision included on re-
mittances requires Treasury to submit
an analysis of the use of remittances
by drug kingpins and crime syndicates
and develop a strategy to prevent them
from using that remittance system in
order to launder proceeds from crimi-
nal enterprises.
It is also time for us to reevaluate
our current strategy and to determine
how to update the Bank Secrecy Act,
which was enacted more than 50 years
ago and is the primary money laun-
dering law regulating financial institu-
tions.
In addition to fueling violence and
instability, the conditions in Central
America serve as a push factor. As
human beings, we all understand peo-
ple fleeing violence and poverty. So en-
couraging those countries to provide
safety and stability for their own peo-
ple so they can stay in their homes and
live their lives ought to be one of the
things that we do. Otherwise, these
push factors encourage migrants to
take the same routes used by cartels
and criminal organizations to reach
the United States. As we know, some of
them simply don’t make it. They die in
the process. Young girls and women are
routinely sexually assaulted. It is a
miserable alternative to staying at
home and living in safety and security.
We know all of this has contributed
to the humanitarian crisis at our
southern border. We all know but have
not yet had the political will to reform
our broken laws and prevent these
smugglers and criminal organizations
from gaming the system.
I know the Presiding Officer was at
the border earlier this week. I have
tried to figure out how we crack this
nut. How do we take this polarized en-
vironment and provide the tools nec-
essary to begin to staunch the flow of
humanity coming across our border?
They are attracted by the easy access
to the United States through our bro-
ken laws but also the push factors, like
the violence and poverty in their coun-
tries.
I am working with a Democratic col-
league of mine from Laredo, TX, HENRY
CUELLAR. Together, we introduced the
HUMANE Act, which made great
strides to help fix our broken asylum
system in a way that would give legiti-
mate asylees an opportunity to present
their case on a timely basis in front of
an immigration judge. It would also
make sure the conditions of their cus-
tody while they are here in the United
States are something we can be proud
of. Specifically, what this bill does is
closes a loophole in the law known as
the Flores settlement, which is often
used by smugglers to gain entry into
the United States. It would streamline
the processing of migrants and improve
standards of care for individuals in cus-
tody.
If we want to restore law and order
and make it sustainable, we need to
look at ways to invest in economic de-
velopment to help these countries build
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:15 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.014 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5034 July 24, 2019
stronger economies. But I share some
of the concerns expressed by the Presi-
dent and others. We need some metrics.
We need a strategy. We need reliable
foreign partners that can work with us.
The one effort I can think of where
we actually were successful working
with foreign partners and strong lead-
ers to really effect a dramatic change
is the nation of Colombia, so-called
Plan Colombia. Obviously, Mexico and
the region are much more complex, and
Plan Colombia doesn’t easily fit on top
of that region. I think the concept is a
sound one, one in which we come to-
gether on a bipartisan basis, develop a
strategy, help train our foreign part-
ners, and seek out strong leaders who
can help us work through these chal-
lenges, because there is a multiplicity
of challenges, as I have indicated.
One of the things that would help is
to ratify the new and improved
NAFTA, known as the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement, or the
USMCA. Obviously, a strong economy
in Mexico means people don’t have to
come to the United States in order to
provide for their families. The Inter-
national Trade Commission’s analysis
of the agreement shows some positive
indicators for North American work-
ers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses.
About 5 million American jobs depend
on the binational trade with Mexico
alone, which is some indication of how
important this is.
We can strengthen public-private
partnerships in other ways to help add
to the effort to provide for investment,
a clean environment, and a positive re-
lationship with our colleagues in Mex-
ico. One example is the North Amer-
ican Development Bank. For every one
NAD Bank dollar that has been in-
vested in a project, it has successfully
leveraged $20 in total infrastructure in-
vestment in using both private- and
public-sector dollars. To that end, I
have introduced legislation with Sen-
ator FEINSTEIN, of California, that
would authorize the Treasury Depart-
ment to increase NAD Bank’s capital
and provide additional authority that
is specifically related to port infra-
structure.
We know the ports of entry are not
only avenues of commercial trade and
traffic but are where a lot of the high-
end or expensive illegal drugs are
smuggled through. We need to mod-
ernize those ports of entry. We need to
expand the infrastructure and make
sure they are adequately staffed, not
only to facilitate the flow of legitimate
trade and travel but also to stop these
drugs from coming through the ports of
entry.
I just want to say a few words about
this NARCOS Initiative. I believe that
we do need an all-government approach
that would address the broad range of
problems across Central America and
Mexico, including with the
transnational criminal organizations
themselves, with the products and
services they provide, as well as with
the corruption they fuel and the means
by which they stay in business, but we
are going to need responsible partners
in this effort.
As our own experience with nation-
building in the Middle East has dem-
onstrated, we can’t want something for
them that they don’t want for them-
selves. That is why it is so important
to have a clear understanding about
what the strategy is, what the goals
are, and to have strong, reliable leaders
in those countries who will work with
us in a bipartisan way to accomplish
our collective goal.
We have both the responsibility and
the opportunity to make meaningful
changes to stabilize the region, and I
believe the time to act was yesterday.
I hope our colleagues will join me in
supporting this legislation to promote
a secure and prosperous Western Hemi-
sphere.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
29TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE AMERICANS WITH
DISABILITIES ACT
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise to
celebrate one of the seminal moments
in American civil rights history. This
week marks the 29th anniversary of the
signing of the Americans with Disabil-
ities Act. On July 26, 1990, President
George H. W. Bush signed a sweeping,
bipartisan bill that acknowledged and
affirmed the rights of people with dis-
abilities.
The passage of the so-called ADA
promised that people with disabilities
would be included in the guarantee of
fundamental rights—just by way of ex-
amples, the right to petition the court
when discriminated against; the right
to apply for and be considered for a job;
the right to have and having the access
to vote; the right to economic security;
the right to live where you want to
live.
Twenty-nine years later, our country
is better because we agreed to make
the opportunities of our country acces-
sible to all. The ADA changed the lives
of 61 million Americans with disabil-
ities and has made our Nation more ac-
cessible. The ADA proclaimed that
Americans with disabilities must have
the right and the means to fully par-
ticipate in their communities. The
ADA offers a path toward a truly ac-
cessible nation and elevates the voices
of millions of individuals.
One of those voices belongs to Jean
Searle from the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania. Jean works at Disability
Rights Pennsylvania, where she pro-
tects the rights of people with disabil-
ities so they may live the lives they
choose—free from abuse, neglect, dis-
crimination, and segregation.
As a child and young adult, Jean was
forced to live in an institution. In that
institution, she faced many indignities,
the worst of which may have been hav-
ing had her infant child taken from her
without her consent. Simply because
Jean lived with a disability, it was
often assumed that she was not capable
of making her own decisions, but she
worked hard to find a way out of that
institution. When she finally suc-
ceeded, she chose to live independently
in her community and has found a ful-
filling career in Harrisburg.
The rights affirmed by the ADA and
the services and supports Medicaid and
other programs have provided have
made it possible for Jean to be a full
citizen of the Commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania and, yes, even of the United
States of America. Jean has dedicated
her life to protecting the rights of peo-
ple with disabilities.
During this ADA anniversary week,
it is also fitting that today is Jean’s
birthday.
So, Jean, in looking at your picture
on my left, I say happy birthday. I
know many here would wish the same
if you were here in person on the floor
with us. I am honored to share your
birthday.
Let me pause here.
Almost 30 years after her infant son,
whom I referred to earlier, was taken
from her, Jean had the opportunity re-
cently to meet him for the first time.
Jean often says that to make the world
a better place, we need to spend our
time listening to people with disabil-
ities and learning from the disability
community.
Well said, Jean.
When I listen, I hear about the great-
ness of the ADA and, at the same time,
about much more that still needs to be
done. One of those things is to protect
what we have. That includes protecting
access to healthcare, preventing the re-
peal of the Affordable Care Act, and en-
suring that Medicaid remains intact.
We also need to combat threats to peo-
ple with disabilities.
Over the past 2 years, we have seen a
systemic and concerted effort to sabo-
tage supports that are necessary for
equality, opportunity, and the full par-
ticipation of people with disabilities.
What this administration has failed to
do with legislation it is trying to ac-
complish through regulation and court
cases. Cutting Medicaid is contrary to
the ADA’s goals, and it makes it dif-
ficult—or even potentially impossible—
for people with disabilities to work, to
go to school, or to be engaged in their
communities.
While we protect the hard-fought
rights the disability community has
earned, we can also build upon the
ADA’s promises. As we celebrate the
ADA’s 29th anniversary, we can do at
least three things—honor the great ad-
vancements that have been made be-
cause of the ADA; remain vigilant to
attacks on those civil rights; and work
to ensure that the ADA’s goals are re-
alized for all people with disabilities.
I believe Jean’s own words make the
point clearer than I can.
We must never go back. We must never for-
get the struggle that people with disabilities
have gone through and are still going
through today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:15 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.015 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5035
July 24, 2019
We must never go back, as Jean said.
So, as we celebrate the ADA’s 29th an-
niversary, I promise—and I know it is
the promise of many Members of Con-
gress—to never forget that struggle. I
also promise to stand side by side with
the disability community to fully ac-
complish the ADA’s goals.
Mr. BROWN. Will the Senator from
Pennsylvania yield?
Mr. CASEY. I yield to Senator
BROWN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I appre-
ciate Senator CASEY’s advocacy for dis-
abled Americans and for children espe-
cially.
I just want to make a brief comment,
for I know he has some other com-
ments to make, on his support for Med-
icaid and on the efforts that we have
made together on the Finance Com-
mittee in fighting against President
Trump’s attacks on Medicaid and the
Affordable Care Act.
I know, in my State, the expansion of
Medicaid and what came out of that
meant that 900,000 more people had in-
surance, including a whole lot of people
who were disabled. I know that Penn-
sylvania is the same way. So I thank
Senator CASEY.
Mr. CASEY. I thank the senior Sen-
ator from Ohio, who makes the point
broadly about the importance of Med-
icaid in the context of healthcare but
especially with regard to Americans
with disabilities. I thank him for his
comments, and I thank him for his ad-
vocacy.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. President, my second topic in-
volves a visit that I and a delegation of
Senators made just a week ago—it will
be a week ago on Friday—to McAllen,
TX. I guess there were 13 of us in total.
During that visit and throughout the
course of the day, we toured DHS de-
tention facilities—DHS is the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security—including
the Border Patrol facility in McAllen,
TX, and the processing centers in both
Donna and Ursula, TX.
I saw children who needed better
care. I saw the overcrowding of adults,
who were packed into cages or glass-
enclosed rooms, and you couldn’t hear
the voices of those behind the glass. I
saw the need for hygiene products and
better access to showers. At the same
time, we also saw Catholic Charities—
the Respite Center, run by Sister
Norma Pimentel, known to so many as
just ‘‘Sister Norma’’—where migrants
were welcomed, where migrants were
cared for, and where migrants were
treated with compassion.
I believe the White House’s policies
take the opposite approach—that of
not welcoming migrants but of pushing
them away. I believe several of those
policies make it bad not only for the
migrants or immigrants but also for
the DHS personnel who have to do the
work every day. It is also bad for the
security of our Nation.
I know, last Friday, that our delega-
tion met a number of dedicated per-
sonnel who work hard and who care
about the families, but I cannot say
that about all of those who work there.
So, when there is mistreatment or
when there is abuse, we need to make
sure there is full accountability. At the
same time, there are folks who work in
our government who may not agree
with the White House’s policy on immi-
gration or asylum or on its migration
policy in general but who have difficult
work to do. To those who are doing
good work and showing compassion and
respect, I commend them for that.
Instead of closing the door on asylum
seekers who flee terrible violence and
persecution, we should adopt policies
that are more humane and that will
help alleviate instead of exacerbate the
humanitarian crisis. We should utilize
effective alternatives to detention, like
the Family Case Management Pro-
gram—a pilot program that began in
the last administration and pretty
much ended in this administration. It
had a 99-percent attendance rate—or
success rate—at immigration court
proceedings. The Family Case Manage-
ment Program also had 99-percent com-
pliance with ICE’s monitoring require-
ments.
We should ensure that migrant chil-
dren are cared for by child welfare
workers and have their medical needs
fully met. We should also work to ad-
dress the violence, poverty, and perse-
cution that are causing so many to
flee. I am a cosponsor of the Central
American Reform and Enhancement
Act, which is legislation that would ad-
dress the root causes of migration by
increasing aid to the Northern Tri-
angle, creating new options for refu-
gees to apply for entry from Mexico
and Central America, and, of course,
increasing the number of immigration
judges to reduce court backlogs and
creating new criminal penalties for the
smuggling and defrauding of immi-
grants.
We know that some of the dollars re-
cently appropriated will help on some
of these priorities, but we have to
make sure the dollars are spent wisely
and appropriately and in full compli-
ance with the law.
We are indeed a nation of laws, and
we are also a nation of immigrants.
These two principles are intertwined in
our values, and they are not—they are
not—competing values.
We should be trying over and over
again—both parties, both Chambers,
and the administration—to pass some-
thing comparable to the comprehensive
immigration reform bill that this body
passed in 2013 that did not get a vote in
the House.
Let me conclude this part of my re-
marks with this: The problem is not
that we must choose between prin-
ciples like being a rule-of-law country
and being a nation of immigrants; the
problem is that our immigration sys-
tem is badly broken. If there are sug-
gestions to be made to improve the
asylum process, we should be open to
that, but pushing immigrants away
and ending or short-circuiting or un-
dermining the asylum process is not in
the interest of the country.
It is entirely possible to have an im-
migration system that both respects
the rule of law and treats all individ-
uals with human dignity. I will con-
tinue to press the administration and
the House and the Senate to work on
bipartisan solutions so our immigra-
tion system again reflects those Amer-
ican values.
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. President, I will conclude my re-
marks by raising the third topic, and it
is timely for today. I want to do two
things with regard to the service and
the work of former Special Counsel
Robert Mueller but also talk about the
report he issued.
There is a reference in a narrative
about Robert Mueller’s service in Viet-
nam that I won’t add to the RECORD be-
cause it is very long, but I will quote
from it for just a couple of minutes.
This is an account by the publication
Wired. It is a long account, but I will
just briefly read the beginning of it
about his service.
Just imagine this: someone who grew
up with probably not too many con-
cerns about economic security; some-
one who had the benefit of a great edu-
cation and then volunteered to serve in
Vietnam.
This particular vignette says:
After [serving] nine months at war, he was
finally due—
‘‘He’’ meaning Robert Mueller—
—for a few short days of R&R outside the
battle zone. Mueller had seen intense combat
since he last said goodbye to his wife. He’d
received the Bronze Star with a distinction
for valor for his actions in one battle, and
he’d been airlifted out of the jungle during
another firefight after being shot in the
thigh. [Robert Mueller] and [his wife] Ann
had spoken only twice since he had left for
South Vietnam.
Then it goes on to say why he wanted
to keep serving in the Marine Corps:
I didn’t relish the US Marine Corps absent
combat.
Then it goes on to talk about his de-
cision to go to law school after being in
Vietnam, with the goal of serving his
country as a prosecutor. He went on to
lead the Criminal Division of the Jus-
tice Department and to prosecute a lot
of bad guys—my words, not words from
the publication—and then ‘‘became di-
rector of the FBI one week before Sep-
tember 11, 2001, and stayed on to be-
come the bureau’s longest-serving di-
rector since J. Edgar Hoover. And yet,
throughout his five-decade career, that
year of combat experience with the
Marines has loomed large in Mueller’s
mind. ‘I’m most proud the Marine
Corps deemed me worthy of leading
other Marines,’ he [said] in . . . 2009.’’
So that is his background—just some
of his background: service to his coun-
try in Vietnam, service as a Federal
prosecutor for many, many years, and
then called upon to serve his country
again. He is the embodiment of public
service. He gives integrity and meaning
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:15 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.017 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5036 July 24, 2019
and value to what President Kennedy
called us all to do—to not ask what our
country can do for us but what we can
do for our country. Robert Mueller has
answered that call over and over again.
He is a person of integrity and ability.
For just a few minutes before I yield
the floor, I want to talk about some of
his work.
One of the points then-Special Coun-
sel Mueller made in a statement I
guess back in May was—he first of all
outlined how the Russian Federation
interfered with our election and point-
ed to the serious consequences of that,
but then he also talked about how—
when the second volume of the report
deals with obstruction, he reminded us
in that statement—at least I took from
it, my impression of the statement—of
not just the seriousness of what Russia
did but the seriousness and the gravity
of obstructing that kind of an inves-
tigation.
So if someone wanted to read just a
portion of the report—the almost 500
pages—if you wanted to just zero in on
some key parts of volume II about ob-
struction, you could start on page 77.
That is a section titled ‘‘The Presi-
dent’s Efforts to Remove the Special
Counsel.’’ Then there are other in-
stances—several instances of obstruc-
tion—alleged obstruction there. So if
you read between pages 77 and 120 of
volume II, you are going to learn a lot
about obstruction. Let me read a cou-
ple of the lines that the report sets
forth.
When the special counsel walks
through the factual predicate of what
happened in the first instance where
the President calls the White House
Counsel, Mr. McGahn, and says some
things that the special counsel con-
cluded were a directive to fire or have
fired the special counsel, they say in
the report on page—this is volume II,
page 88:
Substantial evidence, however, supports
the conclusion that the President went fur-
ther and in fact directed McGahn to call
Rosenstein to have the Special Counsel re-
moved.
Page 89:
Substantial evidence indicates that by
June 17, 2017, the President knew his conduct
was under investigation by a federal pros-
ecutor who could present evidence of federal
crimes to a grand jury.
It goes on from there in the ‘‘Intent’’
section, where the special counsel has
to lay out the evidence to prove intent
because if you can’t prove intent, you
can’t go much further.
Substantial evidence indicates that the
President’s attempts to remove the Special
Counsel were linked to the Special Counsel’s
oversight on investigations that involved the
President’s conduct and, most immediately,
to reports that the President was being in-
vestigated for potential obstruction of jus-
tice.
So those are just three vignettes
from pages 88 and 89, operative words
there being ‘‘substantial evidence.’’ In
other parts of the report, evidence is
laid out. Sometimes they say there is
not enough evidence, but I think ‘‘sub-
stantial evidence’’ is a compelling part
of what we saw.
Let me just quickly—because I know
I am over time. I will now move to
page 113. This is a separate section.
This section is titled ‘‘The President
Orders McGahn’’—White House Counsel
McGahn—‘‘to Deny that the President
Tried to Fire the Special Counsel,’’ so
referring back to the earlier section,
and then, when they go through the
evidence, they again get back to the
consideration or the weighing of the
evidence.
I am looking at volume II, page 118—
again, those words:
Substantial evidence supports McGahn’s
account that the President had directed him
to have the Special Counsel removed, includ-
ing the timing and context of the President’s
directive; the manner in which McGahn re-
acted; and the fact that the President had
been told conflicts were substantial, were
being considered by the Department of Jus-
tice, and should be raised with the Presi-
dent’s personal counsel rather than brought
to McGahn.
So you get the message I am sending.
And the last one is on page 120—‘‘Sub-
stantial evidence indicates’’ the fol-
lowing facts.
So I raise all that because there is a
lot of discussion about volume II and
what the conclusion might have been.
The reason I refer to those areas of
substantial evidence is that in May of
this year, there was a statement by
former Federal prosecutors. We were
told that as many as 1,000 bipartisan
prosecutors from both parties signed a
letter, and I will read just one sentence
from the letter: ‘‘Each of us’’—meaning
these Republican and Democratic
former prosecutors—‘‘believes that the
conduct of President Trump described
in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s re-
port would, in the case of any other
person not covered by the Office of
Legal Counsel’s policy against indict-
ing a sitting President, result in mul-
tiple felony charges for obstruction of
justice.’’
I think those prosecutors—I believe
those prosecutors are resting that de-
termination that they each made indi-
vidually on those areas of the report
that begin with the words ‘‘substantial
evidence indicates.’’
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The Senator from Iowa.
EB–5 PROGRAM
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
come to the Senate floor to advise my
colleagues about a new rule that the
Department of Homeland Security pub-
lished in the Federal Register this very
day to finally bring some needed re-
form to the EB–5 green card program.
As I mentioned in my remarks on
this topic last week, this rule was first
proposed in January 2017. Those of us
who want to reform the EB–5 program
have been waiting 21⁄2 years for this
rule to become final, and we have been
waiting much, much longer than that
for some meaningful reforms to this
fraudulent-laden program that we tried
to get enacted into law in previous
Congresses and couldn’t get done be-
cause of being up against these very
powerful, moneyed interests. I think
the President and his team deserve a
lot of credit for pushing these reforms
across the finish line and getting a big
win for rural America.
As I have said on numerous occa-
sions, Congress intended for the EB–5
program to help spur investment in
rural and high-unemployment areas
when this program was established in
1990. Unfortunately, over the last 30
years, big-moneyed interests have been
able to gerrymander EB–5 targeted em-
ployment areas in a way that redi-
rected investment away from our rural
and economically deprived commu-
nities and towards major development
projects in Manhattan and other big
cities. Therefore, instead of providing
much needed investment for rural
America, as originally intended, EB–5
has become a source of cheap foreign
capital for development projects in al-
ready prosperous areas of America.
For the first time, this rule will
bring much needed change so that con-
dition cannot continue. Under the rule,
States will no longer be allowed to
game and gerrymander targeted em-
ployment areas. Instead, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security will make
targeted employment area designa-
tions directly based on revised require-
ments that will help to ensure rural
and high-unemployment areas get
more of the investment they have been
deprived of for far too long under this
program, as it has been misdirected.
Again, this is a major win for rural
America and high-unemployment
areas, and I want to sincerely thank
President Trump and the people in the
administration who worked on this
rule for making this happen and look-
ing out for the interests of my con-
stituents in Iowa and other rural
States and for areas of high unemploy-
ment.
This rule also addresses the min-
imum investment threshold amounts
that are required for the EB–5 projects
around the country.
This is the very first time the invest-
ment thresholds have been adjusted
since the program was created in 1990.
Think of the inflation since that time.
For projects that are outside of tar-
geted employment areas, the threshold
will be raised from $1 million to $1.8
million. For projects in targeted em-
ployment areas, the threshold will be
raised from $500,000 to $900,000. The
minimum investment amount will be
automatically adjusted for inflation
every 5 years.
It is ridiculous that our country’s
major green card program for investors
has been operating with investment
amounts that haven’t been adjusted a
single time in 30 years. That makes no
sense, and I am glad the President and
his team have taken necessary action
to restore a little common sense to the
EB–5 program.
There is more work that needs to be
done on the EB–5 program, and we will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:15 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.018 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5037
July 24, 2019
have to do that by legislation, but the
President and his administration de-
serve a lot of credit for finally imple-
menting these first reforms that I and
several other colleagues have cham-
pioned for years.
I, more than most, understand the
power and influence that big-moneyed
EB–5 interests have historically had in
Washington, and how they have used
that power and influence to consist-
ently thwart any attempt to reform
this program in such an obvious way
that it is needed.
Their unrelenting efforts to stymie
EB–5 reform over the years absolutely
epitomize the swamp culture that so
many voters rejected in the last Presi-
dential election, and getting rid of that
swamp culture is exactly what the
President campaigned on. This is a per-
fect example of his carrying out a cam-
paign promise.
They are also representative of a cul-
ture in Washington that too often dis-
regards the interests of the little guy
in rural Iowa in favor of the interests
of the rich and the powerful. Again, I
applaud the President and his team for
standing up to these rich and powerful
interests.
I am happy to say that, with the pub-
lication of this rule, the little guys in
rural America finally got a win in the
EB–5 program. I now look forward to
working with the President and my
colleagues to build off of this win and
bring further reform to the EB–5 pro-
gram in the future. Thank you, Presi-
dent Trump.
BUDGET AGREEMENT
On another subject, for the past week
there have been ongoing discussions be-
tween congressional leadership and the
administration relating to an agree-
ment on budget caps and raising the
debt limit. Those discussions produced
an agreement that was announced
Monday night.
While I understand reaching an
agreement was important to ensure the
full faith and credit of the United
States, I am disappointed the final
agreement does not address a subject
that has been causing heartache for
millions of taxpayers for at least the
past 6 months. The subject is what is
known around Capitol Hill and Wash-
ington, DC, as tax extenders, things
that come up every 2 or 3 years that
need to be reauthorized.
For decades, Congress has routinely
acted on a bipartisan basis to extend a
number of expired or expiring provi-
sions. Typically, their extension would
be included as part of a larger spending
package or budget deal at the end of
the year. Unfortunately, this never oc-
curred at the end of last year. Now,
here we are almost 7 months into the
end of 2018 and 3 months after the close
of the regular tax filing season, and
taxpayers still have no answers.
The budget and debt limit agreement
announced Monday is yet another
missed opportunity to provide answers
for millions of taxpayers—both individ-
uals and businesses—who are waiting
on Congress so they can finalize their
2018 taxes and, in some cases, it may
even mean whether or not they can
stay in business.
While Finance Committee Ranking
Member WYDEN and I, working as a
team, have been ready and willing to
address tax extenders since early on in
this Congress, the new Democratic ma-
jority in the House of Representatives
has been reluctant to act. It seems as
though the House Democrats are un-
aware of the historic bipartisan, bi-
cameral nature of tax extenders or how
those provisions even apply to tax-
payers, to industries, and maybe help-
ing the entire economy. This is evi-
denced from the characterization of
these provisions by some of these Mem-
bers as ‘‘just tax breaks for corpora-
tions and businesses.’’ So I want to tell
you how these are not just tax breaks
for corporations and businesses.
In fact, the overwhelming majority
of the tax extenders either benefit indi-
viduals and families directly or they
benefit our communities by giving a
boost to local businesses that many
people directly rely on for jobs and to
support their local economies.
For illustration purposes, I have bro-
ken the tax provisions that expired in
2017 into four categories: tax relief for
individuals, green energy incentives,
employment and economic incentives
for distressed areas, and general busi-
ness incentives.
If you look at this chart, you will see
that these four categories are broken
down by the relative costs of the exten-
sion of the tax extender in each cat-
egory. As you can see, based upon Joint
Committee on Taxation estimates—
these aren’t my estimates, but Joint
Committee on Taxation estimates—of
a 2-year extension of these provisions
for 2018 and 2019, the largest cost asso-
ciated with extending them is for what
is termed ‘‘green energy incentives.’’
These green energy incentives ac-
count for nearly 60 percent of the cost
of this extension. These incentives in-
clude provisions to encourage the use
and production of clean and renewable
fuels, to promote electricity genera-
tion from certain clean and renewable
sources, and tax incentives for more
energy efficient buildings and homes.
Here I would have thought the new
Democratic majority in the House
would be all about what we call green
jobs, and reducing our Nation’s carbon
emissions through alternative energy
sources is what we are talking about
here. Yet the new Democratic majority
has been reluctant to embrace a bipar-
tisan tax package with nearly 60 per-
cent of the cost dedicated to green en-
ergy incentives.
The long delay in addressing these
provisions is needlessly putting thou-
sands of good-paying green jobs at
stake. A couple weeks ago, we saw a
biodiesel plant in Nebraska close down,
costing about 40 employees their jobs.
Just this very day, a renewable energy
group announced it is closing a Texas
plant due to the uncertainty of the bio-
diesel tax credit. Should we fail to ex-
tend the biodiesel tax credit soon,
many more will be closed. That would
put the 60,000 jobs supported by the bio-
diesel industry nationwide in jeopardy.
Going to another one, after this
green energy proposal which I just dis-
cussed, individual provisions represent
the second largest component of tax
extenders, totaling nearly one-third of
the cost. These provisions include re-
lief for homeowners who obtained debt
forgiveness on home mortgages, a de-
duction for mortgage insurance pre-
miums, and a provision that allows col-
lege students to deduct tuition and re-
lated expenses. In regard to college stu-
dents, wouldn’t you think the new
Democratic majority would be inter-
ested in helping college students?
They also include incentives for indi-
vidual consumers to purchase energy-
efficient products for their homes, as
well as certain types of alternative ve-
hicles.
To highlight just one of these provi-
sions, in 2017, over 1.5 million tax-
payers took advantage of the college
tuition deduction. You can think of
that as over 1.5 million students who
have been left dangling for last year
and this year as Congress continues to
consider whether or not to extend this
college tuition deduction. For some,
this deduction of up to $4,000 for edu-
cation expenses can make the dif-
ference between continuing their edu-
cation or waiting another year to fin-
ish a degree and to move up to a better
job.
The remaining two categories are
small in terms of cost in comparison to
the first two. The provisions relating
to employment and economic initia-
tives for distressed areas makes up
only 4.1 percent of the overall cost and
consists of two provisions. One would
be the Indian employment credit, and
the other would be the empowerment
zone incentives.
Now, this is really odd. It is really
hard to believe the new House Demo-
cratic majority finds it very objection-
able to incentivize employers to hire
Native Americans or, for the second
part of it, to provide incentives to en-
courage businesses to locate and bring
jobs to low-income areas. I hear the
new majority in the other body talking
that we don’t do enough to help low-in-
come people. What is better than pro-
viding them with jobs and doing it
through the empowerment zone incen-
tives tax credit so you get capital in
there to build jobs up in low-income
areas?
If we can’t address these two employ-
ment and economic incentives, how are
we going to deal with two much larger
ones that expire at the end of this
year—the work opportunity tax credit
and the new markets tax credit—all to
create jobs?
I guess it must somehow be the final
category, which I have termed general
business incentives, that the House
Democratic majority must find objec-
tionable because it falls into the cat-
egory that we are only trying to help
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:15 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.020 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5038 July 24, 2019
big business or big corporations. That
is their accusation.
These provisions make a whopping
4.5 percent of the total cost of extend-
ing provisions that expired at the end
of 2017. Most of these provisions have
very minimal cost as they only accel-
erate when a business may deduct cer-
tain deductions and not whether the
costs are deductible in the first place.
However, the most costly of what I
term general business incentives is also
likely the most popular. I am going to
show you in just a minute. It is the
most popular because it has such an
overwhelming number of cosponsors in
both bodies. That is the short line tax
credit. This provision offers a tax cred-
it to short line railroads for qualified
maintenance expenditures. This credit
isn’t available to the largest railroads,
which we call the class 1 railroads.
This credit benefits smaller railroads
that are critically important for farm-
ers and many manufacturers to get
their products to the global markets.
For example, in my State of Iowa, ac-
cording to recent data from the Amer-
ican Short Line and Regional Railroad
Association, there are nine short line
and regional railroads.
This credit isn’t just supported by
and important to the railroads them-
selves; it is also supported by the users
of short line railroads who depend on
these railroads to get their products to
market around the world. For example,
Midwest soybean farmers selling to the
Asian market typically must ship their
crop by rail to the Port of Seattle, and
the short line railroads are part of that
railroad system and are critical to that
transportation network.
The fact is, this provision is far more
than some sort of giveaway to busi-
ness. It is a provision that is important
to whole communities. This is probably
a big reason why legislation making
this short line tax credit permanent
currently has 50 cosponsors in this
body of the Senate and 228 cosponsors
in the House of Representatives.
I hope I have been able to clear up
some of the misunderstanding regard-
ing tax extenders for the new Demo-
cratic majority in the House, not only
on the substance of these tax extenders
but also on the fact that extending
these tax credits has been both bi-
cameral and bipartisan for at least a
couple of decades. Extenders are not
just about businesses or corporations.
This overwhelmingly benefits individ-
uals—individuals. It benefits green en-
ergy and promotes job creation in
urban and rural communities alike.
In order to provide certainty—and
you need certainty in tax law. If you
want to provide certainty to the people
who relied on these provisions in 2018
and potentially this year, we should ex-
tend them at least through 2019 as
quickly as possible. This could have
been done as part of the bipartisan
agreement on budget and debt limits
announced Monday. Unfortunately, I
fear a misunderstanding of what ex-
tenders really are by the new Members
in the House of Representatives and
whom they benefit on the part of the
same Democratic House majority con-
tributed to these extenders being left
out of the deal announced Monday.
I know there are those who question
the need to extend these provisions in
perpetuity. It happens that I agree
with those points of view. That is why
the Finance Committee, which I chair,
created a series of task forces to exam-
ine these policies for the long term.
The task forces were charged with
examining each of these provisions to
determine if we can reach a consensus
on a long-term resolution so that we
don’t have to have an extended debate
every 2 years about extending extend-
ers or tax credits.
I look forward to receiving the sum-
mations of the task forces that I have
appointed later this week. Hopefully,
these submissions will provide a basis
for the Finance Committee to put to-
gether an extenders package before the
end of the year that includes longer
term solutions for as many of these
temporary provisions as possible.
This is important so that we can stop
the annual exercise of kicking the can
down the road. However, in the mean-
time, I remain committed to acting as
soon as possible so that taxpayers who
have relied on these provisions in 2018
don’t end up feeling like Charlie Brown
after Lucy pulls the football away.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
f
ALLOWING THE DEPUTY ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE FEDERAL AVIA-
TION ADMINISTRATION ON THE
DATE OF ENACTMENT OF THIS
ACT TO CONTINUE TO SERVE AS
SUCH DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, as in
legislative session, I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate proceed to the
immediate consideration of S. 2249, in-
troduced earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 2249) to allow the Deputy Admin-
istrator of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion on the date of enactment of this Act to
continue to serve as such Deputy Adminis-
trator.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. BARRASSO. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time and passed and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 2249) was ordered to be
engrossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed as follows:
S. 2249
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY FOR CONTINUATION OF
SERVICE OF THE DEPUTY ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—An individual serving as
Deputy Administrator of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration on the date of enact-
ment of this Act may continue to serve as
such Deputy Administrator, without regard
to the restrictions specified in the 5th sen-
tence of section 106(d)(1) of title 49, United
States Code.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this Act shall be construed as approval by
Congress of any future appointments of mili-
tary persons to the Offices of Administrator
and Deputy Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today again, as I
have week after week, to highlight the
healthcare policy disaster the Demo-
crats have labeled as Medicare for All.
This mislabeled, one-size-fits-all ap-
proach takes health insurance away—
takes it away—from 180 million Ameri-
cans who have earned and who get
their health insurance on the job.
Still, many Democratic Members and
many Presidential candidates support
this radical proposal, which would ac-
tually eliminate on-the-job insurance.
Offered originally by Senator SANDERS,
this so-called Medicare for All bill
would dramatically raise taxes. It
would destroy Medicare as we know it,
and, of course, it would ration care.
Last week I discussed healthcare ra-
tioning in Britain and in Canada.
Today my focus is the plan’s impact on
medical innovation. As a doctor, I con-
tinue to remain astonished at how far
medical technology has come in the 30
years since I started to practice medi-
cine. Scientific breakthroughs are sav-
ing lives all around the world. I know
because my wife Bobbi is a breast can-
cer survivor.
According to the American Cancer
Society, the death rate for women with
breast cancer has fallen nearly 40 per-
cent. More women are living longer
after being diagnosed and treated. The
progress is due to earlier detection as
well as better treatment. It is a com-
bination.
This is not limited to breast cancer
alone. The death rate for all cancer pa-
tients has steadily declined. The diag-
nosis of cancer is no longer considered
a death penalty. People survive and
thrive. We have made tremendous
strides. U.S. brain power has led the
way. According to the New York
Times, the United States is ‘‘home to
an outsize share of global [healthcare]
innovation.’’
The innovation comes from America.
Patients the world over depend upon
our medical breakthroughs.
What happens if we put Washington
in charge of all of U.S. healthcare?
Washington bureaucrats—not you, not
your family, not your doctor, not sci-
entists, but Washington bureaucrats—
will call the shots.
Let’s look again at Britain, which
has a government-run system. There
was a recent headline in the British
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:15 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.021 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5039
July 24, 2019
newspaper, the Guardian, and it is en-
lightening. It says this: ‘‘NHS cancer
scans left unread for weeks.’’ The can-
cer scans have been left unread for
weeks.
The Guardian reports: ‘‘Cancer scans
showing the presence or spread of the
disease are going unread for as long as
six weeks.’’ Think about that. You are
a patient. It is cancer. It is ongoing,
and it is spreading. You have had a
scan and have been waiting 6 weeks to
know what is happening with your own
body.
Cancer scan reports used to take a
week; then, about a month and now, 6
weeks. As a result, according to one of
the radiologists in Britain,
‘‘[u]nexpected and critical findings are
going unreported for weeks.’’ As he
said, ‘‘We are now just firefighting.’’
The patients are getting the scans,
and they are waiting for results. Amer-
ican patients simply would not tolerate
this. They wouldn’t in my home State.
They wouldn’t in your home State, Mr.
President.
American patients will not tolerate
this. That is why we can’t afford to
lose our competitive edge. The return
of our investment in medical research
and development in this country is ab-
solutely tremendous. It is thanks to
U.S. investment and innovation. That
is why patient care is improving not
just in the United States but world-
wide.
President Trump is asking Europe
and other developed countries to start
paying their fair share. The President
is right. American patients shouldn’t
have to foot all of the bill for global
cures. Still, U.S. patients will surely
suffer if Washington bureaucrats start
blocking new innovations.
As I said last week, the Congres-
sional Budget Office came out and
talked about their report on what
Medicare for All would mean, and they
said that there would be a delay—a
delay in treatment, as well as a delay
in technology if we had a one-size-fits
all healthcare system and 180 million
Americans lost the insurance they get
from work.
Patients in England have bureau-
crats as judge and as jury weighing the
value of every advancement, seeing if
they can even have it in that country.
What we see is that the bureaucrats
are denying lifesaving treatment, much
of it invented in the United States.
British patients recently protested
their National Health Service. They
protested because the National Health
Service refused to permit the use of a
cutting-edge drug to treat cystic fibro-
sis. The protesters ended up placing T-
shirts in Parliament Square, rep-
resenting the 255 people in England
who have died as a result of the refusal
of England to approve the use of a drug
that exists and that works.
Of course, we all agree the prices of
medications need to come down. In
England, the government just says: No,
we are not going to have that treat-
ment, that cure, to be used in our
country.
We need to get the cost of care down.
We also need to protect innovation be-
cause that is the future of healthcare.
Doctors and scientists need the free-
dom to give us the next generation of
lifesaving drugs. That is why I am con-
cerned that under the Democrats’ plan
such medical progress is threatened.
Clearly, Democrats have taken a
hard-left turn when it comes to
healthcare and when it comes to the
role of imposing more government in
our lives. They want to take away your
health insurance, the one you get from
work, and in place of on-the-job insur-
ance, they want one expensive, new,
government-run program for everyone.
Democrats’ extreme scheme is ex-
pected to cost $32 trillion. It is so ex-
pensive, in fact, that even doubling ev-
eryone’s taxes wouldn’t cover it. That
means Washington bureaucrats will be
restricting your care. You will lose the
freedom to choose your doctor. You
will lose the freedom to choose your
hospital. You will have the freedom to
make choices about your own life, and
bureaucrats will limit your access to
new treatments as well as cutting-edge
technologies.
It is hard to know how many months
you will have to wait for urgently
needed care. We have seen it in Canada.
We have seen it in England. We do not
want to see it here in the United
States. Delayed care becomes denied
care.
Why should you pay more, which is
what this so-called Medicare for All
does? You will be paying more to wait
longer for worse care. Why would
America want that? That is exactly
what the Democrats are proposing.
Meanwhile, Republicans are focused
on real reforms—reforms that lower
costs without lowering standards. That
is the key difference. We want to lower
costs but not standards.
In England, they say: Well, it is free,
but you are going to have to wait for a
long time for your free care. As I re-
ported last week, people have actually
gone blind while waiting and others
have died while waiting.
The Democrats’ proposal actually
lowers standards while limiting your
choices and raising your costs. It is
time to reject the Democrats’ one-size-
fits-all healthcare scheme. Instead,
let’s ensure our patients get the inno-
vative care they need from a doctor
they choose at lower costs.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, today is a
good day for this body, for the State of
Nebraska, and for every American who
is committed to the rule of law, includ-
ing our first freedom, which is religious
liberty.
In a few minutes, we will be voting to
confirm Brian Buescher to be the U.S.
Federal district judge for the District
of Nebraska. Brian is a born-and-raised
Nebraskan. He is a husband, a father of
five, and for nearly two decades he has
served his home State admirably in the
legal profession. His nomination is an
honor for our State, and it is a testa-
ment to his integrity and to his tire-
less service. At the same time, Brian’s
confirmation process has been an occa-
sion for one of the most baffling dis-
plays of constitutional confusion and
prejudice I have seen in my time here.
Brian is a Catholic, and he is a mem-
ber of the Knights of Columbus. The
Knights of Columbus is the largest
Catholic fraternal organization in the
world. The organization has 1.6 million
members. It raises millions and mil-
lions of dollars every year for charity,
and they contribute millions—literally
millions and millions—of hours of vol-
unteer and charitable service for their
neighbors.
Like a lot of Catholic men in Ne-
braska, Brian joined the Knights of Co-
lumbus as a way to give back to his
community. This is not a scandal. This
is actually just really basic—some-
times really boring—love of neighbor,
but it is the kind of stuff that makes
communities work.
According to some of my colleagues
on the Senate Judiciary Committee,
Brian’s association with this extraor-
dinary charitable organization—again,
really mundane, the Knights of Colum-
bus, the largest Catholic fraternal or-
ganization in the world—according to
some of my colleagues, the Knights of
Columbus is an extremist outfit. One of
my colleagues suggested that Brian
needs to resign his membership in the
Knights if he were confirmed to the
Federal bench to avoid the appearance
of conflict and bias—really bizarre
stuff.
To be clear, the Knights of Columbus
is not some shadowy organization from
a Dan Brown novel. The Knights is a
bunch of guys who organize fish fries,
and sometimes they sell Tootsie Rolls,
but basically what they are doing is
helping to fund organizations like the
Special Olympics. That is what they do
in Omaha, in Lincoln, across Nebraska,
and across the country. It is really
weird that we are talking about the
Knights of Columbus as an extremist
organization.
In this weird rebirth of McCarthyism,
it seems that the Catholics are to re-
place the Communists. This isn’t just
Brian. We have had other nominees
come before the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee this year being asked questions
laughably close to: Are you now or
have you ever been involved in the or-
ganization of a fish fry?
We have people asked questions that
sound like they are going to be called
to account for what their prayer may
have been at the last pancake feed:
Have you or your colleagues ever been
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:15 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.023 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5040 July 24, 2019
involved in any plot to overthrow the
government at a fish fry?
One of our nominees was asked: How
long has the dogma lived loudly within
you, and if you had to rank the dogma
on a volume scale from 1 to 10, just
how loud is the dogma?
This stuff seems almost laughable,
unless you pause and recognize that
the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee
is asking nominees questions like this.
This shouldn’t be happening.
Again, just so we are clear, a U.S.
Senator, who has taken an oath to up-
hold and defend the Constitution,
asked Brian, as a faithful Catholic, to
resign his membership in the Knights
of Columbus to ‘‘avoid the appearance
of bias.’’
The implication in these questions is
really straightforward. It is that
Brian’s religious beliefs and his affili-
ation with his Catholic religious fra-
ternal organization might make him
unfit for service.
Let’s put it bluntly: This is plain, un-
adulterated anti-Catholic bigotry. This
isn’t a new thing in U.S history; it is
just a new, new thing. John F. Ken-
nedy, 60 years ago, was asked, as he
was running for President, some really
similar questions.
It is also plainly unconstitutional.
Every Member of this body, all 100 of
us, has raised our hands and took an
oath to defend the Constitution, which
in article VI states in language so clear
that even a politician has to acknowl-
edge that it does what it says: ‘‘No reli-
gious test shall ever be required as
qualification to any office or public
trust under the United States.’’
I just want to say this again. This is
just straight out of the Constitution,
article VI. ‘‘No religious test shall ever
be required as qualification to any pub-
lic office or public trust under the
United States.’’
That is why—because this was hap-
pening in the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee—in January, I led a charge on
the floor to push through a resolution
to reaffirm our oath of office to the
Constitution that rejects religious big-
otry. I called on every Member of this
body to affirm that we respect the free-
dom of every American to worship as
he or she sees fit and to live out their
faith in the public square.
Fortunately, the Federal Govern-
ment and politics, more broadly, is not
in the business of trying to resolve
questions of Heaven and Hell. That is
not what we use politics for in this
country. Here, we are only in this
worldly business of trying to maintain
the peace and the public order nec-
essary so every individual can make
their own decisions about ultimate
matters, about last things for them-
selves under the dictates of conscience,
not trying to submit to the whims of
politicians or political movements.
This is a great American blessing and
we need to reaffirm it and we need to
reteach it every occasion we have that
opportunity.
Happily, the unanimous support for
that resolution was an encouraging
step. Today, in a few minutes, when
Brian Buescher is going to be con-
firmed as a U.S. district judge for the
District of Nebraska, we will see an-
other important step, which is a reaf-
firmation and a confirmation to the
American people that people of every
faith and of no faith—to Protestants
and Catholics, Jews and Muslims, Hin-
dus and Buddhists, agnostics, atheists,
and otherwise—that in America, you
have a place in the life of this Nation.
We don’t have to resolve every con-
flict, even conflicts and arguments and
debates about things more important
than politics. We don’t have to resolve
every conflict to agree that we will live
peaceably today in this colony. This
should be a reaffirmation of the basic
American belief that there is room in
this country to disagree.
In fact, so much of what makes this
country exceptional is that we do dis-
agree about some of the most impor-
tant things and some of the ultimate
things. Yet we do it without severing
all the temporal bonds that bring us
together as friends, neighbors, citizens,
and patriots.
Brian is a good man, and I am con-
vinced Brian is going to be a great
judge. I suspect that he and many of
his other fellow Knights of Columbus
in Omaha are going to be organizing
fish fries together again next spring,
and I look forward to joining them at
those fish fries.
So today I am pleased to celebrate
with Brian and his family and the
whole State of Nebraska his confirma-
tion to the Federal bench, and I cele-
brate, too, this victory for our prin-
cipled American commitment to reli-
gious liberty for each and every Amer-
ican.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
BUDGET AGREEMENT
Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, thank
you for your accommodation today. I
rise to talk about another responsi-
bility we have in the Senate; that is, to
fund the Federal Government.
Our Nation was built on debate and
compromise. If you read what the
Founding Mothers and Founding Fa-
thers debated in Chambers just like
this and then later in this Chamber
through the first 100 years of our exist-
ence, there was hot debate and many
disagreements, but somehow they
found a way to find a compromise.
Our Founding Mothers and Founding
Fathers believed rightly that to get the
best results, both sides had to come to
the table to make a deal. This week,
the Trump administration and congres-
sional leaders, including Speaker
PELOSI, reached a critical 2-year com-
promise on spending levels and the
debt ceiling.
Like any compromise, this funding
agreement is not perfect. Neither side
got everything it wanted. It accom-
plishes three important things, how-
ever.
First, it will provide certainty to our
military. This is critical after the last
decade, when 2 years ago, two-thirds of
our F/A teams couldn’t fly. Only 3 of
our Army brigades could fight that
night out of the 58 Army brigades we
have. Our readiness was terrible. This
deal will continue to reestablish readi-
ness for our military, provide our
troops with the compensation and ben-
efits they deserve, and take care of our
veterans here at home.
Before this, three Democratic Presi-
dents disinvested in the military. That
is just historic fact. It was done in the
seventies, it was done in the nineties,
and it was done by the prior adminis-
tration.
Second, none of the liberal poison
pills or riders actually ended up in this
final bill. Going forward, President
Trump and congressional Republicans
will ensure that we keep those out but
in the spirit of compromise and hard
negotiation.
Third, and most importantly, this
deal keeps the ball moving on the proc-
ess of funding the government on time
to avoid another devastating shutdown
or continuing resolution. However, de-
spite these benefits, this deal high-
lights two significant problems. These
are not new.
First, Washington’s funding process
is broken. The current system is ineffi-
cient and time-consuming. It has actu-
ally only funded the government on
time four times in the last 45 years
since the 1974 Congressional Budget
Act was put into place. We now have
just 13 working days between now and
the end of this fiscal year. We are sup-
posed to have 12 appropriations bills
and $1.3 trillion of funding appro-
priated by the end of that time, by Sep-
tember 30. Good luck with that.
So here we are in the eleventh hour.
We just made a big agreement, and I
believe now the pressure is on to get
defense and some of the domestic
spending appropriations done certainly
by September 30 so we can avoid the
draconian impact of continuing resolu-
tions on our military.
The lack of time means that for the
second year in a row, Congress has had
to rush in order to fund the govern-
ment in the last moments of the fiscal
year. Last year, we stayed here in Au-
gust during the work period, and we
went from 12 percent funding to 75 per-
cent funding, and this year we have the
opportunity to do that.
I believe the plan is in place, when we
come back this September, that we can
actually get upward of two-thirds done
by the end of September, which would
include the military, which would
avoid this CR issue we have been talk-
ing about.
This process has been the norm in
Washington for decades, however. This
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.024 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5041
July 24, 2019
is nothing new. Since the Budget Act
of 1974 was put in place, we have only
done this four times, as I said. We can-
not allow this process to continue this
way.
Last year, we had a joint select com-
mittee, as you know. I believe we have
four things that we can move on this
year in terms of bills and possibly
change this going forward. The Amer-
ican people sent us here to get this job
done. It is time we break through all
this—the logjam of politics—and face
the fact next year that our No. 1 pri-
ority is to fund the government.
The second problem this budget deal
has highlighted is the most important
issue facing our country, in my opin-
ion—the $22 trillion debt crisis. While
this deal provides for all discretionary
spending, the current budget deal does
not include mandatory spending, nor
does any other prior spending bill in-
clude mandatory.
By law, all the budget does and all
the appropriations do is deal with the
discretionary budget, which is only $1.3
trillion of $4.6 trillion in total money
that we spend as the Federal Govern-
ment. So you say: Well, what is the dif-
ference? Well, we spent $1.3 trillion.
Well, what is in that? That is military,
Veterans’ Administration, and all do-
mestic discretionary spending. Well,
what is in mandatory? Social Security,
Medicare, Medicaid, pension benefits,
and the interest on the debt, which, by
the way, has gone up over $450 billion
in the last 21⁄2 years.
Let me put this into perspective.
This budget deal only increases discre-
tionary spending from last year’s level
over the next 2 years by $54 billion.
That is 2 percent per year for the next
2 years. That is lower growth in spend-
ing on discretionary items than the
growth of our economy at the moment.
That means that in 2 years, the spend-
ing on discretionary spending items
will be less as a percentage of our econ-
omy than it is today.
This is an incredibly important point
and was a major goal of President
Trump’s going into this process. The
problem is, the CBO projects that man-
datory spending and interest payments
will grow in that same period over the
next 2 years by $420 billion. That is our
problem. This is what is driving the
huge increases on our debt over the
next two decades. In these 2 years,
ironically, half the increase in the
mandatory spending is in interest ex-
pense. Even with interest rates being
historically low, that is the case. Imag-
ine what we would have if interest
rates were at their 30-year average of 5
to 6 percent.
Right now, 70 percent of what the
government spends is made up of man-
datory spending, as I said: Social Secu-
rity, Medicare, Medicaid, pension bene-
fits for Federal employees, and the in-
terest on the debt. Many of these pro-
grams are in dire need of reform. The
Social Security Trust Fund goes to
zero in 16 years. The Medicare trust
fund goes to zero in 7 years. It is imper-
ative that we save these important pro-
grams. Yet nothing is being done when
we deal with the discretionary part of
this budget.
Instead, Congress has been wrangling
over the discretionary budget, which
makes up just 30 percent of all spend-
ing. The whole situation shows just
how shortsighted Washington is. Rath-
er than address the long-term problems
facing the country, Congress keeps
kicking the can down the road. Fortu-
nately, there are five steps, ultimately,
we can take to address this long-term
fiscal problem.
First is we have to grow the econ-
omy. Check that box because the econ-
omy is moving. Regulatory work, en-
ergy, taxes, and Dodd-Frank have kick-
started this economy, creating 6 mil-
lion new jobs. The economy is growing
at about twice the rate it did under the
prior administration, so the economy
is growing.
Second is to root out redundant
spending; third, fix the funding process;
fourth, save Social Security and Medi-
care; and lastly, we have to finally ad-
dress the underlying drivers of our
healthcare costs.
Thanks to President Trump’s leader-
ship, we already have the first part
covered. Unemployment is the lowest
it has been in 50 years. Our energy po-
tential has been unleashed. The Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act has brought new in-
vestment to our country.
I want to highlight again the driver
here. I am going to show a chart just as
I close. Mandatory spending is the No.
1 problem we have with our debt crisis.
The bottom line here is discretionary
spending. The vertical dotted line is
today, 2019. You can see, over the last
decade or so, that discretionary spend-
ing has been relatively quiet. We have
had some increase. The green line is
total spending, but the orange line is
the total mandatory line. You can see
the explosive nature of growth from
today forward.
That is why this conversation today
is so timely because, in the past, while
it was going up, it is going up geo-
metrically in the next 20 years com-
pared to what it has been. That is a
function of the growth of the size of
the debt itself and also because of the
aging demographic of our population.
As more and more people retire and go
into Medicare and Medicaid, you will
see these numbers continue to rise.
These are Congressional Budget Office
numbers. This highlights how serious
this is and why all the drama is on the
30 percent down here and why we have
to change the rhetoric here, change the
predicate of discussion and start talk-
ing about the mandatory expenditures
and how we save them.
Solving the debt crisis is the right
thing to do and the only thing to do.
The world needs us to do this, and the
time is right now. Given that, this
budget deal is a reasonable com-
promise, and we now need to make sure
we appropriate to avoid any continuing
resolution for our defense funding.
Going into the next year, now that
we have an agreement on a topline for
discretionary spending for 2020, we
need to expedite appropriations to en-
sure we avoid the unnecessary drama
next year. This is one reason why I ran
for the Senate. We have to get serious
about the long-term implications of
our debt. The world knows that. Our
people know that. The problem is the
political will has been missing in
Washington.
We passed one milestone, hopefully,
with this agreement on the topline,
and we will move to appropriations,
but we have to move, starting imme-
diately, to change the process so we
don’t have this drama next year and we
begin the dialogue about how to save
Social Security and Medicare.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Nebraska.
NOMINATION OF BRIAN C. BUESCHER
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise
today to voice my support for Brian
Buescher, President Trump’s nominee
to serve on the U.S. District Court for
the District of Nebraska.
Near the end of 2017, both Senator
SASSE and I were given notice that
Chief Judge Laurie Smith Camp would
assume senior status on Nebraska’s
Federal bench. Many people may not
know this, but the case docket for the
U.S. District Court for the District of
Nebraska is among the busiest dockets
in the Nation. In recent years, the dis-
trict has carried some of the highest
per-judge criminal caseloads in the
country, which surpasses judicial dis-
tricts that include New York City, Chi-
cago, and Los Angeles. That is why it
is critical to both Nebraska and our
Nation that the Senate delivers an ex-
ceptional judge to fill this vacancy
without further delay.
In this spirit, both Senator SASSE
and I worked quickly to begin the
open-application process. Nebraska is
the proud home of many brilliant legal
minds, and we thoroughly studied
every application and interviewed
qualified candidates. After an exten-
sive search spanning the course of a
few months, Senator SASSE and I came
to a conclusion. We would recommend
to President Trump that Brian
Buescher be nominated as the next
judge on Nebraska’s Federal district
court.
Mr. Buescher is a proud husband and
father of five children who have been
his biggest cheerleaders throughout
this long confirmation process. He
grew up in Clay County, NE. There he
learned the importance of hard work at
a young age on his family’s farm,
where they raised corn, milo, wheat,
alfalfa, hogs and cattle. It is also from
this upbringing that he developed a
keen appreciation for how the law di-
rectly affects the everyday lives of
Americans and even more so for those
who live and work in America’s heart-
land.
After receiving his undergraduate de-
gree from the University of Nebraska-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.026 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5042 July 24, 2019
Lincoln, Brian was accepted into law
school at Georgetown University. He
thrived both in and out of the class-
room. He was editor-in-chief of the
Georgetown Journal of Ethics and vice
president of the Georgetown Law Stu-
dent Bar Association.
Mr. Buescher is currently a partner
at Nebraska’s largest law firm, Kutak
Rock. He is chairman of the firm’s ag-
ribusiness litigation team and oversees
large, complex commercial litigation,
which includes environmental law, food
law, real estate, class actions, product
liability, and banking.
He has gained invaluable experience
as a litigator, and his resume speaks
for itself. His success includes favor-
able rulings in cases heard by Nebraska
and Iowa’s State and Federal courts,
the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, and
the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Dis-
trict of Nebraska. Time after time,
case after case, he has demonstrated
his commitment to upholding the Con-
stitution and the rule of law.
In 2017, the American Agricultural
Law Association awarded him the
award for Excellence in Agricultural
Law in Private Practice. The American
Bar Association rated Mr. Buescher as
‘‘qualified’’ by an overwhelming major-
ity. His 20 years of litigation experi-
ence has unquestionably prepared him
for his next life chapter as a U.S. dis-
trict court judge.
Nebraska’s former secretary of State,
John Gale, recruited Brian to serve on
the Nebraska State Records Board.
Secretary Gale noted that ‘‘Mr.
Buescher reflects the highest level for
the qualities needed for a district
judge, ranging from intelligence, integ-
rity, professionalism, attentiveness,
character, and skillful articulation to a
deep understanding of the rules and
procedures of the courtroom.’’
While everyone who has worked with
him praises his legal acumen, those
who know him on a personal level
speak to his integrity and his char-
acter. One of his friends from college
who has known Brian for a quarter of a
century praised his commitment to
serving the community and his quali-
ties as a husband and father. His friend
concluded: ‘‘I can say with complete
confidence what kind of person Brian is
and that there is nothing that should
give you hesitation about his confirma-
tion.’’
By all accounts Brian Buescher has
enthusiastic support in Nebraska for
his superb legal work and fairminded
disposition.
I was proud to introduce Mr.
Buescher at his confirmation hearing
before the Senate Judiciary Committee
last November. I sincerely hoped that
my Democratic colleagues would see
Mr. Buescher for who he was—a sharp
legal mind and a man of high char-
acter. However, my Democratic friends
on the Judiciary Committee deployed
unjust, bigoted attacks instead of
using reason and open-mindedness.
They could not criticize his solid
record nor his judicial philosophy. So
they reverted to attacking his personal
religious beliefs. Both the junior Sen-
ator from California and the junior
Senator from Hawaii questioned Mr.
Buescher’s membership in the Knights
of Columbus.
For anyone who may be unaware, the
Knights of Columbus is not a radical
interest group. It is not political at all.
The Knights of Columbus is the world’s
largest Roman Catholic fraternal orga-
nization. Their motto is ‘‘In service to
one, service to all,’’ and they are
founded on the core principles of char-
ity, unity, and patriotism.
Over the last decade, the Knights of
Columbus have donated $1.1 billion to
charities and performed more than 68
million hours of volunteer service. In
2017 alone, local councils donated and
distributed over 105,000 winter coats for
underprivileged children through their
‘‘Coats for Kids’’ program. They have
raised more than $382 million in the
past three decades to help groups and
programs that support the intellectu-
ally and physically disabled. Whether
it is providing food and shelter for refu-
gees, rebuilding homes for families
that are struck by natural disasters,
volunteering at veterans medical fa-
cilities, or simply having pancake
breakfasts to raise money for local
schools, the acts of charity and kind-
ness of the Knights of Columbus are
truly inspiring.
That is why I was shocked to hear
that Mr. Buescher received a letter
from the junior Senator from Hawaii
following his confirmation hearing
that suggested he leave the Knights of
Columbus to ‘‘avoid an appearance of
bias.’’ The notion that being a Knights
of Columbus member is disqualifying
to serve on the Federal bench is dis-
turbing on its own, but holding reli-
gious tests for our judicial nominees
blatantly ignores the Constitution and
tears at the fabric of our core Amer-
ican values—the freedom to worship
and pray as we choose.
Fortunately, the Senate passed a res-
olution earlier this year that con-
demned unconstitutional religious
tests for nominees.
President Kennedy endured anti-
Catholic attacks throughout his 1960
campaign, and for me it was exception-
ally troubling to see that rhetoric re-
turn to the Senate in 2019. Now we will
have another chance here in the Senate
to send a clear message that we share
our Founding Fathers’ contempt for re-
ligious tests for public office by con-
firming Brian Buescher to the Federal
bench.
In closing, I think it is important to
reiterate that reverence for our Con-
stitution and our laws is part of what
it means to be an American. My friend
Peggy Noonan characterized this best a
few weeks ago in her Wall Street Jour-
nal column. She described a young pol-
itician in 1838 who gave a speech to a
Midwestern youth group about public
policy and the political events at the
time. The last of our Founding Fathers
had recently died, and in their absence,
our Nation felt lost.
The Founders were a visual represen-
tation of American values and modeled
our first principles in their behavior.
After their deaths, these core values
were being forgotten and mob rule
began to rise, threatening our Repub-
lic. The young politician had a solu-
tion: Our people should transfer rev-
erence for our Founders to reverence to
the laws that they created. He said:
‘‘Only reverence for our Constitution
and laws’’ will protect our Nation’s po-
litical institutions and retain the ‘‘at-
tachment of the people.’’
The speaker that day, in 1838, was
Abraham Lincoln, who was 28 years old
at the time. He understood the delicate
nature of our laws—that when our laws
collapse, everything else in our Nation
can crumble with it.
I believe that to love our country we
must respect our Constitution and
apply the laws fairly to all. When we do
so, we not only honor our past, but we
protect the future generations of this
great Nation. We can do that here in
the Senate by appointing exceptional
judges to the Federal bench, and I can
say with great confidence that Mr.
Buescher will be one of them. He is a
well-qualified nominee and a man who
possesses high ethical standards. I have
no doubt that Brian Buescher will
honor his family, our State, and our
Nation with his service on the U.S. Dis-
trict Court for the District of Ne-
braska.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to vote in favor of his nomina-
tion.
I yield the floor.
NOMINATION OF WENDY WILLIAMS BERGER
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President,
Judge Wendy Williams Berger has hon-
orably served the State of Florida for
several years, and I proudly support
her confirmation as a district judge for
the Middle District of Florida today.
Throughout her distinguished legal ca-
reer, she has remained committed to
upholding the rule of law, prosecuting
criminal offenses as an Assistant State
Attorney for Florida’s Seventh Judi-
cial Circuit, and subsequently pre-
siding as a circuit court judge for that
same judicial circuit. As Governor of
Florida, I was honored to appoint
Judge Berger to the Fifth District
Court of Appeal in 2012, and I am proud
to support her confirmation to the Fed-
eral bench, where she will continue her
exemplary service to our State and Na-
tion.
Mrs. FISCHER. I suggest the absence
of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.027 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5043
July 24, 2019
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Wendy Williams Berger, of
Florida, to be United States District
Judge for the Middle District of Flor-
ida.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Berger nomination?
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce the that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
California (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS),
and the Senator from Massachusetts
(Ms. WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 54,
nays 37, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 228 Ex.]
YEAS—54
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—37
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—9
Bennet
Booker
Capito
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Brian C. Buescher, of Ne-
braska, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Nebraska.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Buescher nomination?
Mr. WICKER. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
California (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS),
and the Senator from Massachusetts
(Ms. WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 51,
nays 40, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 229 Ex.]
YEAS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—40
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—9
Bennet
Booker
Capito
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motions to re-
consider are considered made and laid
upon the table. The President will be
immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The Senator from North Dakota.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. HOEVEN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Oregon.
f
RECOGNIZING SHELDON WHITE-
HOUSE’S 250TH CLIMATE CHANGE
SPEECH
Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I
rise in recognition of a friend and col-
league, Senator SHELDON WHITEHOUSE,
on this special occasion of his 250th
speech in his ‘‘Time to Wake up’’ se-
ries, a series of speeches, as far as I
know, unparalleled in the history of
the Senate for addressing a major na-
tional issue, a major world issue—the
issue of carbon pollution and climate
chaos.
As we take in a breath of air at this
very moment, when you are sitting on
the dais or at one of the desks or sit-
ting on the benches, that breath of air
contains air very different from the air
when I was born. The air contains 33
percent more carbon. This has never
happened over the lifetime of any indi-
vidual in the history of the human spe-
cies on this planet, and it means big
changes because every molecule of car-
bon is grabbing heat and holding on to
it.
Out in Oregon that means there are
warmer winters, which is wonderful for
the pine beetles and bad for the pine
trees. It means there is a smaller
snowpack that melts earlier, on aver-
age, resulting in less irrigation water
for our farmers and ranchers. It also
means less healthy streams for salmon
and trout. It means that a lot of the
carbon will be absorbed into the ocean
and become carbonic acid, and now we
have to artificially buffer the Pacific
Ocean seawater in order for baby oys-
ters to survive.
The list goes on, but the point is that
these changes are happening not just in
my State but all over our country, and
not just in our country but all over the
world. Most of these changes have
manifested themselves within the last
10 years, that is, when we actually see
what is happening. Just a couple of
years ago, the sea stars off the coast of
Oregon started dying, and off the coast
of Washington and off the coast of Cali-
fornia. In fact, in some areas they have
been completely wiped out. The result
of that is that the blue sea urchins
have exploded without the sea stars to
eat them. The result of that is the
rapid disappearance of big kelp forests
that harbor thousands of species. Who
knows what impact that will have on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:14 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.030 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5044 July 24, 2019
the chain of life in the ocean or on the
fisheries that are such an important
part of our economy. In place after
place, effect after effect, effects can be
measured with a thermometer or with
litmus paper for acidity or with a
ruler—effects that can be seen by our
ranchers, farmers, fishermen, and the
forests and timber economy; effects
that are felt by the 180 million Ameri-
cans who suffered through an extraor-
dinary heat wave in what is now ex-
pected to be the hottest month in
human recorded history, this July.
So we face a huge challenge, but we
cannot respond by saying: Oh, my
goodness, it is overwhelming. I want to
ignore it. Or it is such a large chal-
lenge that I cannot make a difference.
Instead, we have to increase our at-
tention. We have to increase our ef-
forts. We have to drive a faster transi-
tion off of fossil fuels that are creating
the carbon to renewable fuels, and, in
so doing, create millions of jobs and
make sure they are good-paying jobs,
and have a race to the top with project
labor agreements and with good family
wages and benefits. We need to make
sure that we move forward in a fashion
that puts jobs in places where they are
needed, including in our frontline com-
munities, in our frontier communities,
as I like to call them, and in rural
parts of Oregon, in our rural commu-
nities, in our former fossil fuel commu-
nities. Our former fossil fuel workers
who did the hard work, took the risks,
and suffered black lung should be first
in line for new energy jobs in our econ-
omy.
But we have no time to wait. This
needs to be bipartisan. This is not blue
or red. This is planet Earth. We are all
on it together. We are all on this little
remote planet, a long distance to our
next planet, a long distance between
our star and the next star. There are an
estimated 2 trillion galaxies in the uni-
verse with perhaps a billion stars each,
but all we have is our little blue-green
orb. So let’s save it.
Can human civilization rise to the
task? That hangs in the balance. We
are not doing very well so far.
But my colleague from Rhode Island
has given his attention to this anal-
ysis, bringing everything to bear, say-
ing: Pay attention and work hard. So I
applaud him and thank him for his
weekly speeches and his efforts to un-
derstand and establish a momentum
around a solution and applaud him in
this very robust form of leadership on
such an important undertaking.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
Mr. SCHATZ. Madam President, in
the Senate, in the Congress, and in pol-
itics, people are a little too loose with
their praise. Everybody is getting ap-
plause, everybody is getting thanked,
everybody is the greatest, and it gets a
little tiresome. So I try to be a little
more sparing. I mean you still have to
be nice to people, but I try to be a lit-
tle more sparing because this gets ab-
surd. Sometimes we have caucus
lunches, and there are probably 10 or 15
moments when we are all applauding
each other. It gets crazy.
But I want to take this moment on
the Senate floor to applaud someone
who really deserves it and who has
really displayed extraordinary leader-
ship. Whatever one may think about
the U.S. Senate and how it functions,
these are 100 pretty impressive people.
They have accomplished something
probably prior in their life and just to
get to the Senate is a real thing. But
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE is the single
most fearless individual in politics
that I ever have met. He is the single
most tireless individual in politics that
I have ever met, and it is not just with
speechmaking.
Today is a marker because he has
made 250. Is it 250 or did the Senator
already do it?
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. This is 250.
Mr. SCHATZ. He has done 249, and he
is about to do 250, and I will let him get
to it. But it will be 250 individual
speeches on the Senate floor. Some-
times there are people in the Chamber,
and sometimes it is empty and you are
talking to these incredible young men
and women who serve as pages and the
Presiding Officer, who has no choice
but to sit there politely. But SHELDON
WHITEHOUSE will give his 250th speech
on climate, and it is not most of what
he has done. It is a small part of what
he has done to lead on climate with ab-
solute moral, scientific, political, and
pragmatic clarity.
I will just say a couple more things
about my partnership with SHELDON.
You know, I was a very happy Lieuten-
ant Governor of the State of Hawaii,
and I was leading the Hawaii Clean En-
ergy Initiative, which is our effort to
get to 100 percent clean energy by the
year 2040. The very unfortunate death
of Daniel K. Inouye made a vacancy in
the Senate seat, and I decided to pur-
sue this Senate seat because I wanted
to do something about climate. I didn’t
know most of the Members except for
the famous ones.
When I came to the Senate, every-
body told me to talk to SHELDON
WHITEHOUSE, and we became fast
friends. He comes from the Ocean
State, even though that sounds weird
to me. I come from the Aloha State,
and he comes from the Ocean State,
and we have been working together
ever since.
But I want to report to whomever is
watching that I never felt such momen-
tum on this issue. It is because of the
young people who have sort of stormed
the castle over the last year or so and
demanded change and demanded action
and demanded the kinds of change and
action that are equal to the scale of
this problem.
People will quibble with the political
tactics and the messaging and all of
that, but when change happens in the
United States of America, it is led by
young people, and that is what hap-
pened. They stormed the castle. Even
those of us who have been working on
climate for a long time felt a jolt of en-
ergy in a positive way. That is No. 1.
No. 2 is a little unfortunate, but it is
changing the politics, and that is
events—weather events, climate
events. We are no longer talking about
climate change as a near-term future
issue or a long-term future issue; cli-
mate change is now. It is happening
across the country. It is not just hap-
pening to conservation areas or places
where you might enjoy the outdoors; it
is happening to communities from
coast to coast and everywhere in be-
tween. There are record heat waves,
record floods, record snowstorms, coral
bleaching events. It is very difficult to
describe something as a 100-year flood
or a 500-year flood—which means it is
supposed to happen, statistically
speaking, about every 100 or 500 years—
if that flood is happening every year.
It is very difficult to ignore the re-
ality of climate change when the last 8
hottest years on record were over the
last 9 years. The weather is absolutely
getting weirder and more unpleasant,
and our storms are getting more fre-
quent and more severe.
Public opinion is moving. Now you
have a majority of Republicans, a deci-
sive majority of young Republicans, a
huge, vast majority of Independents,
and pretty much every single Demo-
crat wanting climate action. The other
part of that, which is encouraging, is
that Senator WHITEHOUSE has a strat-
egy. He understands it is not enough
just to marshal public opinion.
Look at what is happening with gun
safety. We are not there yet, even
though public opinion is absolutely on
our side. Sometimes you have to look
at what is structurally happening in
politics, especially in the U.S. Con-
gress.
Senator WHITEHOUSE understands
that we have to deal with the struc-
tural aspects of the way campaigns are
funded, the way information and misin-
formation is propagated, and we need
to engage on that battlefield, as well.
I will close with this. A, I have never
been so hopeful about the prospect for
climate action in 2021, and, B, I have
never been so thankful to have a part-
ner who can lead this effort as Senator
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE can.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, let me first thank my friend Sen-
ator SCHATZ for his incredibly kind re-
marks. He is an outstanding colleague.
We work together extremely well. He
brings a good cop ‘‘aloha’’ sensibility
to a conversation, whereas I tend to
lean more toward the bad cop, and he
has a remarkable vision for how this
can be solved. I am incredibly honored
that he is here.
For the 250th week that the Senate
has been in session, I rise to call this
Chamber to wake up to the threat of
climate change. In April of 2012, I deliv-
ered the first of these speeches. I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.033 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5045
July 24, 2019
began: ‘‘I know that many in Wash-
ington would prefer to ignore this
issue, but nature keeps sending us mes-
sages—messages we ignore at our
peril.’’
It was a cry of frustration—frustra-
tion that the Supreme Court’s infa-
mous Citizens United decision had
killed the bipartisan work that I saw
here on climate for 3 years; frustration
that the fossil fuel industry’s death
grip had tightened around this Cham-
ber, preventing action; frustration that
our Democratic administration had
abandoned leadership on climate
change and would barely even talk
about it.
It has been a run, and here I am, still
at it, 7 years on. Some things have
changed; some things have not.
Let’s start with what has not
changed. What has not changed is the
scientific certainty about what is hap-
pening in our atmosphere and oceans.
Scientists have understood that burn-
ing fossil fuels has caused our planet to
heat up since the days when Abraham
Lincoln was riding around Washington,
DC, in his top hat. This is not new
news.
Nearly four decades ago, Exxon’s own
scientists reported to Exxon manage-
ment that there is ‘‘little doubt’’ that
atmospheric CO2 concentrations were
increasing due to fossil fuel burning.
They said back in 1982 that the result-
ing greenhouse effect ‘‘would warm the
Earth’s surface, causing changes in cli-
mate affecting atmospheric and ocean
temperatures, rainfall patterns, soil
moisture, and . . . potentially melting
the polar ice caps.’’
There was no legitimate debate over
the science when I started in 2012, and
there is no legitimate debate over the
science today. Indeed, the science has
only strengthened. With each passing
year, as Senator MERKLEY said, we rely
less on complicated climate models and
on scientific forecasts and, unfortu-
nately, more on straightforward,
realtime measurement of the changes.
Today, we observe with our own eyes
what recently was predicted: glacial
collapse and retreat, sea level rise, arc-
tic warming, and increasingly extreme
weather.
Another constant since 2012 is the
fossil fuel industry’s remorseless cam-
paign, A, to block climate change and,
B, to do this while hiding its hands be-
hind front groups. I have delivered doz-
ens of these speeches about the dozens
of climate denial front groups. Indeed,
we have had whole groups of Senators
come to the floor to talk about the web
of denial that the fossil fuel industry
has constructed to propagate fake
science, to hide that it is the fossil fuel
industry pulling these strings, and to
push its muscle and weight around
Congress. Mostly, it is funded by Big
Oil and the Koch brothers. They set
these groups up, and they set them
loose to sow false doubt about real cli-
mate science and to obstruct, obstruct,
obstruct here in Washington.
They have spent—at a minimum—
hundreds of millions of dollars on this
anti-climate campaign. With that
money, they have talked up some seri-
ously ridiculous notions, such as car-
bon pollution is good for us all because
carbon is plant food. They have taken
out billboards comparing climate sci-
entists to the Unabomber. It is false
and ugly stuff powered by hidden
money.
Oil giants still spend huge amounts
to infect America’s corporate lobbying
with their obstruction message.
InfluenceMap reckons the biggest anti-
climate lobbying force in Washington
is the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a
trade group that purports to represent
typical patriotic American businesses.
It should, more properly, be called the
‘‘U.S. Chamber of Carbon.’’ There it is
at the rock bottom, side by side with
the National Association of Manufac-
turers, in a statistical tie for worst ob-
structor of climate action in America.
Why wouldn’t Big Oil go to all this
trouble? They are defending a $650 bil-
lion per year subsidy in the United
States alone, according to the Inter-
national Monetary Fund. So it is log-
ical, but it is still shameful.
There is a vast majority of American
companies that have a different view
and that want to see climate action.
Yet in Congress, that vast majority is
a silent majority. When I say ‘‘silent,’’
I mean they are not showing up in Con-
gress—not to push back, not to correct
the record, not even to seek serious cli-
mate legislation. Corporate America
was AWOL in Congress in 2012, and
they are AWOL in Congress now. Cor-
porate America’s silence was deafening
then, and it is deafening still today.
So what has changed since that first
speech 7-plus years ago? First of all,
the economics of renewable energy
changed in a big way. In 2012, wind and
solar weren’t cost-competitive with
fossil fuels. Storage and electric vehi-
cles were nowhere. That year, the aver-
age cost of solar was over $200 per
megawatt hour. Today, it is one-quar-
ter of that. The cost of wind power is
down, and offshore wind is emerging.
Battery storage now competes on price
with gas-fired, peak-demand plants in
many areas. Automakers around the
world are making more and more elec-
tric vehicles, driving costs down and
performance up for consumers. Even
with that massive subsidy for fossil
fuel, renewables are starting to win on
price.
Another new area is that we are
starting to capture carbon. This little
cube that I have in my hand is CO2 that
was pulled out of the air by direct air
capture technology and can be turned
into tiles, blocks, bricks. There it is. It
is the beginning of a new era of carbon
capture. The group that did this is
competing in Wyoming this summer
for the XPRIZE for carbon capture.
Another big thing that has changed
since 2012 is that economists, central
bankers, Wall Street bankers, real es-
tate professionals, and asset managers
are all recognizing the major risks that
climate change poses to the global
economy. It is not free to ignore it, and
the costs could come in the form of
crashes. Back in 2012, these economic
warnings—these crash warnings—were
uncommon. Today, they are coming
from everywhere.
Freddie Mac predicts that rising sea
levels will prompt a crash in coastal
property values greater than the hous-
ing crash that caused the 2008 financial
crisis.
First Street has shown how sea level
rises already are affecting coastal real
estate values up and down the east
coast. It found that rising seas have al-
ready resulted in $16 billion in lost
property values in coastal homes from
Maine to Mississippi.
Moody’s warns that climate risk
could trigger downgrades in coastal
communities’ bond ratings. Just last
week, the mayor of Honolulu testified
at Senator SCHATZ’s Climate Commit-
tee’s first hearing that the credit rat-
ing agencies are already grilling him
about this.
BlackRock has estimated that some
coastal communities face annual aver-
age losses of up to 15 percent of GDP
from climate change by the end of the
century. Heads up, Florida.
Coastal property is not the only fi-
nancial risk. The Bank of England,
Bank of France, Bank of Canada, San
Francisco Fed, and European Central
Bank—along with many top-tier, peer-
reviewed economic papers—are all
warning of systemic economic risk.
That is central banker speak for some-
thing that poses a risk to the entire
economy, all from stranded fossil fuel
assets called the carbon asset bubble.
One other thing I have spent a lot of
time on is oceans—the heating, the
acidification, the lost and shifting fish-
eries, the collapse in coral and expand-
ing dead zones, and, of course, the ris-
ing sea levels. Our terrestrial species
needs to pay a lot more attention to
the seas. There has been a real shift in
attention in these intervening years.
Then you have Standard & Poor’s,
Moody’s, Citigroup, and more econo-
mists warning that the costs of climate
change will not be measured in the
hundreds of billions or even in the tril-
lions but will be measured in the tens
of trillions of dollars. That is a penalty
worth avoiding and worth the atten-
tion in the Senate.
So here I am, 7-plus years later, giv-
ing my 250th speech. Somewhere be-
tween persistent, tiresome, and, I sup-
pose, foolhardy is where you will find
me.
I never thought I would still be at it
well into 2019, but the fossil fuel indus-
try, with all of its wretched dark
money, is still calling the shots in Con-
gress while the rest of corporate Amer-
ica still sits on its hands. The U.S. Sen-
ate still is not seriously considering
any legislation to reduce carbon pollu-
tion, and I am still frustrated, but I am
optimistic because the denial wall is
cracking.
Bankers and asset managers and fi-
nancial titans recognize the massive
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.035 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5046 July 24, 2019
economic risks of a fossil fuel-based
economy and see the huge economic
potential of a low-carbon economy.
They now see real business incentive to
push back on the fossil fuel denial ap-
paratus. They now see real business
peril in allowing the fossil fuel denial
apparatus to rule.
I ask unanimous consent to have
printed in the RECORD at the end of my
remarks the ‘‘Economists’ Statement
on Carbon Dividends’’ that was pub-
lished in the Wall Street Journal,
which illustrates that exact point.
I am also optimistic because people
are talking about climate change
again, and colleagues are talking about
climate change. Americans everywhere
are talking about climate change. Most
Republicans want action on climate
change. Voters are engaged on climate
change, and more than anyone else,
young people especially are engaged.
From young hero Greta Thunberg to
kids all across this country, to the
young plaintiffs in the Juliana suit,
young people are engaged. Any politi-
cian who wants a long career had bet-
ter care about what young people
think. Any political party that wants
to matter in a decade had better care.
Over in the House, it is starting to
show. A few Republicans have actually
introduced legislation to put a price on
carbon emissions. Even President
Trump—the guy who handed over the
keys to his administration to the fossil
fuel industry—feels the need now to
talk about the environment. As empty
as that talk is, the pressure he feels is
progress. The fact that he feels he has
to talk about it is progress.
As for me, I can’t wait to stop giving
these speeches. These speeches chron-
icle the continued failure of this body
and the continued failure of our coun-
try to grapple with an evident climate
crisis, and these speeches chronicle the
fake science and the political mischief
and muscle that the fossil fuel industry
has used to debauch our American de-
mocracy. Marking that sordid history
is important, but I want it to be his-
tory. When the dark days of denial and
obstruction are past, these speeches
will no longer be necessary.
I particularly thank my colleague
from Hawaii, Senator SCHATZ; my col-
league from Oregon, Senator MERKLEY;
my colleague from Massachusetts, Sen-
ator MARKEY; and other colleagues who
have been incredible friends and allies
in this fight, like Senator HEINRICH of
New Mexico and Senator WARREN of
Massachusetts. I thank my colleagues
for being here today and for being such
extraordinary partners and teammates.
We are a band of brothers and sisters in
this cause, and our band is growing.
As more and more Americans, from
kitchen tables to corporate cocktail
parties, come to terms with the real
scope of the problem and the danger
this failure presents, not only am I
proud of my colleagues who are with
me already, but I am very hopeful my
colleagues across the aisle will also
soon become great partners.
Until then, I conclude for the 250th
time by saying it is time to wake up.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Wall Street Journal, Jan. 16, 2019]
ECONOMISTS’ STATEMENT ON CARBON DIVI-
DENDS—BIPARTISAN AGREEMENT ON HOW TO
COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE
Global climate change is a serious problem
calling for immediate national action. Guid-
ed by sound economic principles, we are
united in the following policy as rec-
ommendations.
I. A carbon tax offers the most cost-effec-
tive lever to reduce carbon emissions at the
scale and speed that is necessary. By cor-
recting a well-known market failure, a car-
bon tax will send a powerful price signal that
harnesses the invisible hand of the market-
place to steer economic actors towards a
low-carbon future.
II. A carbon tax should increase every year
until emissions reductions goals are met and
be revenue neutral to avoid debates over the
size of government. A consistently rising
carbon price will encourage technological in-
novation and large-scale infrastructure de-
velopment. It will also accelerate the diffu-
sion of carbon-efficient goods and services.
III. A sufficiently robust and gradually ris-
ing carbon tax will replace the need for var-
ious carbon regulations that are less effi-
cient. Substituting a price signal for cum-
bersome regulations will promote economic
growth and provide the regulatory certainty
companies need for long-term investment in
clean-energy alternatives.
IV. To prevent carbon leakage and to pro-
tect U.S. competitiveness, a border carbon
adjustment system should be established.
This system would enhance the competitive-
ness of American firms that are more en-
ergy-efficient than their global competitors.
It would also create an incentive for other
nations to adopt similar carbon pricing.
V. To maximize the fairness and political
viability of a rising carbon tax, all the rev-
enue should be returned directly to U.S. citi-
zens through equal lump-sum rebates. The
majority of American families, including the
most vulnerable, will benefit financially by
receiving more in ‘‘carbon dividends’’ than
they pay in increased energy prices.
George Akerlof, Robert Aumann, Angus
Deaton, Peter Diamond, Robert Engle, Eu-
gene Fama, Lars Peter Hansen, Oliver Hart,
Bengt Holmström, Daniel Kahneman, Finn
Kydland, Robert Lucas, Eric Maskin, Daniel
McFadden, Robert Merton, Roger Myerson,
Edmund Phelps, Alvin Roth, Thomas Sar-
gent, Myron Scholes, Amartya Sen, William
Sharpe, Robert Shiller, Christopher Sims,
Robert Solow, Michael Spence and Richard
Thaler are recipients of the Nobel Memorial
Prize in Economic Sciences.
Paul Volcker is a former Federal Reserve
chairman.
Martin Baily, Michael Baskin, Martin
Feldstein, Jason Furman, Austan Goolsbee,
Glenn Hubbard, Alan Krueger, Edward
Lazear, N. Gregory Mankiw, Christina
Romer, Harvey Rosen and Laura Tyson are
former chairmen of the president’s Council
of Economic Advisers.
Ben Bernanke, Alan Greenspan and Janet
Yellen have chaired both the Fed and the
Council of Economic Advisers.
George Shultz and Lawrence Summers are
former Treasury secretaries.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
Mr. MARKEY. Madam President,
what an honor it is to be out here with
the great leader from the State of
Rhode Island, SHELDON WHITEHOUSE,
who has come onto the Senate floor 250
times to say to the Senate and to say
to our country that it is time to wake
up. His voice is inspiring. His voice
cuts through all of the obfuscation
that has been paid for by the special in-
terests. It ensures that we hear the
truth about the danger climate change
poses to our country and to the planet.
I came out here just to say how spe-
cial it is for me and for every other
Member who partners with SHELDON
WHITEHOUSE on this issue. This is
somebody who has dedicated his career
to solving this problem. He knows all
issues go through three phases—polit-
ical education, political activation,
and political implementation. He has
been a one-man tutor in his educating
of the American public and the U.S.
Senate on not only the technical as-
pects of climate change but on the po-
litical aspects of it because, ulti-
mately, it is not a technology problem;
it is a political problem we have. The
technologies are ready to go.
What Senator WHITEHOUSE has done
is to have served as this inspirational
center point. He has ensured that the
voice of sanity has been heard, that the
voice of truth has been heard. Why is it
important for him to be this incredible
leader? It is that climate change—or
the climate crisis—is the national se-
curity, economic, environmental,
healthcare, and moral issue of our
time, of this century. Everything he
has been saying is something that, in
my opinion, is going to wind up putting
him in the history books for the in-
credible leadership he has shown.
There are a lot of times in which you
can be right but too soon. People are
not ready to hear it. Yet what we are
finding across the country is that more
and more people are ready to hear it,
especially the younger generation, es-
pecially people who recognize right
now they are going to live their entire
lives with this crisis.
How do we know that?
Back in November, our scientists—13
Federal agencies—who were mandated
by a 1990 law, had to present a report to
the President on climate change. All 13
agencies—the Department of Energy,
the EPA, the Department of State—
had to come together. Here is what
they concluded: If we do not change
what we are doing right now, the plan-
et will warm by 9 degrees Fahrenheit
by the year 2100. Let’s say that again.
The planet will warm by 9 degrees
Fahrenheit between now and 2100—81
years from now.
In other words, the pages who are
here in the well of the Senate right
now will live through this entire story
as it unfolds if we continue with busi-
ness as usual. Interestingly, the con-
sequences are not those the deniers
want us to know, for all 13 agencies
concluded there could be upward of—
get ready for this—an 11-foot rise in
the ocean in the Northeastern part of
the United States. Think about that—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.037 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5047
July 24, 2019
11 feet higher. The impact would be
catastrophic. Our pages will live
through this entire story unless we
change what we are doing in our coun-
try, unless we change what the U.S.
Senate does to put preventive measures
in place.
What Senator WHITEHOUSE is saying
is: Wake up. The science is clear, and it
is unchallengeable.
Our problem is that too many Repub-
licans—especially the denier in chief
who sits in the Oval Office—are nos-
talgic for a time that never existed.
They pretend, somehow or other, that
all of these climate-related problems
are going to magically be solved by
policies that don’t exist and perhaps we
are just in some kind of cycle on our
planet that will go away and that these
young people will not have a legacy of
climate change to have to deal with in
their lives. Of course, every scientist in
America, with the exception of those
who are bought by the Koch brothers,
bought by ExxonMobil, bought by the
fossil fuel companies, agrees that this
is going to happen.
From my perspective, what we are
seeing is something that is deadly—the
forest fires, the extreme heat waves,
the supercharged hurricanes, the Bib-
lical flooding. All of it is happening as
a result of what human beings are
doing to our own planet. Global tem-
peratures are rising like a runaway
freight train. This month is on track to
be the hottest month on Earth ever re-
corded. May I say that again? The
month of July in 2019 is on track to be
the hottest month ever recorded in the
history of our planet. Last month was
the hottest June in recorded history.
Every month so far in 2019 has been in
the top five hottest on record. The last
5 years have been the hottest 5 years
ever recorded, and 20 of the last 22
years have been the hottest ever re-
corded.
This is not a drill; this is an emer-
gency, and it is an emergency that has
an answer in deploying wind and solar
and new batteries and all-electric vehi-
cles and energy efficiency and invest-
ing in new technologies that can accel-
erate the solution even more. It is all
there for us to do.
Right now, we are celebrating the
50th anniversary of the Apollo mission
to the Moon. President Kennedy felt
there was an existential threat to our
planet that the Soviet Union was pos-
ing. He actually said at Rice Univer-
sity that he knew we were behind. The
Russians had already sent up Sputnik.
The Russians had already sent up Yuri
Gagarin. He said we were behind but
that we would not be behind by the end
of the decade. He made it quite clear
that we would have to invent metals
that did not exist, invent alloys that
did not exist, invent propulsion sys-
tems that did not exist; that we would
have to return from the mission from
the Moon through heat that was half
the intensity of the Sun and that we
would have to do so within a decade so
we would control that existential
threat.
The U.N. scientists and our scientists
have each now said that climate
change poses an existential threat to
our planet—not ours, not Senator
WHITEHOUSE’s and mine. Those are the
words of the scientists of the planet
and our own scientists.
So we have to respond in the same
way that President Kennedy asked our
Nation to respond back in the 1960s.
And the young people in our country—
they are ready to go. They are ready to
do whatever is necessary. But in order
to do so, it is going to require us to
take the kinds of actions that are nec-
essary.
The U.N. special report said that if
emissions are not cut by 100 percent by
2050, climate change will lead to nat-
ural disasters costing $54 trillion over
the next 80 years.
A lot of people say: Can we afford to
take on this challenge? What our sci-
entists are saying is that we can’t af-
ford not to take on this challenge. We
can’t afford that kind of a price when
we can create millions of jobs saving
the planet in wind and solar and new
all-electric vehicles and buildings,
technologies, energy efficiency. We can
save all of creation by engaging in
massive job creation. It is all there for
us.
We just did it with the telecommuni-
cations revolution. We moved from
black, rotary dial phones to the young
people who are here in the well of the
Senate here today—they have iPhones
that they walk around with. Those
iPhones have more computing power
than the computers on the Apollo mis-
sion. How did we do that? We are
Americans. We take on these chal-
lenges, and we revolutionized the tele-
communications industry to move
from the black, rotary dial phone. And
these young people don’t even know
what that is.
We have moved from having no fax
machines in our country 40 years ago
to today. There are no fax machines in
America. That is how quick the revolu-
tion goes when you put a plan together
to accomplish it.
Well, the same thing is true in the
clean energy sector, and what Senator
WHITEHOUSE has been leading us on is
this explication to the Senate that we
can do it. You can’t let the special in-
terests dictate it, though. You can’t let
the dark money control it. That is his
lecture to us, that it is incredibly im-
portant for us to ignore it. In the same
way we ignored the monopolies in tele-
communications, we have to ignore the
monopolies and the duopolies that
exist in the energy sector as well.
So I thank the Senator from Rhode
Island again, and I will repeatedly do
so because he will reach 300 speeches
out here on the floor and 500 speeches
out here on the floor. You might as
well put an infinity sign behind the
number because that is how many
speeches he will give out here on the
Senate floor to wake up this institu-
tion. That day is going to come, and I
just wanted to come out here and
thank Senator WHITEHOUSE for his in-
credible leadership and to let him
know that I am honored to be his part-
ner in this effort.
I will be by your side the entire time
it takes for us to get a solution for the
young people in our country that they
deserve and they expect from this in-
stitution.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, may I propose to my wonderful
colleague, the Senator from Massachu-
setts, that the Good Lord forbid that I
have to get to 500 such speeches before
we solve this problem.
Mr. MARKEY. The Good Lord and
MITCH MCCONNELL.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. I would note that
if we look back to 2009, there are some
very important signs of optimism.
On the legislative side, Senator MAR-
KEY—then-Representative Markey with
his colleague Representative Wax-
man—successfully ushered, with sig-
nificant industry and popular support,
a serious climate bill through the
House of Representatives, proving that
it can be done, proving that real cli-
mate legislation can pass in this body.
In that same year, in 2009, a gen-
tleman named Donald Trump—the
same Donald Trump who is President
now at the other end of Pennsylvania
Avenue in the White House—took out
an advertisement in the New York
Times, and in his advertisement, Don-
ald Trump and his children—Donald,
Eric, and Ivanka—as well as the Trump
Organization, all said that the science
of climate change was incontrovert-
ible. They further said that if we did
not act, the consequences of climate
change would be catastrophic and irre-
versible.
So we have the living experience of
legislation passing, led by then-Rep-
resentative Markey and Representative
Waxman, and all we need, really, is to
bring back that 2009 Donald Trump.
Come on back, buddy. We want you be-
cause you were right in 2009.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, you
know, Massachusetts is the Bay State,
and Rhode Island is the Ocean State.
Back 240 or so years ago, Paul Revere
got on his horse, and he started riding,
warning of great danger. From my per-
spective, SHELDON WHITEHOUSE is a lat-
ter-day Paul Revere, and he is warning
that the climate crisis is coming and
that it is going to be much worse than
it is today.
So from my perspective, this latter-
day Paul Revere, who is SHELDON
WHITEHOUSE, represents the best of
New England and the best of our coun-
try and the best of our planet because
we have to be all in this together, and
we can’t be leaders by sitting on the
sidelines, which is where Donald
Trump wants to have us. The Indians,
the Chinese, and others—they won’t
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.038 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5048 July 24, 2019
listen to us. You cannot preach tem-
perance from a barstool. You can’t tell
the rest of the world to do something
while you have a cigar in one hand and
a beer in the other. That is where we
are now with pollution under President
Trump.
We have to be leaders, not laggers.
That is what SHELDON WHITEHOUSE is
all about. That is why it is my great
honor to be up here with him, and for
as long as it takes, he will be out here.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The majority leader.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT
AGREEMENT—VETO
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr President, I
ask unanimous consent that the veto
messages on S. J. Res. 36, 37, and 38 be
considered as having been read en bloc,
that they be printed in the RECORD and
spread in full upon the Journal en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the veto
message with respect to S. J. Res. 36, S.
J. Res. 37, and S. J. Res. 38 be consid-
ered at a time to be determined by the
majority leader in consultation with
the Democratic leader prior to August
2; that they be debated concurrently
for up to 2 hours, with 15 minutes re-
served for the chairman and ranking
member, respectively; that the Senate
vote on passage of the joint resolu-
tions, the objections of the President
to the contrary notwithstanding, in the
order listed; and, finally, that the
unanimous consent order of June 19 for
the remaining joint resolutions of dis-
approval of arms sales remain in effect.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Oklahoma.
f
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, in
April of this year, Border Patrol agents
in South Texas, in McAllen—one of the
most crossed areas for illegal traffic in
the entire southern border—saw a
group of individuals walking north who
had already crossed the border, and
they broke and ran. They assumed
these individuals were illegally present
in the United States, and they started
moving to try to interdict them. They
searched through a very large and very
overgrown field.
I can tell you that that area is very,
very rough terrain. It is very isolating,
and the brush is exceptionally heavy.
On a day in April, even in South Texas,
it is extremely hot.
As they searched through the field
looking for individuals, they happened
to hear a child crying in their search.
They encountered a 3-year-old boy who
had been abandoned by the human
smugglers when they broke and ran.
This young boy, 3 years old, had these
shoes on, and on his shoes were written
a name and a phone number across
them. That is the only identifying
thing they have. They tested the phone
number, by the way, and the phone
number didn’t work.
Those human smugglers—moving
people into the United States, using
children as the vehicle—are prone to
just cast that child aside if they slow
them down.
The Border Patrol agents who en-
countered this child wearing those
shoes, took him back to the office.
Those Border Patrol agents personally
bought him new clothing. The fellow
agents entertained him. You can see
him playing PAW Patrol back in the
station. They spent time comforting
him and trying to figure out who he
was and where he was from. Border Pa-
trol agents alternated taking care of
him, personally buying supplies for
him until they can transition him into
Health and Human Services’ care. That
is what is really happening on the bor-
der every single day.
Border Patrol agents are dealing
with children that cartels are using to
move adults into the United States.
Yes, there are some family units who
are moving in, but every single family
unit that moves into the United States
is being ushered in by a cartel that
works the border, and they are choos-
ing the time and the place to move
those individuals.
These officers are risking their lives
every single day. They are working
with families every single day to try to
figure out who is a family unit and who
is a child that is just being smuggled to
be used as a vehicle to get across the
border and how to separate the two.
Then, once they identify the child,
they try to figure out this: What do we
do now with this child that we have?
Where are you from?
Several months ago, most of the chil-
dren who were moving across were 10,
11, and 12 years old, and they could
interview those children. The cartels
have figured that out now, and they are
sending more and more children who
are infants, 1, 2, and 3 years old, who
don’t know where they are from and
don’t know their names or their back-
ground or any other details. It is be-
coming more and more difficult for the
Border Patrol agents to figure this out.
In fact, Border Patrol agents just
like this are now actually bringing
their own car seats or finding other
people from their churches and other
places that would donate car seats be-
cause when HHS needs to transport
them out of a bus, they don’t have car
seats there. So they are paying for car
seats to help some of these abandoned
children be able to get to a place of
safety.
These are the folks who are being
criticized. These are the folks who
some of my colleagues, even as re-
cently as this week, said they need to
get 40 hours of sensitivity training be-
cause they are so insensitive to what is
happening on the border. These are the
folks putting their own personal fi-
nances and their lives on the line and
who are working every day to solve
some of the problems that we have.
For the past several years, there
have been disagreements on the solu-
tions and wide disagreements on Fed-
eral law enforcement and what they
are doing along the border. There have
been a lot of folks casting blame on
Federal law enforcement and on the
President, instead of actually trying to
figure out what the problem is at the
border. Why is this happening? Why
have our numbers so rapidly acceler-
ated?
This past weekend, I visited the bor-
der with some of my colleagues. I went
with Senator JONI ERNST of Iowa and
Dr. BILL CASSIDY of Louisiana. We
went to the Rio Grande Valley Sector.
That area of the border is a thin slice
of the border between the United
States and Mexico, but in that area, in
that one zone, 40 percent of all illegal
traffic moves across the border. The
most heavily trafficked area of that
zone is the McAllen Sector, and that is
where we went.
Across that one area, in that one
small segment of the border, they have
between 1,500 and 2,000 individuals ille-
gally crossing the border every single
day. That is one small sector of a 2,000-
mile-long border. Just this year, in
that one small sector, they have had
individuals from 63 different countries
cross the border illegally—63 different
countries.
I hear a lot of folks say: It is all peo-
ple from Central America who are
crossing across the border to flee. That
is not true. There are 63 countries just
this year, just around McAllen, TX, not
including the whole rest of the border.
You see, the cartels sort individuals
by country and by background. They
send Indians in one direction. They
send Pakistanis in another direction.
They send individuals from Bangladesh
in another direction. They send folks
from Honduras and Guatemala in an-
other direction.
When I walked into one of the five
stations that we visited all through
that area this weekend, just to do a
quick pop-in to see who was there at
that moment, half of the adults who
were there—these were single adults—
were there from Venezuela and half of
them were from Cuba, because that is
how the cartels sort individuals.
Just in that one station in McAllen,
we have had individuals from Pakistan,
Yemen, China, Venezuela, Bangladesh,
and Syria, in addition to many coun-
tries from Africa and Asia, and obvi-
ously much of Central America as well.
Those individuals are moving across
the border in very high numbers. Nine-
ty percent of the apprehensions that
have happened this year—90 percent—
have been from countries other than
Mexico.
Just as recently as 2014, only 1 per-
cent of men who crossed the border had
a child with them. Now the number is
50 percent of the men crossing the bor-
der have a child with them—50 percent.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.039 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5049
July 24, 2019
The numbers have dramatically
changed, and what is happening along
our border is significant.
The men and women who are actu-
ally working every single day to pro-
tect what is happening at the border
are also processing trade that is hap-
pening. These same individuals are
processing 650,000 trucks coming into
this area, 2.2 million pedestrians, and
9.3 million passengers coming across in
different personal vehicles. There is a
lot going on. So when I went down to
the border this weekend and visited the
five different facilities and then spent
much of the evening and deep into the
night riding along with Border Patrol,
where one set of agents switched vehi-
cles to go with a separate set of agents
to ride along through the border just to
get a feel for what was happening, what
I experienced was exceptionally pain-
ful. What I saw were places that were
crowded, spartan situations, and in my
mind it echoed that for months the ad-
ministration and the committee that I
serve on—members of the Homeland
Security Committee—have said for
months that there is a humanitarian
crisis on this border. But it didn’t seem
that anyone was listening until re-
cently, as if all of this had been created
recently.
Now, suddenly, people are turning
their attention to what is happening
along this border and saying that there
is a serious humanitarian problem. And
we said: Welcome to the dialogue be-
cause we have been saying it for
months.
Cartels are making millions and mil-
lions of dollars exploiting children.
They are smuggling children and fami-
lies across the border. It now costs
$8,000 to cross a single individual cross
the border. You pay a toll to the car-
tels, both to the traffickers and smug-
glers who are moving people—that
$8,000 and, then, an additional fee to
actually physically cross the border at
the time of the cartel’s choosing in
that area. But if you bring a child with
you, it is half price. It is $4,000. The in-
centive now is that it is cheaper to
cross this area if you bring a child be-
cause the cartel knows they don’t have
to sneak you over the wall. All they
have to do is get you to the border and
drop you off.
We watched as a family unit and a
group of families were sent in one di-
rection and Border Patrol interdicted
them, and then a mile away, three sin-
gle adults made a sprint for the border.
They went to the wall with a make-
shift ladder and started working their
way up the ladder, but because it took
extra time for them to do that, Border
Patrol was able to get to their loca-
tion, interdict, and arrest them.
Cartels time it to move a set of fami-
lies one direction to get all the Border
Patrol gathered around them to hope-
fully sneak in people who most likely
have a criminal record who can’t just
go through the normal system. They
can’t just match up a family with
them. They have to move them sepa-
rately and, at the same time, moving
large quantities of drugs across the
border not far away from there.
On the date I was there, this picture
was taken along the border not far
from where I was. This was taken at 3
o’clock in the afternoon with a group
of four individuals carrying large bags
and boxes across the border. Now, I
can’t tell you for certain what is in
those, but I have a pretty good guess
that at 4 o’clock in the afternoon, four
individuals bringing almost identical
bundles across the border, it is a pretty
good guess those are drugs.
This still photo that was snapped at
3 o’clock in the afternoon during a
weekend was a reminder again of ex-
actly what is happening at the border.
As cartels line up, families go this di-
rection, single individuals with a
criminal record go this direction, and
then we move drugs a different direc-
tion to see if we can’t work our way
through it.
Why is this happening? This is hap-
pening because Customs and Border
Protection is spending all their time on
humanitarian work now. Now 60 per-
cent of the work of each individual
agent is spent on humanitarian work
processing families. They are doing the
work; they are engaged in the process;
and they are committed to taking care
of people.
When 60 percent are in town taking
care of the humanitarian work, that
leaves only 40 percent to patrol the
border. Where there used to be literally
60 people who would travel in this re-
gion of the border, now there are 20 to
cover all of those miles. The cartels
know it. So the more they can send
families up through this section and
the more they can cause chaos inside,
the greater likelihood they can move
drugs across the border freely.
How does this happen? This happens
because the cartels can work to get a
message to Central America and say:
We have a way to get you into the
United States, and we can get you in
quickly. Bring a child with you—you
pay them $8,000 or $4,000 if you bring a
child—and we will work you up. They
make promises to them of what will
happen. Many of these people are from
high poverty areas of Central America,
and they will work them toward the
border and drop them off at that spot.
It costs even more if you are not
from Central America. Some Chinese
individuals who have been moved
across our border paid as much as
$30,000 to the cartels—$30,000 to pay the
price to move them through Mexico
and then cross the border at a time of
their choosing.
This is something that is making a
tremendous amount of money for the
cartels, and if we don’t engage on solv-
ing this issue, we are allowing it. We
need to realize our laws are broken.
They are not only broken for immigra-
tion and what is happening, they are
also not only breaking our hearts for
what is happening with the humani-
tarian crisis and what is actually oc-
curring, but it is becoming a critical
issue that we have to respond to, and
we should.
Let me show you this next shot. This
is what it looks like now along the bor-
der. As I traveled through the different
locations to see what was happening in
the five different locations, some of
them are gut-wrenching and difficult
because for the Border Patrol, they are
a police station, basically, along the
border.
Border Patrol—they don’t do deten-
tion. When you go to a police station—
and I hope you only go legally to a po-
lice station—but when you go to a po-
lice station, they are not there to hold
people. They are there to write up all
the reports. They are there to go
through processing, but they are not
set up to hold people for long periods of
time. That is not what a police station
does.
Border Patrol stations are like police
stations along the border. They are
really offices, and they manage that,
but now they have also become places
where they have to hold children and
adults by the thousands. Thousands of
people are crossing the border, and
they are trying to figure out how to
manage it. Some of the facilities are
exceptionally overcrowded.
There is a facility that many people
have seen the pictures of. They effec-
tively call it the ‘‘kids in cages’’ facil-
ity. I will tell you more about that in
a little bit. That location was designed
for 1,500 people total. It had 1,590 the
day I was there. It has had as many as
3,000 in that facility, though, within
the last couple of months. It is miser-
ably overcrowded. There are people
packed in together. Those individuals
are getting meals, showers, toilets, ac-
cess to supplies, and snacks. All the ba-
sics are being provided. The Border Pa-
trol is trying to figure out how they
manage this many people when none of
them were trained on how to detain
people because that is not their task.
Border Patrol has now set up this fa-
cility called a soft-sided facility, where
they have moved 1,000 family units
away from that larger, what they call
the central processing facility. They
moved it away from the central proc-
essing facility a few miles away, and
they set up a massive series of tents—
air-conditioned and a lot more space.
This happens to be in one of those
where it was actually teenage boys in
this particular area.
This is what detention looks like now
along the border. They are sitting
there watching, actually, ‘‘Puss n
Boots’’ on the TV. There are people
lying around and getting a chance to
get some space, recreation space, and
plenty of activity that is going on
there. This is what Border Patrol is
currently doing to try to manage it.
What does that look like, and how
will things work? When you check in at
the Border Patrol station, wherever it
may be, whether it is in the central
processing facility that is so over-
crowded or whether it is out at the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.041 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5050 July 24, 2019
soft-sided facility, when you get there,
the first thing they do is they actually
swap clothes with you. They have
clothes they bought with their budgets.
They allow you to pick different types
of clothes to wear. The Border Patrol
and their families take the clothes to
those individual migrants. They have
washing machines there set up, and
they will personally wash all their
clothes for them while they get a show-
er and they get cleaned up because
many of these folks have not showered
and cleaned up for a month.
So the first step is, they help them
get all cleaned up and put fresh clothes
on, a fresh shower, and hot meals. They
have hot meals every single day. They
also have snacks and supplies. This is,
again, in that same soft-sided facility.
This is just one of their supply rooms
where you get a feel for snacks and
drinks and water and toiletries. Back
over in this area are large quantities of
hygiene products and clothes—all
kinds of things that are all piled up
that they have gathered to help take
care of individuals.
One of the things I heard so many
times is, these kids can’t even brush
their teeth because Americans are so
mean and because the Border Patrol is
so ruthless to them. I went to five dif-
ferent facilities, and in every facility, I
asked to see their supply room. In
every facility, I saw these. That looks
like toothbrushes to me. In fact, in the
central processing facility that has had
so much attention in the media, I
asked the director there, and they said
they actually have had 87,000 tooth-
brushes there. There has always been
toothbrushes and toothpaste. There has
always been soap and water and ways
to clean up.
The challenge is, some of these folks
come from very remote villages, and
guess what, they are not used to brush-
ing their teeth every day. That is not a
normal hygiene habit for some people
in some places they come from. So
when the media comes to them and
says: Have you brushed your teeth
today, and they say no, it is not be-
cause they didn’t have a toothbrush
available. It is because, no, they didn’t
brush their teeth today.
I actually watched an interview
where they went to a child and said:
Have you brushed your teeth, and they
said no. Their response on Twitter was:
How atrocious. We are better than this
as Americans. Well, this was what was
in the storeroom and what they have
been offered.
Interestingly enough, even as I
walked through the central processing
facility that is way overcrowded, I saw
people lined up at the sinks brushing
their teeth. We are providing supplies
and resources to these individuals.
That is a normal habit.
This was interesting to me. As I
walked through the facility—and this
was in that central processing facility
that was so crowded. As I walked
through, there was a Coast Guard indi-
vidual here because, yes, the Coast
Guard is coming to help the Border Pa-
trol because they need additional man-
power. This is a Coastie who was com-
ing through the facility that found a
young girl who was just crying on her
own. She was alone—one of these kids
who has just been dropped off. He was
walking through the facility, walking
her around, holding her while she cried,
and they had just stopped for a mo-
ment to watch TV. This is what is ac-
tually going on at the border.
Now, are there facilities that are
overcrowded? Absolutely there are, and
the people who struggle with that the
most are actually members of the Bor-
der Patrol, and they have been excep-
tionally frustrated that they are not
getting more support and more ability
to transition people out of their facili-
ties into actual detention facilities.
You see, the famous ‘‘kids in cages’’
facility that President Trump has
taken so much heat for is actually a fa-
cility in McAllen, TX, they call the
central processing facility. It was stood
up in 2014 and 2015 when President
Obama was facing a rush of children
coming across the border with no place
to put them. So President Obama’s
team, Jeh Johnson, as the Secretary of
DHS, built a facility in McAllen to
hold children there. That is the facility
President Obama is getting blamed
for—I am sorry, President Trump is
getting blamed for—that President
Obama and his team actually designed
and built.
Now, is it a great facility for chil-
dren? No, I don’t think it is, nor is it
the Border Patrol’s fault, though, that
it is a bad facility. They are using what
they have to manage the crisis that is
happening in front of them.
I am tired of hearing people say
President Trump is trying to throw all
these kids out and treat them so miser-
ably, when that is not the case. They
are scrambling to figure out what they
can do and how they can manage and
take care of the kids and the families
they have and how they can sort out
and try to figure out what to do.
So let me talk through the solutions
here. How do we solve this crisis that is
going on currently with thousands and
thousands of people who are illegally
crossing the border every day?
Well, some of them, we can start get-
ting the message out, which has al-
ready happened, that America is open
to immigration if you do it legally. We
have 1.1 billion people who go through
the legal permanent residence process
every single year. We have 700,000 peo-
ple every single year who become citi-
zens of the United States through a
naturalized system. We have 500,000
people every day who legally cross the
border from Mexico into the United
States. Half a million every day legally
do it.
One of the places I stopped to see was
the legal border crossings at the inter-
national bridge, and I watched individ-
uals drive in and show their papers and
go through the simple process. They
show a passport, show their visa, what-
ever it may be, and drive across the
border. Thousands of people line up to
do it and millions a year in each facil-
ity.
I watched as people crossed the bor-
der on a pedestrian bridge, and as they
crossed it with their paperwork, they
were brought in. As they walk up to
the bridge, they say: ‘‘I am asking for
asylum.’’ They walk across the border
on the international bridge and are
taken into an air-conditioned room to
start processing their asylum request.
That is happening every day right now.
Yet everyone in the media is saying
that is not happening. The first thing
we can do is start getting out accurate
information of what is actually occur-
ring at the border.
The second thing we can do is—one of
the primary issues the Border Patrol
asked for over and over again, fund
ICE. Now, why would the Border Patrol
ask for more funding for somebody
else? Because ICE is the primary entity
that actually does detention. Border
Patrol is the police station. ICE does
detention.
When individuals are picked up at
the border by Border Patrol, they are
processed and immediately delivered to
ICE. ICE then does detention for those
individuals. They have facilities scat-
tered all over the country where they
can house individuals in consistent
housing, with plenty of space and set
up perfectly for that with well-trained
individuals to detain folks to go
through that process.
Border Patrol’s No. 1 request is:
Please stop asking us to do detention.
We don’t have facilities for it. Clearly,
that is why everyone is packed in.
Allow ICE to do this.
Now, why doesn’t ICE have funding?
Well, because it has been one of our
biggest battles with our Democratic
colleagues who are obsessed with
defunding ICE. Over and over again
they say they want to abolish ICE,
defund ICE, and get rid of ICE. What is
really being stated there is there is no
place to do detention when that occurs.
Let me give you an example. In 2018,
the request for ICE was $3.6 billion. Ac-
tually, what we could get at the end of
it was just over $3 billion. They were
$600 million down from what they said
they needed. In 2019, the request was
$3.5 billion. What they got was $3.1 bil-
lion—again, much less than what they
needed.
When the crisis began to hit in its
highest proportion and we finally got a
humanitarian relief package to these
individuals on the border to try to get
additional support, including building
the soft-sided facility, my Democratic
colleagues held out and refused to do
any funding for ICE. In the humani-
tarian package, there was zero funding
for ICE detention—none.
Border Patrol said that is the prime
thing we need to actually solve this
problem. What we need, more than
anything else, is to allow these folks to
move out of these temporary facilities
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.057 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5051
July 24, 2019
into long-term facilities so we can ac-
tually get them in better housing situ-
ations, but when we debated our way
through this, our Democratic col-
leagues held firm and said: No funding
for ICE detention. That perpetuates
this problem on the border.
We have to solve this. They should be
able to have the additional funding
that they need so that we can get these
kids and families into better locations
for their housing and not temporary,
stopgap locations.
The next issue we need to address is,
we should move asylum officers to the
border. This is one of the prime things
that Border Patrol wanted. Many of
these individuals come and say: I want
asylum. Let’s walk them through the
process. Let’s get there. The problem is
that the vast majority of individuals
who request asylum do not qualify for
asylum. They come into the United
States because they want to connect
with family members who are here or
for economic or other opportunities. I
completely understand that. We have a
legal process to do that. But someone
can’t just come across the border and
say: I have a cousin who lives here and
I want to come, and that qualifies as
asylum. That is not asylum. Only 15
percent of the people crossing the bor-
der who are asking for asylum actually
qualify, but individuals wait up to 2
years for a hearing to find out if they
qualify. So the legitimate individuals
who desperately need asylum, who
have to get through that process as
rapidly as they can, cannot do so be-
cause 85 percent of the people are clog-
ging up the system, asking for things
that are not asylum.
We should move asylum officers clos-
er to the border to do faster processing
so we can help individuals who are
seeking asylum to get it and also iden-
tify people who are gaming the system
and say: You cannot just game the sys-
tem. You have to go through the proc-
ess legally.
Additionally, we have to deal with
this 20-day release issue. Right now,
the rule is that a family with a child or
a child can only be held for 20 days
total. They can be held for only 20
days, and after that, they have to be
released into the country. The cartels
and human smugglers know that rule,
and that is why we have seen an in-
crease from 2014 from only 1 percent of
the men bringing a child to now 50 per-
cent of the men bringing a child, be-
cause they know that if they bring a
child, they will be released within 20
days.
Here is what is different, though. In
20 days, we can do our record checks in
the United States to see whether this
person has a criminal record, but when
we contact any of the 63 other coun-
tries that these individuals are coming
from, just in that sector, most of those
countries can’t respond to us with
their country’s criminal record within
20 days.
What is really happening on the bor-
der is individuals are coming across
with a child. They are being detained
for 20 days while we request criminal
records from their home country. They
are still there when on the 21st day we
have to release them, and 10 to 15 days
later, we get word that the individual
actually had a murder warrant in their
home country. That really happened
just a few days ago.
Also, a few days ago, we released an
adult with a child and then found out a
few days later that their home country
was seeking them because they were a
pedophile in their country. But we had
just released that adult with a child
into our country because we have a 20-
day restriction and we can’t wait until
we get criminal records from another
country. That is absurd.
We are encouraging the trafficking of
children by saying that you can get
into our country no matter what if you
just bring a child, and we are encour-
aging people with a criminal record to
come in and bring a child because they
know that is their fast track to be able
to get in, because their home country
can’t fulfill our request fast enough.
Why would we do that as a country?
Why would we knowingly, willingly do
that?
We can solve this problem. It is a
horrible humanitarian crisis. We need
to pay attention to it and be logical
about this. Stop saying ‘‘abolish ICE’’
when what we really need is the ICE fa-
cilities to help us to detain people in
the best possible of environments while
we find out who they are, what their
records are, who is related to whom,
and what their background is.
Stop ignoring the obvious things. We
have some people coming due to pov-
erty. We have some people coming to
smuggle drugs. Until we can sort that
out, we should figure out who is who.
That doesn’t seem irrational to me.
We should also find a way to process
asylum requests faster than we are so
that individuals pursuing asylum can
go through the system and get proc-
essed and individuals who are gaming
the system do not get to game the sys-
tem.
We can do better, and we have to do
better. I would encourage us to be seri-
ous about immigration in the days
ahead. This Congress can solve this
issue, but it won’t because it is just a
political game. When it is about scor-
ing political points rather than solving
a humanitarian crisis, people in this
body have to decide which one they
want to do more.
I will never forget last year, sitting
with a bipartisan group of my col-
leagues, and as we discussed solutions
to immigration, one of my Democratic
colleagues said out loud: I haven’t de-
cided what I want to do on this yet.
There is an angel on one shoulder say-
ing this problem needs to be solved,
and there is a devil on my other shoul-
der saying this is the greatest political
weapon I have against the President.
Why would I give that up? And I
haven’t decided which way I am going
to go yet.
I looked at them and said: Here is a
basic rule of thumb I live by. When
there are an angel and a devil talking
to you, go with the angel every time.
This is something we should do, and
we should stop playing political games
and trying to hurt the President and
ignoring the obvious solution we all
should see. This is not a partisan issue;
this is a humanity issue. Let’s solve it
together.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED TRANSFER TO THE KING-
DOM OF SAUDI ARABIA, THE
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT
BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRE-
LAND, THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN,
AND THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC OF
CERTAIN DEFENSE ARTICLES
AND SERVICES—S. J. RES. 36—
VETO
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED EXPORT TO THE UNITED
ARAB EMIRATES, THE UNITED
KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND NORTHERN IRELAND, AND
THE REPUBLIC OF FRANCE OF
CERTAIN DEFENSE ARTICLES
AND SERVICES—S. J. RES. 37—
VETO
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED EXPORT TO THE KING-
DOM OF SAUDI ARABIA AND THE
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT
BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRE-
LAND OF CERTAIN DEFENSE AR-
TICLES AND SERVICES—S. J.
RES. 38—VETO
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate having
received the veto messages on S.J. Res.
36, S.J. Res. 37, and S.J. Res. 38, the
messages are considered read and
spread upon the Journal in full, en
bloc.
The veto messages are ordered to be
printed in the RECORD as follows:
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning herewith without my
approval S.J. Res. 36, a joint resolution
that would prohibit the issuance of cer-
tain licenses with respect to several
proposed agreements or transfers to
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the Kingdom of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:08 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.058 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5052 July 24, 2019
Spain, and the Italian Republic. This
resolution would weaken America’s
global competitiveness and damage the
important relationships we share with
our allies and partners.
In particular, S.J. Res. 36 would pro-
hibit licensing for manufacturing in
Saudi Arabia of Guidance Electronics
Detector Assemblies, Computer Con-
trol Groups, Airfoil Groups, Aircraft
Umbilical Interconnect Systems,
Fuses, and other components to sup-
port the production of Paveway II, En-
hanced Paveway II, and Paveway IV
munitions. The misguided licensing
prohibitions in the joint resolution di-
rectly conflict with the foreign policy
and national security objectives of the
United States, which include strength-
ening defense alliances with friendly
countries throughout the world, deep-
ening partnerships that preserve and
extend our global influence, and en-
hancing our competitiveness in key
markets. Apart from negatively affect-
ing our bilateral relationships with
Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom,
Spain, and Italy, the joint resolution
would hamper the ability of the United
States to sustain and shape critical se-
curity cooperation activities. S.J. Res.
36 would also damage the credibility of
the United States as a reliable partner
by signaling that we are willing to
abandon our partners and allies at the
very moment when threats to them are
increasing.
The United States is providing the li-
censes that the joint resolution seeks
to prohibit for many reasons. First and
foremost, it is our solemn duty to pro-
tect the safety of the more than 80,000
United States citizens who reside in
Saudi Arabia and who are imperiled by
Houthi attacks from Yemen. The
Houthis, supported by Iran, have at-
tacked civilian and military facilities
using missiles, armed drones, and ex-
plosive boats, including in areas fre-
quented by United States citizens, such
as the airport in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Second, the joint resolution would de-
grade Saudi Arabia’s military pre-
paredness and ability to protect its
sovereignty, directly affecting its abil-
ity to defend United States military
personnel hosted there. Third, Saudi
Arabia is a bulwark against the malign
activities of Iran and its proxies in the
region, and the licenses the joint reso-
lution would prohibit enhance Saudi
Arabia’s ability to deter and defend
against these threats.
In addition, S.J. Res. 36 would nega-
tively affect our NATO Allies and the
transatlantic defense industry. It
could, for example, produce unintended
consequences for defense procurement
and interoperability with and between
our partners. It could also create diplo-
matic and security opportunities for
our adversaries to exploit.
Finally, by restricting the ability of
our partners to produce and purchase
precision-guided munitions, S.J. Res.
36 would likely prolong the conflict in
Yemen and deepen the suffering it
causes. By undermining bilateral rela-
tionships of the United States and im-
peding our ability to support key part-
ners at a critical time, the joint resolu-
tion would harm—not help—efforts to
end the conflict in Yemen. And without
precision-guided munitions, more—not
fewer—civilians are likely to become
casualties of the conflict. While I share
concerns that certain Members of Con-
gress have expressed about civilian cas-
ualties of this conflict, the United
States has taken and will continue to
take action to minimize such casual-
ties, including training and advising
Saudi-led Coalition forces to improve
their targeting processes.
The United States is very concerned
about the conflict’s toll on innocent ci-
vilians and is working to bring the con-
flict in Yemen to an end. But we can-
not end it through ill-conceived and
time-consuming resolutions that fail to
address its root causes. Rather than ex-
pend time and resources on such reso-
lutions, I encourage the Congress to di-
rect its efforts toward supporting our
work to achieve peace through a nego-
tiated settlement to the conflict in
Yemen.
For these reasons, it is my duty to
return S.J. Res. 36 to the Senate with-
out my approval.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, July 24, 2019.
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning herewith without my
approval S.J. Res. 37, a joint resolution
that would prohibit the issuance of ex-
port licenses for certain defense arti-
cles, defense services, and technical
data to support the transfer of
Paveway II kits to the United Arab
Emirates (UAE), the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
and the Republic of France. This reso-
lution would weaken America’s global
competitiveness and damage the im-
portant relationships we share with
our allies and partners.
In particular, S.J. Res. 37 would pro-
hibit the issuance of export licenses for
Paveway II kits to the UAE, the United
Kingdom, and France. The misguided
licensing prohibitions in the joint reso-
lution directly conflict with the for-
eign policy and national security ob-
jectives of the United States, which in-
clude strengthening defense alliances
with friendly countries throughout the
world, deepening partnerships that pre-
serve and extend our global influence,
and enhancing our competitiveness in
key markets. Apart from negatively af-
fecting our bilateral relationships with
the UAE, the United Kingdom, and
France, the joint resolution would
hamper the ability of the United States
to sustain and shape critical security
cooperation activities with those part-
ners. S.J. Res. 37 would also damage
the credibility of the United States as
a reliable partner by signaling that we
are willing to abandon our partners
and allies at the very moment when
threats to them are increasing.
The United States is providing the li-
censes that the joint resolution seeks
to prohibit for many reasons. First and
foremost, it is our solemn duty to pro-
tect the safety of the more than 80,000
United States citizens who reside in
Saudi Arabia and are imperiled by
Houthis attacking from Yemen using
missiles, armed drones, and explosive
boats. The UAE is an important part of
the Saudi-led Coalition that helps pro-
tect Americans from these Iranian-sup-
ported Houthi attacks on civilian and
military facilities, including those lo-
cated in areas frequented by United
States citizens like the airport in Ri-
yadh, Saudi Arabia. Second, the joint
resolution would degrade the UAE’s
military preparedness and ability to
protect its sovereignty, directly affect-
ing its ability to defend the thousands
of United States military personnel
hosted there. Third, the UAE is a bul-
wark against the malign activities of
Iran and its proxies in the region. It is
also an active partner with the United
States in combatting terrorism in
Yemen and elsewhere. The licenses the
joint resolution would prohibit en-
hance our partner’s ability to deter and
defend against these threats.
In addition, S.J. Res. 37 would nega-
tively affect our NATO Allies and the
transatlantic defense industry. It
could, for example, produce unintended
consequences for defense procurement
and interoperability with and between
our partners. It could also create diplo-
matic and security opportunities for
our adversaries to exploit.
Finally, by restricting the ability of
our partners to produce and purchase
precision-guided munitions, S.J. Res.
37 would likely prolong the conflict in
Yemen and deepen the suffering it
causes. By undermining bilateral rela-
tionships of the United States and im-
peding our ability to support key part-
ners at a critical time, the joint resolu-
tion would harm—not help—efforts to
end the conflict in Yemen. And without
precision-guided munitions, more—not
fewer—civilians are likely to become
casualties of the conflict. While I share
concerns that certain Members of Con-
gress have expressed about civilian cas-
ualties of this conflict, the United
States has taken and will continue to
take action to minimize such casual-
ties, including training and advising
the Saudi-led Coalition forces to im-
prove their targeting processes.
The United States is very concerned
about the conflict’s toll on innocent ci-
vilians and is working to bring the con-
flict in Yemen to an end. But we can-
not end it through ill-conceived and
time-consuming resolutions that fail to
address its root causes. Rather than ex-
pend time and resources on such reso-
lutions, I encourage the Congress to di-
rect its efforts toward supporting our
work to achieve peace through a nego-
tiated settlement to the conflict in
Yemen.
For these reasons, it is my duty to
return S.J. Res. 37 to the Senate with-
out my approval.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, July 24, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.010 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5053
July 24, 2019
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning herewith without my
approval S.J. Res. 38, a joint resolution
that would prohibit the issuance of ex-
port licenses for the proposed transfer
of defense articles, defense services,
and technical data to support the man-
ufacture of the Aurora Fuzing System
for the Paveway IV Precision Guided
Bomb Program in regard to the King-
dom of Saudi Arabia and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland. This resolution would
weaken America’s global competitive-
ness and damage the important rela-
tionships we share with our allies and
partners.
In particular, S.J. Res. 38 would pro-
hibit the issuance of export licenses for
the proposed transfer of defense arti-
cles, defense services, and technical
data for the manufacturing of the Au-
rora Fuzing System for the Paveway
IV Precision Guided Bomb Program.
The misguided licensing prohibition in
the joint resolution directly conflicts
with the foreign policy and national se-
curity objectives of the United States,
which include strengthening defense al-
liances with friendly countries
throughout the world, deepening part-
nerships that preserve and extend our
global influence, and enhancing our
competitiveness in key markets. Apart
from negatively affecting our bilateral
relationships with Saudi Arabia and
the United Kingdom, the joint resolu-
tion would hamper the ability of the
United States to sustain and shape
critical security cooperation activities.
S.J. Res. 38 would also damage the
credibility of the United States as a re-
liable partner by signaling that we are
willing to abandon our partners and al-
lies at the very moment when threats
to them are increasing.
The United States is providing the li-
censes that the joint resolution seeks
to prohibit for many reasons. First and
foremost, it is our solemn duty to pro-
tect the safety of the more than 80,000
United States citizens who reside in
Saudi Arabia and who are imperiled by
Houthi attacks from Yemen. The
Houthis, supported by Iran, have at-
tacked civilian and military facilities
using missiles, armed drones, and ex-
plosive boats, including in areas fre-
quented by United States citizens, such
as the airport in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Second, the joint resolution would de-
grade Saudi Arabia’s military pre-
paredness and ability to protect its
sovereignty, directly affecting its abil-
ity to defend United States military
personnel hosted there. Third, Saudi
Arabia is a bulwark against the malign
activities of Iran and its proxies in the
region, and the licenses the joint reso-
lution would prohibit enhance Saudi
Arabia’s ability to deter and defend
against these threats.
In addition, S.J. Res. 38 would nega-
tively affect our NATO Allies and the
transatlantic defense industry. It
could, for example, produce unintended
consequences for defense procurement
and interoperability with and between
our partners. It could also create diplo-
matic and security opportunities for
our adversaries to exploit.
Finally, by restricting the ability of
our partners to produce and purchase
precision-guided munitions, S.J. Res.
38 would likely prolong the conflict in
Yemen and deepen the suffering it
causes. By undermining bilateral rela-
tionships of the United States and im-
peding our ability to support key part-
ners at a critical time, the joint resolu-
tion would harm—not help—efforts to
end the conflict in Yemen. And without
precision-guided munitions, more—not
fewer—civilians are likely to become
casualties of the conflict. While I share
concerns that certain Members of Con-
gress have expressed about civilian cas-
ualties of this conflict, the United
States has taken and will continue to
take action to minimize such casual-
ties, including training and advising
the Saudi-led Coalition forces to im-
prove their targeting processes.
The United States is very concerned
about the conflict’s toll on innocent ci-
vilians and is working to bring the con-
flict in Yemen to an end. But we can-
not end it through ill-conceived and
time-consuming resolutions that fail to
address its root causes. Rather than ex-
pend time and resources on such reso-
lutions, I encourage the Congress to di-
rect its efforts toward supporting our
work to achieve peace through a nego-
tiated settlement to the conflict in
Yemen.
For these reasons, it is my duty to
return S.J. Res. 38 to the Senate with-
out my approval.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, July 24, 2019.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—
S. 2242
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, in a
moment, I will ask unanimous consent
for the Senate to take up and pass leg-
islation I have introduced to help pro-
tect our democracy from foreign inter-
ference.
Earlier today, Special Counsel Rob-
ert Mueller testified that the Russian
Government’s efforts to undermine our
elections are ‘‘among the most serious
challenges to our democracy’’—a chal-
lenge he says that ‘‘deserves the atten-
tion of every American.’’
Mr. Mueller’s testimony should serve
as a warning to every Member of this
body about what could happen in 2020—
literally, in our next election—if we
fail to act. When asked if he thought
that Russia would attack our democ-
racy again in 2020, Mr. Mueller said:
‘‘They’re doing it as we sit here.’’
Think about that for a moment. The
special prosecutor spent 21⁄2 years look-
ing into Russian intervention in our
elections in 2016 and says not only are
they going to do it, but they are doing
it as we sit here.
If this were just coming from the spe-
cial prosecutor, some folks might be
willing to dismiss it, but this is exactly
the same message we heard earlier this
week from FBI Director Wray. It is a
message that all of us have heard, and
being on the Intelligence Committee, I
have heard repeatedly from Director of
National Intelligence Coats, and we
have heard this, as well, from other
leaders of law enforcement and our in-
telligence community. Again, I point
out that the leaders who have sounded
the alarm about the ongoing Russian
threat to our elections were all ap-
pointed by this President.
Unfortunately, in the nearly 3 years
since we uncovered Russia’s attack on
our democracy, this body has not held
a single vote on stand-alone legislation
to protect our elections.
I am not here to relitigate the 2016
election or, for that matter, to second-
guess the special counsel’s findings.
This is more a question of how we de-
fend our democracy on a going-forward
basis.
The reason we need to do this—
amongst a host of reasons—is that just
a month ago, the President of the
United States sat in the Oval Office,
and by dismissing this threat, effec-
tively gave Russia the green light to
interfere in future elections. Since
then, unfortunately, my Republican
colleagues have done nothing to pre-
vent further future attempts at under-
mining our democracy.
Let me be clear. If a foreign adver-
sary tries to offer assistance to your
campaign, your response should not be
thank you; your response should be a
moral obligation to tell the FBI. Mr.
Mueller, the former FBI Director and
inarguably the straightest arrow in
public service, said as much this after-
noon.
So if the President or other members
of his family or his campaign can’t be
trusted to do the right thing and report
their foreign contacts and foreign of-
fers of assistance to their political ac-
tivities, then we need to make it a
legal requirement.
That is what my legislation, the
FIRE Act, is all about. The FIRE Act is
a simple, narrowly targeted bill. All it
does is make sure that attempts to
interfere in future Presidential elec-
tions are promptly reported to the FBI
and the FEC.
Let me be clear. The FIRE Act is not
about prohibiting innocent contacts or
the exercise of First Amendment
rights. Contrary to some of the mis-
taken rhetoric we have heard, it does
not require the reporting of contacts
with foreign journalists or with Dream-
ers or of official meetings with foreign
governments. It is simply about pre-
serving Americans’ trust in our demo-
cratic process. If a candidate is receiv-
ing or welcoming help from the Krem-
lin or its spy services, I think the
American people should have a right to
know before they head to the polls.
Consequently, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Committee on Rules and
Administration be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S. 2242, the FIRE
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.011 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5054 July 24, 2019
Act; that the Senate proceed to its im-
mediate consideration; that the bill be
read a third time and passed; and that
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
an objection?
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. An objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Connecticut.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—
S. 1247
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
thank my colleague Senator WARNER,
and we will hear shortly from Senator
WYDEN.
These two great colleagues are cham-
pioning election security. Senator
WARNER, at the helm as vice chairman
of the Intelligence Committee, has
done as much as any American and any
Member of this body to uncover the se-
rious Russian threat to our election
system. It is a threat not just from
Russia but from other countries as
well. That is why I have offered and
will ask unanimous consent for the
passage of S. 1247, the Duty To Report
Act.
This legislation, like Senator WAR-
NER’s, is based on a very simple idea: If
you see something, say something. The
Duty To Report Act would require
campaigns, candidates, and family
members to immediately report to the
FBI and the Federal Election Commis-
sion any offers of illegal foreign assist-
ance. It differs in some technical as-
pects—for example, with regard to fam-
ily members—from Senator WARNER’s
proposed FIRE Act. Yet it is the same
idea because it codifies into law what
is already a moral duty, a patriotic
duty, and basic common sense. It is al-
ready illegal to accept foreign assist-
ance during a campaign. It is already
illegal to solicit foreign assistance dur-
ing a campaign. All this bill does is re-
quire campaigns and individuals to re-
port such illegal foreign assistance di-
rectly to the FBI.
Special Counsel Robert Mueller came
before Congress today to answer ques-
tions about his very comprehensive and
powerful report that documents the
sweeping and systematic interference
in our election, as he testified, to ben-
efit, principally, Donald Trump’s cam-
paign. Yet this measure is about the
future. It is about preventing such
election interference in the future and
providing a mandate and a duty to re-
port any offers of assistance from a for-
eign government, like Russia.
This report outlines the most serious
attack on our democracy by a foreign
power in our history. It tells the story
of more than 150 contacts between the
Trump campaign and Russian agents.
It tells the story of Russian covert and
overt efforts to influence the outcome
of our election by helping one can-
didate and hurting another, and it
shows—perhaps most importantly for
the purpose of this measure—that the
Trump campaign knew of it, welcomed
it, and happily accepted it.
Mueller testified this morning:
Over the course of my career, I have seen
a number of challenges to our democracy.
The Russian Government’s efforts to inter-
fere in our election is among the most seri-
ous. As I said on May 29, this deserves the at-
tention of every American.
Equally important is that, just yes-
terday, FBI Director Christopher Wray
came before the Committee on the Ju-
diciary and warned that the Russians
are still actively trying to interfere in
our election, which is what Mueller
said today when he was asked about
some of the remarks and some of the
efforts in the Trump campaign. He was
referring to Donald Trump, Jr., when
he said, ‘‘I love it,’’ in welcoming Rus-
sia’s offer of assistance to the Trump
campaign in the June 9 meeting, Direc-
tor Mueller said, ‘‘I hope this is not the
new normal, but I fear it is.’’
This is the context of troubling com-
ments that brings us here today. One of
the most troubling is President
Trump’s own comment when asked if
he would accept foreign help in 2020,
and he said, ‘‘I would take it.’’ That is
why we need the Duty To Report Act.
If that kind of assistance is offered,
there is an obligation to report it, not
to take it.
The election of 2016 was simply a
dress rehearsal. With the 2020 election
upon us, we must stop this kind of for-
eign interference and ensure that it is
the American people, not Russia or any
other foreign power like China or Iran,
who decide who the leaders of this
country will be and the direction of our
democracy.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Committee on Rules and
Administration be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S. 1247; that the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration; that the bill be considered
read a third time and passed; and that
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
an objection?
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. An objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
yield to another great colleague who
has been a champion of this cause of
election security, Senator WYDEN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—
S. 890
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I thank
my colleagues, Senator BLUMENTHAL
and Senator WARNER, who have spoken
strongly on the issue at hand, which is
to protect our great country and our
extraordinary 200-year experiment in
self-governance. To do it, we have to
add a new tier—a strong protection—
for the sanctity of our elections.
I thank Senator BLUMENTHAL. He is a
member of the Committee on the Judi-
ciary, where he is doing important
work on these issues. I thank our col-
league, Senator WARNER, of course,
who is the vice chairman of the Intel-
ligence Committee, on which I serve. I
also thank my colleague who is still on
the floor, Senator BLUMENTHAL, for all
of his leadership. I look forward to
partnering with him and with Senator
WARNER in the days ahead.
In a moment, I will ask for unani-
mous consent to adopt a bipartisan bill
that I have proposed with Senator COT-
TON. It is S. 890, the Senate Cybersecu-
rity Protection Act. Before I ask, how-
ever, for that unanimous consent re-
quest, I will give some brief back-
ground as to why Senator COTTON and
I are working on this issue and putting
all of this time into this effort.
In the 2016 election, obviously, the
Russians inflicted damage on our de-
mocracy by hacking the personal ac-
counts of political parties and individ-
uals and then by dumping emails and
documents online. This tactic gen-
erated massive amounts of media cov-
erage that was based on those stolen
documents. It is clear, in my view, that
the Russians and other hostile foreign
actors are going to continue to target
the personal devices and accounts,
which are often less secure than offi-
cial government devices. You don’t
have to take my word for it. Top na-
tional security officials in the Trump
administration have said virtually the
same thing.
Last year, the Director of National
Intelligence—our former colleague,
Senator Coats—told the Senate Intel-
ligence Committee: ‘‘The personal ac-
counts and devices of government offi-
cials can contain information that is
useful for our adversaries to target, ei-
ther directly or indirectly, these offi-
cials and the organizations with which
they are affiliated.’’
Likewise, in a letter to me last year,
the then-Director of the National Secu-
rity Agency, MIKE ROGERS, said that
the personal devices and accounts be-
longing to senior U.S. government offi-
cials ‘‘remain prime targets for exploi-
tation.’’
These foreign intelligence threats are
not just aimed at the executive branch.
Last year, a bipartisan Senate working
group examined cybersecurity threats
against Senators. In its November 2018
report, the working group revealed
there was ‘‘mounting evidence that
Senators are being targeted for hack-
ing, which could include exposure of
personal data.’’ Likewise, Google has
now publicly confirmed that it has
quietly warned specific Senators and
Senate staff that their personal email
accounts were targeted by state-spon-
sored hackers.
Unfortunately, the Sergeant at
Arms—the office that is tasked with
protecting the Senate’s cybersecurity—
is currently barred from using its re-
sources to protect the personal devices
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.062 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5055
July 24, 2019
and accounts of Senators and their
staff, even if Senators and their staff
are being targeted by foreign spies and
hackers.
That is why, on a bipartisan basis, I
and Senator COTTON, who also serves
on the Intelligence Committee with me
and with Senator WARNER, who spoke
earlier, introduced legislation to per-
mit the Sergeant at Arms to provide
100-percent voluntary cybersecurity as-
sistance to Senators and their staff.
Our bill is modeled after a provision in
the recently passed Senate Intelligence
Authorization bill, which permits the
Director of National Intelligence to
provide voluntary cyber help to protect
the personal devices and accounts of
intelligence community employees.
Fighting back against foreign inter-
ference means securing every aspect of
our democracy, including the personal
accounts and devices of elected offi-
cials. I feel strongly that the majority
leader, our colleague from Kentucky,
must stop blocking this commonsense
legislation and allow this body to bet-
ter defend itself against foreign hack-
ers.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Committee on Rules and
Administration be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S. 890, the Senate
Cybersecurity Protection Act; that the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration; that the bill be read a third
time and passed; and that the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
an objection?
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. An objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I note
again there has been an objection.
I would only state that I don’t see
how anyone could consider what I have
proposed to be a partisan issue. I and
our colleague from Arkansas, Senator
COTTON—a military veteran—have
joined in an effort, which I would just
say to the Senators who are on the
floor, is going to be one of the great
threats of our time.
We know that hostile foreign actors
are going to target the personal ac-
counts and devices of government offi-
cials. Russia clearly demonstrated the
opportunities for meddling in the last
election. Now, we know that those op-
portunities are going to grow exponen-
tially in the days and months ahead.
So I only want to pass on that I think
this is regrettable, and there has been
an objection, and I just hope we will be
able to pass this bill before more peo-
ple are hacked and their stolen data is
exploited by hostile foreign actors.
I yield the floor.
f
REMEMBERING EVA YEH CHANG
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
am sorry to note today the recent pass-
ing of a dear friend to many and the
ending of her quintessentially Amer-
ican story.
On July 13, Mrs. Eva Yeh Chang of
San Francisco died peacefully at the
age of 100. Eva was born in 1919 in
Shanghai during a different era for
China. Though she was born into a
well-to-do banking family, her first
three decades involved significant
hardship: the Chinese Civil War, the
Japanese occupation in the late 1930s,
the Second World War, and the begin-
ning of the Communist Revolution.
That final event led Eva and her hus-
band, Fu-Yun Chang, a Harvard-edu-
cated diplomat, statesman, and schol-
ar, to leave their lives behind and de-
part for American shores. They essen-
tially started over in a new country
with three young children under the
age of 10.
What followed was the kind of entre-
preneurial ‘‘start-up life’’ that would
sound impossible in many other lands
but has been the building block of our
Nation from the beginning. Eva worked
multiple jobs, from retail to waiting
tables. Eventually, she saved enough to
strike out on her own. First she opened
a diner. Then she started one of San
Francisco’s early Northern Chinese res-
taurants—a big success—and then
came more investments in enterprise
and real estate in the city.
Eva didn’t just keep what she had
built for herself. She put it into service
for others. Eva built a new life for her
children. She became a pillar of her
community, and she used her resources
to help a number of her relatives back
in China complete the same journey
she had made and follow in her foot-
steps to America.
This remarkable woman may have
left us, but the positive effects of her
life continue to ripple out. For exam-
ple, she lived to see her daughter, Am-
bassador Julia Chang Bloch, become
the first-ever Asian-American to serve
as a U.S. Ambassador and continue the
family legacy of giving back to this
Nation.
The Senate stands with the entire
Chang family and all who mourn Eva
in this time of grief, and we stand with
them in celebrating 100 years so well
lived.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, I was
necessarily absent but, had I been
present, would have voted no on roll-
call vote No. 226, the motion to invoke
cloture on Wendy Williams Berger to
be U.S. District Judge for the Middle
District of Florida.
Mr. President: I was necessarily ab-
sent but, had I been present, would
have voted no on rollcall vote No. 227,
the motion to invoke cloture on Brian
C. Buescher to be U.S. District Judge
for the District of Nebraska.∑
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
AMERICAN LEGION
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize the 100th anniversary
of the American Legion. I appreciate
the opportunity to speak about this
truly significant milestone in the his-
tory of our veterans and this organiza-
tion. The centennial celebration is a
historical benchmark for the State of
Michigan, as well as the entire Nation.
Established in 1919 in Paris, France,
the American Legion was founded to
bolster the morale of American troops
as they awaited their return home as
recently discharged combat veterans
following the Great War. In September
of the same year, the American Legion
was federally chartered by Congress.
By November 1919, the American Le-
gion had 2,500 paid members and hosted
its first national convention in Indian-
apolis, which then became the perma-
nent home of the American Legion Na-
tional Headquarters.
With local posts in each State, var-
ious territories, and overseas, the
American Legion is our Nation’s larg-
est wartime Veterans’ service organiza-
tion. The Legion embodies its commit-
ment of upholding the Constitution of
the United States of America and pro-
moting peace and goodwill through its
volunteerism in the communities it
represents.
The Legion’s grassroots involvement
has shaped legislation at all levels of
government. Within its inaugural year,
Legionnaires across the country advo-
cated for better conditions for disabled
veterans in Washington, DC. Within a
week, Congress passed the Sweet Bill
which included provisions that would
more than double the compensation
disabled veterans were receiving at the
time. In 1921, The American Legion
claimed another legislative victory
with the consolidation of three Federal
agencies into the Veterans Bureau,
which would later become the Veterans
Administration.
The American Legion created various
organizations to support the Nation’s
veterans and youth, including the Vet-
erans and Children Foundation and
Sons of the American Legion. Since its
creation in 1924, the foundation has
given over $30 million in financial as-
sistance for disabled veterans and mili-
tary families. Through scholarships
and programming, the Legion also in-
vests in the future of our Nation’s
youth.
Today, with 386 posts in Michigan
and more than 12,000 posts nationwide
with nearly 2 million members, the
American Legion continues to grow to
support the needs of today’s veterans.
Whether it is drafting the first version
of the GI Bill, organizing our flag code,
or donating to the construction of the
Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Wash-
ington, DC, the Legion has been at the
forefront of monumental changes to
our military and veterans policy and
overall patriotism.
It is my great pleasure to congratu-
late the American Legion on the last-
ing impact it has made throughout our
Nation’s history and for the work it
continues to do. As the American Le-
gion celebrates this centennial mile-
stone, I ask all my colleagues to join
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:08 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.063 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5056 July 24, 2019
me in congratulating its members its
growth and prosperity in the years
ahead.
f
TRIBUTE TO SERGEANT MAJOR
DANIEL A. DAILEY
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize SMA Daniel A.
Dailey, the fifteenth Sergeant Major of
the Army, SMA, for his extraordinary
30 years of faithful service to our Army
and our Nation.
Sergeant Major Dailey’s impressive
and distinguished career has been char-
acterized by his diligent work, compas-
sionate leadership, and focus on taking
care of and advocating to improve the
lives of soldiers and their family mem-
bers.
In the next few weeks, Sergeant
Major Dailey will transition his re-
sponsibilities as the U.S. Army’s senior
enlisted leader, and he will retire from
the army after a long and distinguished
career of military service at home and
abroad. While Sergeant Major Dailey
may transition his official duties, his
heart and soul is that of a soldier. I
know that, as a Soldier for Life, Ser-
geant Major Dailey will continue his
life’s work to improve our Army and to
take care of our soldiers.
A native of Palmerton, PA, Sergeant
Major Dailey began his journey of serv-
ice when he enlisted in the Army in
1989 and successfully completed basic
training and advanced individual train-
ing as an infantryman at Fort Benning,
GA. During his career, Sergeant Major
Dailey has held every enlisted leader-
ship position in the mechanized infan-
try, ranging from Bradley Fighting Ve-
hicle commander to command sergeant
major.
Sergeant Major Dailey has served
with the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Infantry
Divisions stateside and overseas. In
March 2009, he was selected as the 4th
Infantry Division command sergeant
major, where he served as both the
command sergeant major of Fort Car-
son, CO, and U.S. Division-North, Iraq.
In 2011, Sergeant Major Dailey was se-
lected to serve as the Command Ser-
geant Major of the United States Army
Training and Doctrine Command,
TRADOC.
In addition to four deployments sup-
porting Operations IRAQI FREEDOM
and NEW DAWN, where he earned the
Bronze Star with Valor for his leader-
ship during the 4th Infantry Division’s
2-month ‘‘Battle for Sadr City’’ in 2008,
he also deployed in support of Oper-
ations DESERT STORM and DESERT
SHIELD during the first Gulf War.
Sergeant Major Dailey’s tenure as
the 15th Sergeant Major of the Army
began on January 30, 2015. As Sergeant
Major of the Army, Sergeant Major
Dailey serves as the senior enlisted ad-
visor to the Army’s Chief of Staff on
all matters affecting enlisted soldiers
and the NCO corps. In addition to being
the soldier’s voice through his member-
ship on multiple councils, boards, and
commissions and frequently testifying
before Congress, Sergeant Major Dailey
has also traveled the world to hear and
tell the soldier’s story, spearheaded
initiatives to enhance Army readiness
and increase soldier opportunity, and
routinely met with business and indus-
try leaders, and State and local govern-
ment officials to improve the quality
of life for Soldiers and their families.
Sergeant Major Dailey is the public
face of the U.S. Army’s noncommis-
sioned officer corps, representing the
corps to the American people in the
media and through business and com-
munity engagements. Sergeant Major
Dailey is a shining example of Army
values, and he exemplifies the non-
commissioned officer’s creed. He has
remained technically and tactically
proficient, and he has consistently pro-
vided outstanding leadership. He is the
personification of what it means to be
a professional soldier, and his service is
an example of how the Army’s NCO
corps is the ‘‘Backbone of the Army.’’
It has been a pleasure to know, work,
and serve with Sergeant Major Dailey
during his time as the Sergeant Major
of the Army. On behalf of a grateful
Nation, it is my honor to recognize the
selfless service and sacrifice of Ser-
geant Major Dailey and his family. I
wish Sergeant Major Dailey and his
family the very best in all of their fu-
ture endeavors as he and they begins
this new chapter. May God continue to
bless Sergeant Major Dailey, his fam-
ily, and the United States of America.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO GILLIAN AIKEN
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Gigi for her
hard work as an intern in the Senate
Republican Conference. I recognize her
efforts and contributions to my office
as well as to the State of Wyoming.
Gigi is a native of Virginia. She will
attend the University of the South:
Sewanee. She has demonstrated a
strong work ethic, which has made her
an invaluable asset to our office. The
quality of her work is reflected in her
great efforts over the last several
months.
I want to thank Gigi for the dedica-
tion she has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have her as part of our team. I know
she will have continued success with
all of her future endeavors. I wish her
all my best on her journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MADISON ANDERSON
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Madison for
her hard work as an intern in my
Sheridan office. I recognize her efforts
and contributions to my office as well
as to the State of Wyoming.
Madison is a native of Ten Sleep. She
is a student at Sheridan College, where
she is studying agricultural business.
She has demonstrated a strong work
ethic, which has made her an invalu-
able asset to our office. The quality of
her work is reflected in her great ef-
forts over the last several months.
I want to thank Madison for the dedi-
cation she has shown while working for
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to
have her as part of our team. I know
she will have continued success with
all of her future endeavors. I wish her
all my best on her next journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JAYME CHANDLER
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Jayme for
her hard work as an intern in the Envi-
ronment and Public Works Committee.
I recognize her efforts and contribu-
tions to my office as well as to the
State of Wyoming.
Jayme is a native of California. She
is a student at the University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley, where she is studying
history. She has demonstrated a strong
work ethic, which has made her an in-
valuable asset to our office. The qual-
ity of her work is reflected in her great
efforts over the last several months.
I want to thank Jayme for the dedi-
cation she has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have her as part of our team. I know
she will have continued success with
all of her future endeavors. I wish her
all my best on her journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JACK CHIESA
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Al for his
hard work as an intern in the Environ-
ment and Public Works Committee. I
recognize his efforts and contributions
to my office as well as to the State of
Wyoming.
Al is a native of New Jersey. He is a
student at the College of William and
Mary. He has demonstrated a strong
work ethic, which has made him an in-
valuable asset to our office. The qual-
ity of his work is reflected in his great
efforts over the last several months.
I want to thank Al for the dedication
he has shown while working for me and
my staff. It is a pleasure to have him
as part of our team. I know he will
have continued success with all of his
future endeavors. I wish him all my
best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO AVERY DOUGLAS
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Avery for
her hard work as an intern in the Envi-
ronment and Public Works Committee.
I recognize her efforts and contribu-
tions to my office as well as to the
State of Wyoming.
Avery is a native of Florida. She is a
student at the University of South
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:08 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.015 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5057
July 24, 2019
Carolina School of Law. She has dem-
onstrated a strong work ethic, which
has made her an invaluable asset to
our office. The quality of her work is
reflected in her great efforts over the
last several months.
I want to thank Avery for the dedica-
tion she has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have her as part of our team. I know
she will have continued success with
all of her future endeavors. I wish her
all my best on her journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO PRESTON GROMER
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Preston for
his hard work as an intern in my Wash-
ington, DC, office. I recognize his ef-
forts and contributions to my office as
well as to the State of Wyoming.
Preston is a native of Casper. He is a
student at Pepperdine University,
where he is studying economics. He has
demonstrated a strong work ethic,
which has made him an invaluable
asset to our office. The quality of his
work is reflected in his great efforts
over the last several months.
I want to thank Preston for the dedi-
cation he has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have him as part of our team. I know
he will have continued success with all
of his future endeavors. I wish him all
my best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO GARRETT HARTIGAN
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Garrett for
his hard work as an intern in my Chey-
enne office. I recognize his efforts and
contributions to my office as well as to
the State of Wyoming.
Garrett is a native of Cheyenne. He is
a student at the University of Wyo-
ming, where he is studying agricultural
business and pre-law. He has dem-
onstrated a strong work ethic, which
has made him an invaluable asset to
our office. The quality of his work is
reflected in his great efforts over the
last several months.
I want to thank Garrett for the dedi-
cation he has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have him as part of our team. I know
he will have continued success with all
of his future endeavors. I wish him all
my best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO SKYLAR HOLMQUIST
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Skylar for
her hard work as an intern in my Cas-
per office. I recognize her efforts and
contributions to my office as well as to
the State of Wyoming.
Skylar is a native of Baggs. She is a
student at Casper College, where she is
studying art education. She has dem-
onstrated a strong work ethic, which
has made her an invaluable asset to
our office. The quality of her work is
reflected in her great efforts over the
last several months.
I want to thank Skylar for the dedi-
cation she has shown while working for
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to
have her as part of our team. I know
she will have continued success with
all of her future endeavors. I wish her
all my best on her next journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JACK HOLT
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Jack for his
hard work as an intern in the Senate
Republican Conference. I recognize his
efforts and contributions to my office
as well as to the State of Wyoming.
Jack is a native of Buffalo. He is a
student at Colorado Mesa University,
where he is studying history and busi-
ness. He has demonstrated a strong
work ethic, which has made him an in-
valuable asset to our office. The qual-
ity of his work is reflected in his great
efforts over the last several months.
I want to thank Jack for the dedica-
tion he has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have him as part of our team. I know
he will have continued success with all
of his future endeavors. I wish him all
my best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO KAMERON JENSEN
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Kameron
for his hard work as an intern in my
Washington, DC, office. I recognize his
efforts and contributions to my office
as well as to the State of Wyoming.
Kameron is a native of Cheyenne. He
is a student at the University of Wyo-
ming, where he is studying chemical
engineering. He has demonstrated a
strong work ethic, which has made him
an invaluable asset to our office. The
quality of his work is reflected in his
great efforts over the last several
months.
I want to thank Kameron for the
dedication he has shown while working
for me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have him as part of our team. I know
he will have continued success with all
of his future endeavors. I wish him all
my best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO KAITLYN MAHAR
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Kaitlyn for
her hard work as an intern in the Sen-
ate Republican Conference. I recognize
her efforts and contributions to my of-
fice as well as to the State of Wyo-
ming.
Kaitlyn is a native of Colorado. She
is a student at the University of Wyo-
ming, where she is studying political
science and Spanish. She has dem-
onstrated a strong work ethic, which
has made her an invaluable asset to
our office. The quality of her work is
reflected in her great efforts over the
last several months.
I want to thank Kaitlyn for the dedi-
cation she has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have her as part of our team. I know
she will have continued success with
all of her future endeavors. I wish her
all my best on her journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO PATRICK MCLEAN
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Patrick for
his hard work as an intern in the Envi-
ronment and Public Works Committee.
I recognize his efforts and contribu-
tions to my office as well as to the
State of Wyoming.
Patrick is a native of South Carolina.
He is a graduate of Wofford College,
where he studied history. He has dem-
onstrated a strong work ethic, which
has made him an invaluable asset to
our office. The quality of his work is
reflected in his great efforts over the
last several months.
I want to thank Patrick for the dedi-
cation he has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have him as part of our team. I know
he will have continued success with all
of his future endeavors. I wish him all
my best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO TREVOR MERRIFIELD
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Trevor for
his hard work as an intern in the Envi-
ronment and Public Works Committee.
I recognize his efforts and contribu-
tions to my office as well as to the
State of Wyoming.
Trevor is a native of North Carolina.
He is a graduate of Auburn University,
where he studied political science. He
has demonstrated a strong work ethic,
which has made him an invaluable
asset to our office. The quality of his
work is reflected in his great efforts
over the last several months.
I want to thank Trevor for the dedi-
cation he has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have him as part of our team. I know
he will have continued success with all
of his future endeavors. I wish him all
my best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CHANDLER PAULING
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Chandler
for her hard work as an intern in my
Washington, DC, office. I recognize her
efforts and contributions to my office
as well as to the State of Wyoming.
Chandler is a native of Laramie. She
is a student at the University of Wyo-
ming, where she is studying political
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:08 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.046 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5058 July 24, 2019
science and communication. She has
demonstrated a strong work ethic,
which has made her an invaluable asset
to our office. The quality of her work is
reflected in her great efforts over the
last several months.
I want to thank Chandler for the
dedication she has shown while work-
ing for me and my staff. It was a pleas-
ure to have her as part of our team. I
know she will have continued success
with all of her future endeavors. I wish
her all my best on her next journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO BRIANNA SIMS
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Brianna for
her hard work as an intern in my Cas-
per office. I recognize her efforts and
contributions to my office as well as to
the State of Wyoming.
Brianna is a native of Casper. She is
a student at the University of Wyo-
ming, where she is studying physi-
ology. She has demonstrated a strong
work ethic, which has made her an in-
valuable asset to our office. The qual-
ity of her work is reflected in her great
efforts over the last several months.
I want to thank Brianna for the dedi-
cation she has shown while working for
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to
have her as part of our team. I know
she will have continued success with
all of her future endeavors. I wish her
all my best on her next journey.∑
f
RECOGNIZING THE SPRINGDALE
TYSON SCHOOL OF INNOVATION
ROBOTICS TEAM
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to congratulate Root Negative
One, Springdale’s Don Tyson School of
Innovation Robotics Team, on quali-
fying for the FIRST Global Challenge
in Dubai. Arkansas is proud to have a
team from our State represent the
United States in the robotics competi-
tion in October.
Root Negative One has achieved
much success in the team’s 4-year his-
tory. It won the Inspire Award, the top
award given at the FIRST Tech Chal-
lenge tournament, in its first year.
During the 2017–2018 season, the team
earned the Inspire Award at the Arkan-
sas FIRST Tech Challenge Champion-
ship, and it was an Inspire Award Fi-
nalist at the FIRST Tech Challenge
World Championship in Houston, TX.
This past season, the team won the In-
spire Awards at the Alabama FIRST
Tech Challenge Championship and the
FIRST Tech Challenge World Cham-
pionship in Houston. This award recog-
nizes Root Negative One as one of the
top two teams worldwide.
For Inspiration and Recognition of
Science and Technology—FIRST—em-
powers students to develop skills in
science, technology, engineering, and
mathematics—STEM—and provides op-
portunities for youth to make connec-
tions with professionals in these areas.
University of Arkansas College of Engi-
neering professors Richard Cassady and
Chase Rainwater volunteer as team
coaches, serving as excellent mentors
to the students. Since day one, the
team has worked hard to build a world-
class, high-school robotics program to
compete at the most elite level.
The numerous benefits these Spring-
dale students get from participating in
the FIRST program will have a long
lasting impact on team members. By
having the opportunity to learn from
professional engineers and master
STEM skills before they enter college,
they are well on their way to success-
ful futures.
I am very proud of the team’s accom-
plishments as its members continue
their journey to develop such relevant,
in-demand skills. Congratulations to
Root Negative One Robotics Team on
all of these accomplishments on earn-
ing a spot to compete in the FIRST
Global Challenge. I wish the team the
best of luck as it represents our coun-
try in the fall.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO TIM MORGAN
∑ Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize Tim Morgan, an in-
tern in my Washington, DC, office, for
all the hard work he has done on behalf
of myself, my staff, and the State of
South Dakota.
Tim is a graduate of Mitchell High
School in Mitchell, SD. Currently, he is
attending South Dakota State Univer-
sity in Brookings, SD, where he studies
political science and journalism. Tim
is a dedicated and diligent worker who
has been devoted to getting the most
out of his internship experience and
has been a true asset to the office.
I extend my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Tim for all of the fine
work he has done and wish him contin-
ued success in the years to come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ANNELIESE TAGGART
∑ Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize Anneliese Taggart,
an intern in my Washington, DC, of-
fice, for all the hard work she has done
on behalf of myself, my staff, and the
State of South Dakota.
Anneliese is a graduate of Vermillion
High School in Vermillion, SD. Cur-
rently, she is attending the University
of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, AL, where
she studies political science and com-
munications studies. Anneliese is a
dedicated and diligent worker who has
been devoted to getting the most out of
her internship experience and has been
a true asset to the office.
I extend my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Anneliese for all of the
fine work she has done and wish her
continued success in the years to
come.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
REPORT OF THE VETO OF S.J.
RES. 36, A JOINT RESOLUTION
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED TRANSFER TO THE KING-
DOM OF SAUDI ARABIA, THE
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT
BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRE-
LAND, THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN,
AND THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC OF
CERTAIN DEFENSE ARTICLES
AND SERVICES—PM 23
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was ordered to be printed
in the RECORD, spread in full upon the
Journal, and held at the desk:
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning herewith without my
approval S.J. Res. 36, a joint resolution
that would prohibit the issuance of cer-
tain licenses with respect to several
proposed agreements or transfers to
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the Kingdom of
Spain, and the Italian Republic. This
resolution would weaken America’s
global competitiveness and damage the
important relationships we share with
our allies and partners.
In particular, S.J. Res. 36 would pro-
hibit licensing for manufacturing in
Saudi Arabia of Guidance Electronics
Detector Assemblies, Computer Con-
trol Groups, Airfoil Groups, Aircraft
Umbilical Interconnect Systems,
Fuses, and other components to sup-
port the production of Paveway II, En-
hanced Paveway II, and Paveway IV
munitions. The misguided licensing
prohibitions in the joint resolution di-
rectly conflict with the foreign policy
and national security objectives of the
United States, which include strength-
ening defense alliances with friendly
countries throughout the world, deep-
ening partnerships that preserve and
extend our global influence, and en-
hancing our competitiveness in key
markets. Apart from negatively affect-
ing our bilateral relationships with
Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom,
Spain, and Italy, the joint resolution
would hamper the ability of the United
States to sustain and shape critical se-
curity cooperation activities. S.J. Res.
36 would also damage the credibility of
the United States as a reliable partner
by signaling that we are willing to
abandon our partners and allies at the
very moment when threats to them are
increasing.
The United States is providing the li-
censes that the joint resolution seeks
to prohibit for many reasons. First and
foremost, it is our solemn duty to pro-
tect the safety of the more than 80,000
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.055 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5059
July 24, 2019
United States citizens who reside in
Saudi Arabia and who are imperiled by
Houthi attacks from Yemen. The
Houthis, supported by Iran, have at-
tacked civilian and military facilities
using missiles, armed drones, and ex-
plosive boats, including in areas fre-
quented by United States citizens, such
as the airport in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Second, the joint resolution would de-
grade Saudi Arabia’s military pre-
paredness and ability to protect its
sovereignty, directly affecting its abil-
ity to defend United States military
personnel hosted there. Third, Saudi
Arabia is a bulwark against the malign
activities of Iran and its proxies in the
region, and the licenses the joint reso-
lution would prohibit enhance Saudi
Arabia’s ability to deter and defend
against these threats.
In addition, S.J. Res. 36 would nega-
tively affect our NATO Allies and the
transatlantic defense industry. It
could, for example, produce unintended
consequences for defense procurement
and interoperability with and between
our partners. It could also create diplo-
matic and security opportunities for
our adversaries to exploit.
Finally, by restricting the ability of
our partners to produce and purchase
precision-guided munitions, S.J. Res.
36 would likely prolong the conflict in
Yemen and deepen the suffering it
causes. By undermining bilateral rela-
tionships of the United States and
immpeding our ability to support key
partners at a critical time, the joint
resolution would harm—not help—ef-
forts to end the conflict in Yemen. And
without precision-guided munitions,
more—not fewer—civilians are likely
to become casualties of the conflict.
While I share concerns that certain
Members of Congress have expressed
about civilian casualties of this con-
flict, the United States has taken and
will continue to take action to mini-
mize such casualties, including train-
ing and advising Saudi-led Coalition
forces to improve their targeting proc-
esses.
The United States is very concerned
about the conflict’s toll on innocent ci-
vilians and is working to bring the con-
flict in Yemen to an end. But we can-
not end it through ill-conceived and
time-consuming resolutions that fail to
address its root causes. Rather than ex-
pend time and resources on such reso-
lutions, I encourage the Congress to di-
rect its efforts toward supporting our
work to achieve peace through a nego-
tiated settlement to the conflict in
Yemen.
For these reasons, it is my duty to
return S.J. Res. 36 to the Senate with-
out my approval.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, July 24, 2019.
REPORT OF THE VETO OF S.J.
RES. 37, A JOINT RESOLUTION
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED EXPORT TO THE UNITED
ARAB EMIRATES, THE UNITED
KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND NORTHERN IRELAND, AND
THE REPUBLIC OF FRANCE OF
CERTAIN DEFENSE ARTICLES
AND SERVICES—PM 24
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was ordered to be printed
in the RECORD, spread in full upon the
Journal, and held at the desk:
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning herewith without my
approval S.J. Res. 37, a joint resolution
that would prohibit the issuance of ex-
port licenses for certain defense arti-
cles, defense services, and technical
data to support the transfer of
Paveway II kits to the United Arab
Emirates (UAE), the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
and the Republic of France. This reso-
lution would weaken America’s global
competitiveness and damage the im-
portant relationships we share with
our allies and partners.
In particular, S.J. Res. 37 would pro-
hibit the issuance of export licenses for
Paveway II kits to the UAE, the United
Kingdom, and France. The misguided
licensing prohibitions in the joint reso-
lution directly conflict with the for-
eign policy and national security ob-
jectives of the United States, which in-
clude strengthening defense alliances
with friendly countries throughout the
world, deepening partnerships that pre-
serve and extend our global influence,
and enhancing our competitiveness in
key markets. Apart from negatively af-
fecting our bilateral relationships with
the UAE, the United Kingdom, and
France, the joint resolution would
hamper the ability of the United States
to sustain and shape critical security
cooperation activities with those part-
ners. S.J. Res. 37 would also damage
the credibility of the United States as
a reliable partner by signaling that we
are willing to abandon our partners
and allies at the very moment when
threats to them are increasing.
The United States is providing the li-
censes that the joint resolution seeks
to prohibit for many reasons. First and
foremost, it is our solemn duty to pro-
tect the safety of the more than 80,000
United States citizens who reside in
Saudi Arabia and are imperiled by
Houthis attacking from Yemen using
missiles, armed drones, and explosive
boats. The UAE is an important part of
the Saudi-led Coalition that helps pro-
tect Americans from these Iranian-sup-
ported Houthi attacks on civilian and
military facilities, including those lo-
cated in areas frequented by United
States citizens like the airport in Ri-
yadh, Saudi Arabia. Second, the joint
resolution would degrade the UAE’s
military preparedness and ability to
protect its sovereignty, directly affect-
ing its ability to defend the thousands
of United States military personnel
hosted there. Third, the UAE is a bul-
wark against the malign activities of
Iran and its proxies in the region. It is
also an active partner with the United
States in combatting terrorism in
Yemen and elsewhere. The licenses the
joint resolution would prohibit en-
hance our partner’s ability to deter and
defend against these threats.
In addition, S.J. Res. 37 would nega-
tively affect our NATO Allies and the
transatlantic defense industry. It
could, for example, produce unintended
consequences for defense procurement
and interoperability with and between
our partners. It could also create diplo-
matic and security opportunities for
our adversaries to exploit.
Finally, by restricting the ability of
our partners to produce and purchase
precision-guided munitions, S.J. Res.
37 would likely prolong the conflict in
Yemen and deepen the suffering it
causes. By undermining bilateral rela-
tionships of the United States and im-
peding our ability to support key part-
ners at a critical time, the joint resolu-
tion would harm—not help—efforts to
end the conflict in Yemen. And without
precision-guided munitions, more—not
fewer—civilians are likely to become
casualties of the conflict. While I share
concerns that certain Members of Con-
gress have expressed about civilian cas-
ualties of this conflict, the United
States has taken and will continue to
take action to minimize such casual-
ties, including training and advising
the Saudi-led Coalition forces to im-
prove their targeting processes.
The United States is very concerned
about the conflict’s toll on innocent ci-
vilians and is working to bring the con-
flict in Yemen to an end. But we can-
not end it through ill-conceived and
time-consuming resolutions that fail to
address its root causes. Rather than ex-
pend time and resources on such reso-
lutions, I encourage the Congress to di-
rect its efforts toward supporting our
work to achieve peace through a nego-
tiated settlement to the conflict in
Yemen.
For these reasons, it is my duty to
return S.J. Res. 37 to the Senate with-
out my approval.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, July 24, 2019.
f
REPORT OF THE VETO OF S.J.
RES. 38, A JOINT RESOLUTION
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED EXPORT TO THE KING-
DOM OF SAUDI ARABIA AND THE
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT
BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRE-
LAND OF CERTAIN DEFENSE AR-
TICLES AND SERVICES—PM 25
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:08 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.019 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5060 July 24, 2019
report, which was ordered to be printed
in the RECORD, spread in full upon the
Journal, and held at the desk:
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning herewith without my
approval S.J. Res. 38, a joint resolution
that would prohibit the issuance of ex-
port licenses for the proposed transfer
of defense articles, defense services,
and technical data to support the man-
ufacture of the Aurora Fuzing System
for the Paveway IV Precision Guided
Bomb Program in regard to the King-
dom of Saudi Arabia and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland. This resolution would
weaken America’s global competitive-
ness and damage the important rela-
tionships we share with our allies and
partners.
In particular, S.J. Res. 38 would pro-
hibit the issuance of export licenses for
the proposed transfer of defense arti-
cles, defense services, and technical
data for the manufacturing of the Au-
rora Fuzing System for the Paveway
IV Precision Guided Bomb Program.
The misguided licensing prohibition in
the joint resolution directly conflicts
with the foreign policy and national se-
curity objectives of the United States,
which include strengthening defense al-
liances with friendly countries
throughout the world, deepening part-
nerships that preserve and extend our
global influence, and enhancing our
competitiveness in key markets. Apart
from negatively affecting our bilateral
relationships with Saudi Arabia and
the United Kingdom, the joint resolu-
tion would hamper the ability of the
United States to sustain and shape
critical security cooperation activities.
S.J. Res. 38 would also damage the
credibility of the United States as a re-
liable partner by signaling that we are
willing to abandon our partners and al-
lies at the very moment when threats
to them are increasing.
The United States is providing the li-
censes that the joint resolution seeks
to prohibit for many reasons. First and
foremost, it is our solemn duty to pro-
tect the safety of the more than 80,000
United States citizens who reside in
Saudi Arabia and who are imperiled by
Houthi attacks from Yemen. The
Houthis, supported by Iran, have at-
tacked civilian and military facilities
using missiles, armed drones, and ex-
plosive boats, including in areas fre-
quented by United States citizens, such
as the airport in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Second, the joint resolution would de-
grade Saudi Arabia’s military pre-
paredness and ability to protect its
sovereignty, directly affecting its abil-
ity to defend United States military
personnel hosted there. Third, Saudi
Arabia is a bulwark against the malign
activities of Iran and its proxies in the
region, and the licenses the joint reso-
lution would prohibit enhance Saudi
Arabia’s ability to deter and defend
against these threats.
In addition, S.J. Res. 38 would nega-
tively affect our NATO Allies and the
transatlantic defense industry. It
could, for example, produce unintended
consequences for defense procurement
and interoperability with and between
our partners. It could also create diplo-
matic and security opportunities for
our adversaries to exploit.
Finally, by restricting the ability of
our partners to produce and purchase
precision-guided munitions, S.J. Res.
38 would likely prolong the conflict in
Yemen and deepen the suffering it
causes. By undermining bilateral rela-
tionships of the United States and im-
peding our ability to support key part-
ners at a critical time, the joint resolu-
tion would harm—not help—efforts to
end the conflict in Yemen. And without
precision-guided munitions, more—not
fewer—civilians are likely to become
casualties of the conflict. While I share
concerns that certain Members of Con-
gress have expressed about civilian cas-
ualties of this conflict, the United
States has taken and will continue to
take action to minimize such casual-
ties, including training and advising
the Saudi-led Coalition forces to im-
prove their targeting processes.
The United States is very concerned
about the conflict’s toll on innocent ci-
vilians and is working to bring the con-
flict in Yemen to an end. But we can-
not end it through ill-conceived and
time-consuming resolutions that fail to
address its root causes. Rather than ex-
pend time and resources on such reso-
lutions, I encourage the Congress to di-
rect its efforts toward supporting our
work to achieve peace through a nego-
tiated settlement to the conflict in
Yemen.
For these reasons, it is my duty to
return S.J. Res. 38 to the Senate with-
out my approval.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, July 24, 2019.
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
ENROLLED JOINT RESOLUTIONS SIGNED
At 9:32 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled joint resolu-
tions:
S.J. Res. 36. Joint resolution providing for
congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and the
Italian Republic of certain defense articles
and services.
S.J. Res. 37. Joint resolution providing for
congressional disapproval of the proposed ex-
port to the United Arab Emirates, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, and the Republic of France of
certain defense articles and services.
S.J. Res. 38. Joint resolution providing for
congressional disapproval of the proposed ex-
port to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland of certain defense articles and
services.
The enrolled joint resolutions were
subsequently signed by the President
pro tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
At 11:49 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, without amendment:
S. 504. An act to amend title 36, United
States Code, to authorize The American Le-
gion to determine the requirements for
membership in The American Legion, and for
other purposes.
The message also announced that the
House has passed the following bills, in
which it requests the concurrence of
the Senate:
H.R. 34. An act to ensure consideration of
water intensity in the Department of Ener-
gy’s energy research, development, and dem-
onstration programs to help guarantee effi-
cient, reliable, and sustainable delivery of
energy and clean water resources.
H.R. 36. An act to provide for research to
better understand the causes and con-
sequences of sexual harassment affecting in-
dividuals in the scientific, technical, engi-
neering, and mathematics workforce and to
examine policies to reduce the prevalence
and negative impact of such harassment, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 617. An act to authorize the Depart-
ment of Energy to conduct collaborative re-
search with the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs in order to improve healthcare services
for veterans in the United States, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 1665. An act to direct the National
Science Foundation to support STEM edu-
cation research focused on early childhood.
H.R. 1837. An act to make improvements to
certain defense and security assistance pro-
visions and to authorize assistance for Israel,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 1850. An act to impose sanctions with
respect to foreign support for Palestinian
terrorism, and for other purposes.
H.R. 2397. An act to amend the National In-
stitute of Standards and Technology Act to
make changes to the implementation of the
Manufacturing USA Network, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 2938. An act to exempt from the cal-
culation of monthly income certain benefits
paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs
and the Department of Defense.
H.R. 2942. An act to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out the Women’s
Health Transition Training pilot program
through at least fiscal year 2020, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 2943. An act to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to make all fact sheets of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in
English, Spanish, and Tagalog.
H.R. 3153. An act to direct the Director of
the National Science Foundation to support
research on opioid addiction, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 3196. An act to designate the Large
Synoptic Survey Telescope as the ‘‘Vera C.
Rubin Observatory’’.
H.R. 3304. An act to exempt for an addi-
tional 4-year period, from the application of
the means-test presumption of abuse under
chapter 7, qualifying members of the reserve
components of the Armed Forces and mem-
bers of the National Guard who, after Sep-
tember 11, 2001, are called to active duty or
to perform a homeland defense activity for
not less than 90 days.
H.R. 3311. An act to amend chapter 11 of
title 11, United States Code, to address reor-
ganization of small businesses, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 3504. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for improvements to
the specially adapted housing program and
educational assistance programs of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, and for other
purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.021 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5061
July 24, 2019
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
At 12:26 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bill:
H.R. 1327. An act to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund of 2001 through fiscal year 2092, and for
other purposes.
The enrolled bill was subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 34. An act to ensure consideration of
water intensity in the Department of Ener-
gy’s energy research, development, and dem-
onstration programs to help guarantee effi-
cient, reliable, and sustainable delivery of
energy and clean water resources; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
H.R. 36. An act to provide for research to
better understand the causes and con-
sequences of sexual harassment affecting in-
dividuals in the scientific, technical, engi-
neering, and mathematics workforce and to
examine policies to reduce the prevalence
and negative impact of such harassment, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
H.R. 617. An act to authorize the Depart-
ment of Energy to conduct collaborative re-
search with the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs in order to improve healthcare services
for veterans in the United States, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
H.R. 1665. An act to direct the National
Science Foundation to support STEM edu-
cation research focused on early childhood;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
H.R. 1837. An act to make improvements to
certain defense and security assistance pro-
visions and to authorize assistance for Israel,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
H.R. 1850. An act to impose sanctions with
respect to foreign support for Palestinian
terrorism, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
H.R. 2397. An act to amend the National In-
stitute of Standards and Technology Act to
make changes to the implementation of the
Manufacturing USA Network, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 3153. An act to direct the Director of
the National Science Foundation to support
research on opioid addiction, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
S. 2258. A bill to provide anti-retaliation
protections for antitrust whistleblowers.
f
ENROLLED JOINT RESOLUTIONS
PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, July 24, 2019, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
joint resolutions:
S.J. Res. 36. Joint resolution providing for
congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and the
Italian Republic of certain defense articles
and services.
S.J. Res. 37. Joint resolution providing for
congressional disapproval of the proposed ex-
port to the United Arab Emirates, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, and the Republic of France of
certain defense articles and services.
S.J. Res. 38. Joint resolution providing for
congressional disapproval of the proposed ex-
port to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland of certain defense articles and
services.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2088. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Lactic Acid; Exemption from the Re-
quirement of a Tolerance’’ (FRL No. 9994–63–
OCSPP) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2089. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Sulfoxaflor; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9995–63–OCSPP) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 19, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2090. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Review Group, Farm
Service Agency, Department of Agriculture,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Emergency Conservation
Program’’ (RIN0560–AI46) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on July
22, 2019; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2091. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a report
on the approved retirement of General Rob-
ert B. Brown, United States Army, and his
advancement to the grade of general on the
retired list; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–2092. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a report
on the approved retirement of Lieutenant
General Steven L. Kwast, United States Air
Force, and his advancement to the grade of
lieutenant general on the retired list; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2093. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the con-
tinuation of the national emergency with re-
spect to significant transnational criminal
organizations that was established in Execu-
tive Order 13581 on July 24, 2011; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–2094. A communication from the Pro-
gram Specialist, Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, Department of the Treasury,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Liquidity Coverage Ratio:
Treatment of Certain Municipal Obligations
as High-Quality Liquid Assets’’ (RIN1557–
AE36) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2095. A communication from the Pro-
gram Specialist, Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, Department of the Treasury,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Reduced Reporting for Cov-
ered Depository Institutions’’ (RIN1557–
AE39) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2096. A communication from the Acting
Director, Office of Management and Budget,
Executive Office of the President, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report on appropria-
tions legislation within seven days of enact-
ment; to the Committee on the Budget.
EC–2097. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Kentucky: Jeffer-
son County Definitions and Federally En-
forceable District Origin Operating Permits’’
(FRL No. 9996–92–Region 4) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 19, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–2098. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Maryland; Update
to Materials Incorporated by Reference’’
(FRL No. 9992–15–Region 3) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 19, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–2099. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Protection of Human Research Sub-
jects’’ (FRL No. 9996–48–ORD) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on July 19,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2100. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–78, ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 Local
Budget Act of 2019’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–2101. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–79, ‘‘Adelaide Alley Designa-
tion Act of 2019’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–2102. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–86, ‘‘Legitimate Theater Side-
walk Cafe Authorization Temporary Amend-
ment Act of 2019’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–2103. A communication from the Direc-
tor, White House Liaison, Department of
Education, transmitting, pursuant to law, a
report relative to a vacancy in the position
of Chief Financial Officer of the Department
of Education, received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
EC–2104. A communication from the Direc-
tor, White House Liaison, Department of
Education, transmitting, pursuant to law, a
report relative to a vacancy in the position
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.023 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5062 July 24, 2019
of Assistant Secretary, Office of Postsec-
ondary Education, Department of Education,
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 22, 2019; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2105. A communication from the Chief
Financial Officer of the National Tropical
Botanical Garden, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report relative to an audit of the Gar-
den for the period from January 1, 2018,
through December 31, 2018; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
EC–2106. A communication from the Dep-
uty Chief, Auctions Division, Federal Com-
munications Commission, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Auction of Construction Permits for Low
Power Television and TV Translator Sta-
tions Scheduled for September 10, 2019; No-
tice and Filing Requirements, Minimum
Opening Bids, Upfront Payments, and Other
Procedures for Auction 104’’ (DA 19–477) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 22, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2107. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries,
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Mallows Bay-Poto-
mac River National Marine Sanctuary Des-
ignation’’ (RIN0648–BG02) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on July
22, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2108. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Allow the Use of Longline Pot
Gear in the Gulf of Alaska Sablefish Indi-
vidual Fishing Quota Fishery; Amendment
101’’ (RIN0648–BF42) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 22, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–2109. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Gulf of Alaska; Final 2018 and
2019 Harvest Specification for Groundfish’’
(RIN0648–XF633) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2110. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries,
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Vessel and Aircraft
Discharges from United States Coast Guard
in Greater Farallones and Cordell Bank Na-
tional Marine Sanctuaries’’ (RIN0648–BG73)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 22, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. WICKER for the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
* Coast Guard nomination of Rear Adm.
Todd C. Wiemers, to be Rear Admiral (Lower
Half).
By Mr. JOHNSON for the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
* William Bryan, of Virginia, to be Under
Secretary for Science and Technology, De-
partment of Homeland Security.
* Robert M. Duncan, of Kentucky, to be a
Governor of the United States Postal Service
for a term expiring December 8, 2025.
* Chad F. Wolf, of Virginia, to be Under
Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans,
Department of Homeland Security.
* Rainey R. Brandt, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Su-
perior Court of the District of Columbia for
the term of fifteen years.
* Shana Frost Matini, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Su-
perior Court of the District of Columbia for
the term of fifteen years.
* Catherine Bird, of Texas, to be General
Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Au-
thority for a term of five years.
* Ann C. Fisher, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Reg-
ulatory Commission for a term expiring Oc-
tober 14, 2024.
* Ashley Jay Elizabeth Poling, of North
Carolina, to be a Commissioner of the Postal
Regulatory Commission for a term expiring
November 22, 2024.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself and
Ms. WARREN):
S. 2243. A bill to amend the Expedited
Funds Availability Act to require that funds
deposited be available for withdrawal in real-
time, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Mr. ROBERTS:
S. 2244. A bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act to allow community addiction
treatment facilities and community mental
health facilities to register to dispense con-
trolled substances through the practice of
telemedicine, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Mr.
YOUNG):
S. 2245. A bill to cap noninterest Federal
Spending as a percentage of potential GDP
to right-size the government, grow the econ-
omy, and balance the budget; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget.
By Mr. MORAN:
S. 2246. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to provide
equal coverage of in vitro specific IgE tests
and percutaneous tests for allergies under
the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr.
TESTER, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
CASSIDY, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. DAINES,
Mr. CRAMER, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
MANCHIN, and Mr. WICKER):
S. 2247. A bill to amend titles XI and XVIII
of the Social Security Act to provide greater
transparency of discounts provided by drug
manufacturers, to establish requirements re-
lating to pharmacy-negotiated price conces-
sions, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina:
S. 2248. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to redesignate and expand the
Troops-to-Teachers Program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. WICKER:
S. 2249. A bill to allow the Deputy Admin-
istrator of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion on the date of enactment of this Act to
continue to serve as such Deputy Adminis-
trator; considered and passed.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
LEAHY, and Mr. MENENDEZ):
S. 2250. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to establish State and In-
dian tribe grants for community colleges and
grants for Historically Black Colleges and
Universities, Tribal Colleges and Univer-
sities, and Minority-Serving Institutions,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself and
Mr. PAUL):
S. 2251. A bill to permanently extend the
exemption for the aging process of distilled
spirits from the production period for pur-
poses of capitalization of interest costs; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself and
Mr. CARDIN):
S. 2252. A bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to expand the permitted
uses of drug price information disclosed to
States under the Medicaid drug rebate pro-
gram; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, and Ms. HIRONO):
S. 2253. A bill to amend chapter 2205 of title
36, United States Code, to provide pay equity
for amateur athletes and other personnel,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. CASEY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
HEINRICH, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. JONES, Mr.
KAINE, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MANCHIN,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. SANDERS,
Mr. SCHUMER, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Ms. WARREN, and Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE):
S. 2254. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to create a Pension Reha-
bilitation Trust Fund, to establish a Pension
Rehabilitation Administration within the
Department of the Treasury to make loans
to multiemployer defined benefit plans, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 2255. A bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to expand the requirement
for States to suspend, rather than terminate,
an individual’s eligibility for medical assist-
ance under the State Medicaid plan while the
individual is an inmate of a public institu-
tion, to apply to inmates of any age; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Ms. SMITH (for herself, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. CASEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. WYDEN, Mr. REED, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. UDALL, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, and Mr.
BOOKER):
S. 2256. A bill to protect children affected
by immigration enforcement actions; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. BENNET, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. COONS,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Ms. HARRIS, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.028 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5063
July 24, 2019
HIRONO, Mr. KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. MURPHY, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
and Ms. WARREN):
S. 2257. A bill to reform the financing of
Senate elections, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. COONS, and Ms. WARREN):
S. 2258. A bill to provide anti-retaliation
protections for antitrust whistleblowers;
read the first time.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S. 2259. A bill to amend the Family Vio-
lence Prevention and Services Act to make
improvements; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. MENENDEZ):
S. 2260. A bill to provide for the improve-
ment of domestic infrastructure in order to
prevent marine debris, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mrs. CAP-
ITO, Mr. PETERS, and Mr. DAINES):
S. Res. 283. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of 2019 as the ‘‘Inter-
national Year of the Periodic Table of Chem-
ical Elements’’; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 153
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 153, a bill to promote vet-
eran involvement in STEM education,
computer science, and scientific re-
search, and for other purposes.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 178, a bill to condemn
gross human rights violations of ethnic
Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and call-
ing for an end to arbitrary detention,
torture, and harassment of these com-
munities inside and outside China.
S. 206
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 206, a bill to award a Con-
gressional Gold Medal to the female
telephone operators of the Army Signal
Corps, known as the ‘‘Hello Girls’’.
S. 327
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 327, a bill to amend the Fed-
eral Lands Recreation Enhancement
Act to provide for a lifetime National
Recreational Pass for any veteran with
a service-connected disability.
S. 551
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) and the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN) were added as cosponsors
of S. 551, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to require
manufacturers of certain single-dose
vial drugs payable under part B of the
Medicare program to provide rebates
with respect to amounts of such drugs
discarded, and for other purposes.
S. 569
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 569, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Transportation to issue
regulations relating to commercial
motor vehicle drivers under the age of
21, and for other purposes.
S. 638
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 638, a bill to require the
Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency to designate per-
and polyfluoroalkyl substances as haz-
ardous substances under the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980,
and for other purposes.
S. 684
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 684, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the
excise tax on high-cost employer-spon-
sored health coverage.
S. 931
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 931, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to enhance the
Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit
and make the credit fully refundable.
S. 1088
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1088, a bill to amend the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act to require the
President to set a minimum annual
goal for the number of refugees to be
admitted, and for other purposes.
S. 1116
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1116, a bill to require providers
of broadband internet access service
and edge services to clearly and con-
spicuously notify users of the privacy
policies of those providers, to give
users opt-in or opt-out approval rights
with respect to the use of, disclosure
of, and access to user information col-
lected by those providers based on the
level of sensitivity of the information,
and for other purposes.
S. 1247
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1247, a bill to amend the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
to require reporting to the Federal
Election Commission and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation of offers by
foreign nationals to make prohibited
contributions, donations, expenditures,
or disbursements, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1267
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1267, a bill to establish within the
Smithsonian Institution the National
Museum of the American Latino, and
for other purposes.
S. 1416
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1416, a bill to amend the Federal
Trade Commission Act to prohibit
anticompetitive behaviors by drug
product manufacturers, and for other
purposes.
S. 1602
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1602, a bill to amend the United States
Energy Storage Competitiveness Act of
2007 to establish a research, develop-
ment, and demonstration program for
grid-scale energy storage systems, and
for other purposes.
S. 1608
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1608, a bill to provide for
the publication by the Secretary of
Health and Human Services of physical
activity recommendations for Ameri-
cans.
S. 1685
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1685, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Energy to establish a pro-
gram for the research, development,
and demonstration of commercially
viable technologies for the capture of
carbon dioxide produced during the
generation of natural gas-generated
power.
S. 1728
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1728, a bill to require the United
States Postal Service to sell the Alz-
heimer’s semipostal stamp for 6 addi-
tional years.
S. 1769
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1769, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Energy to establish an off-
shore wind career training grant pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 1822
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.031 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5064 July 24, 2019
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from
Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH), the
Senator from Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN),
the Senator from Maine (Mr. KING), the
Senator from Wyoming (Mr. BAR-
RASSO), and the Senator from North
Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1822, a bill to require the
Federal Communications Commission
to issue rules relating to the collection
of data with respect to the availability
of broadband services, and for other
purposes.
S. 1840
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mr. SASSE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1840, a bill to establish certain re-
quirements for the small refineries ex-
emption of the renewable fuels provi-
sions under the Clean Air Act, and for
other purposes.
S. 1907
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1907, a bill to amend the
Richard B. Russell National School
Lunch Act to prohibit the stigmatiza-
tion of children who are unable to pay
for school meals, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1918
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1918, a bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to
require alternative options for summer
food service program delivery.
S. 1936
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1936, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
protect coverage for screening mam-
mography, and for other purposes.
S. 1949
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1949, a bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to
require the Secretary of Agriculture to
make loan guarantees and grants to fi-
nance certain improvements to school
lunch facilities, to train school food
service personnel, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2001
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2001, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to Willie O’Ree, in
recognition of his extraordinary con-
tributions and commitment to hockey,
inclusion, and recreational oppor-
tunity.
S. 2048
At the request of Mr. KING, the name
of the Senator from Colorado (Mr.
GARDNER) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2048, a bill to require the Secretary
of Energy to establish a demonstration
initiative focused on the development
of long-duration energy storage tech-
nologies, including a joint program to
be established in consultation with the
Secretary of Defense, and for other
purposes.
S. 2065
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2065, a bill to require the
Secretary of Homeland Security to
publish an annual report on the use of
deepfake technology, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) and the Senator from
Montana (Mr. DAINES) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2085, a bill to authorize
the Secretary of Education to award
grants to eligible entities to carry out
educational programs about the Holo-
caust, and for other purposes.
S. 2166
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2166, a bill to designate
Regional Ocean Partnerships of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 142
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 142, a resolution condemning the
Government of the Philippines for its
continued detention of Senator Leila
De Lima, calling for her immediate re-
lease, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 252, a resolution designating
September 2019 as National Democracy
Month as a time to reflect on the con-
tributions of the system of government
of the United States to a more free and
stable world.
S. RES. 260
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 260, a resolution recognizing the
importance of sustained United States
leadership to accelerating global
progress against maternal and child
malnutrition and supporting the com-
mitment of the United States Agency
for International Development to glob-
al nutrition through the Multi-Sec-
toral Nutrition Strategy.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. WICKER:
S. 2249. A bill to allow the Deputy
Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration on the date of enact-
ment of this Act to continue to serve
as such Deputy Administrator; consid-
ered and passed.
S. 2249
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY FOR CONTINUATION OF
SERVICE OF THE DEPUTY ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—An individual serving as
Deputy Administrator of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration on the date of enact-
ment of this Act may continue to serve as
such Deputy Administrator, without regard
to the restrictions specified in the 5th sen-
tence of section 106(d)(1) of title 49, United
States Code.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this Act shall be construed as approval by
Congress of any future appointments of mili-
tary persons to the Offices of Administrator
and Deputy Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration.
By Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself
and Mr. PAUL):
S. 2251. A bill to permanently extend
the exemption for the aging process of
distilled spirits from the production
period for purposes of capitalization of
interest costs; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the text of
the bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2251
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Advancing
Growth in the Economy through Distilled
Spirits Act’’ or the ‘‘AGED Spirits Act’’.
SEC. 2. PRODUCTION PERIOD OF DISTILLED
SPIRITS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (B) of sec-
tion 263A(f)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(B) TERMINATION.—Clauses (i) and (ii) of
subparagraph (A) shall not apply to interest
costs paid or accrued after December 31,
2019.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by this section shall apply to interest
costs paid or accrued after December 31, 2019.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Ms.
HIRONO):
S. 2253. A bill to amend chapter 2205
of title 36, United States Code, to pro-
vide pay equity for amateur athletes
and other personnel, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to introduce the Even Play-
ing Field Act of 2019. This legislation is
an important step forward in ensuring
that women in sports are treated with
the respect and dignity they deserve.
Female athletes, coaches, and train-
ers are consistently paid less than
their male counterparts, subjected to
subpar working conditions, and receive
substantially less investment in their
athletic programs. Simply put, the
same opportunities and resources pro-
vided to men’s teams are not provided
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.033 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5065
July 24, 2019
to women’s teams. The inequities in
women’s sports recently came to light
in a gender discrimination lawsuit filed
by the U.S. Women’s National Soccer
Team against the U.S. Soccer Federa-
tion.
Although the U.S. Women’s National
Soccer Team consistently outperforms
the Men’s Team—having won four
FIFA Women’s World Cup titles and
four Olympic gold medals—the lawsuit
alleges that the Women’s Team is paid
an average of 38 cents on the dollar
compared to the men.
The gender pay gap isn’t limited to
players, either. Jill Ellis, the coach of
the U.S. Women’s National Soccer
Team, is paid less than half of what the
Men’s Team coaches are paid. This is
despite the fact that the Men’s Team
failed to even qualify for the last World
Cup.
Unfortunately, the disparate treat-
ment of women in sports is not limited
to pay. Megan Rapinoe, a captain of
the U.S. Women’s National Soccer
Team, said in a recent interview with
CNN: ‘‘It’s really more about the in-
vestment in the game. Is the invest-
ment equal? We’re talking marketing
dollars and branding, investment in the
youth, investment in the players, in-
vestment in the coaching staff. I don’t
think that that’s there. I don’t think
that that’s ever been there.’’
It is clear that we must do more to
promote and protect women in sports.
This legislation is a step towards that
goal by making critical updates to the
Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur
Sports Act.
First, the bill would require the U.S.
Olympic Committee to provide female
athletes with wages, investment and
working conditions equal to their male
counterparts.
Second, the bill would clarify that
national governing bodies for amateur
sports must provide investment, work-
ing conditions, wages and other com-
pensation for amateur athletes, coach-
es, trainers, managers, administrators
and officials that is free from discrimi-
nation on the basis of race, color, reli-
gion, sex, age or national origin.
Third, the bill would further clarify
that national governing bodies for
amateur sports must provide equitable
support and encouragement for partici-
pation by women in sports, including
investment, working conditions, wages,
and other compensation.
Finally, the bill would mandate that
national governing bodies submit reg-
ular reports to Congress on their com-
pensation practices by race and gender.
I hope my colleagues will consider and
support this legislation.
I thank the chair, and I yield the
floor.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. COONS, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Ms. HARRIS, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. KING, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
MURPHY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, and Ms. WARREN):
S. 2257. A bill to reform the financing
of Senate elections, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2257
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Fair Elections Now Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I—SMALL DOLLAR FINANCING OF
SENATE ELECTION CAMPAIGNS
Sec. 101. Eligibility requirements and bene-
fits of Fair Elections financing
of Senate election campaigns.
Sec. 102. Prohibition on joint fundraising
committees.
Sec. 103. Exception to limitation on coordi-
nated expenditures by political
party committees with partici-
pating candidates.
TITLE II—IMPROVING VOTER
INFORMATION
Sec. 201. Broadcasts relating to all Senate
candidates.
Sec. 202. Broadcast rates for participating
candidates.
Sec. 203. FCC to prescribe standardized form
for reporting candidate cam-
paign ads.
TITLE III—RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
Sec. 301. Petition for certiorari.
Sec. 302. Electronic filing of FEC reports.
TITLE IV—REVENUE PROVISIONS
Sec. 401. Fair Elections Fund revenue.
TITLE V—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 501. Severability.
Sec. 502. Effective date.
TITLE I—SMALL DOLLAR FINANCING OF
SENATE ELECTION CAMPAIGNS
SEC. 101. ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AND BEN-
EFITS OF FAIR ELECTIONS FINANC-
ING OF SENATE ELECTION CAM-
PAIGNS.
The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘TITLE V—FAIR ELECTIONS FINANCING
OF SENATE ELECTION CAMPAIGNS
‘‘Subtitle A—General Provisions
‘‘SEC. 501. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this title:
‘‘(1) ALLOCATION FROM THE FUND.—The term
‘allocation from the Fund’ means an alloca-
tion of money from the Fair Elections Fund
to a participating candidate pursuant to sec-
tion 522.
‘‘(2) COMMISSION.—The term ‘Commission’
means the Federal Election Commission.
‘‘(3) ENHANCED MATCHING CONTRIBUTION.—
The term ‘enhanced matching contribution’
means an enhanced matching payment pro-
vided to a participating candidate for quali-
fied small dollar contributions, as provided
under section 524.
‘‘(4) ENHANCED SUPPORT QUALIFYING PE-
RIOD.—The term ‘enhanced support quali-
fying period’ means, with respect to a gen-
eral election, the period which begins 60 days
before the date of the election and ends 14
days before the date of the election.
‘‘(5) FAIR ELECTIONS QUALIFYING PERIOD.—
The term ‘Fair Elections qualifying period’
means, with respect to any candidate for
Senator, the period—
‘‘(A) beginning on the date on which the
candidate files a statement of intent under
section 511(a)(1); and
‘‘(B) ending on the date that is 30 days be-
fore—
‘‘(i) the date of the primary election; or
‘‘(ii) in the case of a State that does not
hold a primary election, the date prescribed
by State law as the last day to qualify for a
position on the general election ballot.
‘‘(6) FAIR ELECTIONS START DATE.—The
term ‘Fair Elections start date’ means, with
respect to any candidate, the date that is 180
days before—
‘‘(A) the date of the primary election; or
‘‘(B) in the case of a State that does not
hold a primary election, the date prescribed
by State law as the last day to qualify for a
position on the general election ballot.
‘‘(7) FUND.—The term ‘Fund’ means the
Fair Elections Fund established by section
502.
‘‘(8) IMMEDIATE FAMILY.—The term ‘imme-
diate family’ means, with respect to any can-
didate—
‘‘(A) the candidate’s spouse;
‘‘(B) a child, stepchild, parent, grand-
parent, brother, half-brother, sister, or half-
sister of the candidate or the candidate’s
spouse; and
‘‘(C) the spouse of any person described in
subparagraph (B).
‘‘(9) MATCHING CONTRIBUTION.—The term
‘matching contribution’ means a matching
payment provided to a participating can-
didate for qualified small dollar contribu-
tions, as provided under section 523.
‘‘(10) NONPARTICIPATING CANDIDATE.—The
term ‘nonparticipating candidate’ means a
candidate for Senator who is not a partici-
pating candidate.
‘‘(11) PARTICIPATING CANDIDATE.—The term
‘participating candidate’ means a candidate
for Senator who is certified under section 514
as being eligible to receive an allocation
from the Fund.
‘‘(12) QUALIFYING CONTRIBUTION.—The term
‘qualifying contribution’ means, with respect
to a candidate, a contribution that—
‘‘(A) is in an amount that is—
‘‘(i) not less than the greater of $5 or the
amount determined by the Commission
under section 531; and
‘‘(ii) not more than the greater of $200 or
the amount determined by the Commission
under section 531;
‘‘(B) is made by an individual—
‘‘(i) who is a resident of the State in which
such candidate is seeking election; and
‘‘(ii) who is not otherwise prohibited from
making a contribution under this Act;
‘‘(C) is made during the Fair Elections
qualifying period; and
‘‘(D) meets the requirements of section
512(b).
‘‘(13) QUALIFIED SMALL DOLLAR CONTRIBU-
TION.—The term ‘qualified small dollar con-
tribution’ means, with respect to a can-
didate, any contribution (or series of con-
tributions)—
‘‘(A) which is not a qualifying contribution
(or does not include a qualifying contribu-
tion);
‘‘(B) which is made by an individual who is
not prohibited from making a contribution
under this Act; and
‘‘(C) the aggregate amount of which does
not exceed the greater of—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.038 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5066 July 24, 2019
‘‘(i) $200 per election; or
‘‘(ii) the amount per election determined
by the Commission under section 531.
‘‘(14) QUALIFYING MULTICANDIDATE POLIT-
ICAL COMMITTEE CONTRIBUTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualifying
multicandidate political committee con-
tribution’ means any contribution to a can-
didate that is made from a qualified account
of a multicandidate political committee
(within the meaning of section 315(a)(2)).
‘‘(B) QUALIFIED ACCOUNT.—For purposes of
subparagraph (A), the term ‘qualified ac-
count’ means, with respect to a multi-
candidate political committee, a separate,
segregated account of the committee that
consists solely of contributions which meet
the following requirements:
‘‘(i) All contributions to such account are
made by individuals who are not prohibited
from making contributions under this Act.
‘‘(ii) The aggregate amount of contribu-
tions from each individual to such account
and all other accounts of the political com-
mittee do not exceed the amount described
in paragraph (13)(C).
‘‘SEC. 502. FAIR ELECTIONS FUND.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Treasury a fund to be known as the
‘Fair Elections Fund’.
‘‘(b) AMOUNTS HELD BY FUND.—The Fund
shall consist of the following amounts:
‘‘(1) APPROPRIATED AMOUNTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts appropriated
to the Fund.
‘‘(B) SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING AP-
PROPRIATIONS.—It is the sense of the Senate
that—
‘‘(i) there should be imposed on any pay-
ment made to any person (other than a State
or local government or a foreign nation) who
has a contract with the Government of the
United States in excess of $10,000,000 a tax
equal to 0.50 percent of amount paid pursu-
ant to each contract, except that the aggre-
gate tax on each contract for any taxable
year shall not exceed $500,000; and
‘‘(ii) the revenue from such tax should be
appropriated to the Fund.
‘‘(2) VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS.—Vol-
untary contributions to the Fund.
‘‘(3) OTHER DEPOSITS.—Amounts deposited
into the Fund under—
‘‘(A) section 513(c) (relating to exceptions
to contribution requirements);
‘‘(B) section 521(c) (relating to remittance
of allocations from the Fund);
‘‘(C) section 532 (relating to violations);
and
‘‘(D) any other section of this Act.
‘‘(4) INVESTMENT RETURNS.—Interest on,
and the proceeds from, the sale or redemp-
tion of, any obligations held by the Fund
under subsection (c).
‘‘(c) INVESTMENT.—The Commission shall
invest portions of the Fund in obligations of
the United States in the same manner as
provided under section 9602(b) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986.
‘‘(d) USE OF FUND.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The sums in the Fund
shall be used to provide benefits to partici-
pating candidates as provided in subtitle C.
‘‘(2) INSUFFICIENT AMOUNTS.—Under regula-
tions established by the Commission, rules
similar to the rules of section 9006(c) of the
Internal Revenue Code shall apply.
‘‘Subtitle B—Eligibility and Certification
‘‘SEC. 511. ELIGIBILITY.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A candidate for Senator
is eligible to receive an allocation from the
Fund for any election if the candidate meets
the following requirements:
‘‘(1) The candidate files with the Commis-
sion a statement of intent to seek certifi-
cation as a participating candidate under
this title during the period beginning on the
Fair Elections start date and ending on the
last day of the Fair Elections qualifying pe-
riod.
‘‘(2) The candidate meets the qualifying
contribution requirements of section 512.
‘‘(3) Not later than the last day of the Fair
Elections qualifying period, the candidate
files with the Commission an affidavit signed
by the candidate and the treasurer of the
candidate’s principal campaign committee
declaring that the candidate—
‘‘(A) has complied and, if certified, will
comply with the contribution and expendi-
ture requirements of section 513;
‘‘(B) if certified, will not run as a non-
participating candidate during such year in
any election for the office that such can-
didate is seeking; and
‘‘(C) has either qualified or will take steps
to qualify under State law to be on the bal-
lot.
‘‘(b) GENERAL ELECTION.—Notwithstanding
subsection (a), a candidate shall not be eligi-
ble to receive an allocation from the Fund
for a general election or a general runoff
election unless the candidate’s party nomi-
nated the candidate to be placed on the bal-
lot for the general election or the candidate
otherwise qualified to be on the ballot under
State law.
‘‘SEC. 512. QUALIFYING CONTRIBUTION REQUIRE-
MENT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A candidate for Senator
meets the requirement of this section if, dur-
ing the Fair Elections qualifying period, the
candidate obtains—
‘‘(1) a number of qualifying contributions
equal to the greater of—
‘‘(A) the sum of—
‘‘(i) 2,000; plus
‘‘(ii) 500 for each congressional district in
the State with respect to which the can-
didate is seeking election; or
‘‘(B) the amount determined by the Com-
mission under section 531; and
‘‘(2) a total dollar amount of qualifying
contributions equal to the greater of—
‘‘(A) 10 percent of the amount of the allo-
cation such candidate would be entitled to
receive for the primary election under sec-
tion 522(c)(1) (determined without regard to
paragraph (5) thereof) if such candidate were
a participating candidate; or
‘‘(B) the amount determined by the Com-
mission under section 531.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO RECEIPT
OF QUALIFYING CONTRIBUTION.—Each quali-
fying contribution—
‘‘(1) may be made by means of a personal
check, money order, debit card, credit card,
or electronic payment account;
‘‘(2) shall be accompanied by a signed
statement containing—
‘‘(A) the contributor’s name and the con-
tributor’s address in the State in which the
contributor is registered to vote; and
‘‘(B) an oath declaring that the contrib-
utor—
‘‘(i) understands that the purpose of the
qualifying contribution is to show support
for the candidate so that the candidate may
qualify for Fair Elections financing;
‘‘(ii) is making the contribution in his or
her own name and from his or her own funds;
‘‘(iii) has made the contribution willingly;
and
‘‘(iv) has not received anything of value in
return for the contribution; and
‘‘(3) shall be acknowledged by a receipt
that is sent to the contributor with a copy
kept by the candidate for the Commission
and a copy kept by the candidate for the
election authorities in the State with re-
spect to which the candidate is seeking elec-
tion.
‘‘(c) VERIFICATION OF QUALIFYING CONTRIBU-
TIONS.—The Commission shall establish pro-
cedures for the auditing and verification of
qualifying contributions to ensure that such
contributions meet the requirements of this
section.
‘‘SEC. 513. CONTRIBUTION AND EXPENDITURE
REQUIREMENTS.
‘‘(a) GENERAL RULE.—A candidate for Sen-
ator meets the requirements of this section
if, during the election cycle of the candidate,
the candidate—
‘‘(1) except as provided in subsection (b),
accepts no contributions other than—
‘‘(A) qualifying contributions;
‘‘(B) qualified small dollar contributions;
‘‘(C) qualifying multicandidate political
committee contributions;
‘‘(D) allocations from the Fund under sec-
tion 522;
‘‘(E) matching contributions under section
523;
‘‘(F) enhanced matching contributions
under section 524; and
‘‘(G) vouchers provided to the candidate
under section 525;
‘‘(2) makes no expenditures from any
amounts other than from—
‘‘(A) qualifying contributions;
‘‘(B) qualified small dollar contributions;
‘‘(C) qualifying multicandidate political
committee contributions;
‘‘(D) allocations from the Fund under sec-
tion 522;
‘‘(E) matching contributions under section
523;
‘‘(F) enhanced matching contributions
under section 524; and
‘‘(G) vouchers provided to the candidate
under section 525; and
‘‘(3) makes no expenditures from personal
funds or the funds of any immediate family
member (other than funds received through
qualified small dollar contributions and
qualifying contributions).
For purposes of this subsection, a payment
made by a political party in coordination
with a participating candidate shall not be
treated as a contribution to or as an expendi-
ture made by the participating candidate.
‘‘(b) CONTRIBUTIONS FOR LEADERSHIP PACS,
ETC.—A political committee of a partici-
pating candidate which is not an authorized
committee of such candidate may accept
contributions other than contributions de-
scribed in subsection (a)(1) from any person
if—
‘‘(1) the aggregate contributions from such
person for any calendar year do not exceed
$200; and
‘‘(2) no portion of such contributions is dis-
bursed in connection with the campaign of
the participating candidate.
‘‘(c) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding sub-
section (a), a candidate shall not be treated
as having failed to meet the requirements of
this section if any contributions that are not
qualified small dollar contributions, quali-
fying contributions, qualifying multi-
candidate political committee contributions,
or contributions that meet the requirements
of subsection (b) and that are accepted before
the date the candidate files a statement of
intent under section 511(a)(1) are—
‘‘(1) returned to the contributor; or
‘‘(2) submitted to the Commission for de-
posit in the Fund.
‘‘SEC. 514. CERTIFICATION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 days
after a candidate for Senator files an affi-
davit under section 511(a)(3), the Commission
shall—
‘‘(1) certify whether or not the candidate is
a participating candidate; and
‘‘(2) notify the candidate of the Commis-
sion’s determination.
‘‘(b) REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission may re-
voke a certification under subsection (a) if—
‘‘(A) a candidate fails to qualify to appear
on the ballot at any time after the date of
certification; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.039 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5067
July 24, 2019
‘‘(B) a candidate otherwise fails to comply
with the requirements of this title, including
any regulatory requirements prescribed by
the Commission.
‘‘(2) REPAYMENT OF BENEFITS.—If certifi-
cation is revoked under paragraph (1), the
candidate shall repay to the Fund an amount
equal to the value of benefits received under
this title plus interest (at a rate determined
by the Commission) on any such amount re-
ceived.
‘‘Subtitle C—Benefits
‘‘SEC. 521. BENEFITS FOR PARTICIPATING CAN-
DIDATES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For each election with
respect to which a candidate is certified as a
participating candidate under section 514,
such candidate shall be entitled to—
‘‘(1) an allocation from the Fund to make
or obligate to make expenditures with re-
spect to such election, as provided in section
522;
‘‘(2) matching contributions, as provided in
section 523;
‘‘(3) enhanced matching contributions, as
provided in section 524; and
‘‘(4) for the general election, vouchers for
broadcasts of political advertisements, as
provided in section 525.
‘‘(b) RESTRICTION ON USES OF ALLOCATIONS
FROM THE FUND.—Allocations from the Fund
received by a participating candidate under
section 522, matching contributions under
section 523, and enhanced matching con-
tributions under section 524 may only be
used for campaign-related costs.
‘‘(c) REMITTING ALLOCATIONS FROM THE
FUND.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than the date
that is 45 days after an election in which the
participating candidate appeared on the bal-
lot, such participating candidate shall remit
to the Commission for deposit in the Fund
an amount equal to the lesser of—
‘‘(A) the amount of money in the can-
didate’s campaign account; or
‘‘(B) the sum of the allocations from the
Fund received by the candidate under sec-
tion 522, the matching contributions received
by the candidate under section 523, and the
enhanced matching contributions under sec-
tion 524.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—In the case of a candidate
who qualifies to be on the ballot for a pri-
mary runoff election, a general election, or a
general runoff election, the amounts de-
scribed in paragraph (1) may be retained by
the candidate and used in such subsequent
election.
‘‘SEC. 522. ALLOCATIONS FROM THE FUND.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
make allocations from the Fund under sec-
tion 521(a)(1) to a participating candidate—
‘‘(1) in the case of amounts provided under
subsection (c)(1), not later than 48 hours
after the date on which such candidate is
certified as a participating candidate under
section 514;
‘‘(2) in the case of a general election, not
later than 48 hours after—
‘‘(A) the date of the certification of the re-
sults of the primary election or the primary
runoff election; or
‘‘(B) in any case in which there is no pri-
mary election, the date the candidate quali-
fies to be placed on the ballot; and
‘‘(3) in the case of a primary runoff elec-
tion or a general runoff election, not later
than 48 hours after the certification of the
results of the primary election or the general
election, as the case may be.
‘‘(b) METHOD OF PAYMENT.—The Commis-
sion shall distribute funds available to par-
ticipating candidates under this section
through the use of an electronic funds ex-
change or a debit card.
‘‘(c) AMOUNTS.—
‘‘(1) PRIMARY ELECTION ALLOCATION; INITIAL
ALLOCATION.—Except as provided in para-
graph (5), the Commission shall make an al-
location from the Fund for a primary elec-
tion to a participating candidate in an
amount equal to 67 percent of the base
amount with respect to such participating
candidate.
‘‘(2) PRIMARY RUNOFF ELECTION ALLOCA-
TION.—The Commission shall make an allo-
cation from the Fund for a primary runoff
election to a participating candidate in an
amount equal to 25 percent of the amount
the participating candidate was eligible to
receive under this section for the primary
election.
‘‘(3) GENERAL ELECTION ALLOCATION.—Ex-
cept as provided in paragraph (5), the Com-
mission shall make an allocation from the
Fund for a general election to a partici-
pating candidate in an amount equal to the
base amount with respect to such candidate.
‘‘(4) GENERAL RUNOFF ELECTION ALLOCA-
TION.—The Commission shall make an allo-
cation from the Fund for a general runoff
election to a participating candidate in an
amount equal to 25 percent of the base
amount with respect to such candidate.
‘‘(5) UNCONTESTED ELECTIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a primary
or general election that is an uncontested
election, the Commission shall make an allo-
cation from the Fund to a participating can-
didate for such election in an amount equal
to 25 percent of the allocation which such
candidate would be entitled to under this
section for such election if this paragraph
did not apply.
‘‘(B) UNCONTESTED ELECTION DEFINED.—For
purposes of this subparagraph, an election is
uncontested if not more than 1 candidate has
campaign funds (including payments from
the Fund) in an amount equal to or greater
than 10 percent of the allocation a partici-
pating candidate would be entitled to receive
under this section for such election if this
paragraph did not apply.
‘‘(d) BASE AMOUNT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided in this subsection, the base amount for
any candidate is an amount equal to the
greater of—
‘‘(A) the sum of—
‘‘(i) $750,000; plus
‘‘(ii) $150,000 for each congressional district
in the State with respect to which the can-
didate is seeking election; or
‘‘(B) the amount determined by the Com-
mission under section 531.
‘‘(2) INDEXING.—In each even-numbered
year after 2025—
‘‘(A) each dollar amount under paragraph
(1)(A) shall be increased by the percent dif-
ference between the price index (as defined
in section 315(c)(2)(A)) for the 12 months pre-
ceding the beginning of such calendar year
and the price index for calendar year 2022;
‘‘(B) each dollar amount so increased shall
remain in effect for the 2-year period begin-
ning on the first day following the date of
the last general election in the year pre-
ceding the year in which the amount is in-
creased and ending on the date of the next
general election; and
‘‘(C) if any amount after adjustment under
subparagraph (A) is not a multiple of $100,
such amount shall be rounded to the nearest
multiple of $100.
‘‘SEC. 523. MATCHING PAYMENTS FOR QUALIFIED
SMALL DOLLAR CONTRIBUTIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
pay to each participating candidate an
amount equal to 600 percent of the amount of
qualified small dollar contributions received
by the candidate from individuals who are
residents of the State in which such partici-
pating candidate is seeking election after
the date on which such candidate is certified
under section 514.
‘‘(b) LIMITATION.—The aggregate payments
under subsection (a) with respect to any can-
didate shall not exceed the greater of—
‘‘(1) 400 percent of the allocation such can-
didate is entitled to receive for such election
under section 522 (determined without regard
to subsection (c)(5) thereof); or
‘‘(2) the percentage of such allocation de-
termined by the Commission under section
531.
‘‘(c) TIME OF PAYMENT.—The Commission
shall make payments under this section not
later than 2 business days after the receipt of
a report made under subsection (d).
‘‘(d) REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each participating can-
didate shall file reports of receipts of quali-
fied small dollar contributions at such times
and in such manner as the Commission may
by regulations prescribe.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS OF REPORTS.—Each report
under this subsection shall disclose—
‘‘(A) the amount of each qualified small
dollar contribution received by the can-
didate;
‘‘(B) the amount of each qualified small
dollar contribution received by the can-
didate from a resident of the State in which
the candidate is seeking election; and
‘‘(C) the name, address, and occupation of
each individual who made a qualified small
dollar contribution to the candidate.
‘‘(3) FREQUENCY OF REPORTS.—Reports
under this subsection shall be made no more
frequently than—
‘‘(A) once every month until the date that
is 90 days before the date of the election;
‘‘(B) once every week after the period de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) and until the
date that is 21 days before the election; and
‘‘(C) once every day after the period de-
scribed in subparagraph (B).
‘‘(4) LIMITATION ON REGULATIONS.—The
Commission may not prescribe any regula-
tions with respect to reporting under this
subsection with respect to any election after
the date that is 180 days before the date of
such election.
‘‘(e) APPEALS.—The Commission shall pro-
vide a written explanation with respect to
any denial of any payment under this section
and shall provide the opportunity for review
and reconsideration within 5 business days of
such denial.
‘‘SEC. 524. ENHANCED MATCHING SUPPORT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In addition to the pay-
ments made under section 523, the Commis-
sion shall make an additional payment to an
eligible candidate under this section.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBILITY.—A candidate is eligible
to receive an additional payment under this
section if the candidate meets each of the
following requirements:
‘‘(1) The candidate is on the ballot for the
general election for the office the candidate
seeks.
‘‘(2) The candidate is certified as a partici-
pating candidate under this title with re-
spect to the election.
‘‘(3) During the enhanced support quali-
fying period, the candidate receives qualified
small dollar contributions in a total amount
of not less than the sum of $15,000 for each
congressional district in the State with re-
spect to which the candidate is seeking elec-
tion.
‘‘(4) During the enhanced support quali-
fying period, the candidate submits to the
Commission a request for the payment which
includes—
‘‘(A) a statement of the number and
amount of qualified small dollar contribu-
tions received by the candidate during the
enhanced support qualifying period;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.039 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5068 July 24, 2019
‘‘(B) a statement of the amount of the pay-
ment the candidate anticipates receiving
with respect to the request; and
‘‘(C) such other information and assur-
ances as the Commission may require.
‘‘(5) After submitting a request for the ad-
ditional payment under paragraph (4), the
candidate does not submit any other applica-
tion for an additional payment under this
title.
‘‘(c) AMOUNT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the amount of the additional payment made
to an eligible candidate under this subtitle
shall be an amount equal to 50 percent of—
‘‘(A) the amount of the payment made to
the candidate under section 523 with respect
to the qualified small dollar contributions
which are received by the candidate during
the enhanced support qualifying period (as
included in the request submitted by the
candidate under (b)(4)(A)); or
‘‘(B) in the case of a candidate who is not
eligible to receive a payment under section
523 with respect to such qualified small dol-
lar contributions because the candidate has
reached the limit on the aggregate amount
of payments under section 523, the amount of
the payment which would have been made to
the candidate under section 523 with respect
to such qualified small dollar contributions
if the candidate had not reached such limit.
‘‘(2) LIMIT.—The amount of the additional
payment determined under paragraph (1)
with respect to a candidate may not exceed
the sum of $150,000 for each congressional
district in the State with respect to which
the candidate is seeking election.
‘‘(3) NO EFFECT ON AGGREGATE LIMIT.—The
amount of the additional payment made to a
candidate under this section shall not be in-
cluded in determining the aggregate amount
of payments made to a participating can-
didate with respect to an election cycle
under section 523.
‘‘SEC. 525. POLITICAL ADVERTISING VOUCHERS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
establish and administer a voucher program
for the purchase of airtime on broadcasting
stations for political advertisements in ac-
cordance with the provisions of this section.
‘‘(b) CANDIDATES.—The Commission shall
only disburse vouchers under the program
established under subsection (a) to partici-
pants certified pursuant to section 514 who
have agreed in writing to keep and furnish to
the Commission such records, books, and
other information as it may require.
‘‘(c) AMOUNTS.—The Commission shall dis-
burse vouchers to each candidate certified
under subsection (b) in an aggregate amount
equal to the greater of—
‘‘(1) $100,000 multiplied by the number of
congressional districts in the State with re-
spect to which such candidate is running for
office; or
‘‘(2) the amount determined by the Com-
mission under section 531.
‘‘(d) USE.—
‘‘(1) EXCLUSIVE USE.—Vouchers disbursed
by the Commission under this section may
be used only for the purchase of broadcast
airtime for political advertisements relating
to a general election for the office of Senate
by the participating candidate to which the
vouchers were disbursed, except that—
‘‘(A) a candidate may exchange vouchers
with a political party under paragraph (2);
and
‘‘(B) a political party may use vouchers
only to purchase broadcast airtime for polit-
ical advertisements for generic party adver-
tising (as defined by the Commission in regu-
lations), to support candidates for State or
local office in a general election, or to sup-
port participating candidates of the party in
a general election for Federal office, but
only if it discloses the value of the voucher
used as an expenditure under section 315(d).
‘‘(2) EXCHANGE WITH POLITICAL PARTY COM-
MITTEE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A participating can-
didate who receives a voucher under this sec-
tion may transfer the right to use all or a
portion of the value of the voucher to a com-
mittee of the political party of which the in-
dividual is a candidate (or, in the case of a
participating candidate who is not a member
of any political party, to a committee of the
political party of that candidate’s choice) in
exchange for money in an amount equal to
the cash value of the voucher or portion ex-
changed.
‘‘(B) CONTINUATION OF CANDIDATE OBLIGA-
TIONS.—The transfer of a voucher, in whole
or in part, to a political party committee
under this paragraph does not release the
candidate from any obligation under the
agreement made under subsection (b) or oth-
erwise modify that agreement or its applica-
tion to that candidate.
‘‘(C) PARTY COMMITTEE OBLIGATIONS.—Any
political party committee to which a vouch-
er or portion thereof is transferred under
subparagraph (A)—
‘‘(i) shall account fully, in accordance with
such requirements as the Commission may
establish, for the receipt of the voucher; and
‘‘(ii) may not use the transferred voucher
or portion thereof for any purpose other than
a purpose described in paragraph (1)(B).
‘‘(D) VOUCHER AS A CONTRIBUTION UNDER
FECA.—If a candidate transfers a voucher or
any portion thereof to a political party com-
mittee under subparagraph (A)—
‘‘(i) the value of the voucher or portion
thereof transferred shall be treated as a con-
tribution from the candidate to the com-
mittee, and from the committee to the can-
didate, for purposes of sections 302 and 304;
‘‘(ii) the committee may, in exchange, pro-
vide to the candidate only funds subject to
the prohibitions, limitations, and reporting
requirements of title III of this Act; and
‘‘(iii) the amount, if identified as a ‘vouch-
er exchange’, shall not be considered a con-
tribution for the purposes of sections 315 and
513.
‘‘(e) VALUE; ACCEPTANCE; REDEMPTION.—
‘‘(1) VOUCHER.—Each voucher disbursed by
the Commission under this section shall
have a value in dollars, redeemable upon
presentation to the Commission, together
with such documentation and other informa-
tion as the Commission may require, for the
purchase of broadcast airtime for political
advertisements in accordance with this sec-
tion.
‘‘(2) ACCEPTANCE.—A broadcasting station
shall accept vouchers in payment for the
purchase of broadcast airtime for political
advertisements in accordance with this sec-
tion.
‘‘(3) REDEMPTION.—The Commission shall
redeem vouchers accepted by broadcasting
stations under paragraph (2) upon presen-
tation, subject to such documentation,
verification, accounting, and application re-
quirements as the Commission may impose
to ensure the accuracy and integrity of the
voucher redemption system.
‘‘(4) EXPIRATION.—
‘‘(A) CANDIDATES.—A voucher may only be
used to pay for broadcast airtime for polit-
ical advertisements to be broadcast before
midnight on the day before the date of the
Federal election in connection with which it
was issued and shall be null and void for any
other use or purpose.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION FOR POLITICAL PARTY COM-
MITTEES.—A voucher held by a political
party committee may be used to pay for
broadcast airtime for political advertise-
ments to be broadcast before midnight on
December 31st of the odd-numbered year fol-
lowing the year in which the voucher was
issued by the Commission.
‘‘(5) VOUCHER AS EXPENDITURE UNDER
FECA.—The use of a voucher to purchase
broadcast airtime constitutes an expenditure
as defined in section 301(9)(A).
‘‘(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) BROADCASTING STATION.—The term
‘broadcasting station’ has the meaning given
that term by section 315(f)(1) of the Commu-
nications Act of 1934.
‘‘(2) POLITICAL PARTY.—The term ‘political
party’ means a major party or a minor party
as defined in section 9002 (3) or (4) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 9002 (3)
or (4)).
‘‘Subtitle D—Administrative Provisions
‘‘SEC. 531. DUTIES OF THE FEDERAL ELECTION
COMMISSION.
‘‘(a) DUTIES AND POWERS.—
‘‘(1) ADMINISTRATION.—The Commission
shall have the power to administer the provi-
sions of this title and shall prescribe regula-
tions to carry out the purposes of this title,
including regulations—
‘‘(A) to establish procedures for—
‘‘(i) verifying the amount of valid quali-
fying contributions with respect to a can-
didate;
‘‘(ii) effectively and efficiently monitoring
and enforcing the limits on the raising of
qualified small dollar contributions;
‘‘(iii) monitoring the raising of qualifying
multicandidate political committee con-
tributions through effectively and efficiently
monitoring and enforcing the limits on indi-
vidual contributions to qualified accounts of
multicandidate political committees;
‘‘(iv) effectively and efficiently monitoring
and enforcing the limits on the use of per-
sonal funds by participating candidates;
‘‘(v) monitoring the use of allocations from
the Fund and matching contributions under
this title through audits or other mecha-
nisms; and
‘‘(vi) the administration of the voucher
program under section 525; and
‘‘(B) regarding the conduct of debates in a
manner consistent with the best practices of
States that provide public financing for elec-
tions.
‘‘(2) REVIEW OF FAIR ELECTIONS FINANCING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—After each general elec-
tion for Federal office, the Commission shall
conduct a comprehensive review of the Fair
Elections financing program under this title,
including—
‘‘(i) the maximum dollar amount of quali-
fied small dollar contributions under section
501(13);
‘‘(ii) the maximum and minimum dollar
amounts for qualifying contributions under
section 501(12);
‘‘(iii) the number and value of qualifying
contributions a candidate is required to ob-
tain under section 512 to qualify for alloca-
tions from the Fund;
‘‘(iv) the amount of allocations from the
Fund that candidates may receive under sec-
tion 522;
‘‘(v) the maximum amount of matching
contributions a candidate may receive under
section 523;
‘‘(vi) the maximum amount of enhanced
matching contributions a candidate may re-
ceive under section 524;
‘‘(vii) the amount and usage of vouchers
under section 525;
‘‘(viii) the overall satisfaction of partici-
pating candidates and the American public
with the program; and
‘‘(ix) such other matters relating to financ-
ing of Senate campaigns as the Commission
determines are appropriate.
‘‘(B) CRITERIA FOR REVIEW.—In conducting
the review under subparagraph (A), the Com-
mission shall consider the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.039 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5069
July 24, 2019
‘‘(i) QUALIFYING CONTRIBUTIONS AND QUALI-
FIED SMALL DOLLAR CONTRIBUTIONS.—The
Commission shall consider whether the num-
ber and dollar amount of qualifying con-
tributions required and maximum dollar
amount for such qualifying contributions
and qualified small dollar contributions
strikes a balance regarding the importance
of voter involvement, the need to assure ade-
quate incentives for participating, and fiscal
responsibility, taking into consideration the
number of primary and general election par-
ticipating candidates, the electoral perform-
ance of those candidates, program cost, and
any other information the Commission de-
termines is appropriate.
‘‘(ii) REVIEW OF PROGRAM BENEFITS.—The
Commission shall consider whether the to-
tality of the amount of funds allowed to be
raised by participating candidates (including
through qualifying contributions and small
dollar contributions), allocations from the
Fund under section 522, matching contribu-
tions under section 523, enhanced matching
contributions under section 524, and vouch-
ers under section 525 are sufficient for voters
in each State to learn about the candidates
to cast an informed vote, taking into ac-
count the historic amount of spending by
winning candidates, media costs, primary
election dates, and any other information
the Commission determines is appropriate.
‘‘(C) ADJUSTMENT OF AMOUNTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Based on the review con-
ducted under subparagraph (A), the Commis-
sion shall provide for the adjustments of the
following amounts:
‘‘(I) The maximum dollar amount of quali-
fied small dollar contributions under section
501(13)(C).
‘‘(II) The maximum and minimum dollar
amounts for qualifying contributions under
section 501(12)(A).
‘‘(III) The number and value of qualifying
contributions a candidate is required to ob-
tain under section 512(a)(1).
‘‘(IV) The base amount for candidates
under section 522(d).
‘‘(V) The maximum amount of matching
contributions a candidate may receive under
section 523(b).
‘‘(VI) The maximum amount of enhanced
matching contributions a candidate may re-
ceive under section 524(c).
‘‘(VII) The dollar amount for vouchers
under section 525(c).
‘‘(ii) REGULATIONS.—The Commission shall
promulgate regulations providing for the ad-
justments made under clause (i).
‘‘(D) REPORT.—Not later than March 30 fol-
lowing any general election for Federal of-
fice, the Commission shall submit a report to
Congress on the review conducted under sub-
paragraph (A). Such report shall contain a
detailed statement of the findings, conclu-
sions, and recommendations of the Commis-
sion based on such review.
‘‘(b) REPORTS.—Not later than March 30,
2024, and every 2 years thereafter, the Com-
mission shall submit to the Senate Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration a report
documenting, evaluating, and making rec-
ommendations relating to the administra-
tive implementation and enforcement of the
provisions of this title.
‘‘(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as are necessary to carry out the pur-
poses of this subtitle.
‘‘SEC. 532. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
‘‘(a) CIVIL PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CON-
TRIBUTION AND EXPENDITURE REQUIRE-
MENTS.—If a candidate who has been cer-
tified as a participating candidate under sec-
tion 514 accepts a contribution or makes an
expenditure that is prohibited under section
513, the Commission shall assess a civil pen-
alty against the candidate in an amount that
is not more than 3 times the amount of the
contribution or expenditure. Any amounts
collected under this subsection shall be de-
posited into the Fund.
‘‘(b) REPAYMENT FOR IMPROPER USE OF FAIR
ELECTIONS FUND.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Commission deter-
mines that any benefit made available to a
participating candidate under this title was
not used as provided for in this title or that
a participating candidate has violated any of
the dates for remission of funds contained in
this title, the Commission shall so notify the
candidate and the candidate shall pay to the
Fund an amount equal to—
‘‘(A) the amount of benefits so used or not
remitted, as appropriate; and
‘‘(B) interest on any such amounts (at a
rate determined by the Commission).
‘‘(2) OTHER ACTION NOT PRECLUDED.—Any
action by the Commission in accordance
with this subsection shall not preclude en-
forcement proceedings by the Commission in
accordance with section 309(a), including a
referral by the Commission to the Attorney
General in the case of an apparent knowing
and willful violation of this title.’’.
SEC. 102. PROHIBITION ON JOINT FUNDRAISING
COMMITTEES.
Section 302(e) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30102(e)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(6) No authorized committee of a partici-
pating candidate (as defined in section 501)
may establish a joint fundraising committee
with a political committee other than an au-
thorized committee of a candidate.’’.
SEC. 103. EXCEPTION TO LIMITATION ON CO-
ORDINATED EXPENDITURES BY PO-
LITICAL PARTY COMMITTEES WITH
PARTICIPATING CANDIDATES.
Section 315(d) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30116(d)) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ‘‘in the
case of’’ and inserting ‘‘except as provided in
paragraph (6), in the case of’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(6)(A) The limitation under paragraph
(3)(A) shall not apply with respect to any ex-
penditure from a qualified political party-
participating candidate coordinated expendi-
ture fund.
‘‘(B) In this paragraph, the term ‘qualified
political party-participating candidate co-
ordinated expenditure fund’ means a fund es-
tablished by the national committee of a po-
litical party, or a State committee of a po-
litical party, including any subordinate com-
mittee of a State committee, for purposes of
making expenditures in connection with the
general election campaign of a candidate for
election to the office of Senator who is a par-
ticipating candidate (as defined in section
501), that only accepts qualified coordinated
expenditure contributions.
‘‘(C) In this paragraph, the term ‘qualified
coordinated expenditure contribution’
means, with respect to the general election
campaign of a candidate for election to the
office of Senator who is a participating can-
didate (as defined in section 501), any con-
tribution (or series of contributions)—
‘‘(i) which is made by an individual who is
not prohibited from making a contribution
under this Act; and
‘‘(ii) the aggregate amount of which does
not exceed $500 per election.’’.
TITLE II—IMPROVING VOTER
INFORMATION
SEC. 201. BROADCASTS RELATING TO ALL SEN-
ATE CANDIDATES.
(a) LOWEST UNIT CHARGE; NATIONAL COM-
MITTEES.—Section 315(b)(1) of the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 315(b)(1)) is
amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘to such office’’ and insert-
ing the following: ‘‘to such office, or by a na-
tional committee of a political party on be-
half of such candidate in connection with
such campaign,’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘for
preemptible use thereof’’ after ‘‘station’’.
(b) PREEMPTION; AUDITS.—Section 315 of
the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
315) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d)
as subsections (f) and (g), respectively and
moving them to follow the existing sub-
section (e);
(2) by redesignating the existing subsection
(e) as subsection (c); and
(3) by inserting after subsection (c) (as re-
designated by paragraph (2)) the following:
‘‘(d) PREEMPTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), and notwithstanding the re-
quirements of subsection (b)(1)(A), a licensee
shall not preempt the use of a broadcasting
station by a legally qualified candidate for
Senate who has purchased and paid for such
use.
‘‘(2) CIRCUMSTANCES BEYOND CONTROL OF LI-
CENSEE.—If a program to be broadcast by a
broadcasting station is preempted because of
circumstances beyond the control of the sta-
tion, any candidate or party advertising spot
scheduled to be broadcast during that pro-
gram shall be treated in the same fashion as
a comparable commercial advertising spot.
‘‘(e) AUDITS.—During the 30-day period pre-
ceding a primary or primary runoff election
and the 60-day period preceding a general or
special election, the Commission shall con-
duct such audits as it deems necessary to en-
sure that each licensee to which this section
applies is allocating television broadcast ad-
vertising time in accordance with this sec-
tion and section 312.’’.
(c) REVOCATION OF LICENSE FOR FAILURE TO
PERMIT ACCESS.—Section 312(a)(7) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
312(a)(7)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or repeated’’;
(2) by inserting ‘‘or cable system’’ after
‘‘broadcasting station’’; and
(3) by striking ‘‘his candidacy’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the candidacy of the candidate, under
the same terms, conditions, and business
practices as apply to the most favored adver-
tiser of the licensee’’.
(d) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—Section 315 of the Communications
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 315) is amended—
(1) in subsection (f), as redesignated by
subsection (b)(1)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘For purposes of this section—’’
and inserting the following: ‘‘Definitions.—
For purposes of this section:’’;
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘the term’’ and inserting
‘‘BROADCASTING STATION.—The term’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘; and’’ and inserting a pe-
riod; and
(C) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘the
terms’’ and inserting ‘‘LICENSEE; STATION LI-
CENSEE.—The terms’’; and
(2) in subsection (g), as redesignated by
subsection (b)(1), by striking ‘‘The Commis-
sion’’ and inserting ‘‘REGULATIONS.—The
Commission’’.
SEC. 202. BROADCAST RATES FOR PARTICI-
PATING CANDIDATES.
Section 315(b) of the Communications Act
of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 315(b)), as amended by sec-
tion 201, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ‘‘para-
graph (2)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraphs (2) and
(3)’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.039 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5070 July 24, 2019
‘‘(3) PARTICIPATING CANDIDATES.—In the
case of a participating candidate (as defined
in section 501 of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971), the charges made for the
use of any broadcasting station for a tele-
vision broadcast shall not exceed 80 percent
of the lowest charge described in paragraph
(1)(A) during—
‘‘(A) the 45 days preceding the date of a
primary or primary runoff election in which
the candidate is opposed; and
‘‘(B) the 60 days preceding the date of a
general or special election in which the can-
didate is opposed.
‘‘(4) RATE CARDS.—A licensee shall provide
to a candidate for Senate a rate card that
discloses—
‘‘(A) the rate charged under this sub-
section; and
‘‘(B) the method that the licensee uses to
determine the rate charged under this sub-
section.’’.
SEC. 203. FCC TO PRESCRIBE STANDARDIZED
FORM FOR REPORTING CANDIDATE
CAMPAIGN ADS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Federal Communications Commission shall
initiate a rulemaking proceeding to estab-
lish a standardized form to be used by each
broadcasting station, as defined in section
315(f) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 315(f)) (as redesignated by section
201(b)(1)), to record and report the purchase
of advertising time by or on behalf of a can-
didate for nomination for election, or for
election, to Federal elective office.
(b) CONTENTS.—The form prescribed by the
Federal Communications Commission under
subsection (a) shall require a broadcasting
station to report to the Federal Communica-
tions Commission and to the Federal Elec-
tion Commission, at a minimum—
(1) the station call letters and mailing ad-
dress;
(2) the name and telephone number of the
station’s sales manager (or individual with
responsibility for advertising sales);
(3) the name of the candidate who pur-
chased the advertising time, or on whose be-
half the advertising time was purchased, and
the Federal elective office for which he or
she is a candidate;
(4) the name, mailing address, and tele-
phone number of the person responsible for
purchasing broadcast political advertising
for the candidate;
(5) notation as to whether the purchase
agreement for which the information is
being reported is a draft or final version; and
(6) with respect to the advertisement—
(A) the date and time of the broadcast;
(B) the program in which the advertise-
ment was broadcast; and
(C) the length of the broadcast airtime.
(c) INTERNET ACCESS.—In its rulemaking
under subsection (a), the Federal Commu-
nications Commission shall require any
broadcasting station required to file a report
under this section that maintains an inter-
net website to make available a link to each
such report on that website.
TITLE III—RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
SEC. 301. PETITION FOR CERTIORARI.
Section 307(a)(6) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30107(a)(6)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘(including a pro-
ceeding before the Supreme Court on certio-
rari)’’ after ‘‘appeal’’.
SEC. 302. ELECTRONIC FILING OF FEC REPORTS.
Section 304(a)(11) of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30104(a)(11))
is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘under
this Act—’’ and all that follows and inserting
‘‘under this Act shall be required to main-
tain and file such designation, statement, or
report in electronic form accessible by com-
puters.’’;
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘48
hours’’ and all that follows through ‘‘filed
electronically)’’ and inserting ‘‘24 hours’’;
and
(3) by striking subparagraph (D).
TITLE IV—REVENUE PROVISIONS
SEC. 401. FAIR ELECTIONS FUND REVENUE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after
chapter 36 the following new chapter:
‘‘CHAPTER 37—TAX ON PAYMENTS PURSU-
ANT TO CERTAIN GOVERNMENT CON-
TRACTS
‘‘Sec. 4501. Imposition of tax.
‘‘SEC. 4501. IMPOSITION OF TAX.
‘‘(a) TAX IMPOSED.—There is hereby im-
posed on any payment made to a qualified
person pursuant to a contract with the Gov-
ernment of the United States a tax equal to
0.50 percent of the amount paid.
‘‘(b) LIMITATION.—The aggregate amount of
tax imposed per contract under subsection
(a) for any calendar year shall not exceed
$500,000.
‘‘(c) QUALIFIED PERSON.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘qualified person’
means any person which—
‘‘(1) is not a State or local government, a
foreign nation, or an organization described
in section 501(c)(3) which is exempt from tax-
ation under section 501(a), and
‘‘(2) has a contract with the Government of
the United States with a value in excess of
$10,000,000.
‘‘(d) PAYMENT OF TAX.—The tax imposed by
this section shall be paid by the person re-
ceiving such payment.
‘‘(e) USE OF REVENUE GENERATED BY TAX.—
It is the sense of the Senate that amounts
equivalent to the revenue generated by the
tax imposed under this chapter should be ap-
propriated for the financing of a Fair Elec-
tions Fund and used for the public financing
of Senate elections.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
chapters of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
is amended by inserting after the item relat-
ing to chapter 36 the following:
‘‘CHAPTER 37—TAX ON PAYMENTS PURSUANT
TO CERTAIN GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to contracts
entered into after the date of the enactment
of this Act.
TITLE V—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 501. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act or amendment
made by this Act, or the application of a pro-
vision or amendment to any person or cir-
cumstance, is held to be unconstitutional,
the remainder of this Act and amendments
made by this Act, and the application of the
provisions and amendment to any person or
circumstance, shall not be affected by the
holding.
SEC. 502. EFFECTIVE DATE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as may otherwise
be provided in this Act and in the amend-
ments made by this Act, this Act and the
amendments made by this Act shall apply
with respect to elections occurring during
2026 or any succeeding year, without regard
to whether or not the Federal Election Com-
mission has promulgated the final regula-
tions necessary to carry out this Act and the
amendments made by this Act by the dead-
line set forth in subsection (b).
(b) DEADLINE FOR REGULATIONS.—Not later
than June 30, 2024, the Federal Election Com-
mission shall promulgate such regulations as
may be necessary to carry out this Act and
the amendments made by this Act.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 283—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF 2019 AS THE
‘‘INTERNATIONAL YEAR OF THE
PERIODIC TABLE OF CHEMICAL
ELEMENTS’’
Mr. COONS (for himself, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. PETERS, and Mr. DAINES) submitted
the following resolution; which was
considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 283
Whereas, on December 20, 2017, the United
Nations General Assembly designated 2019 as
the ‘‘International Year of the Periodic
Table of Chemical Elements’’ (referred to in
this preamble as the ‘‘International Year of
the Periodic Table’’), recognizing that—
(1) the development of the periodic table
was one of the most significant achieve-
ments in science; and
(2) the periodic table is a uniting scientific
concept with broad applications and implica-
tions in astronomy, chemistry, physics, biol-
ogy, and other natural sciences;
Whereas the International Year of the
Periodic Table will coincide with the 150th
anniversary of the development of the peri-
odic table by Dmitri Mendeleev in 1869;
Whereas the periodic table is a unique tool
enabling scientists to predict the appearance
and properties of matter on Earth and in the
universe;
Whereas the International Year of the
Periodic Table provides an opportunity to
educate the public about the ways in which
chemical elements can help to address chal-
lenges relating to water, food, health, secu-
rity, and energy throughout the world;
Whereas it is critical that the brightest
young minds continue to be attracted to
chemistry and other branches of science in
order to ensure the development of the next
generation of scientists, engineers, and
innovators;
Whereas the American Chemical Society,
founded in 1876 and chartered by Congress in
1938, is committed to—
(1) improving the lives of people through
the transforming power of chemistry; and
(2) advancing the broader chemistry enter-
prise and the practitioners of that enterprise
for the benefit of Earth and people around
the world; and
Whereas the American Chemical Society
and other chemical societies and associa-
tions around the world are encouraging the
members of those societies and associations
to work with colleagues to organize outreach
activities that will instill public apprecia-
tion of—
(1) the periodic table; and
(2) the contributions of the periodic table
to the betterment of life on Earth: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes and applauds the United Na-
tions for proclaiming 2019 as the ‘‘Inter-
national Year of the Periodic Table of Chem-
ical Elements’’ (referred to in this resolution
as the ‘‘International Year of the Periodic
Table’’); and
(2) commends the global community of
chemists for their efforts—
(A) to advance the field of chemistry;
(B) to recognize the International Year of
the Periodic Table; and
(C) to participate in events marking the
International Year of the Periodic Table as—
(i) an important scientific milestone; and
(ii) a global celebration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.039 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5071
July 24, 2019
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have
10 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, July 24,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
the nomination of David L. Norquist,
of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of
Defense.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, July 24, 2019, at
10:30 a.m., to conduct a business meet-
ing and hearing on the following nomi-
nations: Theodore Rokita, of Indiana,
to be a Director of the Amtrak Board
of Directors, Jennifer L. Homendy, of
Virginia, and Michael Graham, of Kan-
sas, both to be a Member of the Na-
tional Transportation Safety Board,
Carl Whitney Bentzel, of Maryland, to
be a Federal Maritime Commissioner,
Michael J.K. Kratsios, of South Caro-
lina, to be an Associate Director of the
Office of Science and Technology Pol-
icy, and Ian Paul Steff, of Indiana, to
be Assistant Secretary of Commerce
and Director General of the United
States and Foreign Commercial Serv-
ice.
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, July 24, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, July 24, 2019, at
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the
following nominations: Brent James
McIntosh, of Michigan, to be an Under
Secretary, Brian Callanan, of New Jer-
sey, to be General Counsel, and Brian
McGuire, of New York, to be a Deputy
Under Secretary, all of the Department
of the Treasury, and Travis Greaves, of
the District of Columbia, to be a Judge
of the United States Tax Court for a
term of fifteen years.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, July
24, 2019, at 10:15 a.m., to conduct a
hearing.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Wednesday, July 24, 2019,
at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
the following nominations: Chad F.
Wolf, of Virginia, to be Under Sec-
retary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans,
and William Bryan, of Virginia, to be
Under Secretary for Science and Tech-
nology, both of the Department of
Homeland Security, Robert M. Duncan,
of Kentucky, to be a Governor of the
United States Postal Service, Ann C.
Fisher, of the District of Columbia, and
Ashley Jay Elizabeth Poling, of North
Carolina, both to be a Commissioner of
the Postal Regulatory Commission,
Catherine Bird, of Texas, to be General
Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations
Authority, and Rainey R. Brandt, and
Shana Frost Matini, both to be an As-
sociate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
The Committee on Indian Affairs is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, July 24,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a business
meeting and the nomination of E.
Sequoyah Simermeyer, of Maryland, to
be Chairman of the National Indian
Gaming Commission.
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
The Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, July 24, 2019, at 11 a.m., to conduct
a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
The Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, July 24, 2019, at 2:30
p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON AFRICA AND GLOBAL HEALTH
POLICY
The Subcommittee on Africa and
Global Health Policy of the Committee
on Foreign Relations is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, July 24, 2019, at 2:30
p.m., to conduct a hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that my fellow,
Dan Becerra, have privileges of the
floor for the balance of his fellowship
and that Luchanna Sagoo, my intern,
have privileges for the balance of the
day.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that my fellow,
Michele Bustamante, be granted floor
privileges for the remainder of this ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—S. 2258
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
understand that there is a bill at the
desk, and I ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the first time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2258) to provide anti-retaliation
protections for antitrust whistleblowers.
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
now ask for a second reading, and in
order to place the bill on the calendar
under the provisions of rule XIV, I ob-
ject to my own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The bill will receive a second reading
on the next legislative day.
f
EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF 2019 AS THE
‘‘INTERNATIONAL YEAR OF THE
PERIODIC TABLE OF CHEMICAL
ELEMENTS’’
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 283, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 283) expressing sup-
port for the designation of 2019 as the ‘‘Inter-
national Year of the Periodic Table of Chem-
ical Elements’’.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
further ask unanimous consent that
the resolution be agreed to, the pre-
amble be agreed to, and the motions to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 283) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREE-
MENT—EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that at 1:45
p.m. tomorrow, the Senate proceed to
executive session for the consideration
of Calendar No. 375; that the Senate
vote on the nomination with no inter-
vening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate; that no further motions be in
order; that any statements related to
the nomination be printed in the
RECORD, the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action, and the
Senate then resume legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY6.041 S24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5072 July 24, 2019
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, JULY 25,
2019.
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Thursday, July
25; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and the Senate be
in a period of morning business, with
Senators permitted to speak therein
for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:33 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
July 25, 2019, at 10 a.m.
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate July 24, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
WENDY WILLIAMS BERGER, OF FLORIDA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE MIDDLE DIS-
TRICT OF FLORIDA.
BRIAN C. BUESCHER, OF NEBRASKA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF NE-
BRASKA.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
STEPHEN M. DICKSON, OF GEORGIA, TO BE ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
FOR THE TERM OF FIVE YEARS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G24JY6.065 S24JYPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E971
July 24, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE BENEFITS OF
OVER-THE-COUNTER CONSUMER
HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS
HON. DIANA DeGETTE
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Ms. DeGETTE. Madam Speaker, each year,
July 24th, is recognized as ‘‘International Self-
Care Day,’’ an annual opportunity to put a
spotlight on the benefits that safe and effective
self-care provide to advance public health.
Consumer healthcare products such as over-
the-counter (OTC) medicines, consumer med-
ical devices, and dietary supplements play a
critical role in self-care. Americans enjoy easy
access to consumer healthcare products at
thousands of retail locations nationwide and
online, and they recognize the tremendous
value that consumer healthcare products pro-
vide for individuals and healthcare systems. In
fact, OTCs alone save the U.S. healthcare
system over $146 billion annually. For every
$1 consumers spend on OTC medicines, the
healthcare system saves $7 by reducing the
need for more expensive types of healthcare.
That’s why I was so proud to introduce H.R.
3443 with my colleague from Ohio, Mr. LATTA.
f
HONORING HIS HOLINESS SRI SRI
RAVI SHANKAR
HON. RAJA KRISHNAMOORTHI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Madam Speaker, I
rise to honor his Holiness Sri Sri Ravi Shan-
kar, a Hindu spiritual leader and humanitarian
who has devoted his life to eliminating vio-
lence and spreading compassion throughout
the world. I also wish to acknowledge the
America Meditates guided meditation con-
ducted today in Denver, Colorado by His Holi-
ness as part of the National Summit for Mental
Health and Mental Fitness, an event that will
be livestreamed nationwide and joined by
thousands of His Holiness’ devotees.
His Holiness’s teachings emphasize the
close relationship between spirituality, com-
passion for others, and concern for the envi-
ronment. According to his beliefs, spirituality is
open to all people regardless of religion or cul-
ture, because the bond that all humans share
is stronger than any characteristics that may
divide us.
His Holiness has taken part in extensive hu-
manitarian work around the world. Volunteers
from his many service organizations have dis-
tributed food and emergency supplies, and
provided spiritual support and counseling, to
victims from natural disasters including Hurri-
cane Katrina in the United States and the
2004 tsunami that devastated Southeast Asia.
Sri Sri Ravi Shankar is a champion of
peace, and has actively sought to assist in ef-
forts to mediate conflicts in Southeast Asia,
the Middle East, South America and on the In-
dian subcontinent. His Holiness has dedicated
himself to social initiatives all over the world
and especially in India, where he has worked
to increase voter awareness and establish free
health camps, and address social problems
ranging from drug abuse to the rehabilitation
of prison populations. His Holiness has also
worked to protect our environment with an as-
sortment of water and river rehabilitation
projects, and through efforts ranging from pro-
grams to help train farmers on creating seed
banks to building waste management facilities.
In recognition of his decades of service, His
Holiness has been honored with awards from
countries including India, Argentina, Brazil,
Colombia, Hungary, the Netherlands, Para-
guay, Peru, Russia and the United States. In
2016, the Government of India awarded him
the ‘‘Padma Vibhushan’’, its second highest ci-
vilian honor.
His Holiness continues his work throughout
the world to bring peace and understanding
through meditation and spiritual growth.
Madam Speaker, I want to recognize His Holi-
ness Sri Sri Ravi Shankar for the good work
he has done through his spiritual leadership
and humanitarian service, and commend him
for his continued efforts to make a more just
and peaceful world.
f
HONORING THE ANNIVERSARY OF
CALVARY BAPTIST CHURCH
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to Calvary Baptist Church, a house of
worship in Detroit, Michigan, as its members
celebrate the church’s one hundredth anniver-
sary, as well as twenty-five years under the
leadership of Pastor Lawrence T. Foster.
Born and raised in San Francisco, Cali-
fornia, Pastor Foster arrived in Detroit to lead
the flock at Calvary Baptist Church in 1994.
Pastor Foster is a proud graduate of More-
house College, completing his theological
studies at Harvard University Divinity School.
Outside his duties attending to the spiritual
needs of his congregation, Pastor Foster has
worked to advance causes such as fair hous-
ing as a member of the Virginia Park-Henry
Ford Hospital Non-profit Housing Corporation
Board of Directors, as a board member of the
Michigan AIDS Coalition, as well as an advo-
cate for economic and agricultural develop-
ment in west Africa as a member of the Pro-
gressive National Baptist Convention’s Mis-
sionary Ministry.
Calvary Baptist Church was founded in
1919 by Reverend Henry James Mastin as a
place of refuge in its surrounding communities.
More than that, Calvary welcomed the migrat-
ing masses of African Americans who pos-
sessed little social status, providing an envi-
ronment of prayer, praise, fellowship and mu-
tual aid where everybody was somebody. This
legacy lives on in the longevity of Pastor Fos-
ter’s service.
Please join me in tribute to Pastor Lawrence
T. Foster and the members of Calvary Baptist
Church as we recognize its one hundredth an-
niversary.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 100TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF WAVERLY
TOWSHIP AND THE WAVERLY
COMMUNITY HOUSE
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the 100th anniversary
of Waverly Township, Pennsylvania and the
Waverly Community House. The first corner-
stone for the Waverly Community House, the
hub of community activity and affectionately
known as ‘the Comm,’ was laid in 1919.
Waverly found its humble beginning as a
few settlers homesteading in a small area of
a forest, but as more businesses and settle-
ments began to populate the area, local resi-
dent and philanthropist Margaretta Belin and
her children saw the need for a space for their
community to gather. The idea was a tribute to
her beloved husband Henry Belin Jr. who
passed away in 1917. As the director of the
Scranton Lace Company, Henry was stead-
fastly dedicated to emphasizing the impor-
tance of recreation to his staff. The Belins in-
corporated the memory of their dear father
into the mission statement and purpose of the
Waverly Community House as a place for resi-
dents to gather, learn, and play together. In
1919, under the direction of architect George
M.D. Lewis, the Comm was built, and in 1920
the building and the portion of the land were
deeded to Abington Township.
In the century that followed, the Comm faith-
fully embodied the spirit of the Belin family’s
mission to promote civic engagement and rec-
reational activities for the Abingtons and be-
yond. The original building included a bowling
alley, a gathering area, a post office, a library,
and the first kindergarten in Lackawanna
County. The Comm offered activities such as
an annual fair, classes, tennis tournaments,
and movie. During World War II, the Comm
was pivotal in support the war effort on the
home front by organizing volunteer efforts,
sending regular newsletters to soldiers sta-
tioned abroad, holding defense meetings, and
collecting book donations.
As the Comm flourished, the Belin children
dedicated two additional wings to the building
in honor of their mother to accommodate its
growing community events. The rooms are still
in use today and house spaces for camps,
education, arts programs, and a welcome cen-
ter which features Destination Freedom, a
Walking Tour of the Underground Railroad in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K24JY8.001 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E972 July 24, 2019
Waverly. The Comm continues to be the cen-
ter of community life in Waverly. Special
events like the annual Antiques Show and
Sale, the Artisans’ Marketplace, the House
and Garden Show, Summer Music Concerts,
and seasonal children’s parties.
It is an honor to recognize Waverly Town-
ship and the Waverly Community House on
their centennial. The Comm has been the
heartbeat of community life in the Abingtons
since 1919, and I wish them another hundred
years of growth and prosperity in the tradition
of service to others, recreation, and civic en-
gagement.
f
OPPOSING GLOBAL BOYCOTT,
DIVESTMENT, AND SANCTIONS
SPEECH OF
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I will vote in
support of H. Res. 246, a resolution opposing
the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS)
movement against Israel.
While it will be a difficult vote, I support this
resolution because some individuals leading
the BDS movement have engaged in anti-
Semitic rhetoric and actions and have ques-
tioned the right of Israel to exist. While not
perfect, this resolution sends an important
message that anti-Semitism is unacceptable.
Let me be clear: anti-Semitism, as with any
other form of racism or discrimination, is anti-
thetical to the values and aspirations of the
American people. I am disturbed by the rise of
anti-Semitism in the United States and other
parts of the world, and I am troubled by the
fact that the genocide that took place during
the Holocaust is fading from memory.
That’s why I have taken substantive actions
to combat anti-Semitism, including joining the
House Bipartisan Task Force for Combating
Anti-Semitism, voting in support of the Special
Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism
Act of 2018, and voting in support of a resolu-
tion condemning anti-Semitism and other
forms of bigotry and intolerance. I am also a
cosponsor of the Never Again Education Act,
which would help address the rise in anti-
Semitism by granting teachers across the
country the resources and training necessary
to teach our children the lessons of the Holo-
caust and the horrific consequences of hate
and intolerance.
At the same time, I agree with this resolu-
tion’s statements that boycotts and related ac-
tions are legitimate forms of free speech pro-
tected under the First Amendment of the U.S.
Constitution. That’s why I am cosponsoring H.
Res. 496, a resolution affirming that all Ameri-
cans have the right to participate in boycotts,
as protected by the First Amendment to the
Constitution. I have also consistently op-
posed—and will continue to oppose—any leg-
islation that would punish or criminalize indi-
viduals’ constitutionally-protected right to free
speech.
I also agree with the stated support for a
two-state solution in H. Res. 246. I have con-
sistently supported a two-state solution
throughout my time in Congress, and I am
once again a cosponsor of legislation stating
that any U.S. plan or proposal for peace in the
Middle East must include and center on a two-
state solution. A two-state solution will not only
secure Israel’s future as a democratic, Jewish
state, it will also advance U.S. security inter-
ests in the region and enhance our ability to
confront the threats posed by Iran, Hezbollah,
Hamas, and other dubious actors in the Mid-
dle East.
Unfortunately, this resolution does nothing
to address the fact that the Trump administra-
tion and the Israeli government under Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu have taken a
number of actions that severely undermine a
two-state solution. This includes the Trump
administration’s decision to recognize the city
of Jerusalem as the Israeli capital, to relocate
the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem, to greenlight
the continuing expansion of Israeli settlements
in the West Bank, and to discontinue U.S.
contributions to the United Nations Relief and
Works Agency (UNRWA) and bilateral assist-
ance to the Palestinians—all decisions which I
strongly oppose. Regrettably, the Trump ad-
ministration’s actions have undermined the
confidence among Palestinians and Arab
countries in the region that the U.S. desires to
play a productive role as a neutral mediator in
the Middle East peace process.
As an ally of Israel, the United States in-
vests more than $3 billion in aid to Israel an-
nually. Accordingly, I believe it is only appro-
priate that lawmakers voice their legitimate
concerns with Israeli policies in a constructive
way, as I have done throughout my time in
Congress and will continue to do. That’s why
I have joined my colleagues in urging the
Israeli government not to demolish Palestinian
communities in the West Bank, cosponsored
legislation such as the Promoting Human
Rights by Ending Israeli Military Detention of
Palestinian Children Act, and continued to
urge President Trump to restore vital aid to
the Palestinians. Protecting human rights, re-
gardless of any ongoing tension between
Israelis and Palestinians, should be a funda-
mental American value.
It is only through thoughtful, respectful,
nuanced debate that Congress can produc-
tively contribute towards resolving the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict and addressing the legiti-
mate needs of both peoples. The bottom line
is it is critical that the U.S. pursue policies that
will move Israelis and Palestinians towards a
negotiated, two-state solution, and I will con-
tinue to push the Trump administration and
Congress to do so.
f
INTRODUCTION OF RESOLUTION
SUPPORTING KINDNESS
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, remem-
bering to act with kindness in the United
States and affirming our commitment to fos-
tering community and building resiliency
through every day acts of kindness can do
wonders. Kindness can change a family, a
neighborhood, a school, a city, a nation, and
ultimately, our world.
We must recognize the long history of
Americans demonstrating kindness daily in
their homes, schools, places of faith, busi-
nesses, community organizations, and
throughout their neighborhoods. The resolution
also recognizes that kindness and compassion
can heal the country from within and promote
a healthier society.
Creating a culture of kindness can foster
strong bonds that will bring individuals to-
gether despite their differences in order to
tackle the challenges that face us. We must
ensure that we remain a nation who acts with
kindness towards one another.
f
CALLING ON GOVERNMENT OF
CAMEROON AND ARMED GROUPS
TO RESPECT THE HUMAN
RIGHTS OF ALL CAMEROONIAN
CITIZENS
SPEECH OF
HON. RON KIND
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, over the past two
years, tensions have escalated in the North-
west and Southwest regions in Cameroon be-
tween the minority Anglophone population and
the Francophone factions that control the gov-
ernment. The conflict has killed hundreds of
Cameroonians, has displaced nearly half of a
million people, and human rights violations
have been alleged against both security forces
loyal to the Francophone-led Cameroonian
government and militant Anglophone sepa-
ratist groups. This conflict has severely im-
pacted the town of Kumbo in Cameroon,
which is the sister city of La Crosse, Wis-
consin.
As sister cities, Kumbo and La Crosse have
exchanged many official delegation visits, and
a local nonprofit called the La Crosse Friends
of Cameroon has been dedicated to deep-
ening the ties between the two cities and rais-
ing awareness about the conflict. Their pas-
sion and dedication to finding a sustainable
and inclusive peace in Cameroon was clear as
I spoke before them at an event in La Crosse.
Following that event, I traveled to Cameroon
as part of a congressional delegation, and I
was grateful to the local leaders from Kumbo
who traveled to meet with us to share their
powerful stories about how the conflict has af-
fected their home.
The ongoing devastation that our
Cameroonian friends are experiencing as a re-
sult of this crisis is unconscionable, which is
why I helped introduce a resolution calling for
the respect of human rights of all
Cameroonian citizens, an immediate end to
the violence, and for the creation of a broad-
based dialogue to seek nonviolent solutions to
the conflict. I am proud to see the House of
Representatives take up this resolution to
show that Congress supports a path to a sus-
tainable, inclusive peace in Cameroon.
f
HONORING MS. JUDY SCHNEIDER
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Ms. Judy Schneider of the
Congressional Research Service for her serv-
ice to the United States Congress and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A24JY8.001 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E973
July 24, 2019
American people. After over 40 years of dedi-
cated service, Ms. Schneider is retiring.
When I was first elected to Congress, Ms.
Schneider was my most valuable resources
for learning how this institution functions. She
helped me understand parliamentary proce-
dure, and even took the time to role play sce-
narios with me so I could best serve my con-
stituents. When Democrats lost the Majority in
1994, Ms. Schneider gave me all the tools I
needed to tackle being in the Minority.
Over her storied career, she has honed a
singular knowledge of the legislative and polit-
ical process and has shared this insight for the
benefit of the institution and the young people
who came to this city to make opportunity real
for their communities and their country. It is
thanks to Ms. Schneider that many of my col-
leagues in Congress are able to serve their
constituents every day. She taught me every-
thing I know about the steering process, a key
part of Congress’ work. I still use the knowl-
edge Ms. Schneider shared with me every
day.
As well as helping to guide Members of
Congress and their staff through the proce-
dures of this institution, she has helped count-
less young professions through her Direct
Connect to Congress classes. Ms. Schneider
leaves behind a legacy of hard work and dedi-
cation to mentoring other professionals dedi-
cated to civil service that will live on in the
Women in Government Relations Judy
Schneider Fellowship program.
One of my personal heroes, Shirley Chis-
holm, said ‘‘service is the rent we pay for the
privilege of living on this earth.’’ Ms. Schneider
has certainly paid her rent. The Congress is a
place long in history and deep with complexity.
It can be a labyrinth where passionate individ-
uals dedicated to service become separated
from their original aspirations. It has been
Judy who has, again and again, helped others
navigate the path to change. I congratulate
her on 40 years of service and I thank her for
impacting the lives of hundreds of young peo-
ple, staff and members.
It is my honor and privilege today to recog-
nize Ms. Judy Schneider for her hard work
and dedication, and to wish her the best of
luck in her new retirement. She will be greatly
missed.
f
HONORING THE ANNIVERSARY OF
THE AMERICAN DISABILITIES ACT
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
bring awareness to the anniversary of the pas-
sage of the American Disabilities Act, which
was signed into law on July 26, 1990.
The passage and signing of the Act rep-
resent the culmination of many years of hard
work and advocacy by countless differently
abled individuals, their families, and allies. It is
unbelievable that until only thirty-nine years
ago, there were no laws in place to protect the
civil rights of some of our communities’ most
vulnerable populations. The American Disabil-
ities Act provides important protections in
workplaces, schools, transportation, and all
public and private places that are open to the
general public.
We owe a great debt of gratitude to those
who toiled to bring awareness and visibility to
the people who were once disincluded or seg-
regated from public life, due to physical bar-
riers or due to the stigma of misconception.
We still have a long way to go to ensure eq-
uity for the differently abled, but we can sup-
port and acknowledge the organizations that
are advocating, educating, and protecting.
I therefore rise today to mark the anniver-
sary of the American Disabilities Act.
f
VENEZUELA TPS ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of H.R. 549, ‘‘The Venezuela
TPS Act of 2019.’’
The bill would designate Venezuela for tem-
porary protected status (TPS), allowing certain
Venezuelan nationals to stay in the U.S., re-
gardless of their current immigration status.
The Secretary of Homeland Security grants
TPS to certain individuals who cannot safely
return to their home countries due to ongoing
armed conflict, environmental disasters, or
other extraordinary circumstances.
While the total number of individuals, who
would be eligible for TPS under this bill, is un-
clear, about 72,000 Venezuelans have come
to the U.S. since 2014.
The Venezuela TPS Act of 2019 would:
Designate Venezuela for TPS, allowing its
nationals to remain in the U.S. for 18 months,
regardless of their immigration status if they:
Have been continuously physically present
in the United States since the date of the en-
actment of the bill; and
Meet all other requirements for TPS.
Provide Venezuelan nationals who meet the
above requirements with:
Employment authorization; and
Authorization to travel outside the U.S. for
emergencies and extenuating circumstances.
Direct the Secretaries of State and Home-
land Security to work with international part-
ners to increase capacity of countries sur-
rounding Venezuela to provide migration serv-
ices and asylum, specifically to establish and
expand in-country reception centers and shel-
ters and improve migration and asylum reg-
istration systems.
Congress should designate Venezuela for
TPS because:
The country has been facing unprecedented
economic, humanitarian, security, and refugee
crisis, consisting of extreme food and medi-
cine shortages, severe infant and child mal-
nutrition, rampant crime, and government-
sponsored repression.
Venezuela ranks as the most dangerous
country in the world.
In 2017, the country’s homicide rate stood
at 89 per 100,000 people which compares to
5.3 per 100,000 people in the United States.
TPS holders contribute to the U.S. econ-
omy.
For example, TPS holders from El Salvador,
Honduras, and Haiti contribute $4.5 billion in
income to the gross domestic product annually
and $6.9 billion to Social Security and Medi-
care over a decade.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 549 to allow certain
Venezuelan nationals to stay in the U.S., re-
gardless of their current immigration status.
f
CONGRATULATING THE GUAM
TERRITORIAL BAND
HON. MICHAEL F. Q. SAN NICOLAS
OF GUAM
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the Guam Territorial
Band for taking home a Gold Award in the
2019 Australian International Music Festival
held in Sydney, Australia.
The Guam Territorial Band was organized in
1976 as the Governor’s Youth Band to per-
form for the inauguration of President Jimmy
Carter in 1977. The band continues its service
to the people of Guam as the Official Band of
Guam by performing at graduations, military
events, national holiday ceremonies, official
visits, village fiestas, local government func-
tions, and numerous venues in Guam, the
United States, and abroad. The Guam Terri-
torial Band is led by Chief Band Master
Maximo Ronquillo, Jr., and the Regional Band
Masters, Joanne Matanane Sosa and William
Brandon Aydlett.
The Guam Territorial Band has educational
programs for aspiring musicians to gain expe-
rience and training. The Guam Honor Band
Program provides middle and high school stu-
dents opportunities to develop their musical
talents. For more advanced musicians, the
Guam Band Academy offers in-depth training
in music theory, marching band, solo perform-
ance, and small ensemble performance under
the Chief Band Master.
In the 2019 Australian International Music
Festival, the Guam Territorial Band was a
Command Performance Band and received a
Gold Award. The Australian International
Music Festival is among the largest music fes-
tivals in the southern hemisphere, receiving
participation from 62 ensembles and over
1,300 participants in 2019. The Guam Terri-
torial Band has previously received numerous
honors and awards, including being a Com-
mand Performance Band and received Gold
Awards in the 2005 and 2014 Australian Inter-
national Music Festivals, respectively.
On behalf of the people of Guam, I want to
congratulate the Guam Territorial Band for
their success in the 2019 Australian Inter-
national Music Festival. They continue to dem-
onstrate outstanding musicianship in Guam,
the United States, and abroad.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF JOSEPH P.
LEAHY
HON. RICHARD E. NEAL
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I would like to
take this opportunity to recognize my good
friend Mr. Joe Leahy as he nears the end of
his term as the 114th chairman of the nation’s
largest insurance association—the Inde-
pendent Insurance Agents & Brokers of Amer-
ica, also known as the Big ‘‘I’’. He was ap-
pointed chairman of the Big ‘‘I’’ in August
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A24JY8.005 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E974 July 24, 2019
2018, in my hometown of Springfield, MA, and
over the past year has done a remarkable job
of piloting the association. He has proven him-
self to be a strong and thoughtful leader for
independent insurance agents across the
country.
Joe graduated from Western New England
College and is cunently the President of Leahy
& Brown Insurance & Realty, Inc., which he
founded with his wife Frances in 1989. Joe
has a fine record of public service as he pre-
viously served as Chief of Staff to Massachu-
setts State Senator Martin T. Reilly (D–Spring-
field).
At the state association level, Leahy was
elected to the Executive Committee of the
Massachusetts Association of Insurance
Agents (MAIA) in 2001, served as chairman in
2005, and was Massachusetts director on the
Big ‘‘I’’ national board from 2008 to 2013. In
2013, Leahy received the MAIA Henry F.
Barry, Jr. Memorial Pacesetter Award, which
is awarded to an agent who has contributed
his or her talent, time and energy for the bet-
terment of the agency system and is the high-
est honor that the MAIA bestows.
On the national association level, Joe has
served on numerous Big ‘‘I’’ committees and
task forces including the Big ‘‘I’’ Executive
Committee, Government Affairs Committee,
Tax Task Force, and the InsurPac Board of
Trustees.
I would also like to recognize the aforemen-
tioned Frances Leahy, Joe’s esteemed wife.
Joe has been married to Frances for more
than 30 years. Together they reside in North-
ampton, Massachusetts and have six children
and eight grandchildren.
Once again, Madam Speaker, I am proud of
Joe Leahy and all he has accomplished for
Massachusetts and beyond. I wish him and
Frances well in all their future endeavors, fol-
lowing his successful year as Chairman of the
Big ‘‘I.’’
f
HONORING GARY GALLO
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to Gary Gallo on the occasion of his re-
tirement from the Garden City, Michigan Fire
Department.
Gary Gallo has displayed true leadership,
rising through the ranks of the Garden City
Fire Department, before finally retiring as cap-
tain. After obtaining certification, Captain Gallo
took on the role of Team Leader to the West-
ern Wayne County Hazardous Incident Re-
sponse Team in addition to his responsibilities.
He has been a dependable and active mem-
ber of the Fire Department. Captain Gallo’s
devotion is evident in his service to the com-
munity. Beyond his duties as a firefighter, he
has served as a board member to of Garden
City United Needy Family Fund as well as
Union President and Treasurer of International
Association of Fire Fighters Local 1911.
Please join me in saluting Captain Gary
Gallo for his twenty-five years of bravery and
service to the public as we wish him well on
his retirement.
SAFE DRINKING WATER IN
PLAYGROUNDS AND PARKS ACT
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Ms. MENG. Madam Speaker, I rise today
with a call to action regarding the right to
clean drinking water. Every person has a right
to drink water without fear of being poisoned.
That is why, today, I am introducing the
Safe Drinking Water in Playgrounds and Parks
Act. This bill would ensure states, municipali-
ties, and schools have the financial resources
to replace drinking water fountains. While we
can test water fountains for lead poisoning,
some municipalities and schools lack the re-
sources to replace its water fountains; this is
simply wrong. My bill will ensure such entities
have the necessary financial resources.
Children who play at playgrounds may be
exposed to lead if they drink from the water
fountain. This is deeply worrisome and no par-
ent should have to worry that their child may
be exposed to this deadly contaminant.
Exposure to lead—even low levels—can
have serious health and development con-
sequences for infants, children under six, and
pregnant women. For those exposed to this
dangerous element, signs of poisoning may in-
clude cognitive impairment, behavioral prob-
lems, and other health related problems. Ac-
cording to the American Academy of Pediat-
rics, ‘‘there is no safe amount of lead expo-
sure in children . . . ,’’ which is why it is crit-
ical that we advance efforts that prevents lead
poisoning.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the Safe Drinking Water in Play-
grounds and Parks Act. It is undeniable that
the fate of our children and future generations
rests on the decisions we make today about
fighting lead water pipes.
f
RECOGNIZING LISETTE MORTON
AND HER SERVICE TO THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
HON. JERROLD NADLER
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the Congressional career of
Lisette Morton, my long time Legislative Direc-
tor and the Director of Policy, Planning, and
Member Services of the House Judiciary Com-
mittee.
Lisette began her career on Capitol Hill
nearly 20 years ago working on environmental
issues for the late Congressman Bruce Vento.
She started working as my Legislative Assist-
ant in the year 2000 and became my Legisla-
tive Director in 2004.
Lisette has an encyclopedic understanding
of a huge range of issues and always ensured
that I was well prepared for hearings, mark-
ups, and floor debates. She is a constant
source of reliable and informed advice on
which I have relied for almost two decades.
Throughout her tenure in my office, Lisette
worked tirelessly to meet New York’s unique
transportation and infrastructure needs. She
helped achieve a major legislative accomplish-
ment by securing $100 million under the
Projects of National Significance Title of the
Transportation bill for the cross harbor rail
freight tunnel. Securing this much money in a
highway bill for a rail project was unprece-
dented. She also consistently ensured that
passenger rail legislation protected resources
for the Northeast Corridor, while preventing
massive cuts to Amtrak. She ensured I had a
seat on the Conference Committee that nego-
tiated the 2015 FAST Act, which allowed me
to bring an additional $1.5 billion in highway
and transit formula funding to New York. In
2016, she worked on the FAA extension and
ensured that my legislation, the Families Fly-
ing Together Act, was included in the final bill.
Lisette has faced down many national crises
as a member of my team. She worked for me
on September 11, 2001, and was tireless in
her efforts to get a proper detoxification and
cleanup after the attack in New York and to
hold the EPA accountable. Without her fierce
advocacy and dedication, there would be more
9/11 responders and survivors sick today. Her
work laid the groundwork for everything that
followed, including the establishment of a per-
manent World Trade Center Health Program
and 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund. During
the BP oil spill in 2010, Lisette worked tire-
lessly to get language I authored to ban the
use of dispersants included in the Gulf Spill
legislation that passed the House of Rep-
resentatives. Finally, during Superstorm
Sandy, Lisette worked closely with me and my
staff to drive resources quickly to those who
needed it in the aftermath of the storm. She
worked around the clock with federal, state,
and local officials to solve problems as they
arose and pass supplemental funding legisla-
tion to build back our critical New York infra-
structure and make it more resilient.
Lisette has always been an advocate for the
arts, especially music, and protecting the
rights of artists. Lisette played a critical role in
my work on copyright issues with the Judiciary
Committee. Lisette worked tremendously hard
to pass the Music Modernization Act out of the
Judiciary Committee and ultimately out of the
House by a remarkable vote of 415–0. Pas-
sage of this bill was a major legislative
achievement that took years to complete and
would not have happened without her hard
work and dedication to the effort.
Lisette played a critical role in helping to
elect me to the position of Ranking Member of
the Judiciary Committee in 2017. She quickly
established herself as the Director of Member
Services and worked to make sure Members
concerns are heard and that committee staff
and Members are kept informed of Judiciary
Committee business.
This year, when I became Chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, Lisette took on the new
role of Director of Policy, Planning, and Mem-
ber Services. She worked with our entire Judi-
ciary team to create a bold legislative agenda,
to ensure hearings were held on critical issues
facing the country, and to pass meaningful
legislation out of Committee and onto the floor
of the House. With her help, the Judiciary
Committee passed H.R. 1, the For the People
Act; H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background
Checks Act; H.R. 1112, the Enhanced Back-
ground Checks Act; H.R. 6, the American
Dream and Promise Act; H.R. 1585, the Vio-
lence Against Women Act Reauthorization;
H.R. 5, the Equality Act; and H.R. 1327, the
Permanent Reauthorization of the September
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A24JY8.008 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E975
July 24, 2019
11th Victim Compensation Fund Act. Our
Committee would not be as active or success-
ful without her incredible work.
None of these accomplishments happen by
chance. They are the result of hard work and
years of building relationships on the Hill, in
the administration, and in New York. She un-
derstands how this institution works—and how
it should work—and she knows how to do the
necessary work to turn a simple bill into an or-
ganizing tool for a movement. She has a
unique ability to build relationships and work
with others to get a job done. That is what
makes her so effective in creating lasting
change.
And I am not the only one to hold that view.
Judiciary Committee Ranking Member DOUG
COLLINS has said, Lisette ‘‘has given a great
deal of service to this House and to me and
to my staff personally. She will be missed, on
both sides of this aisle, because she under-
stands completely what this House should be
about and that is actually service and actually
getting legislation done.’’
But Lisette is more than just a staffer to me.
To me, she is like family. She has given our
office more than her hard work, she has given
us her great sense of humor and ready laugh,
her kind support, and her willingness to share
her life with us. She tells stories with great
passion about her beloved Nationals and
Caps, her trips to Spring Training or to the
Minnesota State Fair, her love of all things
Star Wars, Star Trek, and Disney, and her
love of Bravo TV and good books. She has
brought all that joy and life with her to work
each day in addition to being an incredibly
hard working, capable, and brilliant staffer.
I know I will miss Lisette greatly, but I am
happy she has found a new position working
on issues she is passionate about. And I am
pleased she will continue to pursue those pas-
sions both in and out of the office every day.
I wish her luck and joy in all her future en-
deavors.
And so, it is only fitting to say as a final
farewell, ‘‘Lisette, may the Force be with you.’’
f
RETIREMENT OF POLK COUNTY
MANAGER JIM FREEMAN
HON. DARREN SOTO
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. SOTO. Madam Speaker, Jim Freeman,
who has served as the County Manager of
Polk County, Florida since 2010 will retire on
July 31.
Jim is a true public servant who began his
career with Polk County in 1989 as Director of
Information Technology. From 1997 to 2003,
he served as Administrative Services Director,
becoming Deputy County Manager in Novem-
ber 2003.
His previous experience includes eight
years with the Gwinnett County, Georgia,
Board of Commissioners and four years with
the Georgia Mountains Regional Development
Commission in Gainesville, Georgia .
A native of the Atlanta, Georgia metropolitan
area, he holds an AS in Business Data Proc-
essing from Gainesville College, in Georgia,
and a BA in Business Administration from
Saint Leo University in Florida.
Jim is a Certified Public Manager and a
member of the Florida City and County Man-
agement Association, the International City
and County Management Association, and a
graduate of Leadership Polk, Class Il, and has
served on the Board of Directors of Polk Vi-
sion and the Advisory Board of Polk County
Career Academies.
Jim has lived in Winter Haven since 1989
and is married to Gena Freeman. Between the
two of them, they have seven children and 11
grandchildren; and are members of the Cal-
vary Baptist Church in Winter Haven.
We worked together to bring critical funding
back to Polk County for Hurricane Irma relief,
to combat citrus greening, to bring higher pay-
ing jobs, and to protect our environment.
I have truly appreciated the time I have
spent working with him. I congratulate Jim on
a tremendous career and wish him much hap-
piness in his well-deserved retirement.
f
TRIBUTE TO YOUNG STAFF MEM-
BERS FOR THEIR CONTRIBU-
TIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PEO-
PLE OF THE 18TH CONGRES-
SIONAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS AND
THE UNITED STATES
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, as
Members of Congress we know well, perhaps
better than most, how blessed our nation is to
have in reserve such exceptional young men
and women who will go on to become leaders
in their local communities, states, and the na-
tion in the areas of business, education, law,
government, philanthropy, the arts and culture,
and the military.
We know this because we see them and
benefit from their contributions every day.
Many of them work for us in our offices as jun-
ior staff members, congressional fellows, or in-
terns and they do amazing work for and on
behalf of the constituents we are privileged to
represent.
Madam Speaker, I believe there is no higher
calling than the call to serve a cause larger
than ourselves. That is why I ran for public of-
fice. I was inspired to serve by President Ken-
nedy who said, ‘‘Ask not what your country
can do for you, ask what you can do for your
country,’’ and by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr. who said:
Everybody can be great because anybody
can serve. . . . You only need a heart full of
grace. A soul generated by love.
By this measure, there are several other
great young men and women who served as
volunteers this year in my offices. They may
toil in obscurity but their contributions to the
constituents we serve are deeply appreciated.
That is why today I rise to pay tribute to 17
extraordinary young persons for their service
to my constituents in the 18th Congressional
District of Texas and to the American people.
They are:
Hadeel Abdallah, University of Oxford;
Lakeisha Barnes, Indiana University;
Mia Arrington, Villanova University;
Dalia Batuuka, Pennsylvania State Univer-
sity;
Julia Chun, Clark University;
Katherine Holder, Texas Tech University;
Lillian Keller, Swarthmore College;
Elizabeth Lé, Howard University;
Keva Luke, Georgetown University;
Michael Pender, United States Naval Acad-
emy;
Nia Prince, Rice University;
Hargun Sodhi, University of Houston;
Rafael Martinez, Texas Tech University;
Lily Rathbun, The Madeira School;
Keenan Parker, The Madeira School;
Jacky Lee, The Madeira School; and
Kayla Rothstein, The Madeira School.
Madam Speaker, the energy, intelligence,
and idealism these wonderful young people
brought to my office and those interning in the
offices of my colleagues help keep our democ-
racy vibrant. The insights, skills, and knowl-
edge of the governmental process they gain
from their experiences will last a lifetime and
prove invaluable to them as they go about
making their mark in this world.
Because of persons like them the future of
our country is bright, and its best days lie
ahead. I wish them all well.
Madam Speaker, I am grateful that such
thoughtful committed young men and women
can be found working in my office, those of
my colleagues, and in every community in
America. Their good works will keep America
great, good, and forever young.
f
SUPPORTING H.R. 736
HON. HARLEY ROUDA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I include in
the RECORD the following letters from Chair-
man CUMMINGS and Chairperson LOFGREN in
support of H.R. 736.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND REFORM,
Washington, DC, July 17, 2019.
Hon. ZOE LOFGREN,
Chairperson, Committee on House Administra-
tion, House of Representatives, Washington,
DC.
DEAR MADAM CHAIRPERSON: Thank you for
your letter regarding H.R. 736, the Access to
Congressionally Mandated Reports Act. As
you know, the bill was referred primarily to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
with an additional referral to the Committee
on House Administration.
I thank you for allowing the Committee on
the House Administration to be discharged
from further consideration of the bill to ex-
pedite floor consideration. This discharge in
no way affects your jurisdiction over the
subject matter of the bill, and it will not
serve as precedent for future referrals. In ad-
dition, should a conference on the bill be
necessary, I would support your request to
have the Committee on House Administra-
tion represented on the conference com-
mittee.
I would be pleased to include this letter
and any response in the bill report filed by
the Committee on Oversight and Reform, as
well as in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration, to memorialize our un-
derstanding.
Sincerely,
ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS,
Chairman.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K24JY8.007 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E976 July 24, 2019
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION,
Washington, DC, July 17, 2019.
Hon. ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS,
Chairman, Committee on Oversight and Reform,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN CUMMINGS: I am writing to
you regarding H.R. 736, the ‘‘Access to Con-
gressionally Mandated Reports Act.’’ This
measure, introduced on January 23, 2019, was
referred to your committee as well as the
Committee on House Administration.
The Committee on House Administration
recognizes the importance of H.R. 736 and
the need to move this bill expeditiously.
Therefore, while we have valid jurisdictional
claims to this bill, the Committee on House
Administration will waive further consider-
ation of H.R. 736. The Committee does so
with the understanding that by waiving fur-
ther consideration of this bill it does not
waive any future jurisdictional claims over
similar measures.
I would appreciate the inclusion of this let-
ter and a copy of your response in the Con-
gressional Record during consideration of
H.R. 736 on the House floor.
Sincerely,
ZOE LOFGREN,
Chairperson.
f
FLORIDA INVENTORS HALL OF
FAME 2019 INDUCTEES
HON. GUS M. BILIRAKIS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the eight inventors who have
been recognized as the 2019 Inductees of the
Florida Inventors Hall of Fame. To be named
as an Inductee, these inventors were nomi-
nated by their peers nationwide and have un-
dergone the scrutiny of the Florida Inventors
Hall of Fame Selection Committee. As a re-
sult, their innovations have been identified as
significantly impacting the quality of life, eco-
nomic development, and welfare of their com-
munities, the residents of Florida, and the
United States.
The Florida Inventors Hall of Fame was
founded in 2013 by Paul R. Sanberg, Senior
Vice President for Research, Innovation and
Knowledge Enterprise, and Judy Genshaft,
President, at the University of South Florida. It
was recognized by the Florida Senate with
Senate Resolution 1756, adopted on April 30,
2014. Its mission is to encourage individuals
of all backgrounds to strive toward the better-
ment of Florida and society through contin-
uous, groundbreaking innovation by cele-
brating the incredible scientific work that has
been or is being accomplished in Florida and
by its citizens.
Nomination to the Florida Inventors Hall of
Fame is open to all Florida inventors (living or
dead) who are or have been residents of Flor-
ida. The nominee must be a named inventor
on a patent issued by the United States Pat-
ent and Trademark Office. The impact of the
inventor and his or her invention should be
significant to society, and the invention should
have been commercialized, utilized, or led to
important innovations.
The 2019 Inductees of the Florida Inventors
Hall of Fame are:
Michael Bass: Professor Emeritus at the
University of Central Florida selected for his
significant inventions in optics and spectros-
copy that have optimized the use of lasers
and optical systems, aiding in the treatment of
major diseases and improving the design of
the world’s fiber optic communication system.
Joanna S. Fowler: Native Floridian, Univer-
sity of South Florida alumni, and 2008 Na-
tional Medal of Science recipient selected for
her transformative research that enabled the
use of molecular imaging to more accurately
identify and treat illnesses ranging from drug
addiction to cancer.
Hedy Lamarr (1914–2000): Former Florida
resident for nearly two decades, Oscar-nomi-
nated actress, and 2014 National Inventors
Hall of Fame inductee selected for her ground
breaking invention of the Secret Communica-
tion System, which led to the creation of var-
ious technologies used today to support Wi-Fi,
GPS, and Bluetooth.
Thomas A. Lipo: Research Professor at the
Florida State University Center for Advanced
Power Systems selected for his pioneering in-
novations in the field of electrical machinery
and power electronics that improved the tech-
nology that runs subway cars as well as
paved the way for hybrid and electric vehicles.
Alan F. List: CEO and president of Moffitt
Cancer Center selected for his dedication to
understanding cancer biology and developing
novel therapeutic strategies for treating hem-
atologic malignancies such as myelodysplastic
syndrome (MDS) and acute myelocytic leu-
kemia (AML).
Chris A. Malachowsky: University of Florida
alum selected for inventing the Graphics Proc-
essing Unit (GPU) that transformed the visual
computing industry, revolutionized high per-
formance computing, and opened the door to
modern artificial intelligence.
Luther George Simjian (1905–1997): prolific
inventor and founder of Tampa based
Reflectone, Inc, who developed the Optical
Range Estimation Trainer used during WWII,
which became the standard for simulation de-
fense training, and for his many other inven-
tions including his ATM concept that revolu-
tionized the banking system.
Richard A. Yost: University of Florida pro-
fessor of chemistry selected for his invention
of the triple quadrupole mass spectrometer, a
ground breaking analytical instrument that is
used daily in drug development, disease test-
ing, food safety, and environmental studies.
Innovation and invention are the building
blocks of our nation. I applaud these highly
accomplished individuals and the organiza-
tions that support them in their quest to
change the world in ways that truly benefit hu-
manity. It is because of the perseverance of
these inventors that future generations are en-
couraged to reach beyond their limits and
push the boundaries of innovation.
f
COMBATING SEXUAL HARASSMENT
IN SCIENCE ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 36, the ‘‘Combating Sexual
Harassment in Science Act of 2019.’’
This bill addresses sexual harassment in the
science, technology, engineering, and mathe-
matics (STEM) fields by supporting sexual
harassment research and efforts to prevent
and respond to sexual harassment.
This bill also directs the National Science
Foundation (NSF) to award grants to institu-
tions of higher education or nonprofit organiza-
tions.
Such grants to institutions of higher edu-
cation will be used to expand research into
sexual harassment in the STEM workforce, in-
cluding students and trainees; and to examine
interventions for reducing the incidence and
negative consequences of such harassment.
According to a report issued by the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and
Medicine in 2018 entitled ‘‘Sexual Harassment
of Women: Climate, Culture, and Con-
sequences in Academic Sciences, Engineer-
ing, and Medicine,’’ sexual harassment is per-
vasive in institutions of higher education.
The most common type of sexual harass-
ment is gender harassment, which includes
verbal and nonverbal behaviors that convey
insulting, hostile, and degrading attitudes
about members of one gender.
Fifty-eight percent of individuals in the aca-
demic workplace experience sexual harass-
ment, which is the second highest rate when
compared to the military, the private sector,
and Federal, State, and local government.
Women who are members of racial or ethnic
minority groups are more likely to experience
sexual harassment and to feel unsafe at work
than White women, White men, or men who
are members of such groups.
The training for each individual who has a
doctor of philosophy in the science, tech-
nology, engineering, and mathematics fields is
estimated to cost approximately $500,000.
Attrition of an individual so trained results in
a loss of talent and money.
Sexual harassment undermines the career
advancement for women.
Many women are reported to leave employ-
ment at institutions of higher education due to
sexual harassment.
Research shows the majority of individuals
do not formally report experiences of sexual
harassment due to a justified fear of retaliation
or other negative professional or personal con-
sequences.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 36 to research and bet-
ter understand the causes and consequences
of sexual harassment affecting individuals in
science.
f
HONORING HARRY BEAL,
AMERICA’S FIRST NAVY SEAL
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Greenville Township,
Somerset County, Pennsylvania, native Harry
Beal, who was the first U.S. Navy SEAL.
Mr. Beal enlisted in the Navy in 1948 when
he was just 17 years old. The Korean War
began shortly after Beal joined the Navy, how-
ever, he never saw Korea. In the early 1960s,
Beal was sent to Naval Amphibious Base Little
Creek to learn underwater demolition. There is
where he signed up for the Navy SEALs in
1962.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A24JY8.011 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E977
July 24, 2019
President John F. Kennedy was looking for
a group of men that could go anywhere in the
world at a moment’s notice. Beal was a mem-
ber of SEAL Team Two, which was based out
of Little Creek. His service was exemplary.
Harry Beal served in the Navy for 20 years.
His service took him to South America, South-
east Asia, Europe, and the Caribbean Sea. I
ask my colleagues to join me in thanking
Harry Beal for his lifetime of service to our na-
tion.
f
OPPOSING GLOBAL BOYCOTT, DI-
VESTMENT, AND SANCTIONS
MOVEMENT TARGETING ISRAEL
SPEECH OF
HON. LOIS FRANKEL
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. FRANKEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in sup-
port of H. Res. 246, a bipartisan resolution
that opposes the Boycott, Divestment and
Sanctions (BDS) movement aimed against
Israel, strongly supports a two-state solution to
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and affirms the
Constitutional right of American citizens to free
speech.
Let’s be clear about what BDS is and is
not—BDS is not a social justice movement. It
ignores Palestinian terrorist attacks targeting
Israeli civilians, including more than 18,000
rockets and 105 suicide bombings, as well as
human rights abuses perpetrated by Pales-
tinian leaders against their own people.
BDS is an international effort to economi-
cally, politically and culturally isolate our close
ally Israel. It undermines prospects for a two-
state solution by punishing Israel with eco-
nomic harm in order to force concessions by
Israel alone and encouraging the Palestinians
to reject negotiations in favor of international
pressure.
BDS does not recognize the right of the
Jewish people to national self-determination, a
right proclaimed by the United Nations. Some
of its supporters even advocate for Israel’s
complete destruction. Omar Barghouti, a co-
founder of the movement, has said, ‘‘Most
definitely, we oppose a Jewish state in any
part of Palestine.’’
I am pleased that members of Congress, on
both sides of the aisle, understand that a se-
cure Israel is important for our country as well
as our allies. I am proud to be a co-sponsor
of this resolution which puts Congress on the
record opposing the discriminatory BDS cam-
paign against Israel and supporting a nego-
tiated solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
resulting in two states.
f
CONGRATULATING THE TUMON
BAY YOUTH ORCHESTRA
HON. MICHAEL F.Q. SAN NICOLAS
OF GUAM
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the Tumon Bay Youth
Orchestra for taking home a Gold Award in
the 2019 Australian International Music Fes-
tival held in Sydney, Australia.
The Tumon Bay Youth Orchestra was orga-
nized in September 2018, launching Guam’s
newest community youth orchestra. The Or-
chestra seeks to provide a platform for youth
musicians from various schools to build cama-
raderie through music. The repertoire for the
ensemble includes the grand masterworks of
centuries past to the latest movie or video
game soundtracks, to the delight of audiences
of all ages. The Orchestra is led by Artistic Di-
rector Maximo Ronquillo, Jr.
The Tumon Bay Youth Orchestra received a
Gold Award for its debut performance for the
2019 Australian International Music Festival at
the Sydney Opera House. The Australian
International Music Festival is among the larg-
est music festivals in the southern hemi-
sphere, receiving participation from 62 ensem-
bles and over 1,300 participants in 2019.
On behalf of the people of Guam, I want to
congratulate the Tumon Bay Youth Orchestra
for their success in the 2019 Australian Inter-
national Music Festival.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF
INTERNATIONAL SELF-CARE DAY
HON. ROBERT E. LATTA
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, July 24th is
recognized as ‘‘International Self-Care Day’’ to
bring attention to the importance of advancing
public health through effective and safe self-
care. Over-the-counter (OTC) products from
cold medicines to cures for headaches, play a
key role in consumer self-care which is evi-
dent by widespread use in nearly every
household across the country. We must do all
we can to support self-care and to advance
lower-cost, safe and effective options for
American consumers.
When health care innovation is blocked by
government regulations, it’s patients who lose.
Our current process for approving over-the-
counter products is unnecessarily inefficient,
leading to higher prices and fewer choices for
consumers. A problem like this rightfully de-
serves bipartisan solutions, and that’s what we
have in the Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act. I thank
my friend from Colorado, Ms. DEGETTE for
working with me for several years on H.R.
3443 to reform a broken system and bring
new cost-effective OTC products to market
faster. It’s time for the over-the-counter ap-
proval process to be as modem as the innova-
tions being presented to the FDA.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing the value and importance of
OTC medicines to promote and achieve self-
care for families across our nation.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. VICENTE GONZALEZ
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam Speaker,
extenuating circumstances regrettably pre-
vented me from voting YEA on H. Res. 246,
Opposing efforts to delegitimize the State of
Israel and the Global Boycott, Divestment, and
Sanctions Movement targeting Israel, of which
I am a co-sponsor. I strongly support this res-
olution and our ally, the Jewish, democratic
state of Israel. I am a proponent of a nego-
tiated two-state solution for the Israelis and
the Palestinians and will continue to condemn
efforts that stand in the way of the path to
peace.
f
SMALL BUSINESS
REORGANIZATION ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 3311, ‘‘The Small Busi-
ness Reorganization Act of 2019.’’
H.R. 3311, the ‘‘Small Business Reorganiza-
tion Act of 2019,’’ would streamline the bank-
ruptcy process by which small business debt-
ors reorganize and rehabilitate their financial
affairs.
I support this legislation because it address-
es the special problems presented by small
business cases by instituting a variety of time
frames and enforcement mechanisms de-
signed to weed out small business debtors
who are not likely to reorganize.
It also requires these cases to be more ac-
tively monitored by United States trustees and
the bankruptcy courts.
According to the Small Business Administra-
tion (SBA) Office of Advocacy, approximately
20 percent of small businesses survive the
first year, but by the five-year mark only 50
percent are still in business and by the ten-
year mark only one-third survive.
Under the protection of chapter 11, a debtor
is given a ‘‘financial breathing spell’’ from most
creditor collection efforts.
This protection allows the chapter 11 debtor
to continue its business operations while for-
mulating a plan of reorganization to repay its
creditors.
Not surprisingly, while most chapter 11 busi-
ness cases are filed by small business debt-
ors, they are often ‘‘the least likely to reorga-
nize successfully.
I know first hand that Hurricane Harvey hurt
many small businesses and though we worked
to help them recover, bankruptcy was the only
option for some of them.
While the Bankruptcy Code envisions that
creditors will play a major role in monitoring
these cases, this often does not occur, chiefly
because creditors in these smaller cases do
not have claims large enough to warrant the
time and money to participate actively in these
cases.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 3311 to help our small
businesses have a chance at success during
difficult times.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY8.014 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E978 July 24, 2019
TRIBUTE TO JUDY SCHNEIDER
HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to offer my deep gratitude and apprecia-
tion to someone who has played an indispen-
sable role in Congress for more than four dec-
ades—my guide and my great friend, Judy
Schneider. After a legendary career as a Spe-
cialist on Congress at the Congressional Re-
search Service—really the specialist on Con-
gress—Judy is retiring. Judy will be missed.
Judy Schneider is a recognized institution
on Capitol Hill—not just because of her unpar-
alleled knowledge of procedure, but because
of her belief in how those of us fortunate
enough to work here can use those proce-
dures to move effective policy solutions. She
has never failed to recognize the enormous
possibilities we have been given to represent
our constituents and our nation, and she has
never failed to help anyone—on either side of
the aisle—who sought her guidance.
Like many of my colleagues and their staffs,
I have relied on Judy to help me navigate
Congress—not just how the House and Sen-
ate are supposed to work according to prece-
dent, but how these bodies actually work in to-
day’s world. Along with her colleague Michael
Koempel, she literally wrote the book—The
Congressional Deskbook: The Practical and
Comprehensive Guide to Congress—to help
explain the rules under which we operate. My
staff and I have turned to the Deskbook count-
less times, and we are far from alone. Wheth-
er you work on the Hill or simply want to un-
derstand how Congress operates, you can rely
on Judy Schneider’s writings for clear, concise
and accurate information. That includes not
just the Deskbook but hundreds of reports and
guidance documents, including one that each
of my staffers receives on how to prepare a
legislative plan.
But Judy is not just an author. She is avail-
able to talk with Members of Congress, their
staffs, and others to answer questions and
share her vast expertise. I was fortunate to
meet Judy at the new member retreat during
my first weeks in Congress, and Immediately
recognized her many talents. It was clear to
me that if I wanted to learn how the House
really works, I needed to know Judy. I am so
thankful that Judy agreed to serve as my men-
tor and guide. Whenever my staff or I have a
question about procedural or legislative op-
tions, we turn to not just to Judy’s books and
reports, but to Judy in person. She is not just
on our speed-dial, she is the ‘‘go-to’’ person
for offices throughout the House and Senate.
Her influence goes beyond the walls of Con-
gress. Judy has been generous in sharing her
understanding of Congress with a wide range
of groups off the Hill, speaking to countless
associations and organizations while also
mentoring many individuals—especially
women—who are interested in policymaking
careers. Using her trademark Socratic style to
challenge her countless students, Judy has
taught a generation of thinkers how to use pol-
icy and procedures creatively.
Judy Schneider has received many awards
and accolades—all of which are richly de-
served. The Judy Schneider Fellowship, cre-
ated by Women in Government in 2015 to rec-
ognize Judy’s accomplishments, guarantees
that her impact will continue to be felt. Last
year, she won the inaugural Democracy
Awards Lifetime Achievement award for Con-
gressional staff from the Congressional Man-
agement Foundation, a truly fitting honor. And
yet, I believe her greatest reward is knowing
that she has mentored, trained and inspired so
many who have gone on to use her lessons
to improve people’s lives and well-being.
I thank Judy, I love her and I wish her ev-
erything good. I know that she will spend time
on the Jersey shore, with family and friends,
and enjoy some well-deserved downtime. But
I also hope that, even in retirement, she will
continue to serve as a resource for all of us
who have relied on her for her wisdom. I hope
to be able to turn to her for her counsel and
friendship in the future, as I have so frequently
over the past years.
f
RUDY GIULIANI COMMENTS RE-
GARDING THE IRANIAN REGIME
OF TERROR
HON. PAUL A. GOSAR
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. GOSAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to include in the RECORD comments about the
situation in Iran that I believe are relevant and
should be widely shared. The comments, from
former New York City Mayor and attorney to
the U.S. President Rudy Giuliani, address
peaceful regime change in Iran and the work
of the Iranian Resistance. Giuliani delivered
this speech at the International Gathering at
Ashraf–3, Tirana, Albania, which is home to
members of the Iranian opposition, the
Mujahedin-e Khalq (PMOI/MEK). More than
350 bipartisan dignitaries and parliamentarians
from 47 countries attended the conference. I
offer these comments for thoughtful discussion
as follows:
Giuliani: ‘‘Thanks to you and particularly to
the people who live here in Ashraf 3. You’ll be
the ones who lead your people to freedom
and you’ll be honored forever in Iranian history
and in the history of those who love and are
willing to die for freedom. God bless you.
This organization has grown and grown and
grown and I feel in this room today a kind of
optimism that I don’t remember feeling before
when we were in Paris. I feel an optimism
maybe because you’ve done a miracle here in
Ashraf. If we were to build this in New York
City, it would take 15 years and 14 corruption
investigations. I was here a year and a half
ago, this wasn’t here.
And of course, all of this is possible be-
cause of the leadership of Madame Maryam
Rajavi, a truly exceptional leader. Just like her
husband Massoud Rajavi, who began this
movement in one very brave act. He refused
to swear allegiance to the Supreme Leader
Khomeini to his face. He said, ‘‘No, I will not
swear allegiance to you. I will not deliver my
nation to a tyrant.’’
I’m here to say three things. First, I accuse
the Ayatollah and Rouhani and all of their
sycophants and followers of mass murder,
crimes against humanity. We should be em-
barrassed for our countries if they haven’t
stood up against this. There’s no middle
ground here. These people have killed at least
120,000 members and associates of this great
organization. You see the book. You go
through the sad, tragic, but heroic exhibit they
have of the martyrs to freedom. Look at the
photograph of the people in the infirmary
being treated for illness, slaughtered just a few
years ago. Killed 52 of them of the last 100
people who stayed at Ashraf, they tried to
wipe them all out. In 1988, in two months they
slaughtered 30,000 people. These are not
numbers, these are human lives.
So there are three things that we have to
do. Number one, we have to get the govern-
ments of Europe to stand up, to wake up, to
reclaim their dignity and their honor. These
are the countries that gave us democracy.
Greece, Rome, Italy, France, United Kingdom,
Germany, all places in which freedom was
born, democracy was born, democracy
emerged. Democracy for my nation came out
of Europe and the experience of Europe. So
how can the leaders of those countries turn
their back on mass murder? How can they do
it and live with themselves? It’s time to end
that shameful disregard.
There’s no statute of limitations on murder.
I prosecuted two Nazis 40 years after their
horrible deeds. One killed 20,000 people, the
other killed 12,000 people and we found them
and it took years and we brought them to jus-
tice. The people who slaughtered 30,000 peo-
ple in 1988 should be identified, they should
be prosecuted, and they should either be im-
prisoned for life or executed. They’re crimi-
nals. They’re murderers. They’re not leaders
of countries. They are no better than the mur-
derer in the street except they’re worse be-
cause they’re mass murderers.
I am so proud of my government because
we have stood up. We looked at that agree-
ment that would make Iran a nuclear power
and we said tear it up. We’re not going to put
nuclear weapons in the hands of a maniac.
Well, I say to the leaders of Europe, you can
be liberators too. You can go down in history
as fighters for freedom.
Isn’t that better than just running a govern-
ment and making money and giving blood
money to Iran? How can you do commerce
with them? We all know they’re the largest
sponsor of terrorism in the world. What does
that mean? That means they fund and they
supply murderers not only in their own country
but all over the world. And when you give
them money, when you relieve them of a debt,
which my government did in the prior adminis-
tration, and put over a billion dollars back in
their hands, you are supporting murder. What
do they use it for? Their people know, their
people know that when they get money, when
a French company or a German company
does business with them, that money, that
profit is going to be used to kill people in Syria
or to kill people somewhere else or to send
people to Albania to kill us or to send people
to France like they did last year to kill Ma-
dame Rajavi and us. That’s what they’re fund-
ing, don’t you realize it? That makes you
complicit in murder.
Number two, let’s make it clear, there is an
alternative to this horrible regime of terror.
This isn’t one of those situations in which we
have the choice of deposing a horrible dictator
and we don’t know if a more horrible one will
come along. Right? And when we saw that
happen, we saw it happen in Egypt, in some
ways we saw it happen in Libya.
But here we don’t have that problem. We’ve
got the worst regime in the world by far, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A24JY8.020 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E979
July 24, 2019
biggest sponsor of terrorism in the world. And
then we have the National Council, the NCRI,
led by the president-elect, Madame Rajavi.
Coalition of resistance organizations respected
throughout the world. There are representa-
tives of most of the major countries in the
world here. They’ve gotten to know her.
They’ve gotten to respect her. In my country,
she’s thoroughly respected.
We know there’s a group of people who
have been fighting for freedom all their lives,
who have lost the closets people to them in
the fight for freedom, who are dedicated to it.
People here at Ashraf, let’s make it clear. I
spent a lot of time with them. These are peo-
ple who are dedicated to freedom. And if you
think that’s a cult, then there’s something
wrong with you. There’s something missing in
your soul.
But we know that there is a government in
exile, it negotiates with the whole world, and
it’s written down plain as can be what it stands
for. And it looks just like our Bill of Rights, just
like the universal declarations of freedom and
decency and human rights enshrined in the
great documents of the world. Free elections
within six months is the promise, and I believe
it will be fulfilled. They’re for gender equality.
They’re for human rights. They’re for a system
of law. They’re for we don’t imprison someone
unless they have a fair trial. And because of
their history, they oppose capital punishment,
because there’s been too much of it. And it
isn’t just capital punishment, it’s murder in
their country. This is a good organization. And
it’s an organization that is ready, willing and
able not to take over Iran but to guide Iran to
elections as quickly as possible and hopefully
they will be part of the coalition governing Iran
like they’re part of the coalition that is trying to
guide Iran to freedom. This is a group that we
can support. It’s a group that we should stop
maligning and it’s a group that should make
us comfortable having regime change in the
worst regime in the world.
Here’s what you can do. You can be a wit-
ness like in the Biblical sense of a witness.
You know something that a lot of people don’t
know. You know really how bad it is in Iran.
And you know about MEK. And you know
about Madame Rajavi. And you know the
truth, not the lies, ‘‘the cult, they don’t have
support in Iran.’’ Why has the Ayatollah been
murdering them for 40 years if they don’t have
support in Iran? The Ayatollah, Rouhani, have
said that this organization is the only one
that’s really a danger to them.
You now have a responsibility because of
your knowledge. Don’t be euphemistic about
it. Don’t hide your eyes. You’ve got to get the
leaders of your country to stand up so you can
all be proud of your country and its heritage.
I get attacked and my colleagues who will
be here in a moment get attacked all the time
in America. Why we’re doing this? We’re
doing it really very simply because we love
freedom and we can’t turn our back on people
who are being treated this way and we can’t
turn our back on a situation that could be cat-
astrophic for them and catastrophic for the
world. You know what I say to them? Keep
doing it. Keep doing it. I wear it as a badge
of honor. I support freedom, you support op-
pression. I support democracy, you support a
dictatorship. I support decent people who
share the values of decent governments, and
you support mass murderers. Now who’s right
and who’s wrong?
But I know and I feel as I’ve told you, and
I know why there’s an optimism in this room.
Because we’re going to be in Tehran much
sooner than all those cynics believe. You
know why? [Because we are Hazer, Hazer,
Hazer. (We’re ready).’’
f
CELEBRATION OF THE SESQUI-
CENTENNIAL OF HIGGINSVILLE
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the sesquicentennial of
Higginsville, Missouri. For the past 150 years,
Higginsville has served as the hub of Lafay-
ette County and the home of a tight-knit, car-
ing community. May it stand for another 150
years as a glittering example to other towns
around the country.
In 1869, the town was incorporated on land
purchased by its namesake, Harvey Higgins.
A post office was soon established, and the
growth of the town took off from there. The
first school was built in 1886 and enrolled 572
students by 1888. Powered by coal mines,
manufacturing, and agriculture, the population
exploded until it had over 2,500 people living
there in 1910. To point the way to a bustling
town, the yellow ‘‘Welcome to Higginsville’’ fin-
ger signs were installed on Highway 13 and
US Highway 40 (now I–70) in 1924. These
four iconic signs stand today as a sunny trib-
ute to the hospitality of Higginsville’s people.
The 20th century and President Franklin
Delano Roosevelt’s New Deal programs
brought development and investment, includ-
ing Fairground park, a swimming pool, and a
new post office with a mural done by a stu-
dent of the great regionalist painter Thomas
Hart Benton. After World War II, further invest-
ment brought a golf course, additions to the
park, a new city hall, new school buildings,
and a municipal airport.
In 1967, the Higginsville and Corder School
districts were consolidated forming the Lafay-
ette County C–1 school district. The school
has grown to serve almost a thousand stu-
dents and stands as a center of academic ex-
cellence. It was Accredited with Distinction in
Performance by the State of Missouri for the
2009–2010 school year. The district’s com-
petent instructors, small class sizes, and
abundant resources makes it one of the best
schools in the county.
Situated less than fifty miles outside of Kan-
sas City and near I–70, Higginsville residents
have the advantages of both easy access to
city and country living. Jobs in Kansas City
are easily accessible, and there are also good
jobs in Higginsville. Lafayette County’s top
employer is the Higginsville Habilitation Center
and Northwest Community Services.
Higginsville also serves as the central police
dispatch for Lafayette County, making it es-
sential to keeping the whole county safe.
Higginsville also has innumerable civil society
organizations and churches that are the back-
bone of the community. From the Freemasons
and the Odd Fellows to the Rotary and 4–H,
the people of Higginsville are civically minded
and active volunteers. These volunteers come
together every September to put on the Coun-
try Fair, a bustling week of activities and con-
tests that culminates in a bustling street fair
and parade.
Furthermore, Higginsville is home to some
of the best retirement facilities in the area.
Meyer Care Center and John Knox Village
East (a not-for-profit retirement community)
are cornerstones of the community and world-
class homes for senior citizens.
The quality schools, solid jobs, and caring
retirement communities make Higginsville a
good place to grow-up, work, and retire.
Higginsville is successful because of its citi-
zens’ commitment to improving the commu-
nity, through their community organizations,
churches, and fraternal spirit. This commit-
ment will never diminish, and Higginsville will
continue to be a crossroads of Missouri and
the center of Lafayette County. Madam
Speaker, please join me, Missouri’s Fifth Con-
gressional District, and citizens across the na-
tion in honoring the City of Higginsville for 150
years of community and growth.
f
HONORING AMERICAN VETERANS
IN EXTREME NEED ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 2938, ‘‘The Honoring
American Veterans in Extreme Need Act of
2019’’, or the HAVEN Act.
Section 2 would amend Bankruptcy Code
section 101(1 OA), which defines current
monthly income’’ for purposes of the Code’s
means test, to exclude compensation paid by
the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and
the U.S. Department of Defense to an indi-
vidual in connection with a disability, combat-
related injury or disability, or death of a mem-
ber of the uniformed services.
I strongly support this legislation because it
would bring certain veterans’ disability benefits
paid by the U.S. Department of Veterans Af-
fairs and the U.S. Department of Defense into
parity with the treatment of Social Security
payments under the Bankruptcy Code’s
means test.
Although Social Security benefits are not
treated as income for purposes of the Bank-
ruptcy Code’s means test, veterans’ disability
benefits. do constitute income under this test.
This requirement applies even with respect
to servicemembers who have returned to the
United States from active service and thus no
longer receive combat pay.
Under the means test, such servicemember
would have to calculate his or her income
based on the average monthly income that he
or she received during the six-month period
preceding the filing date of the bankruptcy
case, rather than the debtor’s actual income,
which may be much less because of the debt-
or’s non-combat status.
Many veterans become ineligible for the
more immediate discharge available under
Chapter 7 and, instead, they are steered into
Chapter 13, which requires a debtor to make
payments to creditors pursuant to a 3 or 5
year plan before he or she can receive a dis-
charge.
According to the National Conference of
Bankruptcy Judges (NCBJ), such treatment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A24JY8.021 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E980 July 24, 2019
‘‘will remedy an imbalance in the Bankruptcy
Code that disproportionately steers veterans
receiving such benefits into Chapter 13 cases
because they often fail the Chapter 7 means
test.’’
This bill is supported by the Veterans of
Foreign Affairs, the American Legion, and the
Disabled American Veterans, the National
Conference of Bankruptcy Judges, and the
American College of Bankruptcy among oth-
ers.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 2938 to allow our vet-
erans to have a chance to provide for their
families and to live a peaceful lifestyle.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. CEDRIC L. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. RICHMOND. Madam Speaker, I was
unable to be present for the following votes on
Tuesday, July 23. Had I been present, I would
have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 497; YEA on
Roll Call No. 498; and YEA on Roll Call No.
499.
f
CONGRATULATING TIMOTHY
WEAVERLING
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to congratulate 2019 Citizen of
the Year, Timothy Weaverling. Mr. Weaverling
of Bedford Borough, Bedford County, Pennsyl-
vania, will receive this honor on August 19th
from the Rotary Clubs of Bedford and the
Bedford Elks Lodge.
Mr. Weaverling has served on the Bedford
County Chamber Foundation Board of Trust-
ees, the Chamber Board of Directors and Ex-
ecutive Committee. He is currently serving in
the second year of his term as Chair of the
Chamber Board. In addition to the Chamber,
Mr. Weaverling serves on the Bedford Bor-
ough Council as well as leadership of the Bed-
ford Sunrise Rotary.
Mr. Weaverling is a community leader that
exemplifies Bedford in commitment, growth,
and development. Mr. Weaverling is a role
model of citizenship and pride that allows oth-
ers to engage and empower. I take great
pleasure in congratulating Timothy Weaverling
for this outstanding accomplishment.
f
OPPOSING GLOBAL BOYCOTT, DI-
VESTMENT, AND SANCTIONS
MOVEMENT TARGETING ISRAEL
SPEECH OF
HON. GWEN MOORE
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, the right to par-
ticipate in boycotts, whether we agree with
them or not, is protected by our constitution,
including political expression aimed at Israeli
policy. Americans have long used such tactics
to influence and pressure our government and
other governments. The only difference here is
we appear to be striving to carve out and treat
differently, even silence, those who disagree
with the policies undertaken by our ally Israel.
How can you support the right under the
Constitution to political speech including boy-
cotts and then bring this resolution to the
floor?
Let me be clear, I oppose anyone (Pales-
tinian, Israeli, American, etc..) who are taking
actions inimical to peace. And after nearly
three decades, it is fair to say all sides, includ-
ing the U.S., have done so in some shape or
form.
Any effort that has at its heart delegitimizing
the State of Israel is doomed to fail. And the
BDS movement, just like unilateral actions un-
dertaken by either side, is not going to bring
two states living in peace side by side. It was
born out of frustration, that we all share, with
a moribund peace process that harms both
Israelis and Palestinians.
At this time when Congress can be doing so
much more to help advance the peace proc-
ess or even to just revive it, why is the only
action we are taking is to bring to the floor a
nonbinding resolution that doesn’t address
where most of the blame for the failures lay:
the continuing intransigence and refusal by
Israeli and Palestinian political leaders to
make the tough decisions and compromises
that need to be made for peace.
That refusal continues to feed the status
quo. But rather than call out those respon-
sible, including several actions taken by this
Administration, for setting back the cause of
peace, we have decided that this moment is
ripe solely to attack the First Amendment
rights of Americans?
Again, rather than pressing the parties to
make the tough decision and concessions that
will be necessary for peace, Congress has de-
cided that the top focus at the moment is the
voluntary decisions by some Americans to ex-
ercise political expression? The First Amend-
ment does not threaten Israel’s right to exist.
Nor does any American exercising that right.
I agree with the editorial by the New York
Times which warned that attempting to ‘‘si-
lence one side of the debate’’ is not ‘‘in the in-
terests of Israel, the United States, or their
shared democratic values.’’
Rather than attacking the First Amendment
right of Americans to criticize the policies of
our own government or our allies, how about
pushing our own administration to actually say
the words ‘‘two-state solution’’ which it refuses
to do or to actually act as if its interested in
pursuing that longstanding goal that this Con-
gress and past administrations has reaffirmed
is the best option for peace between the
Israelis and Palestinians.
I am concerned that resolutions such as this
one serves no real purpose, certainly not to
those of us interested in working as honest
brokers to bring this decades long history of
simmering tensions, outright war, and hostility
to an end, permanently.
I fear that this resolution is just another in a
long line of nonbinding resolutions considered
by this House that fails to actually advance
peace between the two sides, ignores the var-
ious and complex factors that have made the
prospects for peace in this conflict the worse
in a generation including actions by this ad-
ministration that have been roundly rejected
by many.
Again, in looking at this resolution, I under-
stand that it is easier to blame a host of out-
side actors, including those who we disagree
with, for the current damaging status quo. The
reality however remains that it is the con-
sistent and repeated failure of political leaders
in Ramallah, Jerusalem, and at 1600 Pennsyl-
vania Avenue to make the tough decisions
and concessions that peace requires and
which has left us in this damaging status quo.
The folly of the current situation was encap-
sulated by the Trump administration’s recent
Bahrain conference which neither the Palestin-
ians or Israelis attended.
Finally, I am concerned that this resolution
is a slippery slope to actually taking up binding
legislation affecting cherished First Amend-
ment rights such as the bill that passed the
Senate earlier this year which was derided in
media reports as a ‘‘political stunt.’’ Israeli’s
and Palestinians alike have had enough of po-
litical stunts.
Opportunities for progress and for peace are
growing fewer and farther apart as the dam-
aging status quo and divides only harden,
waiting for the next explosion of violence. And
are we surprised that without prospects for
peace, extremists seem to be gaining ground?
I would be far more constructive if this Con-
gress would focus on finding viable solutions
to the Israel-Palestinian conflict rather that
promoting legislation that raises free speech
concerns. For example, H.Res. 326 which was
marked up in committee at the same time as
this resolution but is curiously absent from this
week’s calendar.
I firmly believe it is our responsibility as a
Congress to keep working towards peace de-
spite pessimism and pessimists.
Clearly right now, what the Middle East
needs is more solutions, not more meaning-
less resolutions. I said this a few years ago
and I will repeat it again now: both peoples
would gladly trade empty resolutions from the
U.S. Congress for real progress on the ground
and a sincere path forward.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KELLY ARMSTRONG
OF NORTH DAKOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Speaker, I got
delayed travelling back to D.C. Had I been
present, I would have voted YEA on Roll Call
No. 497.
f
HONORING NATHANIEL ‘‘NAT’’
WASHINGTON, SR. AND HIS SON
NAT JR.
HON. DAN NEWHOUSE
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Nathaniel ‘‘Nat’’ Washington,
Sr. and his son, Nat Jr. Their public service
transformed the Columbia Basin, Washington
state, and the entire Pacific Northwest by se-
curing hydropower as the foundation of the re-
gion’s power system.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A24JY8.023 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E981
July 24, 2019
The Grand Coulee Dam is the largest power
station in the nation. With a 6,809-megawatt
generating capacity, the Dam supplies an av-
erage of 21 billion kilowatt hours of clean, af-
fordable, and reliable electricity to 11 States
and Canada each year. Reservoirs from the
Dam are the backbone of the Columbia Basin
Project, which supplies irrigation to 10,000
farms on 671,000 acres of farmland in the Co-
lumbia Basin.
While residents throughout the Pacific
Northwest reap these benefits, many are un-
aware of how the Dam came to be or how the
work of a father and son changed Central
Washington, our state, and the region forever.
In 1908, Nat Washington, Sr., a decedent of
President George Washington’s family, left his
home in Virginia and established a homestead
along the Columbia River, not far from where
the Grand Coulee Dam sits today. Shortly
after arriving in Washington, Nat Sr. was elect-
ed as Grant County Prosecutor and the first
president of the Columbia River Dam, Irriga-
tion, and Power District. In this role, Nat Sr.
played a key role in the conception, approval,
and construction of the Grand Coulee Dam.
Nat Jr. shared his father’s passion for public
service. After earning his law degree from the
University of Washington, Nat Washington, Jr.
also served as Grant County Prosecutor and
later in the Washington State Legislature for
30 years. During this time, Nat Jr. was instru-
mental in the development of several hydro-
power projects across the region, including the
Columbia Basin Project, which is the largest
water reclamation project in the United States,
providing nearly $2 billion in economic benefits
to the region each year.
With these immeasurable contributions to
Central Washington in mind, I rise to introduce
legislation to rename the Third Power Plant at
the Grand Coulee Dam as the Nathaniel ‘‘Nat’’
Washington’’ Power Plant in honor of Nat Jr.
and Sr. I urge my colleagues to join me in rec-
ognizing the contributions of these pioneers of
Northwest hydropower.
f
RAISE THE WAGE ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. ROBERT C. ‘‘BOBBY’’ SCOTT
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I in-
clude in the RECORD the following letter in
support of H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage Act.
OXFAM,
July 16, 2019.
MEMBERS OF THE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES.
Ms. EUNICE IKENE,
Labor Policy Advisor at House Committee on
Education and the Workforce.
DEAR MS. IKENE AND MEMBERS OF CON-
GRESS: On behalf of Oxfam America, I urge
you to vote for the Raise the Wage Act (H.R.
582) and vote against any amendments that
would weaken the bill.
Oxfam America is an international devel-
opment and relief agency committed to
working for lasting solutions to poverty,
hunger and social injustice in over 90 coun-
tries, including the United States. Oxfam has
carried out development and humanitarian
programs across the globe.
Within the United States, we have focused
our efforts to elevating the rights and life
opportunities for historically disadvantaged
workers in low-wage sectors. With a federal
minimum wage of $7.25 an hour, a full-time
worker may only make $15,080 a year, a sal-
ary that is almost $4,000 below the poverty
line for a family of three.
The Raise the Wage Act of 2019 would ben-
efit over a quarter of the workforce: nearly
40 million workers and their families. The
act would raise the federal minimum wage to
$8.55 this year and increase it over the next
five years until it reaches $15 in 2024, then
adjust it each year to keep pace with the
typical worker’s wages.
Here are six reasons why raising the wage
makes sense.
1. It is long overdue.
In the decade since it was last raised, the
minimum wage has failed to keep up with in-
flation, failed to keep up with average wages,
and—most dramatically—failed to keep up
with incomes of the top 1 percent and CEOs,
contributing to America’s growing inequal-
ity.
Low-wage workers are not benefiting from
economic growth and productivity. If the
minimum wage had kept pace with produc-
tivity increases, it would be around $20.
Just 30 years ago, the average pay gap be-
tween CEOs and workers was 59 to 1; last
year, it soared to 361 to 1. The average CEO
makes $13,940,000, while a minimum wage
worker makes $15,080: a gap of 924 to 1.
2. It would address longstanding racial and
gender inequities.
Historically marginalized people do more
than their fair share of low-wage work, and
would stand to benefit disproportionately
from the bump.
While 27 percent of the total workforce
would benefit from the raise:
39 percent of Black and Latina women
would benefit (vs. 18 percent of white men),
38 percent of African American workers
would benefit,
33 percent of Latino workers would benefit,
32 percent of women workers would benefit
(vs 22 percent of men).
3. It would reduce poverty.
The bump from $290 a week to $600 a week
would lift millions of family out of poverty.
Two-thirds of all working people in poverty
(67.3 percent) would see a raise in wages.
4. It would fuel economic growth.
The roughly $120 billion extra paid to
workers would be pumped back into the
economy for necessities such as rent, food,
clothes.
Economists have long recognized that
boosting purchasing power by putting money
in people’s pockets for consumer spending
has positive ripple effects on the entire econ-
omy.
In one recent poll, 67 percent of small busi-
ness owners support the minimum wage in-
crease to $15 an hour. They say it would
spark consumer demand, which would enable
them to retain or hire new employees.
And raising the wage doesn’t seem to com-
pel employers to cut jobs. As states and cit-
ies across the country have raised wages, re-
search has found no statistically significant
effect on employment.
5. It would save taxpayers money and re-
duce use of government programs.
When employers don’t pay people enough
to survive, those workers are compelled to
seek government assistance, meaning tax-
payers are essentially subsidizing the cor-
porations.
In 2016, EPI found that, among recipients
of public assistance, most work or have a
family member who works; and they are con-
centrated at the bottom of the pay scale.
Raising wages for low-wage workers would
‘‘unambiguously reduce net spending on pub-
lic assistance, particularly among workers
likely to be affected by a federal minimum-
wage increase.’’
6. It’s what the vast majority of Americans
want.
Vast majorities (up to three quarters, in-
cluding a majority across party lines) sup-
port raising the wage. Even in a poll spon-
sored by the National Restaurant Associa-
tion (which has worked to block state min-
imum wage increases and preempt local sick
day laws), 71 percent of Americans indicated
support for raising the wage, ‘‘even if it also
increases the cost of food and service to cus-
tomers.’’
In fact, over half the states have raised
their minimum wages to restore basic fair-
ness to the workforce.
CONCLUSION
Raising the minimum wage offers benefits
to workers, children, taxpayers, and the
economy as a whole. It increases buying
power and reduces the daily struggle for peo-
ple to pay their basic expenses. It enables
people to save for and invest in their future.
It contributes toward building a work force
that is healthier, more stable, better edu-
cated, and more productive.
Raising the minimum age will require
members of Congress of both parties to be
willing to overcome the divide: to be open to
the debate, to consider the needs of hard-
working constituents and taxpayers, to con-
sider the wide range of benefits—and ulti-
mately, to give a raise to the people who
need it the most.
We strongly urge every member of Con-
gress to vote for the Raise the Wage Act and
enact this important piece of legislation as
quickly as possible.
Sincerely,
MINOR SINCLAIR,
Director, US Domestic Program,
Oxfam America.
f
RETIREMENT OF MR. MICHAEL J.
SULLIVAN, GOVERNMENT AC-
COUNTABILITY OFFICE
HON. JOE COURTNEY
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today, on behalf of myself and the members of
the House Committee on Armed Services, to
congratulate and celebrate Mr. Michael J. Sul-
livan, the Director of Defense Weapon System
Acquisitions for the Government Accountability
Office (GAO), on the occasion of his retire-
ment after 34 years of distinguished federal
service.
Mr. Sullivan’s dedication to his profession,
his selfless public service, and his role helping
GAO meet its mission have exceeded every-
one’s expectations. During his time at GAO,
Mr. Sullivan has been an effective thought-
leader, most notably in GAO’s work to expertly
identify and apply best acquisition practices for
product development, production, testing, and
fielding for many of DOD’s most complex, ex-
pensive, and critical weapon system acquisi-
tions. Over the years, Mr. Sullivan’s efforts re-
sulted in numerous modifications and alter-
ations to DOD’s acquisition policies, processes
and implementation. Mr. Sullivan significantly
contribute to the development and enactment
of the Weapon System Acquisition Reform Act
of 2009 (P.L. 111–23), which lead to improved
acquisition outcomes and effective returns on
investment of billions of dollars on behalf of
the Congress and the American taxpayer.
Mr. Sullivan testified numerous times before
the House Armed Services Committee,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A24JY8.028 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E982 July 24, 2019
expertly representing GAO’s work on high pro-
file, complex, and sensitive DOD acquisition
programs including the F–22 Raptor, the F–35
Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter, among other
high-profile programs such as the B–2 Spirit,
the KC–46A tanker, the B–21 Raider, the Next
Generation Air Dominance concept, and nu-
merous unmanned aircraft programs such as
the MQ–1, MQ–9, RQ–4, UCAV, UCLASS,
and MQ–25. He consistently delivered insight-
ful, independent, and fact-based analyses that
informed the decision-making of the Armed
Services Committee made regarding many of
DOD’s largest and most complex acquisition
programs during many cycles of the Com-
mittee during formulation of annual National
Defense Authorization Acts. He has been a
constant voice for good government and a
force for positive change. In addition to his
program oversight noted above, Mr. Sullivan
has also been greatly involved in reviewing
issues related to science and technology port-
folio management, technology maturation and
requirements development efforts, and Depart-
ment of Defense tactical aircraft force struc-
ture planning and execution.
We all are eternally grateful for Mr. Sulli-
van’s contributions to oversight of national se-
curity issues and fiscal resources of the most
importance to Congress and the American tax-
payer. Mr. Sullivan’s exceptional work and
many accomplishments over more than three
decades are deeply valued by me, the com-
mittee, and the Congress. We sincerely thank
Mr. Sullivan and wish him the best success in
all of his future endeavors after retirement.
f
RECOGNIZING THE EXEMPLARY
SERVICE OF JUDY SCHNEIDER
ON THE OCCASION OF HER RE-
TIREMENT
HON. JOYCE BEATTY
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mrs. BEATTY. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Judy Schneider on the occasion
of her retirement.
Throughout her time on the Hill, Judy
served as an unparalleled testament to biparti-
sanship, hard work, and public service. There
is no one more deserving of being recognized
for a lifetime of exemplary public service.
Cherished mentor to a lucky few and friend
to countless Members of this body, Senators,
and Hill staffers, including my Chief of Staff,
Judy embraced each day of her four decades
of service as an opportunity to improve the
processes of Congress.
Her expertise knew no bounds. She has au-
thored countless reports and mentored thou-
sands. Judy was a tremendous help in the
successful orchestration of the 2014 Women’s
Fly-In.
Committing forty years to Congress takes
resilience and a passion for public service. But
to embrace those years with her unwavering
belief that Congress can always do better is
her shining legacy.
Many of you know that I am fierce advocate
for the 3 P’s of public service: Policy, Process,
and Politics. Fewer know that it was Judy who
took the time to teach me the three P’s, and
emphasize that they are the key to fostering-
bipartisanship, even in the most contentious of
times.
Her touchstone is immeasurable, her serv-
ice is deeply appreciated, and her retirement
is well-deserved.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF SUSAN ‘‘LEANNE’’ POWELL
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the life and legacy of Susan
‘‘Leanne’’ Powell, a dear friend of more than
15 years. Leanne was a passionate and fierce
leader whose light reached across North Caro-
lina’s Eighth Congressional District and bright-
ened our great nation. Leanne departed this
life on July 20, 2019 at Carolinas Medical
Center in Charlotte. Exemplary of her devotion
to others, Leanne requested her organs be
donated to her community and now three
Notth Carolinians will benefit from her contin-
ued generosity.
Leanne led a life of distinction and at age
12 started a career in politics that would span
more than three decades. As a young woman
she served as a campaign volunteer for the
late Congressman Bill Hefner and later joined
his office staff. This experience foreshadowed
the extraordinary woman she was to become.
Leanne went on to serve the White House
Women’s Office under President Bill Clinton
and Department of Agriculture Undersecretary
Jill Long Thompson. Following this time in our
nation’s capital, she returned to North Carolina
and founded a successful campaign consulting
firm before managing the campaign of Con-
gressman Larry Kissell. Leanne helped elect
this history teacher-turned-candidate to Con-
gress in 2008 and served two terms as Con-
gressman Kissell’s Chief of Staff, a tenure de-
fined by ideological purity and constituent
service.
After deciding to leave politics in 2013,
Leanne would tell colleagues she wanted to
‘‘make an honest living’’ making whiskey.
Today, Southern Grace Distilleries stands as
one of North Carolina’s premier distilleries and
a testament of Leanne’s hard work and dedi-
cation. Reflective of Leanne’s innumerable ac-
complishments and devotion to public service,
North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper inducted
Leanne into the Order of the Long Leaf Pine
on July 17, 2019, the highest civilian honor the
governor can bestow. Throughout Leanne’s
life she made service to others a priority.
My thoughts and prayers are with Leanne’s
husband, Drew Arrowood; her mother, Judy
M. McCord; her brother, Albett ‘‘Chip’’ Powell
Jr.; and all who loved her, including her be-
loved canine companion, Bleu. Renee and I
join our entire community as we grieve to-
gether during this difficult time.
I know I speak for the entire community
when I say Leanne lives on in the hearts and
minds of all who felt her kindness and gen-
erosity and I will do everything in my power to
honor her extraordinary life.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
honoring the life and legacy of Susan
‘‘Leanne’’ Powell.
VENEZUELA TPS ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of
H.R. 549, the Venezuela TPS Act of 2019. I
cosponsored this bill because I believe this is
the right policy to protect the thousands of
Venezuelans fleeing horrific conditions in their
country. They don’t want to leave. They are
being forced to leave.
Today, the people of Venezuela face eco-
nomic, political and humanitarian crises. The
economy has shrunk by nearly 30 percent
over the past four years, declines often seen
only in wartime. Their currency erodes daily
and is experiencing the highest inflation rates
in the world. Poverty rates have skyrocketed
with over three out of every four Venezuelans
living in dire straits. Venezuelans can no
longer meet the recommended 2,000 calories
a day. 75 percent of the population reported
significant weight loss in the last year alone.
Hospitals are without basic medicines and
equipment to treat the sick.
Venezuela used to be South America’s rich-
est nation, now the majority of Venezuelans
live in unsustainable conditions.
This crisis is also affecting regional stability.
Brazil and Colombia are dealing with esca-
lating migrant and refugee flows, as millions of
Venezuelans cross into their borders. Colom-
bia has taken in almost 1.5 million Venezuelan
refugees, straining their countries resources.
The U.N. called the exodus from Venezuela
the ‘‘largest in recent history of Latin America
and the Caribbean.’’
It is time for the United States to step up.
President Trump has been tough on Ven-
ezuela’s dictator, Maduro, but has shown no
mercy to the thousands of Venezuelans that
have applied for protection in the United
States. The conditions in Venezuela are ex-
actly what TPS was designed to address. It
prevents foreign nationals from being deported
back to countries facing civil unrest.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle to support this critical bill tonight.
This is how we help Venezuelans in the
short term.
f
REMEMBERING STEFANO
GIUSEPPE RIBOLI
HON. LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam Speaker, I
rise to remember a great Angeleno, Stefano
Giuseppe Riboli, who passed away on July 3,
2019, at the age of 97. He was a devoted
husband, father, grandfather, and great-grand-
father, and lived a joyous life filled with the
love of family and friends. To the people of
Los Angeles, he was also cherished as the
patriarch of San Antonio Winery, who led the
winery’s growth into the thriving, century-old
local institution it is today.
Stefano was a Los Angeles native. He was
born in the city on September 8, 1921, to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A24JY8.030 E24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E983
July 24, 2019
Italian immigrant parents. However, when he
was three, his family moved back to Italy, and
Stefano grew up there in the small mountain
village of Berzo San Fermo. In the springs and
summers, he shepherded cows in the local Al-
pine mountain pastures, and those experi-
ences helped give him his lifelong fondness
for nature and animals.
When Stefano was 16, he returned to Los
Angeles to work at San Antonio Winery, which
his uncle, Santo Cambianica, had founded in
1917 in the Italian-American neighborhood of
Lincoln Heights. Santo mentored Stefano, and
his friendly and helpful attitude to people of all
backgrounds set an example that Stefano car-
ried forward throughout his life.
Thanks in large part to Stefano’s hard work,
his kind and cheerful manner, and the love
and support of his family, San Antonio Winery
rose from its humble beginnings to become
Los Angeles’s largest and longest-producing
winery, recently honored as 2018’s American
Winery of the Year by Wine Enthusiast Maga-
zine. And just as in its early days, the winery
is a family enterprise, with all of Stefano’s chil-
dren and many ofhis grandchildren working
there.
San Antonio Winery is much more than just
a winery to the Los Angeles community. It is
a place where people of all backgrounds can
meet and enjoy each other’s company. All are
welcome, from families to business leaders to
tourists. And Stefano’s charm and his remark-
able memory were essential to the winery’ s
convivial spirit. He was known as ‘‘Papa
Steve,’’ and would regale visitors with stories
ofthe winery’s history and his days growing up
in Italy—always with a smile on his face and
a glass of wine at the ready. His outgoing dis-
position was infectious, and encouraged visi-
tors to come back again and again.
For 73 years, Stefano was blessed by the
strong and loving union he shared with his
wife, Maddalena. Their suppmt and devotion
to each other nurtured their children and
grandchildren, their winery, and their entire
community.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in sending our deepest condolences to the
family of Stefano Giuseppe Riboli, including
Maddalena, their children Santo (Joan), Cathy
(Nino), and Steve (Sindee), their grandchildren
Anthony, Steve, Lisa, Michael, Jennifer, David,
Dante, Blake, Christopher, and Alex, and their
seven great-grandchildren. Stefano will be
greatly missed by Angelenos of all ages and
walks of life, but we know that his gracious
and gentle spirit will always live on in the fam-
ily he loved and the business he led.
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
July 25, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JULY 30
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Vice Admiral Michael M.
Gilday, USN, to be Admiral and Chief
of Naval Operations, Department of De-
fense.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine regulatory
frameworks for digital currencies and
blockchain.
SD–538
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of Sharon Fast Gustafson, of
Virginia, to be General Counsel, and
Charlotte A. Burrows, of the District of
Columbia, to be a Member, both of the
Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission.
SD–430
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine unprece-
dented migration at the United States
southern border, focusing on what is
required to improve conditions.
SD–342
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.
SD–215
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of John Leslie Carwile, of Mary-
land, to be Ambassador to the Republic
of Latvia, and Erin Elizabeth McKee, of
California, to be Ambassador to the
Independent State of Papua New Guin-
ea, and to serve concurrently and with-
out additional compensation as Ambas-
sador to the Solomon Islands and Am-
bassador to the Republic of Vanuatu,
both of the Department of State.
SD–419
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and
Federal Management
To hold hearings to examine solutions to
improve Federal hiring.
SD–342
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the United States Copyright Office.
SD–226
JULY 31
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry
To hold hearings to examine perspectives
on reauthorization of the U.S. Grain
Standards Act.
SR–328A
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Business meeting to markup an original
bill entitled, ‘‘Coast Guard Reauthor-
ization Act of 2019’’.
SH–216
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
2 p.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine next steps
for positive train control implementa-
tion.
SH–216
SEPTEMBER 17
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition
Policy and Consumer Rights
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
enforcement of the antitrust laws.
SD–226
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:23 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A24JY8.034 E24JYPT1
D900
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5027–S5072
Measures Introduced: Eighteen bills and one reso-
lution were introduced, as follows: S. 2243–2260,
and S. Res. 283. Pages S5062–63
Measures Reported:
S. 542, to protect the right of law-abiding citizens
to transport knives interstate, notwithstanding a
patchwork of local and State prohibitions. (S. Rept.
No. 116–65)
H.R. 3305, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 2509 George Mason
Drive in Virginia Beach, Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan
Keith Cox Post Office Building’’.
Measures Passed:
Federal Aviation Administration: Senate passed
S. 2249, to allow the Deputy Administrator of the
Federal Aviation Administration on the date of en-
actment of this Act to continue to serve as such
Deputy Administrator. Page S5038
International Year of the Periodic Table of
Chemical Elements: Senate agreed to S. Res. 283,
expressing support for the designation of 2019 as the
‘‘International Year of the Periodic Table of Chem-
ical Elements’’. Page S5071
Veto Messages:
Resolutions of Disapproval of Proposed Trans-
fers of Certain Defense Articles and Services—
Agreement: A unanimous-consent agreement was
reached providing that the veto messages with re-
spect to S.J. Res. 36, providing for congressional dis-
approval of the proposed transfer to the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and
the Italian Republic of certain defense articles and
services, S.J. Res. 37, providing for congressional
disapproval of the proposed export to the United
Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom of Great Brit-
ain and Northern Ireland, and the Republic of
France of certain defense articles and services, and
S.J. Res. 38, providing for congressional disapproval
of the proposed export to the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland of certain defense articles and
services, be considered as having been read, en bloc,
that they be printed in the Record and spread in full
upon the Journal, en bloc. Page S5048
A unanimous-consent-time agreement was reached
providing that the veto messages with respect to S.J.
Res. 36, S.J. Res. 37, and S.J. Res. 38, be considered
at a time to be determined by the Majority Leader,
in consultation with the Democratic Leader, prior to
August 2, 2019; that they be debated concurrently
for up to two hours, with 15 minutes reserved for
the Chairman and Ranking Member respectively;
and that Senate vote on passage of the joint resolu-
tions, the objections of the President to the contrary
notwithstanding, in the order listed; and that the
unanimous-consent agreement of Wednesday, June
19, 2019, for the remaining joint resolutions of dis-
approval of arms sales remain in effect. Page S5048
Messages from the President: Senate received the
following messages from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to the Constitution, the
report of the veto of S.J. Res. 36, a Joint Resolution
providing for congressional disapproval of the pro-
posed transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ire-
land, the Kingdom of Spain, and the Italian Repub-
lic of certain defense articles and services; ordered to
be printed in the Record, spread in full upon the
Journal, and held at the desk. (PM–23)
Pages S5058–59
Transmitting, pursuant to the Constitution, the
report of the veto of S.J. Res. 37, a Joint Resolution
providing for congressional disapproval of the pro-
posed export to the United Arab Emirates, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ire-
land, and the Republic of France of certain defense
articles and services; ordered to be printed in the
Record, spread in full upon the Journal, and held at
the desk. (PM–24) Page S5059
Transmitting, pursuant to the Constitution, the
report of the veto of S.J. Res. 38, a Joint Resolution
providing for congressional disapproval of the pro-
posed export to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:18 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D24JY9.REC D24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D901
July 24, 2019
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland of certain defense articles and services; or-
dered to be printed in the Record, spread in full
upon the Journal, and held at the desk. (PM–25)
Pages S5059–60
Miley Nomination—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that at
1:45 p.m., on Thursday, July 25, 2019, Senate begin
consideration of the nomination of General Mark A.
Milley, to be Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff;
and that Senate vote on confirmation of the nomina-
tion, with no intervening action or debate, and that
no further motions be in order. Page S5071
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 52 yeas to 40 nays (Vote No. EX. 225), Ste-
phen M. Dickson, of Georgia, to be Administrator
of the Federal Aviation Administration for the term
of five years. Pages S5029–31, S5072
By 54 yeas to 37 nays (Vote No. EX. 228),
Wendy Williams Berger, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Middle District of Flor-
ida. Pages S5031–32, S5043, S5072
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 55 yeas to 37 nays (Vote No. EX. 226), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S5031–32
By 51 yeas to 40 nays (Vote No. EX. 229), Brian
C. Buescher, of Nebraska, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the District of Nebraska.
Pages S5032–38, S5043, S5072
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 52 yeas to 39 nays (Vote No. EX. 227), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S5032
Messages from the House: Pages S5060–61
Measures Referred: Page S5061
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S5061, S5071
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S5061
Executive Communications: Pages S5061–62
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S5062
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5063–64
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S5064–70
Additional Statements: Pages S5056–58
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S5071
Privileges of the Floor: Page S5071
Record Votes: Five record votes were taken today.
(Total—229) Pages S5031, S5032, S5043
Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and
adjourned at 6:33 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Thursday,
July 25, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S5072.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
NOMINATION
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nomination of David L.
Norquist, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of De-
fense, after the nominee testified and answered ques-
tions in his own behalf.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee ordered favorably reported the following
business items:
S. 496, to preserve United States fishing heritage
through a national program dedicated to training
and assisting the next generation of commercial fish-
ermen;
S. 893, to require the President to develop a strat-
egy to ensure the security of next generation mobile
telecommunications systems and infrastructure in the
United States and to assist allies and strategic part-
ners in maximizing the security of next generation
mobile telecommunications systems, infrastructure,
and software, with an amendment in the nature of
a substitute;
S. 1148, to amend title 49, United States Code,
to require the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration to give preferential consideration to
individuals who have successfully completed air traf-
fic controller training and veterans when hiring air
traffic control specialists, with amendments;
S. 1341, to adopt a certain California flammability
standard as a Federal flammability standard to protect
against the risk of upholstered furniture flammability,
with amendments;
S. 1349, to expand enrollment in TSA PreCheck
to expedite commercial travel screening and improve
airport security;
S. 1625, to promote the deployment of commer-
cial fifth-generation mobile networks and the sharing
of information with communications providers in the
United States regarding security risks to the net-
works of those providers, with an amendment in the
nature of a substitute;
S. 1822, to require the Federal Communications
Commission to issue rules relating to the collection
of data with respect to the availability of broadband
services, with an amendment in the nature of sub-
stitute;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:18 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D24JY9.REC D24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D902 July 24, 2019
S. 1858, to ensure the Chief Information Office of
the Consumer Product Safety Commission has a sig-
nificant role in decisions related to information tech-
nology, proposed legislation entitled, ‘‘Regional
Ocean Partnership Act’’, with an amendment in the
nature of a substitute;
S. 2035, to require the Transportation Security
Administration to develop a strategic plan to expand
eligibility for the PreCheck Program to individuals
with Transportation Worker Identification Creden-
tials or Hazardous Materials Endorsements;
S. 2203, to extend the transfer of Electronic Trav-
el Authorization System fees from the Travel Pro-
motion Fund to the Corporation for Travel Pro-
motion (Brand USA) through fiscal year 2027, with
amendments;
S. 2166, to designate Regional Ocean Partnerships
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute; and
A promotion list in the Coast Guard.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the
nominations of Theodore Rokita, of Indiana, to be a
Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors, Jennifer
L. Homendy, of Virginia, who was introduced by
Senator Blumenthal, and Michael Graham, of Kan-
sas, who was introduced by Senator Moran, both to
be a Member of the National Transportation Safety
Board, Carl Whitney Bentzel, of Maryland, to be a
Federal Maritime Commissioner, Michael J.K.
Kratsios, of South Carolina, to be an Associate Di-
rector of the Office of Science and Technology Pol-
icy, and Ian Paul Steff, of Indiana, to be Assistant
Secretary of Commerce and Director General of the
United States and Foreign Commercial Service, who
was introduced by Senator Young, after the nomi-
nees testified and answered questions in their own
behalf.
REDUCING HUMAN-PREDATOR CONFLICT
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine the Theodore
Roosevelt Genius Prize, focusing on innovative solu-
tions to reduce human-predator conflict, including S.
2194, to amend the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conserva-
tion, Management, and Recreation Act to establish
the Theodore Roosevelt Genius Prize for reducing
human-predator conflict, after receiving testimony
from Brad S. Hovinga, Wyoming Game and Fish
Department Jackson Regional Wildlife Supervisor,
Jackson Hole; Forrest Galante, Animal Planet, New
York, New York; and Nick Whitney, New England
Aquarium Anderson Cabot Center for Ocean Life,
Boston, Massachusetts.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Finance: Committee concluded a hearing
to examine the nominations of Brent James
McIntosh, of Michigan, to be an Under Secretary,
Brian Callanan, of New Jersey, to be General Coun-
sel, and Brian McGuire, of New York, to be a Dep-
uty Under Secretary, who was introduced by Senator
McConnell, all of the Department of the Treasury,
and Travis Greaves, of the District of Columbia, to
be a Judge of the United States Tax Court for a
term of fifteen years, who was introduced by Senator
Blackburn, after the nominees testified and answered
questions in their own behalf.
AUTHORITIES FOR THE USE OF MILITARY
FORCE
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine authorities for the use of mili-
tary force, after receiving testimony from David
Hale, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, and
Marik String, Acting Legal Adviser, Office of Legal
Adviser, both of the Department of State.
CONFRONTING EBOLA
Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on Afri-
ca and Global Health Policy concluded a hearing to
examine confronting Ebola, focusing on addressing a
21st century global health crisis, after receiving tes-
timony from Tibor Nagy, Assistant Secretary, Bu-
reau of African Affairs, and Marcia S. Bernicat, Prin-
cipal Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Oceans
and International Environmental and Scientific Af-
fairs, both of the Department of State; Rear Admiral
Tim Ziemer, Assistant Administrator, Bureau for
Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance,
United States Agency for International Development;
and Mitch Wolfe, Chief Medical Officer, Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, Department of
Health and Human Services.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee ordered favorably reported the fol-
lowing business items:
S. 1976, to amend the FAST Act to improve the
Federal permitting process, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute;
S. 2065, to require the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity to publish an annual report on the use of
deepfake technology, with an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute;
S. 2183, to require the Comptroller General of the
United States to analyze certain legislation in order
prevent duplication of and overlap with existing
Federal programs, offices, and initiatives, with
amendments;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:18 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D24JY9.REC D24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D903
July 24, 2019
S. 2177, to provide taxpayers with an improved
understanding of Government programs through the
disclosure of cost, performance, and areas of duplica-
tion among them, leverage existing data to achieve
a functional Federal program inventory;
S. 2169, to amend section 3116 of title 5, United
States Code, to clarify the applicability of the ap-
pointment limitations for students appointed under
the expedited hiring authority for post-secondary
students, with an amendment;
S. 2107, to increase the number of CBP Agri-
culture Specialists and support staff in the Office of
Field Operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion;
S. 2193, to require the Administrator of General
Services to issue guidance to clarify that Federal
agencies may pay by charge card for the charging of
Federal electric motor vehicles, with an amendment;
S. 764, to provide for congressional approval of
national emergency declarations, with an amendment
in the nature of a substitute;
S. 439, to allow Members of Congress to opt out
of the Federal Employees Retirement System, and
allow Members who opt out of the Federal Employ-
ees Retirement System to continue to participate in
the Thrift Savings Plan;
S. 2119, to amend title 5, United States Code, to
appropriately limit the authority to award bonuses to
Federal employees;
H.R. 2590, to require a Department of Homeland
Security overseas personnel enhancement plan, with
an amendment in the nature of a substitute;
H.R. 3305, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 2509 George Mason
Drive in Virginia Beach, Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan
Keith Cox Post Office Building’’; and
The nominations of Chad F. Wolf, of Virginia, to
be Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans,
and William Bryan, of Virginia, to be Under Sec-
retary for Science and Technology, both of the De-
partment of Homeland Security, Robert M. Duncan,
of Kentucky, to be a Governor of the United States
Postal Service, Ann C. Fisher, of the District of Co-
lumbia, and Ashley Jay Elizabeth Poling, of North
Carolina, both to be a Commissioner of the Postal
Regulatory Commission, Catherine Bird, of Texas, to
be General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations
Authority, and Rainey R. Brandt, and Shana Frost
Matini, both to be an Associate Judge of the Supe-
rior Court of the District of Columbia.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported S. 2159, to repeal the Act entitled
‘‘An Act to confer jurisdiction on the State of North
Dakota over offenses committed by or against Indi-
ans on the Devils Lake Indian Reservation’’.
NOMINATION
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nomination of E. Sequoyah
Simermeyer, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the Na-
tional Indian Gaming Commission, after the nomi-
nee testified and answered questions in his own be-
half.
GPO OVERSIGHT
Committee on Rules and Administration: Committee
concluded an oversight hearing to examine the Gov-
ernment Publishing Office, Office of the Inspector
General, after receiving testimony from Michael P.
Leary, Inspector General, Government Publishing
Office.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 29 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 3927–3930, 3932–3956; and 8 reso-
lutions, H. Con. Res. 54–55; and H. Res. 515–518,
520–521 were introduced. Pages H7376–77
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H7378–79
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 2385, to permit the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs to establish a grant program to conduct cem-
etery research and produce educational materials for
the Veterans Legacy Program, with an amendment
(H. Rept. 116–179);
H.R. 3931, making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020, and for other purposes (H.
Rept. 116–180);
H.R. 3352, to provide for certain authorities of
the Department of State, and for other purposes,
with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–181);
H.R. 2336, to amend title 11, United States
Code, with respect to the definition of ‘‘family farm-
er’’ (H. Rept. 116–182); and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:18 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D24JY9.REC D24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D904 July 24, 2019
H. Res. 519, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 3877) to amend the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, to establish
a congressional budget for fiscal years 2020 and
2021, to temporarily suspend the debt limit, and for
other purposes; providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 549) to designate Venezuela under section
244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act to per-
mit nationals of Venezuela to be eligible for tem-
porary protected status under such section, and for
other purposes; and waiving a requirement of clause
6(a) of rule XIII with respect to consideration of cer-
tain resolutions reported from the Committee on
Rules (H. Rept. 116–183). Page H7376
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Cuellar to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H7247
Recess: The House recessed at 11:13 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H7255
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Rabbi Mark Getman, Temple
Emanu-El of Canarsie, Brooklyn, New York.
Page H7255
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2019: H.R.
3409, amended, to authorize appropriations for the
Coast Guard; Pages H7263–87
Disclosing Aid Spent to Ensure Relief Act: H.R.
1984, to amend chapter 11 of title 31, United States
Code, to require the Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget to annually submit to Congress
a report on all disaster-related assistance provided by
the Federal Government; Pages H7287–89
Restore the Harmony Way Bridge Act: H.R.
3245, to transfer a bridge over the Wabash River to
the New Harmony River Bridge Authority and the
New Harmony and Wabash River Bridge Authority;
Pages H7290–91
Post-Disaster Assistance Online Accountability
Act: H.R. 1307, to provide for an online repository
for certain reporting requirements for recipients of
Federal disaster assistance; Pages H7291–92
Stopping Bad Robocalls Act: H.R. 3375, amend-
ed, to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to
clarify the prohibitions on making robocalls, by a 2/
3 yea-and-nay vote of 429 yeas to 3 nays, Roll No.
502; Pages H7292–H7303, H7312
Autism Collaboration, Accountability, Research,
Education, and Support Act of 2019: H.R. 1058,
amended, to reauthorize certain provisions of the
Public Health Service Act relating to autism;
Pages H7303–08
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To
amend the Public Health Service Act to enhance ac-
tivities of the National Institutes of Health with re-
spect to research on autism spectrum disorder and
enhance programs relating to autism, and for other
purposes’’; Page H7308
Lifespan Respite Care Reauthorization Act of
2019: H.R. 2035, amended, to amend title XXIX
of the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize the
program under such title relating to lifespan respite
care; Pages H7308–10
Promoting Respect for Individuals’ Dignity and
Equality Act of 2019: H.R. 3299, amended, to per-
mit legally married same-sex couples to amend their
filing status for income tax returns outside the stat-
ute of limitations, to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to clarify that all provisions shall
apply to legally married same-sex couples in the
same manner as other married couples;
Pages H7313–18
Making technical corrections to the Guam World
War II Loyalty Recognition Act: H.R. 1365,
amended, to make technical corrections to the Guam
World War II Loyalty Recognition Act;
Pages H7351–53
Emancipation National Historic Trail Study
Act: H.R. 434, amended, to designate the Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail; Pages H7353–61
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To
amend the National Trails System Act to provide for
the study of the Emancipation National Historic
Trail, and for other purposes’’; Page H7361
Ysleta del Sur Pueblo and Alabama-Coushatta
Tribes of Texas Equal and Fair Opportunity Set-
tlement Act: H.R. 759, amended, to restore an op-
portunity for tribal economic development on terms
that are equal and fair; Pages H7361–64
Emergency Medical Services for Children Pro-
gram Reauthorization Act of 2019: H.R. 776, to
amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize
the Emergency Medical Services for Children pro-
gram; and Pages H7364–65
Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization
Act of 2019: H.R. 2507, amended, to amend the
Public Health Service Act to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under part A of title XI of such Act relating
to genetic diseases. Pages H7365–68
Moment of Silence: The House observed a moment
of silence in memory of Officer Jacob J. Chestnut
and Detective John M. Gibson of the United States
Capitol Police who were killed in the line of duty
defending the Capitol on July 24, 1998. Page H7312
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:18 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D24JY9.REC D24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D905
July 24, 2019
Committee Election: The House agreed to H. Res.
516, electing a Member to a certain standing com-
mittee of the House of Representatives. Page H7313
Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pensions Act
of 2019: The House passed H.R. 397, to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to create a Pension
Rehabilitation Trust Fund, to establish a Pension
Rehabilitation Administration within the Depart-
ment of the Treasury to make loans to multiem-
ployer defined benefit plans, by a recorded vote of
264 ayes to 169 noes, Roll No. 505.
Pages H7318–35, H7345–48
Rejected the Mast motion to recommit the bill to
the Committee on Education and Labor with in-
structions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of
200 ayes to 232 noes, Roll No. 504. Pages H7346–47
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–24 shall be considered as
adopted, in lieu of the amendments in the nature of
a substitute recommended by the Committees on
Education and Labor and Ways and Means now
printed in the bill. Pages H7318–23
Rejected:
Roe amendment (No. 1 printed in part A of H.
Rept. 116–178) that sought to set the loan interest
rates at 5% per annum for the first 5 years and 9%
per annum thereafter (by a recorded vote of 186 ayes
to 245 noes, Roll No. 503). Pages H7334–35, H7345
H. Res. 509, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 397) and (H.R. 3239) was agreed
to by a yea-and-nay vote of 234 yeas to 195 nays,
Roll No. 501, after the previous question was or-
dered by a yea-and-nay vote of 234 yeas to 198 nays,
Roll No. 500. Pages H7257–63, H7310–12
Humanitarian Standards for Individuals in Cus-
toms and Border Protection Custody Act: The
House passed H.R. 3239, to require U.S. Customs
and Border Protection to perform an initial health
screening on detainees, by a recorded vote of 233
ayes to 195 noes, Roll No. 507.
Pages H7336–45, H7348–50
Agreed to the Kinzinger motion to recommit the
bill to the Committee on the Judiciary with instruc-
tions to report the same back to the House forthwith
with an amendment, by a recorded vote of 239 ayes
to 192 noes, Roll No. 506. Subsequently, Represent-
ative Lofgren reported the bill back to the House
with the amendment and the amendment was agreed
to. Pages H7348–50
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–26, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part B of H. Rept. 116–178, shall
be considered as an original bill for purpose of
amendment under the five-minute rule, in lieu of
the amendment in the nature of a substitute rec-
ommended by the Committee on the Judiciary now
printed in the bill. Pages H7340–42
Agreed to:
Kuster (NH) amendment (No. 1 printed in part
C of H. Rept. 116–178) that directs DHS OIG to
pay particular attention to whether CBP meets its
own sexual violence prevention standards when in-
specting ports of entry, border patrol stations, and
detention facilities; and Pages H7342–43
Kuster (NH) amendment (No. 2 printed in part
C of H. Rept. 116–178) that requires the Secretary
of Homeland Security make publicly available data
about sexual abuse allegations every 3 months in
order to improve transparency about sexual abuse at
CBP facilities. Pages H7342–45
H. Res. 509, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 397) and (H.R. 3239) was agreed
to by a yea-and-nay vote of 234 yeas to 195 nays,
Roll No. 501, after the previous question was or-
dered by a yea-and-nay vote of 234 yeas to 198 nays,
Roll No. 500. Pages H7310–12
Consensus Calendar: The Chair announced the
Speaker’s designation, pursuant to clause 7(a)(1) of
rule 15, of H.R. 693, to amend the Horse Protection
Act to designate additional unlawful acts under the
Act, strengthen penalties for violations of the Act,
improve Department of Agriculture enforcement of
the Act, as the measure on the Consensus Calendar
to be considered this week. Page H7368
Suspension—Proceedings Postponed: The House
debated the following measure under suspension of
the rules. Further proceedings were postponed.
U.S. Senator Joseph D. Tydings Memorial Pre-
vent All Soring Tactics Act of 2019: H.R. 693,
amended, to amend the Horse Protection Act to des-
ignate additional unlawful acts under the Act,
strengthen penalties for violations of the Act, im-
prove Department of Agriculture enforcement of the
Act. Pages H7368–74
Senate Referral: S. 2249 was referred to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
today appears on page H7292.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes
and five recorded votes developed during the pro-
ceedings of today and appear on pages H7310–11,
H7311–12, H7312, H7345, H7347, H7347–48,
H7349–50, and H7350. There were no quorum
calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 10:49 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:18 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D24JY9.REC D24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D906 July 24, 2019
Committee Meetings
OVERSIGHT OF THE UNACCOMPANIED
CHILDREN PROGRAM: ENSURING THE
SAFETY OF CHILDREN IN HHS CARE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education, and Related Agencies held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Oversight of the Unaccompanied Children
Program: Ensuring the Safety of Children in HHS
Care’’. Testimony was heard from Representatives
Shalala, Wasserman Schultz, Higgins of Louisiana,
and Burgess; Jonathan Hayes, Director, Office of
Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children
and Families, Department of Health and Human
Services; Lynn Johnson, Assistant Secretary, Admin-
istration for Children and Families, Department of
Health and Human Services; and public witnesses.
APPROPRIATIONS—WHITE HOUSE OFFICE
OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies held a
budget and oversight hearing on the White House
Office of Science and Technology Policy. Testimony
was heard from Kelvin Droegemeier, Director,
White House Office of Science and Technology Pol-
icy, Executive Office of the President.
U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER
PROTECTION—BORDER PATROL
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partment of Homeland Security held an oversight
hearing on the U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion—Border Patrol. Testimony was heard from
Carla Provost, Chief, U.S. Border Patrol, U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection, Department of Home-
land Security.
BUREAU OF INDIAN EDUCATION,
EDUCATION CONSTRUCTION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Bureau of Indian Education, Edu-
cation Construction’’. Testimony was heard from
Jason Freihage, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Man-
agement, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian
Affairs, Department of the Interior.
THE COSTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE: FROM
COASTS TO HEARTLAND, HEALTH TO
SECURITY
Committee on the Budget: Full Committee held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘The Costs of Climate Change: From
Coasts to Heartland, Health to Security’’. Testimony
was heard from Rear Admiral Lower Half Ann C.
Phillips, Special Assistant to the Governor for Coast-
al Adaptation and Protection, Office of the Gov-
ernor, Virginia; and public witnesses.
BUILDING AMERICA’S CLEAN FUTURE:
PATHWAYS TO DECARBONIZE THE
ECONOMY
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Environment and Climate Change held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Building America’s Clean Future: Pathways
to Decarbonize the Economy’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
LEGISLATION TO MAKE CARS IN AMERICA
SAFER
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Consumer Protection and Commerce held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Legislation to Make Cars in America
Safer’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
THE NEXT MEGABANK? EXAMINING THE
PROPOSED MERGER OF SUNTRUST AND
BB&T
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘The Next Megabank? Examining
the Proposed Merger of SunTrust and BB&T’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
THE FY20 BUDGET: STATE DEPARTMENT
COUNTERTERRORISM AND COUNTERING
VIOLENT EXTREMISM BUREAU
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Middle East, North Africa, and International Ter-
rorism held a hearing entitled ‘‘The FY20 Budget:
State Department Counterterrorism and Countering
Violent Extremism Bureau’’. Testimony was heard
from Nathan Sales, Acting Under Secretary for Civil-
ian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights, Coor-
dinator for Counterterrorism, Ambassador-at-Large,
Bureau of Counterterrorism and Countering Violent
Extremism, Department of State.
OVERSIGHT OF THE REPORT ON THE
INVESTIGATION INTO RUSSIAN
INTERFERENCE IN THE 2016 PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION: FORMER SPECIAL COUNSEL
ROBERT S. MUELLER, III
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Report on the In-
vestigation into Russian Interference in the 2016
Presidential Election: Former Special Counsel Robert
S. Mueller, III’’. Testimony was heard from a public
witness.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURES
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on En-
ergy and Mineral Resources held a hearing on H.R.
934, the ‘‘Health Benefits for Miners Act of 2019’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:18 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D24JY9.REC D24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D907
July 24, 2019
and H.R. 935, the ‘‘Miners Pension Protection Act’’.
Testimony was heard from Representative McKinley
and public witnesses.
THE STATUS OF THE RECLAMATION FUND
AND THE BUREAU OF RECLAMATION’S
FUTURE INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDING
NEEDS
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations held a hearing entitled
‘‘The Status of the Reclamation Fund and the Bu-
reau of Reclamation’s Future Infrastructure Funding
Needs’’. Testimony was heard from Grayford Payne,
Deputy Commissioner, Policy, Administration and
Budget, Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the
Interior; Tony Willardson, Executive Director, West-
ern States Water Council, Murray, Utah; Federico
Barajas, Executive Director, San Luis and Delta-
Mendota Water Authority, Los Baños, California;
and a public witness.
EXAMINING JUUL’S ROLE IN THE YOUTH
NICOTINE EPIDEMIC: PART I
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Economic and Consumer Policy held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Examining JUUL’s Role in the Youth Nicotine
Epidemic: Part I’’. Testimony was heard from Sen-
ator Durbin; and public witnesses.
BEYOND THE CITIZENSHIP QUESTION:
REPAIRING THE DAMAGE AND
PREPARING TO COUNT ‘WE THE PEOPLE’
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Beyond the Citizenship Question: Repairing
the Damage and Preparing to Count ‘We the Peo-
ple’ ’’. Testimony was heard from Steven Dillingham,
Director, U.S. Census Bureau; Robert Goldenkoff,
Director of Strategic Issues, Government Account-
ability Office; and Nicholas Marinos, Director of In-
formation Technology and Cybersecurity, Govern-
ment Accountability Office.
THE DEVIL THEY KNEW—PFAS
CONTAMINATION AND THE NEED FOR
CORPORATE ACCOUNTABILITY
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Environment held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Devil
They Knew—PFAS Contamination and the Need for
Corporate Accountability’’. Testimony was heard
from Catherine R. McCabe, Commissioner, New Jer-
sey Department of Environmental Protection; Robert
R. Scott, Commissioner, New Hampshire Depart-
ment of Environmental Services; Steve Sliver, Execu-
tive Director, Michigan PFAS Action Response
Team, Michigan Department of Environment, Great
Lakes, and Energy; and public witnesses.
HOMELAND SECURITY IMPROVEMENT
ACT; BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2019;
VENEZUELA TPS ACT OF 2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 2203, the ‘‘Homeland Security Improvement
Act’’; H.R. 3877, the ‘‘Bipartisan Budget Act of
2019’’; and H.R. 549, the ‘‘Venezuela TPS Act of
2019’’. The Committee granted, by record vote of
8–4, a rule providing for consideration of H.R.
3877, the ‘‘Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019’’, and
H.R. 549, the ‘‘Venezuela TPS Act of 2019’’. The
rule provides for consideration of H.R. 3877, the
‘‘Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019’’, under a closed
rule. The rule provides one hour of debate equally
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on the Budget.
The rule waives all points of order against consider-
ation of the bill, provides that the bill shall be con-
sidered as read, and waives all points of order against
provisions in the bill. The rule provides one motion
to recommit. The rule provides for consideration of
H.R. 549, the ‘‘Venezuela TPS Act of 2019’’, under
a closed rule. The rule provides thirty minutes of
general debate equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary. The rule waives all points
of order against consideration of the bill and pro-
vides that an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116–28 shall be considered as adopted and the
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. The
rule waives all points of order against provisions in
the bill, as amended, and provides one motion to re-
commit with or without instructions. The rule
waives clause 6(a) of Rule XIII, requiring a two-
thirds vote to consider a rule on the same day it is
reported from the Rules Committee against any reso-
lution reported through the legislative day of July
26, 2019. Testimony was heard from Chairman
Thompson of Mississippi and Representative Rogers
of Alabama.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Full Com-
mittee held a markup on H.R. 3597, the ‘‘Solar En-
ergy Research and Development Act of 2019’’; H.R.
3607, the ‘‘Fossil Energy Research and Development
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3609, the ‘‘Wind Energy Re-
search and Development Act of 2019’’; and H.R.
335, the ‘‘South Florida Clean Coastal Waters Act of
2019’’. H.R. 3597, H.R. 3607, H.R. 3609, and
H.R. 335 were ordered reported, as amended.
IS THE TAX CUTS AND JOBS ACT A HELP
OR HINDRANCE TO MAIN STREET?
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Is the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:18 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D24JY9.REC D24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D908 July 24, 2019
Help or Hindrance to Main Street?’’. Testimony was
heard from Jane Gravelle, Senior Specialist in Eco-
nomic Policy, Congressional Research Service, Li-
brary of Congress; and public witnesses.
TRUE TRANSPARENCY? ASSESSING WAIT
TIMES FIVE YEARS AFTER PHOENIX
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘True Transparency? Assessing Wait
Times Five Years after Phoenix’’. Testimony was
heard from Debra A. Draper, Director, Health Care
Team, Government Accountability Office; Teresa S.
Boyd, Assistant Deputy Under Secretary for Health
for Clinical Operations, Veterans Health Administra-
tion, Department of Veterans Affairs; and public
witnesses.
FORMER SPECIAL COUNSEL ROBERT S.
MUELLER, III ON THE INVESTIGATION
INTO RUSSIAN INTERFERENCE IN THE
2016 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Former Special
Counsel Robert S. Mueller, III on the Investigation
into Russian Interference in the 2016 Presidential
Election’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
MODERNIZING LEGISLATIVE
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES: LESSONS
FROM THE STATES
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress: Full
Committee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Modernizing
Legislative Information Technologies: Lessons from
the States’’. Testimony was heard from Diane Boyer-
Vine, Legislative Counsel, California; Nelson P. Moe,
Chief Information Officer, Virginia; Mike Rohrbach,
Chief Information Officer and Director of Informa-
tion Technology, State Legislature, Washington.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
JULY 25, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: to hold
hearings to examine hemp production and the 2018 farm
bill, 9:30 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Armed Services: business meeting to con-
sider pending military nominations, 9:30 a.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine the importance of energy innovation to
economic growth and competitiveness, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Finance: business meeting to consider an
original bill entitled, ‘‘The Prescription Drug Pricing Re-
duction Act of 2019’’, 9:30 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: business meeting to con-
sider S. 398, to support the peaceful resolution of the
civil war in Yemen, to address the resulting humanitarian
crisis, and to hold the perpetrators responsible for mur-
dering a Saudi dissident, S. 2066, to review United States
Saudi Arabia Policy, S. 1441, to impose sanctions with
respect to the provision of certain vessels for the construc-
tion of Russian energy export pipelines, protocol to the
North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of the
Republic of North Macedonia (Treaty Doc. 116–01), and
the nominations of Pamela Bates, of Virginia, to be Rep-
resentative of the United States of America to the Orga-
nization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
with the rank of Ambassador, Jonathan R. Cohen, of
California, to be Ambassador to the Arab Republic of
Egypt, Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to be the Representative
of the United States of America to the United Nations,
with the rank and status of Ambassador, and the Rep-
resentative of the United States of America in the Secu-
rity Council of the United Nations, and to be Represent-
ative of the United States of America to the Sessions of
the General Assembly of the United Nations during her
tenure of service as Representative of the United States
of America to the United Nations, Philip S. Goldberg,
of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador to the Re-
public of Colombia, Christopher Landau, of Maryland, to
be Ambassador to the United Mexican States, Richard B.
Norland, of Iowa, to be Ambassador to Libya, John
Rakolta, Jr., of Michigan, to be Ambassador to the
United Arab Emirates, Jennifer D. Nordquist, of Vir-
ginia, to be United States Executive Director of the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a
term of two years, and other pending nominations, 10:30
a.m., S–116, Capitol.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
to hold hearings to examine state and Federal rec-
ommendations for enhancing school safety against tar-
geted violence, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
S. 1494, to amend the William Wilberforce Trafficking
Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 to pro-
tect alien minors and to amend the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to end abuse of the asylum system and es-
tablish refugee application and processing centers outside
the United States, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on the De-
partment of Homeland Security, oversight hearing on
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 1 p.m.,
2359 Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Protecting the Right to Organize Act: Modernizing
America’s Labor Laws’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:18 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D24JY9.REC D24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D909
July 24, 2019
Committee on Financial Services, Task Force on Financial
Technology, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Use of Al-
ternative Data in Underwriting and Credit Scoring to Ex-
pand Access to Credit’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Asia, the
Pacific, and Nonproliferation, hearing entitled ‘‘Human
Rights in Southeast Asia: A Regional Outlook’’, 10 a.m.,
2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, Energy, and the En-
vironment, hearing entitled ‘‘Russia and Arms Control:
Extending New START or Starting Over?’’, 2 p.m., 2172
Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Intel-
ligence and Counterterrorism; and the Subcommittee on
Border Security, Facilitation, and Operations, joint hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Homeland Security Implications of the
Opioid Crisis’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Oversight of Family Separation and U.S. Customs
and Border Protection Short-Term Custody under the
Trump Administration’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Energy
and Mineral Resources, hearing entitled ‘‘Increasing Re-
newable Energy on Public Lands’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Long-
worth.
Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and Wildlife, hear-
ing on H.R. 335, the ‘‘South Florida Clean Coastal
Waters Act of 2019’’; H.R. 729, the ‘‘Tribal Coastal Re-
siliency Act’’; H.R. 2185, the ‘‘District of Columbia
Flood Prevention Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3115, the ‘‘Living
Shorelines Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3237, the ‘‘Platte River
Recovery Implementation Program Extension Act’’; H.R.
3510, the ‘‘Water Resources Research Amendments Act’’;
H.R. 3541, the ‘‘Coastal State Climate Preparedness Act’’;
H.R. 3596, the ‘‘Keep America’s Waterfronts Working
Act’’; and H.R. 3723, the ‘‘Desalination Development
Act’’, 10 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘When Science Gets
Trumped: Scientific Integrity at the Department of the
Interior’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
markup on S. 406, the ‘‘Federal Rotational Cyber Work-
force Program Act of 2019’’; H.R. 887, to designate the
facility of the United States Postal Service located at 877
East 1200 South in Orem, Utah, as the ‘‘Jerry C.
Washburn Post Office Building’’; H.R. 1252, to des-
ignate the facility of the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 6531 Van Nuys Boulevard in Van Nuys, Cali-
fornia, as the ‘‘Marilyn Monroe Post Office’’; H.R. 1253,
to designate the facility of the United States Postal Serv-
ice located at 13507 Van Nuys Boulevard in Pacoima,
California, as the ‘‘Ritchie Valens Post Office Building’’;
H.R. 1972, to designate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 1100 West Kent Avenue in Mis-
soula, Montana, as the ‘‘Jeannette Rankin Post Office
Building’’; H.R. 2151, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 7722 South Main
Street in Pine Plains, New York, as the ‘‘Senior Chief
Petty Officer Shannon M. Kent Post Office’’; H.R. 3207,
to designate the facility of the United States Postal Serv-
ice located at 114 Mill Street in Hookstown, Pennsyl-
vania, as the ‘‘Staff Sergeant Dylan Elchin Post Office
Building’’; H.R. 3314, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 1750 McCulloch
Boulevard North in Lake Havasu City, Arizona, as the
‘‘Lake Havasu City Combat Veterans Memorial Post Of-
fice Building’’; H.R. 3329, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 5186 Benito Street
in Montclair, California, as the ‘‘Paul Eaton Post Office
Building’’; a Resolution Offered by Chairman Elijah E.
Cummings Authorizing Issuance of Subpoena Related to
Non-Official Electronic Messaging Accounts; H.R. 3889,
the ‘‘ONDCP Technical Corrections Act’’; and a Resolu-
tion Recommending that the House of Representatives
find Kellyanne Conway, Senior Counselor to the Presi-
dent, in Contempt of Congress for her Refusal to Comply
with a Subpoena Duly Issued by the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Economic and Consumer Policy,
hearing entitled ‘‘Examining JUUL’s Role in the Youth
Nicotine Epidemic: Part II’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Research and Technology, hearing entitled ‘‘Benign by
Design: Innovations in Sustainable Chemistry’’, 10 a.m.,
2318 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘The Commercial Space Landscape: Innovation, Mar-
ket, and Policy’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Rural
Development, Agriculture, Trade, and Entrepreneurship,
hearing entitled ‘‘Supporting the Next Generation of Ag-
ricultural Businesses’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Highways and Transit, hearing entitled
‘‘Examining the Federal Role in Improving School Bus
Safety’’, 2 p.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Tech-
nology Modernization, hearing entitled ‘‘VistA Transi-
tion: Assessing the Future of an Electronic Health
Records Pioneer’’, 10:15 a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Social Security 2100 Act’’, 10 a.m., 1100
Longworth.
Full Committee, business meeting on historical docu-
ments protected under Internal Revenue Code section
6103, 2 p.m., 1100 Longworth.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Com-
mittee, business meeting on Consideration of the Access
Request from Rep. Elissa Slotkin and Rep. Mike Thomp-
son; and Consideration of the Access Request from Rep.
Stephanie Murphy, 9 a.m., HVC–304.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Creating a Climate Resilient America:
Business Views on the Costs of the Climate Crisis’’, 2
p.m., 2261 Rayburn.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to hold
hearings to examine the state of media freedom in the
Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe re-
gion, 3 p.m., HVC–210.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:18 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D24JY9.REC D24JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D910 July 24, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Thursday, July 25
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: After the transaction of any
morning business (not to extend beyond 1:45 p.m.), Sen-
ate begin consideration of the nomination of General
Mark A. Milley, to be Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, and vote on confirmation thereon.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Thursday, July 25
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Consideration of H.R. 3877—
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019 (Subject to a Rule). Con-
sideration of H.R. 549—Venezuela TPS Act of 2019
(Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Armstrong, Kelly, N. Dak., E980
Beatty, Joyce, Ohio, E982
Bilirakis, Gus M., Fla., E976
Boyle, Brendan F., Pa., E982
Cartwright, Matt, Pa., E971
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E979
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E972
Courtney, Joe, Conn., E981
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E972
DeGette, Diana, Colo., E971
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E972
Frankel, Lois, Fla., E977
Gonzalez, Vicente, Tex., E977
Gosar, Paul, Ariz., E978
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E982
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E973, E975, E976, E977, E979
Joyce, John, Pa., E976, E980
Kind, Ron, Wisc., E972
Latta, Robert E., Ohio, E977
Meng, Grace, N.Y., E974
Moore, Gwen, Wisc., E980
Nadler, Jerrold, N.Y., E974
Neal, Richard E., Mass., E973
Newhouse, Dan, Wash., E980
Raja, Krishnamoorthi, Ill., E971
Richmond, Cedric L., La., E980
Rouda, Harley, Calif. E975
Roybal-Allard, Lucille, Calif., E982
San Nicolas, Michael F. Q., Guam , E973, E977
Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E978
Scott, Robert C. ‘‘Bobby’’, Va., E981
Soto, Darren, Fla., E975
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E971, E973, E974
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:18 Jul 25, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D24JY9.REC D24JYPT1
