Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H7093
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019 No. 121
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. MALINOWSKI).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC.
July 18, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable TOM
MALINOWSKI to act as Speaker pro tempore
on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
We give You thanks, O God, for giv-
ing us another day.
This has been a difficult and conten-
tious week in which darker spirits
seem to have been at play in the peo-
ple’s House.
In Your most Holy name, I now cast
out all spirits of darkness from this
Chamber, spirits not from You.
I cast out the spirit of discourage-
ment, which deadens the hope of those
who are of good will.
I cast out the spirit of petty divisive-
ness, which clouds the sense and the
desire to be of fruitful productivity in
addressing the issues more appro-
priately before this House.
I cast out any sadness brought on by
the frustration of dealing with matters
detrimental to the honorable work
each Member has been called to engage
in.
Pour out, O Lord, Your sacred oil, as
You did upon Aaron of old. Anoint
Your servants here in the House with a
healing balm to comfort and renew the
souls of all in this assembly.
May Your spirit of wisdom and pa-
tience descend upon all, so that any
spirit of darkness might have no place
in our midst.
Rather, let Your spirit of comity, of
brother and sisterhood, and love of our
Nation and of all colleagues in this
Chamber, empower our better angels to
be at play in the common work to be
done for the benefit of all Your people.
May all that is done within the peo-
ple’s House be for Your greater honor
and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote on
agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I object
to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr.
KUSTOFF) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to five requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
STAND UP AGAINST BIGOTRY AND
HATE
(Mr. GREEN of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
and still I rise with love of country in
my heart, understanding that, Mr.
Speaker, we have gone from ‘‘lock her
up’’ to ‘‘Jews will not replace us,’’ to
now ‘‘send her back.’’
‘‘Send her back.’’
Mr. Speaker, bigotry, hate is on the
rise in the country, and I am so proud
of the 95 persons who, yesterday, voted
against bigotry and hate. We must not
allow this to continue.
We now are moving on; we are
marching on until victory is won. We
first had 58, then we had 66. Now, we
have 95. We are marching on to 212.
And, Mr. Speaker, let me close with
this: This is an important time in our
country. These are dangerous times.
Every Member of this House needs ad-
ditional security. I am going to file a
bill asking for more security for the
Members of this House.
Leadership has adequate security.
Members do not have adequate secu-
rity. I want to thwart the efforts of
those who might want to harm a Mem-
ber of this House.
f
HONORING NEIL ARMSTRONG
(Mr. CHABOT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:01 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.000 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7094 July 18, 2019
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, as the
Representative of Cincinnati, Ohio, I
rise this morning to recognize an Ohi-
oan who was a professor of aerospace
engineering at the University of Cin-
cinnati. Prior to that, he was a naval
aviator, a test pilot, and, later, an as-
tronaut.
Mr. Speaker, 50 years ago, the words
he spoke now reside in history: ‘‘That’s
one small step for man, one giant leap
for mankind.’’
Everyone on Earth at that time re-
members where he or she was when
Neil Armstrong took that step. His
contributions to space exploration did
not end on the surface of the Moon.
Neil Armstrong was also on the team
that investigated the Apollo 13 acci-
dent, and he was vice chairman of the
commission that investigated the space
shuttle Challenger disaster.
Ohioan Neil Armstrong is a true
American hero, and his extraordinary
service to our country—to all of hu-
mankind, really—will be forever re-
membered.
f
HONORING THE MEMORY OF PHIL
FREELON
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Phil Freelon, who
passed away on July 9 at his home in
Durham, North Carolina.
While attending Central High School
in Philadelphia, he was drawn to art
and the technique of designing and
building. He was one of two Black ar-
chitect students at North Carolina
State University’s College of Design,
where he had a passion for increasing
diversity within his profession.
One of his major contributions to our
Nation was the building of the Na-
tional Museum of African American
History and Culture.
Mr. Speaker, we mourn the passing of
Mr. Freelon, but his legacy and passion
lives on to educate and empower the
next generation of architects.
f
NATIONAL PENNSYLVANIA DAY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize
this Saturday, July 20, as National
Pennsylvania Day.
The Keystone State has played a his-
toric role in our Nation’s founding and
continues to shape our future. It is the
birthplace of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence and home to our Nation’s
very first capital, Philadelphia.
Pennsylvania is also the site of sev-
eral historic battles, including the Bat-
tle of Valley Forge during the Revolu-
tionary War and the Battle of Gettys-
burg during the Civil War. It is where
Betsy Ross handcrafted the first Amer-
ican flag and Colonel Edwin Drake
drilled the first commercial oil well, in
1859.
Pennsylvania has a proud history of
American craftsmanship and work
ethic, from our steel mills and coal
mines to our farmlands and forests.
This great State’s many contribu-
tions to our Nation are a strong testa-
ment to the diverse, industrious citi-
zens who make up this Commonwealth.
Mr. Speaker, today and every day, I
am proud to call Pennsylvania my
home.
f
HIGH COST OF PRESCRIPTION
DRUGS
(Mr. PAPPAS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today on behalf of my constituents,
Bob and Cathy, who shared their story
recently with me at a roundtable dis-
cussion in Manchester.
When Bob was in need of a kidney
transplant, his wife, Cathy, was a
match, and she donated her own kidney
to overcome extensive wait times.
Today, 15 years after Bob’s successful
surgery, he must continue to take
antirejection drugs. This prescription
has always been covered by Cathy’s
private insurance.
Even as Bob and Cathy are near re-
tirement age, retirement is not an op-
tion for them, because Bob’s life is de-
pendent on a prescription drug that
costs $3,000 a month out of pocket.
Nobody in America should be de-
prived the dignity of retirement after a
lifetime of hard work because of the
outrageous costs of lifesaving drugs. I
am committed to working with my col-
leagues to ease the significant burden
and anxiety that so many Americans
unnecessarily face every day.
We must tackle the high cost of pre-
scription drugs now. The American
people are counting on us to do just
that.
f
VALERIE CALHOUN: A TENNESSEE
JOURNALISM LEGEND
(Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Val-
erie Calhoun.
Valerie is the cohost of ‘‘Good Morn-
ing Memphis’’ on WHBQ-TV, and she is
the recipient of five Emmy awards.
Most recently, Valerie was recognized
and honored as an inductee into the
Tennessee Journalism Hall of Fame.
Anyone who knows Valerie Calhoun
recognizes how well-deserved this
honor is for her and her family. Valerie
is someone who puts passion and dedi-
cation behind everything that she does.
Through Valerie’s lifelong commit-
ment to journalism, she has brought
news from around the world into every
home in Memphis, west Tennessee, and
the Memphis metropolitan community.
On top of her skills in journalism,
Valerie and her family have become an
integral part of the Memphis commu-
nity through their volunteer work. You
can always find Valerie and her hus-
band, John, volunteering at Southern
Reins, at Beau’s school, and hosting
numerous charitable events through-
out the community.
Through her hard work and dedica-
tion to journalism, Valerie has become
an inspiration to many looking to
make their career in broadcasting and
in journalism.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Valerie
on her induction into the Tennessee
Hall of Fame.
f
HONORING JANE BLOCK
(Mr. TAKANO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate a dear friend whom
I greatly admire, Jane Block.
Jane has dedicated her life to our
community, to activism, and to mak-
ing our society more just and equal for
everyone.
She has been instrumental in leading
the women’s movement in Riverside by
serving on the committee that led to
the founding of UCR’s Women’s Re-
source Center and chairing the River-
side County Commission on the Status
of Women.
Apart from her work to advance
women’s issues, Jane is president of
the Riverside Land Conservancy and
has helped to establish the Box Springs
Mountain Reserve in Moreno Valley,
which declared the region as a park in-
stead of a development area.
Jane’s work has not gone unnoticed,
and my district is a better place be-
cause of her. It is an honor not only to
have her as a member of my commu-
nity, but also to call her my friend.
Mr. Speaker, I wish Jane a happy
90th birthday.
f
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ‘‘APOLLO
11’’
(Mr. JORDAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, in July of
1969, Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and
Michael Collins achieved something
once thought impossible: successfully
landing on the Moon and returning
safely to the Earth.
They succeeded despite the many
dangers they faced and the countless
things that could have gone wrong dur-
ing their pioneering 240,000-mile jour-
ney.
As we mark the 50th anniversary of
Apollo 11, I take special pride in rep-
resenting Neil Armstrong’s birthplace,
Wapakoneta, Ohio, home of the Neil
Armstrong Air and Space Museum.
The museum has on display many ar-
tifacts from the mission and other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.003 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7095
July 18, 2019
items from Mr. Armstrong’s life and
career. The museum’s yearlong cele-
bration of the Apollo 11 anniversary
culminates this weekend in a series of
events, ranging from meet-and-greets
with active and retired astronauts to
the Run to the Moon 5k and 10k races,
special exhibits at the museum, and
the grand finale concert.
Mr. Speaker, Neil Armstrong died in
2012 at the age of 82, but the impact of
his journey is still felt today in rural
Auglaize County, Ohio, and throughout
the world.
I am pleased to join the people of
Wapakoneta in celebrating the man
who took a small step but left a giant
legacy.
f
b 0915
END SURPRISE MEDICAL BILLS
(Mr. RUIZ asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to cele-
brate an important milestone in the
fight to protect patients from unfair
and expensive surprise medical bills.
For too many middle-class families,
receiving an unexpected and very ex-
pensive bill from an out-of-network
provider is devastating and can lead to
severe anxiety, depression, and finan-
cial ruin.
That is why, yesterday, the House
Energy and Commerce Committee
passed H.R. 3630, the No Surprises Act,
a bill that will protect millions of
hardworking Americans from receiving
a surprise medical bill through no fault
of their own.
I am fighting to end surprise medical
bills once and for all. The No Surprises
Act includes my bipartisan amendment
to create an independent arbitration
process that keeps patients out of the
middle and off the hook for surprise
medical bills.
As an emergency medicine physician,
my life’s work has been about putting
patients first, and I am still fighting to
put their health above all else.
I thank Chairman PALLONE for lead-
ing an open, inclusive, and collabo-
rative process that has brought us one
step closer to a bipartisan solution
that protects patients and ends sur-
prise medical bills.
f
WORK ON KITCHEN-TABLE ISSUES
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, in Mat-
thew in the New Testament, it talks
about: ‘‘You will recognize them by
their fruits. Are grapes gathered from
thornbushes or figs from thistles? So,
every healthy tree bears good fruit, but
the diseased tree bears bad fruit.’’
Mr. Speaker, the tree of the House of
Representatives hasn’t borne much
fruit this week. At a time of hurricane
and floods, the continued border crisis
exacerbated by inaction on properly de-
fining ‘‘asylum’’ or ‘‘legal immigra-
tion,’’ instead of the kitchen-table
issues families sent us to work on, we
get impeachment questions that, for
all the hype, barely mustered one-fifth
of House votes to not table that discus-
sion. Next week is another round of
Robert Mueller, after 2 years and tens
of millions of dollars of drilling a dry
well.
Mr. Speaker, for those who watch
this House, our constituents, to actu-
ally feel embarrassed by its governing,
even causing our Speaker pro tempore
to abandon the Chair—out of privilege,
I believe—over this infighting, we have
some serious self-contemplation and
soul-searching to do as a body to up-
hold the dignity of this institution, not
just change the rules to support the in-
appropriate language of its leaders of
this House or attack our close ally
Israel with a BDS resolution.
Mr. Speaker, we will be recognized by
the fruits we produce in this body.
f
RAISE THE WAGE ACT
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
pursuant to House Resolution 492, I
call up the bill (H.R. 582) to provide for
increases in the Federal minimum
wage, and for other purposes, and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 492, the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, print-
ed in the bill, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part A of House Report
116–155, is adopted, and the bill, as
amended, is considered read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 582
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Raise the Wage
Act’’.
SEC. 2. MINIMUM WAGE INCREASES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 6(a)(1) of the Fair
Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C.
206(a)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(1) except as otherwise provided in this sec-
tion, not less than—
‘‘(A) $8.40 an hour, beginning on the effective
date under section 7 of the Raise the Wage Act;
‘‘(B) $9.50 an hour, beginning 1 year after
such effective date;
‘‘(C) $10.60 an hour, beginning 2 years after
such effective date;
‘‘(D) $11.70 an hour, beginning 3 years after
such effective date;
‘‘(E) $12.80 an hour, beginning 4 years after
such effective date;
‘‘(F) $13.90 an hour, beginning 5 years after
such effective date;
‘‘(G) $15.00 an hour, beginning 6 years after
such effective date; and
‘‘(H) beginning on the date that is 7 years
after such effective date, and annually there-
after, the amount determined by the Secretary
under subsection (h);’’,
(b) DETERMINATION BASED ON INCREASE IN THE
MEDIAN HOURLY WAGE OF ALL EMPLOYEES.—
Section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 (29 U.S.C. 206) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(h)(1) Not later than each date that is 90
days before a new minimum wage determined
under subsection (a)(1)(H) is to take effect, the
Secretary shall determine the minimum wage to
be in effect under this subsection for each period
described in subsection (a)(1)(H). The wage de-
termined under this subsection for a year shall
be—
‘‘(A) not less than the amount in effect under
subsection (a)(1) on the date of such determina-
tion;
‘‘(B) increased from such amount by the an-
nual percentage increase, if any, in the median
hourly wage of all employees as determined by
the Bureau of Labor Statistics; and
‘‘(C) rounded up to the nearest multiple of
$0.05.
‘‘(2) In calculating the annual percentage in-
crease in the median hourly wage of all employ-
ees for purposes of paragraph (1)(B), the Sec-
retary, through the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
shall compile data on the hourly wages of all
employees to determine such a median hourly
wage and compare such median hourly wage for
the most recent year for which data are avail-
able with the median hourly wage determined
for the preceding year.’’.
SEC. 3. TIPPED EMPLOYEES.
(a) BASE MINIMUM WAGE FOR TIPPED EM-
PLOYEES AND TIPS RETAINED BY EMPLOYEES.—
Section 3(m)(2)(A)(i) of the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 203(m)(2)(A)(i)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(i) the cash wage paid such employee, which
for purposes of such determination shall be not
less than—
‘‘(I) for the 1-year period beginning on the ef-
fective date under section 7 of the Raise the
Wage Act, $3.60 an hour;
‘‘(II) for each succeeding 1-year period until
the hourly wage under this clause equals the
wage in effect under section 6(a)(1) for such pe-
riod, an hourly wage equal to the amount deter-
mined under this clause for the preceding year,
increased by the lesser of—
‘‘(aa) $1.50; or
‘‘(bb) the amount necessary for the wage in
effect under this clause to equal the wage in ef-
fect under section 6(a)(1) for such period,
rounded up to the nearest multiple of $0.05; and
‘‘(III) for each succeeding 1-year period after
the increase made pursuant to subclause (II),
the minimum wage in effect under section
6(a)(1); and’’.
(b) TIPS RETAINED BY EMPLOYEES.—Section
3(m)(2)(A) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 (29 U.S.C. 203(m)(2)(A)) is amended—
(1) in the second sentence of the matter fol-
lowing clause (ii), by striking ‘‘of this sub-
section, and all tips received by such employee
have been retained by the employee’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘of this subsection. Any employee shall
have the right to retain any tips received by
such employee’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘An
employer shall inform each employee of the
right and exception provided under the pre-
ceding sentence.’’.
(c) SCHEDULED REPEAL OF SEPARATE MINIMUM
WAGE FOR TIPPED EMPLOYEES.—
(1) TIPPED EMPLOYEES.—Section 3(m)(2)(A) of
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C.
203(m)(2)(A)), as amended by subsections (a)
and (b), is further amended by striking the sen-
tence beginning with ‘‘In determining the wage
an employer is required to pay a tipped em-
ployee,’’ and all that follows through ‘‘of this
subsection.’’ and inserting ‘‘The wage required
to be paid to a tipped employee shall be the
wage set forth in section 6(a)(1).’’.
(2) PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.—Subsection (i) of
section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 (29 U.S.C. 206), as amended by section 5, is
further amended by striking ‘‘or in accordance
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.005 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7096 July 18, 2019
with subclause (II) or (III) of section
3(m)(2)(A)(i)’’.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by paragraphs (1) and (2) shall take effect on
the date that is one day after the date on which
the hourly wage under subclause (III) of section
3(m)(2)(A)(i) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 (29 U.S.C. 203(m)(2)(A)(i)), as amended by
subsection (a), takes effect.
SEC. 4. NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES WHO ARE LESS
THAN 20 YEARS OLD.
(a) BASE MINIMUM WAGE FOR NEWLY HIRED
EMPLOYEES WHO ARE LESS THAN 20 YEARS
OLD.—Section 6(g)(1) of the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(g)(1)) is amended
by striking ‘‘a wage which is not less than $4.25
an hour.’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘a wage
at a rate that is not less than—
‘‘(A) for the 1-year period beginning on the ef-
fective date under section 7 of the Raise the
Wage Act, $5.50 an hour;
‘‘(B) for each succeeding 1-year period until
the hourly wage under this paragraph equals
the wage in effect under section 6(a)(1) for such
period, an hourly wage equal to the amount de-
termined under this paragraph for the preceding
year, increased by the lesser of—
‘‘(i) $1.25; or
‘‘(ii) the amount necessary for the wage in ef-
fect under this paragraph to equal the wage in
effect under section 6(a)(1) for such period,
rounded up to the nearest multiple of $0.05; and
‘‘(C) for each succeeding 1-year period after
the increase made pursuant to subparagraph
(B)(ii), the minimum wage in effect under sec-
tion 6(a)(1).’’.
(b) SCHEDULED REPEAL OF SEPARATE MIN-
IMUM WAGE FOR NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES WHO
ARE LESS THAN 20 YEARS OLD.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 6(g) of the Fair
Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(g)),
as amended by subsection (a), shall be repealed.
(2) PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.—Subsection (i) of
section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 (29 U.S.C. 206), as amended by section
3(c)(2), is further amended by striking ‘‘or sub-
paragraph (B) or (C) of subsection (g)(1),’’.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The repeal and amend-
ment made by paragraphs (1) and (2), respec-
tively, shall take effect on the date that is one
day after the date on which the hourly wage
under subparagraph (C) of section 6(g)(1) of the
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C.
206(g)(1)), as amended by subsection (a), takes
effect.
SEC. 5. PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
Section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 (29 U.S.C. 206), as amended by the pre-
ceding sections, is further amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(i) Not later than 60 days prior to the effec-
tive date of any increase in the required wage
determined under subsection (a)(1) or subpara-
graph (B) or (C) of subsection (g)(1), or in ac-
cordance with subclause (II) or (III) of section
3(m)(2)(A)(i) or section 14(c)(1)(A), the Secretary
shall publish in the Federal Register and on the
website of the Department of Labor a notice an-
nouncing each increase in such required
wage.’’.
SEC. 6. PROMOTING ECONOMIC SELF-SUFFI-
CIENCY FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DIS-
ABILITIES.
(a) WAGES.—
(1) TRANSITION TO FAIR WAGES FOR INDIVID-
UALS WITH DISABILITIES.—Subparagraph (A) of
section 14(c)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act
of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 214(c)(1)) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘(A) at a rate that equals, or exceeds, for each
year, the greater of—
‘‘(i)(I) $4.25 an hour, beginning 1 year after
the date the wage rate specified in section
6(a)(1)(A) takes effect;
‘‘(II) $6.40 an hour, beginning 2 years after
such date;
‘‘(III) $8.55 an hour, beginning 3 years after
such date;
‘‘(IV) $10.70 an hour, beginning 4 years after
such date;
‘‘(V) $12.85 an hour, beginning 5 years after
such date; and
‘‘(VI) the wage rate in effect under section
6(a)(1), on the date that is 6 years after the date
the wage specified in section 6(a)(1)(A) takes ef-
fect; or
‘‘(ii) if applicable, the wage rate in effect on
the day before the date of enactment of the
Raise the Wage Act for the employment, under
a special certificate issued under this para-
graph, of the individual for whom the wage rate
is being determined under this subparagraph,’’.
(2) PROHIBITION ON NEW SPECIAL CERTIFI-
CATES; SUNSET.—Section 14(c) of the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 214(c)) (as
amended by paragraph (1)) is further amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) PROHIBITION ON NEW SPECIAL CERTIFI-
CATES.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall not issue a special certificate
under this subsection to an employer that was
not issued a special certificate under this sub-
section before the date of enactment of the Raise
the Wage Act.
‘‘(7) SUNSET.—Beginning on the day after the
date on which the wage rate described in para-
graph (1)(A)(i)(VI) takes effect, the authority to
issue special certificates under paragraph (1)
shall expire, and no special certificates issued
under paragraph (1) shall have any legal effect.
‘‘(8) TRANSITION ASSISTANCE.—Upon request,
the Secretary shall provide—
‘‘(A) technical assistance and information to
employers issued a special certificate under this
subsection for the purposes of—
‘‘(i) transitioning the practices of such em-
ployers to comply with this subsection, as
amended by the Raise the Wage Act; and
‘‘(ii) ensuring continuing employment oppor-
tunities for individuals with disabilities receiv-
ing a special minimum wage rate under this sub-
section; and
‘‘(B) information to individuals employed at a
special minimum wage rate under this sub-
section, which may include referrals to Federal
or State entities with expertise in competitive in-
tegrated employment.’’.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this subsection shall take effect on the date
of enactment of this Act.
(b) PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.—
(1) AMENDMENT.—Subsection (i) of section 6 of
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C.
206), as amended by section 4(b)(2), is further
amended by striking ‘‘or section 14(c)(1)(A),’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by paragraph (1) shall take effect on the day
after the date on which the wage rate described
in paragraph (1)(A)(i)(VI) of section 14(c) of the
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C.
214(c)), as amended by subsection (a)(1), takes
effect.
SEC. 7. GENERAL EFFECTIVE DATE.
Except as otherwise provided in this Act or
the amendments made by this Act, this Act and
the amendments made by this Act shall take ef-
fect—
(1) subject to paragraph (2), on the first day
of the third month that begins after the date of
enactment of this Act; and
(2) with respect to the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands, on the date that is
18 months after the effective date described in
paragraph (1).
SEC. 8. GAO REPORT.
Not later than 1 year after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall
submit to the Education and Labor Committee of
the House of Representatives and the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate a report that, with respect to the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands—
(1) assesses the status and structure of the
economy (including employment, earnings and
wages, and key industries); and
(2) for each year in which a wage increase
will take effect under subsection (a)(1) or (g)(1)
of section 6, section 3(m)(2)(A)(i), or section
14(c)(1)(A) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), as amended by this
Act, estimates the proportion of employees who
will be directly affected by each such wage in-
crease taking effect for such year, disaggregated
by industry and occupation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill,
as amended, shall be debatable for 1
hour, equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Education and
Labor.
After 1 hour of debate, it shall be in
order to consider the further amend-
ment printed in part B of House Report
116–155, if offered by the Member des-
ignated in the report, which shall be
considered read, shall be separately de-
batable for the time specified in the re-
port equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent, and
shall not be subject to a demand for a
division of the question.
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
SCOTT) and the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX) each will
control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Virginia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Virginia?
There was no objection.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, the idea behind the Fed-
eral minimum wage is simple: Hard-
working Americans should be paid at
least enough to provide for themselves
and their families.
After more than a decade with no in-
crease in the minimum wage, the long-
est stretch since the minimum wage
was established in 1938, it is no longer
serving that purpose.
Today, the Federal minimum wage is
a poverty wage in every region of our
Nation. Our Nation’s workers deserve
better.
The Raise the Wage Act, H.R. 582,
gradually increases the Federal min-
imum wage to $15 an hour by 2025.
After 2025, this legislation indexes fu-
ture increases to the minimum wage to
increases in the median wage so that
the value does not erode over time. It
gradually phases out the subminimum
wages to ensure that tipped workers,
youth workers, and workers with dis-
abilities are paid at least the full Fed-
eral minimum wage.
The benefits of this legislation are
significant and widespread. Economic
analysis estimates that the Raise the
Wage Act would increase wages for up
to 33 million workers and lift 1.3 mil-
lion Americans out of poverty.
The Raise the Wage Act is not just
good for workers. It is good for the
economy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:01 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.002 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7097
July 18, 2019
While the Republican tax bill gave
the largest benefits to corporations and
the wealthy, this bill puts money di-
rectly into the hands of workers, who
will spend that money in their commu-
nities.
Today is a historic day. For the first
time in more than 12 years, the House
is voting to restore the value of the
Federal minimum wage and restore the
value of work in America.
Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my col-
leagues to support the Raise the Wage
Act, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in complete oppo-
sition to H.R. 582, a radical, risky, and
unnecessary bill that puts party poli-
tics above the best interests of Amer-
ican workers and their families.
Increasing the Federal minimum
wage by 107 percent is a harmful and
unprecedented mandate that would re-
sult in millions of job losses for vulner-
able Americans, small business clo-
sures, and significant damage to the
U.S. economy.
A detailed study issued this month
by the nonpartisan Congressional
Budget Office, CBO, estimates a $15
minimum wage would cause up to 3.7
million lost jobs—3.7 million jobs. One
job lost is too many; 3.7 million jobs
lost is unconscionable.
Those hurt the most by this bill
would be female workers, young work-
ers, and those with less than a high
school diploma.
In our committee earlier this year,
we heard testimony from Ms. Simone
Barron, a restaurant worker from Se-
attle, Washington, where the minimum
wage has already been raised to $15 per
hour. Simone said that, after the city
of Seattle raised the minimum wage,
her employer moved her from standard
a tip line to a service charge model,
which resulted in her taking home less
pay.
Small businesses will also suffer if
this far-left policy is implemented.
Without the cash reserves or profit
margins to absorb the increase in labor
costs, small businesses will have a
choice of several bad options. Among
their choices are laying off workers,
raising prices on their customers, re-
placing workers with robots, or going
out of business.
The National Federation of Inde-
pendent Business estimates that busi-
nesses with fewer than 500 employees
will account for 57 percent of job
losses, and businesses with fewer than
100 employees will account for 43 per-
cent of job losses.
Still, my Democratic colleagues are
trying to sell this radical wage hike by
claiming it will redistribute wealth
and provide poor Americans with a
‘‘living wage.’’ Yet, the CBO predicts
that, by 2025, there would be a $9 bil-
lion net reduction in family income re-
sulting from a $15 minimum wage. This
so-called raise would reduce pay for
many American families.
Let’s not forget, the U.S. economy is
booming, and lesser-skilled workers
are benefiting. Earlier this month, The
Wall Street Journal reported that
‘‘wages are rising at the fastest rate in
a decade for lower-skilled workers, and
unemployment among less-educated
Americans and minorities is near a
record low.’’
We know from the latest jobs report
that progrowth policies like the Repub-
lican Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and elimi-
nating unnecessary regulations are
raising wages, adding jobs, and reduc-
ing unemployment.
With 7.3 million unfilled jobs nation-
wide, job creators know they must
offer competitive wages and benefits to
attract and retain workers, so it is be-
wildering that Democrats refuse to ac-
knowledge or celebrate the victories of
our present economy and continue to
call for socialist policies. Instead, they
want to pass this ill-advised legisla-
tion, which would wreak havoc on the
economic progress we have achieved
over the last few years.
The cost of living in New York City
is much higher than the cost of living
in my hometown in North Carolina.
With such disparities in the cost of liv-
ing across the country, mandating a
one-size-fits-all wage hike will cause
job losses and harm entry-level work-
ers in many regions around the coun-
try.
Even President Obama’s former
chairman of economic advisers, Alan
Krueger, argued in October 2015 that
raising the minimum wage to $15 would
‘‘put us in uncharted waters and risk
undesirable and unintended con-
sequences.’’
H.R. 582 is deeply irresponsible.
Workers, families, small businesses,
and the U.S. economy will suffer as a
direct result of this drastic mandate.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I remind my colleague that a vote
against this bill is a vote to deny about
37 percent of workers in her district of
North Carolina a raise of about $3,800 a
year.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms.
BONAMICI), the chair of the Education
and Labor Subcommittee on Civil
Rights and Human Services.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairman SCOTT for yielding.
The Federal minimum wage has been
stagnant for too long, exacerbating in-
come inequality and leaving working
families behind.
A recent study from the National
Low Income Housing Coalition found
that someone working 40 hours a week
who is earning the Federal minimum
wage or the prevailing State minimum
wage cannot afford a two-bedroom
rental home at fair market rent in any
State, metropolitan area, or county in
the country.
Workers working full-time should be
able to afford basic needs like food,
housing, healthcare, and childcare.
Today, we can support working fami-
lies by passing the Raise the Wage Act.
This bill will gradually raise the min-
imum wage to $15 an hour by 2025 and
make sure that tipped workers, youth,
and individuals with disabilities are
paid a full, not a subminimum, wage.
Recent analysis from the Economic
Policy Institute found that raising the
Federal minimum wage to $15 an hour
would benefit close to 27,000 workers
just in northwest Oregon alone.
The Raise the Wage Act is good for
workers and good for the economy.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman
SCOTT for his leadership, and I urge my
colleagues to support the bill.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMP-
SON).
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairwoman
from North Carolina for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I certainly rise in favor
of upward mobility. I rise in favor of
greater opportunity. But this bill
doesn’t do that. I rise in opposition to
this underlying bill.
Mr. Speaker, increasing the Federal
minimum wage by 107 percent is an ex-
treme and unprecedented policy that
will have a severe and negative impact
on many American families, our Na-
tion’s workforce, our economy, and
once again, most importantly, hard-
working American families.
According to the nonpartisan Con-
gressional Budget Office, if enacted,
this legislation would cause approxi-
mately 3.7 million workers—let’s ex-
trapolate that to families—across this
Nation to lose their jobs by 2025.
b 0930
My home State of Pennsylvania has
estimated that more than 120,000 indi-
viduals, thereby families, would be
negatively impacted through the loss
of their jobs. That is not upward mobil-
ity. That is downward mobility.
Mr. Speaker, the majority of Ameri-
cans, 54 percent, think losing up to 3.7
million jobs for a $15 minimum wage is
not a good idea. And 42 percent of fami-
lies with a minimum-wage earner
would see a net reduction in total fam-
ily income under the $15 minimum
wage. That is according to the Congres-
sional Budget Office.
Mr. Speaker, that is totally unac-
ceptable.
Now, I have always been a proponent
of Federal policies that aim to lift indi-
viduals out of poverty and provide
them with skills necessary to gain
good-paying, family-sustaining jobs.
We have done that in this body, and it
is working.
We should be promoting bipartisan
policies that are proven to enhance
workforce development. For example,
last Congress we passed the Strength-
ening Career and Technical Education
for the 21st Century Act, restoring
rungs on a ladder of opportunity.
The President has signed that bill
into law, and we are working diligently
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:01 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.007 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7098 July 18, 2019
with the States to ensure that they are
doing everything possible to fill the 7.5
million open jobs in this country, most
of them good, family-sustaining jobs.
We need to ensure that policies en-
hance job-training programs; so we are
not talking about a minimum wage
but, rather, arming individuals with
skills to compete and to earn well
above a minimum wage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. I yield
the gentleman from Pennsylvania an
additional 20 seconds.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, 63 percent of Americans
support our leadership expanding path-
ways to greater opportunity through
CTE, the better way.
I want everyone who is willing to
work in this country to succeed, but
this legislation is not the answer. I en-
courage my colleagues to oppose the
bill, and then we can talk after this de-
bate so we can get to work on legisla-
tion to make sure job seekers have the
skills to compete and succeed in the
modern workforce.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I remind my colleague that his vote
against the bill is a vote to deny about
38 percent of the workers in his district
in Pennsylvania an average wage of
about $3,300 a year.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO), the chair of the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I include
in the RECORD a letter from the Na-
tional Employment Law Project in
support.
JULY 16, 2019.
The undersigned organizations enthusiasti-
cally support the Raise the Wage Act of 2019,
introduced by Senators Bernie Sanders (VT)
and Patty Murray (WA), Representatives
Robert C. ‘‘Bobby’’ Scott (VA), Mark Pocan
(WI) and Stephanie Murphy (FL).
If enacted, this legislation would:
Gradually raise the federal minimum wage
to $15 an hour in 2025;
After 2025, adjust the minimum wage each
year to keep pace with growth in the typical
worker’s wages;
Phase out the outdated subminimum wage
for tipped workers, which has been frozen at
a meager $2.13 since 1991; and,
Sunset the much criticized ability of em-
ployers to pay workers with disabilities a
subminimum wage through certificates
issued by DOL.
Phase out the subminimum wage for work-
ers under the age of 20.
At a time when wage stagnation and in-
come inequality pose serious threats to our
families and our economy, the Raise the
Wage Act of 2019 will begin to reverse that
cycle and raise pay broadly across the bot-
tom of the workforce. According to the Eco-
nomic Policy Institute, this Act will deliver
long-overdue raises to more than 1 in 4 work-
ers, 90% of whom are over the age of 20. The
average age of workers who would get a raise
is 35, nearly half have some years of college
education. In fact, those who work year-
round would see a raise in the order of $3,000
a year, which is enough to make a tremen-
dous difference in the life of a preschool
teacher, bank teller, or fastfood worker who
today struggles to get by on around $20,000
per year.
28 percent are working parents with chil-
dren, and half have family incomes of less
than $40,000 per year. Women make up nearly
58 percent of the workers who would benefit
from a $15 minimum wage, which would be
instrumental in helping to close the gender-
wage-gap. Raising the minimum wage to $15
would also significantly benefit workers of
color, with 38 percent of African American
workers and 33 percent of Latinos seeing a
pay increase once this law goes into effect.
These are the frontline workers who make
America run—yet due to the erosion of the
real value of the minimum wage over the
last half century, they are struggling even as
our economy enjoys a solid recovery.
The time for the Raise the Wage Act is
long overdue, and we cannot delay in work-
ing toward its passage. We call on Congress
to enact this important piece of legislation
as quickly as possible, and for President
Trump to sign it when it comes to his desk.
Sincerely,
RI Coalition of Labor Union Women
(CLUW); Raise Minimum Wages; Raise the
Wage PA; Raise-Op Housing Cooperative;
Refuge Ministries Tampa Bay; Regina Mundi
Inc.; Religious Institute; Restaurant Oppor-
tunities Center of Michigan (ROC-MI); Res-
taurant Opportunities Center of Pennsyl-
vania; Restaurant Opportunities Centers
United RESULTS Raleigh; RESULTS-Santa
Fe; Rural Coalition; Rural Coaltion &
Alianza Nacional de Campesinas; Rural Com-
munity Workers Alliance; Sacramento Hous-
ing Aliiance; Sacramento Regional Coalition
to End Homelessness; SafeHouse Denver, Inc;
San Diego Hunger Coalition; San Gabriel
Valley-Whittier NOW.
Santa Fe NOW; Sargent Shriver National
Center on Poverty Law; Sconiers Homeless
Preventive Organization Inc; Seattle Human
Services Coalition; Seattle/King County Coa-
lition on Homelessness; Second Harvest Food
Bank of Lehigh Valley and Northeast Penn-
sylvania; SEIU Healthcare Pennsylvania;
Service Employees International Union; Sex-
uality Information and Education Council of
the United States (SIECUS); Sherwood Com-
munity Services; SIA Legal Team;
Sinsinawa Dominican Peace and Justice Of-
fice; Sister Reach; Sisters of Charity Federa-
tion; Sisters of Mercy in NH; Sisters of
Mercy West Midwest Community Justice
Team; Sisters of Saint Mary of Namur; Sis-
ters of St Joseph of Chambery Justice and
Peace Committee; Sisters of St. Dominic of
Blauvelt, New York; Sisters of St. Francis,
Clinton, Iowa Leadership Team.
Sisters of the Holy Spirit and Mary Im-
maculate; Sisters of the Most Precious Blood
of O’Fallon, MO; Social Action Linking To-
gether (SALT); SocioEnergetics Foundation;
outh Carolina Christian Action Council, Inc.;
South Dakota Chapter of the National Asso-
ciation of Social Workers; Southern HIV/
AIDS Strategy Initiative (SASl)/Duke Uni-
versity School of Law; Southern Mutual
Help Association, Inc.; Southern Poverty
Law Center; Southfield Community Church;
Southwest PA National Organization For
Women; Southwest Women’s Law Center;
Sravasti Abbey; St. James Infirmary; St.
Louis CLUW Chapter; St. Louis Gateway
District Area Local—APWU 8; St. Louis
Gateway District Area Local APWU—
POWER Sisters; TASH; Tax Fairness Oregon;
Tax March.
Tenderloin Neighborhood Development
Corporation (TNDC); Tennessee Citizen Ac-
tion; Tennessee Justice Center; Texas Em-
ployment Lawyers Association; THE ABCD,
INC; The Commonwealth Institute for Fiscal
Analysis; The Farmworker Association of
Florida; The Greater Boston Food Bank; The
HUB for Progress; The Praxis Project; The
Public Interest Law Project; The Wash-
ington Initiative for Supported Employment;
The Welcome Church; TMS Enterprises; To-
ledo Area Jobs with Justice & Interfaith
worker Justice Coalition; Transition Serv-
ices, Inc.; Transport Workers Union of Amer-
ica; Treatment Action Group (TAG); Tril-
lium Employment Services; Tzedek DC.
UCSF; UETHDA Head Start; Ultra Violet;
UnidosUS; Union for Reform Judaism; Union
of Sisters of the Blessed Virgin Mary, USA
UNIT; United Food and Commercial Workers
International Union; United Food and Com-
mercial Workers Local 227; United Food and
Commercial Workers Local 75; United for a
Fair Economy; United For Respect; United
Steelworkers (USW); University Church;
University of New Mexico Community and
Regional Planning Department; Upper East
Tennessee Human Development Agency;
URGE: Unite for Reproductive & Gender Eq-
uity; Vennmedia: A Nonprofit Media Enter-
prise; Virginia Employment Lawyers Asso-
ciation; Voices for Progress; Vote-Climate.
Wage Equality; Washington Anti-Hunger &
Nutrition Coalition; Washington Lawyers’
Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Af-
fairs; Washington Legal Clinic for the Home-
less; Washington State Budget & Policy Cen-
ter; Washington State Community Action
Partnership; Watertown Citizens for Peace,
Justice & the Environment; We The People—
Pennsylvania; Wellstone Democratic Re-
newal Club; West Valley Neighborhoods Coa-
lition; West Virginia Center on Budget and
Policy; Western Center on Law and Poverty;
Western NY Chapter Coalition of Labor
Union Women; Western Pennsylvania Em-
ployment Lawyers Association (WPELA);
WHEAT—World Hunger Education, Advo-
cacy & Training; Whitman-Walker Health;
Windham Area Interfaith Ministry.
Wisconsin Faith Voices for Justice; Women
Employed; Women’s Fund of Rhode Island;
Women’s Law Project; Worcester County
Food Bank; Worker Justice Center of New
York; Working Families Party; Working
Partnerships USA; Workplace Fairness;
Young Progressives Demanding Action;
Youth Care; YWCA of the University of Illi-
nois; YWCA Seattle | King | Snohomish; YWCA
USA; YWCA Utah.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 582, the Raise
the Wage Act.
There is currently no place in Amer-
ica where a worker making $7.25 per
hour can afford a two-bedroom apart-
ment. Millions of families are strug-
gling to make ends meet. As one of the
richest countries in the world, we
should be ashamed.
This bill will give 27 million workers
a raise and lift 1.3 million people out of
poverty. Helping low-income workers is
long overdue.
Contrary to what my Republican col-
leagues have been saying, raising the
minimum wage is popular among
American workers. That is why voters
in States like California, Arkansas, Ar-
izona, and Missouri have voted to in-
crease their State minimum wages.
Congress has the opportunity to re-
store the value of work, lift families
out of poverty, and ensure a fair wage
for workers everywhere in America.
I urge all my colleagues to vote in
support of workers and families by sup-
porting the Raise the Wage Act.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the dis-
tinguished gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. RICE).
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, the Democrats’ assault on
rural America continues.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:01 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.009 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7099
July 18, 2019
The Congressional Budget Office esti-
mates that if this minimum wage law
were enacted, up to 3.7 million jobs in
America would vanish. And what areas
would lose the most? Obviously, the
areas with the most minimum wage
jobs, rural areas.
You see, these areas have a much
lower cost of living. You can rent an
apartment for $500 per month, instead
of $3,000 per month in San Francisco,
where NANCY PELOSI is from. Food
costs are lower, taxes are lower, utili-
ties are lower, and an American family
can have a comfortable living on half
what it takes in San Francisco, Se-
attle, or New York.
One size does not fit all. A $15 min-
imum wage would cost these poor rural
counties thousands of jobs. Even blue
State Oregon recognized this fact when
it adopted a tiered minimum wage with
one rate for urban areas, another for
suburban, and another for rural.
I represent three poor South Carolina
counties, Marion, Dillon, and Marlboro.
These are majority African American
and suffered stagnation over a lost dec-
ade following the financial crisis and
the stifling government overreach of
the Obama administration.
After tax reform and regulatory re-
form, these poor counties are finally
recovering. Two years ago, when Don-
ald Trump took office, the unemploy-
ment rate in Marion County was 9.6
percent. Today it is 4.6 percent. What a
turnaround.
And yet, even in the face of this,
Democrats haven’t learned their lesson
and want to return to the days of big
government, big regulation overreach
that will hurt these poor rural counties
the worst.
Everyone is concerned about income
inequality. Here is a suggestion, to
stop complaining and actually do
something about it. Let’s work to-
gether to fix our broken immigration
system.
Hundreds of thousands of illegal
aliens cross our southern border every
year. This limitless supply of cheap
labor steals from our children and
holds down wages for the hardworking,
law-abiding Americans. The most af-
fected are the most vulnerable at the
bottom of the income ladder, and par-
ticularly those in rural areas.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. I yield
the gentleman from South Carolina an
additional 30 seconds.
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Harvard
professor George Borjas estimates that
competition from low-skilled immi-
grants has reduced the American lower
middle-class wages by $800 to $1,500
yearly.
Stop the endless flow of illegal labor
and watch wages rise. For once, let’s
put the American worker first. For
once, let’s put America first.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I remind my colleague that his vote
against this bill is a vote to deny about
41 percent of the workers in his district
in South Carolina a raise of about
$3,800 a year.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. WIL-
SON), the chair of the Health, Employ-
ment, Labor, and Pension Sub-
committee.
Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker,
I include in the RECORD a letter in sup-
port of H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage
Act of 2019, from the U.S. Women’s
Chamber of Commerce.
U.S. WOMEN’S CHAMBER
OF COMMERCE,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
LETTER IN SUPPORT OF H.R. 582, THE RAISE
THE WAGE ACT OF 2019
My name is Margot Dorfman and I am the
CEO of the U.S. Women’s Chamber of Com-
merce. I represent women business owners
across America, who support raising the
minimum wage.
INTRODUCTION
The U.S. Women’s Chamber of Commerce
was founded to support the continued eco-
nomic advancement of women in America.
The Women’s Chamber has more than 500,000
members—most of them small business own-
ers. We have members in every state.
The business owners with whom I talk
every day believe that, far from hurting
their businesses, raising the minimum wage
in fact helps small businesses, women work-
ers and the broader economy. Raising the
minimum wage reinforces their business
strategies, while an inadequate minimum
wage undermines them.
It is vitally important to understand that
the number one problem I hear from my
members is that consumer demand is still
weak. Raising the minimum wage helps di-
rectly with that by putting more money in
the pockets of customers who will spend it at
our local businesses.
The migration of women from the work-
force into business ownership has been one of
the great economic achievements of the
American dream. As women moved from em-
ployees to business owners, we have brought
a new perspective to America’s business
leadership. Women now own about 40 percent
of all privately held firms in the United
States and are exercising the decision-mak-
ing authority that comes with that role to
effect positive changes in the workplace.
My member business owners realize that
most of the people working for low pay
across the country—the waitresses, the
health aides and the cashiers—are women.
Many of my members were once employees
themselves. They know that raising the min-
imum wage helps working women and fami-
lies in their struggle to make ends meet. Our
members know that a minimum wage of $7.25
an hour is much too low.
As a matter of fact, large national chains
that pay low wages may actually be com-
peting unfairly with women-owned small
businesses that work hard to assure that
their employees receive fair pay. In short,
keeping the minimum wage low keeps
women and families down.
For these reasons and more, the U.S. Wom-
en’s Chamber of Commerce supports raising
the federal minimum wage to $15 per hour by
2024 and then indexing it to median hourly
wages so that it doesn’t erode again. And we
also support gradually raising the minimum
wage for tipped workers until it equals the
regular minimum wage as called for in the
Raise the Wage Act.
SMALL BUSINESSES SHOW THAT PAYING HIGHER
WAGES IS ECONOMICALLY REALISTIC
There are two roads to profitability: the
high road and the low road. Businesses can
invest in their workforces with decent wages
and benefits, and enjoy the benefits of a dedi-
cated workforce with lower turnover, higher
productivity and better customer service. Or
businesses can pay poverty wages and churn
through employees. These businesses may
save on immediate payroll, but they experi-
ence the significant expense of higher turn-
over, constant recruitment and training,
higher absenteeism, and a less experienced,
less productive workforce.
Only one road to profitability delivers us a
strong floor under our economy, a growing
middle class, upward mobility and the prom-
ise of the American Dream. The business
owners supported by the U.S. Women’s
Chamber of Commerce have chosen the high
road strategy for building their businesses:
they pay better wages and their businesses
benefit as a result. They report to me that
this approach attracts more stable, depend-
able, productive employees. That’s not sur-
prising since better wages enable workers to
concentrate on their job without continually
worrying about how they will put gas in
their cars, pay for day care or keep up with
their rent.
At small businesses, the owners and em-
ployees work side by side on a daily basis,
working together to offer the best goods and
services to their customers. My members
know they cannot generally compete with
the big box stores or the chain restaurants
on price. Instead, their competitive advan-
tage is higher quality service and a real con-
nection to the community and its residents.
The reality is that my members and other
Main Street businesses have a lot in common
with low-wage workers: both are being
squeezed by big corporations. The low wages
that big retailers and restaurant chains pay
are one of many factors that contributes to
their price advantage over small and local
businesses. Indeed, low-paying big chains
count on responsible employers and tax-
payers to subsidize them by providing food
stamps and public health assistance to their
workers who can’t make ends meet on pov-
erty wages.
Raising the minimum wage to a more real-
istic level helps level the playing field for
businesses like my members who believe in
treating their workers fairly and investing
in the communities they are rooted in.
WEAK CONSUMER SPENDING IS HURTING SMALL
BUSINESSES AND RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE
CAN GIVE IT A BOOST
My members see the stagnant wages and
economic anxiety that most American fami-
lies are facing as one of the major factors
weakening the economy a decade after the
Great Recession. And economists recognize
that until we restore real wage growth for
working and middle-class Americans, con-
sumer spending will not be where we need it
to be to help businesses thrive and grow into
the future.
Too many people forget that workers are
also consumers. Consumer spending drives 70
percent of our economy, and we must
repower broad-based consumer spending—
backed by adequate wages rather than
unaffordable debt—if we are going to repower
our economy, create good jobs and reverse
the decline in our middle class. Raising the
minimum wage boosts the economy from the
bottom up, which is exactly what we need.
That’s why local businesses support raising
the minimum wage—because that additional
money in the pockets of the lowest paid
workers will be spent immediately in the
local economy. These workers are not taking
fancy trips abroad or speculating on Wall
Street. They are spending pay increases at
the grocery store, the pharmacy and the
auto-repair in their communities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:01 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.010 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7100 July 18, 2019
RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE HELPS WORKING
WOMEN
Finally, as a representative of women-
owned businesses, I want to emphasize that
working women represent the greatest per-
centage of workers to benefit from increas-
ing the minimum wage. The typical low-
wage worker is an adult woman. Think of
your waitress at Applebee’s, or the cashier
who rings you up at the supermarket. Think
of the childcare center worker who takes
care of your son or daughter, or the health
aide who helps your mother or grandfather.
Many of the women business owners who
belong to the U.S. Women’s Chamber of Com-
merce left the workforce to start their own
businesses because they felt that the jobs
where women worked were not being fairly
paid. In building their own companies and
becoming employers, they have created
working environments where they try to do
better by paying and playing fairly. That’s
why women-owned businesses tend to pay
above minimum wage. Women business own-
ers understand and value security for fami-
lies.
In sum, a $15 minimum wage by 2024 would
offer all of the benefits that I have outlined:
it will help small businesses like my mem-
bers by putting more money in the pockets
of workers, which will boost spending and
job creation on Main Street; it will help
level the playing field for small businesses
and big businesses; and it will bring fairer
pay to American women, who hold the ma-
jority of the low-wage jobs that will see a
raise.
While some try to portray a minimum
wage increase as a fight between business
and workers, raising the minimum wage is in
reality good for both.
It is for these reasons that the U.S. Wom-
en’s Chamber of Commerce supports the
Raise the Wage Act of 2019.
Thank you.
MARGOT DORFMAN,
Chief Executive Officer, U.S. Women’s
Chamber of CommerceTM.
Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker,
it is amoral that millions of people in
this country are forced to work so hard
for so little in return.
Believe me, Congress knows, because
there is a serious bipartisan movement
afoot to provide Members of Congress
with a cost-of-living raise. Congress re-
alizes that they do not earn enough
and, hopefully, they realize that people
earning $7.50 an hour are definitely not
earning enough.
So today, I call on CNN, MSNBC,
FOX News, to let the American people
know that we are attempting to raise
the minimum wage. Herald it from the
loudest bully pulpit you have. Listen
to the facts given today by Chairman
SCOTT and my colleagues and share
them.
News outlets all over America, you
have a responsibility to let the Amer-
ican people know that we hear them,
we support them, and we understand.
We are doing our very, very best to
help them. We are fighting for them.
Raise the wage, colleagues. Raise the
wage today.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE).
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to encourage my
colleagues to vote against H.R. 582, the
so-called Raise the Wage Act, which is
nothing more than another baseless, ir-
rational attack on President Trump’s
successful economic record.
Just this week, House Democrats
voted to condemn the President, hold
his advisers in contempt, and many
House Democrats voted to impeach the
President. Today, they are working to
undo the economic gains seen under
the Trump administration’s leadership
and undermine the best economy in my
lifetime.
This legislation will arbitrarily dou-
ble the Federal minimum wage to $15
an hour, despite plenty of evidence
that employers are fairly compensating
employees. This bill will hurt the very
low-income people House Democrats
claim they want to help by reducing
employment opportunity and hours.
In fact, the CBO estimated that this
legislation will cost the American
economy up to 3.7 million jobs and re-
duce real wages by $9.5 billion.
I offered a bipartisan amendment to
prevent this bill from taking effect un-
less the GAO could show this legisla-
tion would eliminate fewer than 200,000
jobs in rural America, where I live, but
House Democrats wouldn’t even allow
a debate.
Just in Tennessee, this bill is pre-
dicted to eliminate more than 66,000
jobs, roughly the size of my hometown,
which is the largest city in my district.
In 2016, Seattle’s minimum wage in-
creased to $13 an hour, $2 shy of what
the House Democrats are proposing
today, and it has already reduced hours
for low-income jobs. If legislation like
this is hurting large areas like Seattle,
it will have even a worse impact on
rural America.
I think my colleague across the aisle
said the States had raised this. I think
that is a perfect thing, the States
ought to. They know their local econo-
mies better than we do here in Wash-
ington.
I urge my Democratic colleagues to
work with Republicans to implement
policies to give every American the
tools to seek higher-paying jobs and,
once again, encourage my colleagues to
vote against H.R. 582.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I remind my colleague that his vote
against this bill is a vote to deny about
41 percent of the workers in his district
in Tennessee an average raise of about
$3,700 a year.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from North Carolina (Ms.
ADAMS), the chair of the Subcommittee
on Workforce Protections.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to join my colleagues in strong
support of H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage
Act.
I have been fighting for working fam-
ilies for 3 decades now, from the State
House in North Carolina, to here in the
U.S. House. I led the successful effort
in my State to raise the State’s min-
imum wage in 2006 from $5.15 to $6.15 an
hour. Then, in 2009, the Federal Gov-
ernment raised the wage to $7.25. That
was 12 years ago, and the minimum
wage hasn’t increased since. Only the
cost of living has increased.
Folks working full-time earning the
minimum wage aren’t making enough
to feed their families, and that is not
acceptable. No one working full-time
should live in poverty. Working hard is
not enough if you don’t make enough.
That is why I am a proud supporter
of H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage Act.
The Raise the Wage Act would increase
wages for over 150,000 people in my dis-
trict in North Carolina. It is not just
good for workers; it is good for the
economy.
Unlike the GOP tax cut, which bene-
fited corporations and the wealthy,
this bill will put money in the pockets
of hardworking Americans, who will
spend it in the local economy.
My friends on the other side of the
aisle will use outdated, misleading
data to say that it will kill jobs. But
the most comprehensive and recent re-
search shows no job loss in cities that
have already raised the wage to $15.
The American people are with us on
this. A vast majority support raising
the minimum wage.
You already know folks can’t survive
on $7.25. We don’t have to do that in
Congress. My folks on the other side of
the aisle, you are making six figures.
Can you survive on $7.25?
I urge my colleagues, do what is
right because it is right. America needs
a raise. Join me in voting for this bill.
Give the American people a long over-
due raise.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter from 100 economists in support
of the $15 minimum wage.
[From the Economic Policy Institute, Feb. 6,
2019]
Today, workers who earn the federal min-
imum wage make $7.25 an hour—about 29
percent less per hour than their counterparts
made 50 years ago (after adjusting for infla-
tion) We can afford to pay the lowest-paid
workers in America substantially more than
what their counterparts were paid a half cen-
tury ago Workers produce more today from
each hour of work with productivity nearly
doubling since the late 1960s.
We, the undersigned, support gradually in-
creasing the minimum wage to $15 by 2024,
and then indexing it to median wages to pro-
tect against future erosion. We also support
gradually phasing out the outdated submin-
imum wage for tipped workers, which has
been frozen at $2.13 since 1991.
This policy would directly lift the wages of
28.1 million workers by 2024. Another 11.6
million workers whose wages are just above
the new minimum would likely see a wage
increase through ‘‘spillover’’ effects, as em-
ployers adjust their internal wage scales.
The vast majority of employees who would
benefit are adults—disproportionately
women—in working families, who work at
least 20 hours a week and depend on their
earnings to make ends meet.
A $15 minimum wage by 2024 would result
in $121 billion in higher wages for 39.7 million
low-wage workers, which would also benefit
their families and their communities. Since
lower-paid workers spend a large share of
their additional earnings, this injection of
wages would modestly stimulate consumer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.003 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7101
July 18, 2019
demand, business activity, and job growth.
Further, modest and infrequent minimum
wage increases are directly responsible for
growing inequality between the bottom and
the middle class; this minimum wage in-
crease would provide a significant and much
needed boost to the earnings of low-wage
workers. And, because it would be indexed to
growth in median wages, it would ensure
that the wage floor keeps up with growth of
middle-wage workers going forward.
The last decade has seen a wealth of rig-
orous academic research on the effect of
minimum wage increases on employment,
with the weight of evidence showing that
previous modest increases in the minimum
wage had little or no negative effects on the
employment of low-wage workers. It is time
to support a bolder increase to address the
fact that wages for workers at the low end of
the labor market have continued to stag-
nate. Even if the growth of aggregate work
hours for low-wage workers were to slow
somewhat, workers who work less could still
break even, or come out ahead, in terms of
annual earnings. Since as many as 10 percent
of the lowest-wage workers leave or start
jobs every month, any decrease in the num-
ber of full-time equivalent jobs will mean
that some workers will take more time find-
ing a new job, or will work fewer hours. But
many of these workers may still see their
annual earnings rise because of their wage
increase.
The benefits of gradually phasing in a $15
minimum wage by 2024 would be far-reach-
ing, lifting pay for tens of millions of work-
ers and helping reverse decades of growing
pay inequality. The benefits of a $15 min-
imum wage in 2024 for workers, their fami-
lies, and their communities far outweigh the
potential costs. Of course, the minimum
wage is just one of many policies designed to
help low-wage workers. We believe that an
increase in the minimum wage should be ac-
companied by complementary policies such
as an expanded Earned Income Tax Credit
(EITC), enhanced safety net, increased job
training, and policies to generate full em-
ployment.
Sincerely,
Daron Acemoglu, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, Ph.D.; Jacqueline Agesa,
Marshall University, Ph.D.; Alan Aja, Brook-
lyn College, CUNY, Ph.D.; Randy Albelda,
University of Massachusetts Boston, Ph.D.;
Sylvia A. Allegretto, University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley, Ph.D.; Bernard E. Ander-
son, University of Pennsylvania, Ph.D.; Rob-
ert M. Anderson, University of California,
Berkeley, Ph.D.; Eileen Appelbaum, Center
for Economic and Policy Research, Ph.D.;
Michael Ash, University of Massachusetts
Amherst Ph.D.; Algernon Austin, Demos,
Ph.D.
Kate Bahn, Washington Center for Equi-
table Growth, Ph.D.; Dean Baker, Center for
Economic and Policy Research, Ph.D.;
Erdogan Bakir, Bucknell University, Ph.D.;
Stephen Baldwin, Retired, Ph.D.; Nina
Banks, Bucknell University, Ph.D.; James
Baron, Yale School of Management, Ph.D.;
Lourdes Beneria, Cornell University, Ph.D.;
Jared Bernstein, Ph.D.; Josh Bivens, Eco-
nomic Policy Institute, Ph.D.; Sandra Black,
University of Texas at Austin, Ph.D.
Gail Blattenberger, University of Utah,
Ph.D.; Robert Blecker, American University,
Ph.D.; Barry Bluestone, Northeastern Uni-
versity, Ph.D.; Barry Bosworth, Brookings
Institution, Ph.D.; Heather Boushey, Wash-
ington Center for Equitable Growth, Ph.D.;
Clair Brown, University of California, Berke-
ley, Ph.D. Lawrence Chimerine, Radnor Con-
sulting, Ph.D.; Robert Coen, Northwestern
University, Ph.D.; Jennifer Cohen, Miami
University, Ph.D.; David Cutler Harvard Uni-
versity, Ph.D.
Sheldon Danziger, Univensty of Michigan,
Ph.D.; Angus Deaton, Princeton University,
Ph.D.; Gregory DeFreitas, Hofstra Univer-
sity, Ph.D.; James Devine, Loyola
Marymount University, Ph.D.; Geert Dhondt,
John Jay College, CUNY Ph.D.; Peter Dia-
mond, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, Ph.D.; Adrienne Eaton, Rutgers Uni-
versity Ph.D.; Peter Eaton, University of
Missouri-Kansas City, Ph.D.; John Edgren,
Eastern Michigan University, Ph.D.; Gerald
Epstein, University of Massachusetts Am-
herst, Ph.D.
Allan Freyer, NC Justice Center, Ph.D.;
Teresa Ghilarducci The New School, Ph.D.;
Jeeten Gin, Union College, Ph.D.; Martin
Hart-Landsberg, Lewis and Clark College
Ph.D.; Jeff Hayes, Institute for Women’s Pol-
icy Research, Ph.D.; Adam Hersh Former
Chief Economist of the Joint Economic Com-
mittee, Ph.D.; Stephen Herzenberg, Keystone
Research Center, Ph.D.; Emily Hoffman,
Western Michigan University, Ph.D.; David
Howell, The New School, Ph.D.
Candace Howes, Connecticut College,
Ph.D.; Jennifer Hunt, Rutgers University,
Ph.D.; Jeffrey Keefe, Rutgers University,
Ph.D.; Mary C. King Portland State Univer-
sity, Ph.D.; Janet Knoedler, Bucknell Uni-
versity, Ph.D.; Ebru Kongar, Dickinson Col-
lege, Ph.D.; Brent Kramer, City University
of New York, Ph.D.; Haydar Kurban, Howard
University, Ph.D.; Paul Leigh, University of
California, Davis, Ph.D.; Henry Levin, Co-
lumbia University, Ph.D.
Oren Levin-Waldman, Metropolitan Col-
lege of New York, Ph.D.; Mark Levinson,
SEIU, Ph.D.; Frank Levy, Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology, Ph.D.; David B.
Lipsky, Cornell University, Ph.D.; Pamela
Loprest, Urban Institute, Ph.D.; Stephanie
Luce, School of Labor and Urban Studies/
CUNY, Ph.D.; Lisa Lynch, Brandeis Univer-
sity Ph.D.; Stanley Malinowitz, Universidad
Nacional de Colombia, Ph.D.; Julianne
Malveaux, Economic Education, Ph.D.; Pat-
rick Mason, Florida State University, Ph.D.
Jordan Matsudaira, Columbia University,
Ph.D.; Peter Matthews, Middlebury College,
Ph.D.; Anne Mayhew, University of Ten-
nessee, Ph.D.; Elaine McCrate, University of
Vermont, Ph.D.; John Miller Wheaton Col-
lege, Ph.D.; Lawrence Mishel, Economic Pol-
icy Institute, Ph.D.; Monique Morrissey,
Economic Policy Institute, Ph.D.; Philip
Moss, University of Massachusetts, Lowell,
Ph.D.; Eshragh Motahar Union College,
Ph.D.; Tracy Mott, University of Denver,
Ph.D.
Richard Murnane, Harvard University,
Ph.D.; Robert Murphy, Boston College,
Ph.D.; Paulette Olson, Wright State Univer-
sity, Ph.D.; Rudolph Oswald, Retired, Ph.D.;
Spencer Pack, Connecticut College, Ph.D.;
Prasannan Parthasarathi, Boston College,
Ph.D.; Manuel Pastor University of Southern
California, Ph.D.; Mark Paul, New College of
Florida, Ph.D.; Eva Paus, Mount Holyoke
College Ph.D.; Kenneth Peres, Retired Com-
munications Workers of America, Ph.D.
Joseph Persky, University of Illinois at
Chicago Ph.D.; Michael Piore, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Ph.D.; Robert Pol-
len, University of Massachusetts-Amherst,
Ph.D.; Mark Price, Keystone Research Cen-
ter, Ph.D.; Michael Reich, University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley, Ph.D.; Rene Rosenbaum,
Michigan State University, Ph.D.; Jesse
Rothstein, University of California, Berke-
ley, Ph.D.; Daniel Rubinfeld University of
California, Berkeley, Ph.D.; Emmanuel Saez,
University of California, Berkeley, Ph.D.;
Isabel Sawhill, Brookings Institution, Ph.D.
Peter Schaeffer, West Virginia University,
Ph.D.; William Schaniel, University of West
Georgia, Ph.D.; Stephen J. Schmidt, Union
College, Ph.D.; John Schmitt, Economic Pol-
icy Institute, Ph.D.; Geoffrey Schneider,
Bucknell University, Ph.D.; Juliet Schor,
Boston College, Ph.D.; Robert E Scott Eco-
nomic Policy Institute Ph.D.; Heidi
Shierholz, Economic Policy Institute, Ph.D.;
Rachel Silbermann, Connecticut Voices for
Children, Ph.D.; Andna Smythe, Howard Uni-
versity, Ph.D.
Younghwan Song, Union College Ph.D.;
Sarah Spell, Ph.D.; Case Sprenkle, Univer-
sity of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Ph.D.;
William E. Spriggs, Howard University and
AFL-CIO, Ph.D.; Marshall Steinbaum, Roo-
sevelt Institute, Ph.D.; James Stewart, The
Pennsylvania State University, Ph.D.; Frank
Stricker, CSU Dominguez Hills, Ph.D.; Ken-
neth P. Thomas, University of Missouri-St
Louis, Ph.D.; Chris Tilly, Univeisity of Cali-
fornia Los Angeles, Ph.D.
Laura Tyson, University of California
Berkeley, Ph.D.; Johan Uribe, Denison Uni-
versity, Ph.D.; Paula Voos, Rutgers Univer-
sity, Ph.D.; Richard Walker University of
California, Berkeley, Ph.D.; Robert Wassmer,
California State University, Sacramento,
Ph.D.; David Weil, Brandeis University,
Ph.D.; Joann Weiner, The George Wash-
ington University Ph.D.; Jeannette Wicks-
Lim, University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
Ph.D.; Charles Wilber, University of Notre
Dame, Ph.D.; Sarah Wilhelm, Ph.D.; Robert
B. Williams, Guilford College, Ph.D.; Valerie
Wilson, Economic Policy Institute, Ph.D.;
Yavuz Yasar, University of Denver, Ph.D.;
Alexandria Zhang, Ph.D.; Ben Zipperer, Eco-
nomic Policy Institute, Ph.D.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I do agree with one thing one of our
colleagues across the aisle said a few
minutes ago. We do need to let the
American people know what this House
is about to do; kill millions of jobs.
The CBO’s estimate was that 1.3 mil-
lion jobs would be lost, minimum. Of
those jobs lost, 60 percent would be fe-
male workers, 46 percent would be
young workers, and 38 percent would
have less than a high school diploma.
These are the people that our col-
leagues claim they care about.
However, what they want to do here
today is harm those very people. So I
think it is important that we let the
American people understand what this
legislation does.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to
the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.
WALBERG).
Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in opposition to H.R. 582, better
known as the Raising Unemployment
for American Workers Act.
The bill’s desired outcome may be
well-intentioned, and you will hear hy-
pothetical numbers from my good
friend and chairman of the committee,
assuming jobs are kept, which they
won’t be.
b 0945
In reality, it causes harm to the very
people it is supposed to help. Just ask
the nonpartisan Congressional Budget
Office.
According to a CBO analysis of this
legislation, it could eliminate up to 3.7
million jobs with a minimum wage in-
crease, but the loss of 3.7 million jobs,
and reduce family income by $9 billion.
Low-income workers without a high
school degree would be hit the hardest.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.005 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7102 July 18, 2019
We have seen the real-world con-
sequences of a $15 minimum wage in
cities like Seattle. It resulted in small
businesses cutting jobs and workers re-
ceiving fewer hours and overall take-
home pay.
Instead of a one-size-fits-all ap-
proach, there is a better way to boost
income for hardworking families. Let’s
focus on policies that keep our econ-
omy thriving and create more opportu-
nities for all Americans to find good-
paying, living-wage jobs that allow ad-
vancements as well, not just minimum
wage.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I remind my colleague that his vote
against this bill is a vote to deny about
32 percent of the workers in his district
in Michigan an average raise of about
$2,300 a year. And in the CBO report
that he cited, three of the most recent
studies cited in that report show an ac-
tual increase in jobs, not a decrease.
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL), the
co-chair of the Progressive Caucus, a
gentlewoman who can talk specifically
about Seattle.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, this is a
big day. Today we pass the first min-
imum wage increase for workers in dec-
ades.
And, yes, I am proud to represent Se-
attle, a leader in the Fight for $15,
where I served on the committee that
actually drafted the legislation that
passed, ultimately.
It has been 4 years since Seattle
raised the wage, and I want to tell my
colleagues across the aisle what the ef-
fect of that increase has been.
Seattle is flourishing. Today we have
one of the lowest unemployment rates
in the country, and jobs are growing
steadily.
Last year, Forbes ranked Seattle the
number one best place for business and
careers in 2018, and despite the doom
and gloom predictions from the Na-
tional Restaurant Association when we
passed the bill, what we have seen is
what The Seattle Times called ‘‘a crazy
restaurant boom’’—that is a quote—
with new jobs created every year.
The most recent and credible re-
search shows that wages for Seattle’s
low-wage workers went up without any
negative impact on employment, and
local food prices remained constant so
that families could better afford to buy
healthy food.
When we increased the minimum
wage in Seattle, Mr. Speaker, we got
strong businesses, healthy families,
and flourishing communities. All
American workers deserve the same
thing. Let’s raise the wage today.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a second letter from the National Em-
ployment Law Project in support of
this legislation.
JULY 16, 2019.
The undersigned organizations enthusiasti-
cally support the Raise the Wage Act of 2019,
introduced by Senators Bernie Sanders (VT)
and Patty Murray (WA), Representatives
Robert C. ‘‘Bobby’’ Scott (VA), Mark Paean
(WI) and Stephanie Murphy (FL).
If enacted, this legislation would:
Gradually raise the federal minimum wage
to $15 an hour in 2025;
After 2025, adjust the minimum wage each
year to keep pace with growth in the typical
worker’s wages;
Phase out the outdated subminimum wage
for tipped workers, which has been frozen at
a meager $2.13 since 1991; and,
Sunset the much criticized ability of em-
ployers to pay workers with disabilities a
subminimum wage through certificates
issued by DOL.
Phase out the subminimum wage for work-
ers under the age of 20.
At a time when wage stagnation and in-
come inequality pose serious threats to our
families and our economy, the Raise the
Wage Act of 2019 will begin to reverse that
cycle and raise pay broadly across the bot-
tom of the workforce. According to the Eco-
nomic Policy Institute, this Act will deliver
long-overdue raises to more than 1 in 4 work-
ers, 90% of whom are over the age of 20. The
average age of workers who would get a raise
is 35, nearly half have some years of college
education. In fact, those who work year-
round would see a raise in the order of $3,000
a year, which is enough to make a tremen-
dous difference in the life of a preschool
teacher, bank teller, or fast-food worker who
today struggles to get by on around $20,000
per year.
28 percent are working parents with chil-
dren, and half have family incomes of less
than $40,000 per year. Women make up nearly
58 percent of the workers who would benefit
from a $15 minimum wage, which would be
instrumental in helping to close the gender-
wage-gap. Raising the minimum wage to $15
would also significantly benefit workers of
color, with 38 percent of African American
workers and 33 percent of Latinos seeing a
pay increase once this law goes into effect.
These are the frontline workers who make
America run-yet due to the erosion of the
real value of the minimum wage over the
last half century, they are struggling even as
our economy enjoys a solid recovery.
The time for the Raise the Wage Act is
long overdue, and we cannot delay in work-
ing toward its passage. We call on Congress
to enact this important piece of legislation
as quickly as possible, and for President
Trump to sign it when it comes to his desk.
Sincerely,
Jackson State University; Jewish Women
International; Jobs with Justice; Just Har-
vest: A Center for Action Against Hunger;
Justice and Advocacy Committee of the Le-
high Conference of Churches; Justice for Mi-
grant Women; Kalamazoo Loaves & Fishes;
Kansas Association of Community Action
Programs; Kentucky Equal Justice Center;
Kentucky State AFL-CIO; Keystone
Progress; Keystone Research Center; Kings
Local Food Pantry; Korean Resource Center;
KWH Law Center for Social Justice and
Change.
La Frontera Ministries; La Plata County
Thrive! Living Wage Coalition; Labor Edu-
cation Program, School of Labor and Em-
ployment Relations, University of Illinois;
Lamoille Family Center; Law Foundation of
Silicon Valley; Law Students in Court; Law-
yers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law;
Leadership Conference of Women Religious;
The Leadership Conference on Civil and
Human Rights; Leadership Team, Sisters of
the Presentations; Legal Aid at Work; Legal
Aid Service of Broward County; Legal Mo-
mentum: The Women’s Legal Defense and
Education Fund; Legal Voice; Let Justice
Roll: Living Wage Campaign.
Lincoln Hills Development Corporation;
LiveWell Colorado; Long Beach Gray Pan-
thers; Los Angeles Alliance for a New Econ-
omy; Louisiana Budget Project; Louisiana
Progress Action; Main Street Alliance;
Maine Coalition to End Domestic Violence;
Maine Women’s Lobby; Mainers for Account-
able Leadership; Make the Road PA; Mary-
land Center on Economic Policy; Maryland
Hunger Solutions; Maryland National Orga-
nization for Women; Massachusetts Law Re-
form Institute.
Maternal and Child Health Access; MCCC/
MTA; Men of All Colors Together (MACT)/
Phila.; Mercyhaven Inc.; Methodist Federa-
tion for Social Action; Metro-Detroit Chap-
ter of the Coalition of Labor Union Women
(CLUW); Metropolitan Community Church of
Washington, D.C.; Metropolitan Washington
Employment Lawyers Association; Michigan
League for Public Policy; Michigan’s Chil-
dren; Middlesex Coalition for Children; Mil-
waukee Area Service & Hospitality Workers
Organization; Minnesota Coalition for the
Homeless; Mississippi Families for Kids; Mis-
sissippi Low Income Child Care Initiative.
Missouri CLUW Chapter; MomsRising;
Mountain State Justice; MWC, AFL-CIO;
NAACP;
NARAL Pro-Choice North Carolina; Nash-
ua Soup Kitchen and Shelter; National Advo-
cacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shep-
herd; National Asian Pacific American Wom-
en’s Forum (NAPAWF); National Association
of Social Workers; National Association of
Social Workers—NJ Chapter; National Asso-
ciation of Social Workers Connecticut Chap-
ter; National Association of Social Workers,
West Virginia Chapter; National Association
of the Deaf; National Black Justice Coali-
tion.
National Black Sisters’ Conference; Na-
tional Center for Lesbian Rights; National
Center for Transgender Equality; National
Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence; Na-
tional Coalition for the Homeless; National
Consumers League; National Council of
Churches; National Council of Jewish
Women; National Council of Jewish
Women—PA; National Council of Jewish
Women—Texas; National Council of Jewish
Women—Florida; National Disability Rights
Network; National Domestic Workers Alli-
ance; National Education Association; Na-
tional Employment Law Project.
National Employment Lawyers Associa-
tion; National Employment Lawyers Asso-
ciation—Eastern Pennsylvania National Em-
ployment Lawyers Association—Georgia Af-
filiate National Employment Lawyers Asso-
ciation—New York; National Equality Ac-
tion Team (NEAT); National Health Care for
the Homeless Council; National Human Serv-
ices Assembly; National Immigration Law
Center; National Korean American Service &
Education Consortium (NAKASEC} National
LGBTQ Task Force Action Fund; National
Low Income Housing Coalition; National
Partnership for Women & Families; National
Resource Center on Domestic Violence; Na-
tional Rural Social Work Caucus; National
Urban League.
National Women’s Law Center; National
Working Positive Coalition; National
Workrights Institute; NC Justice Center; NC
State AFL-CIO; Nebraska Appleseed; Ne-
braska Chapter of the National Association
of Social Workers Neighbors Helping Neigh-
bors Teton County MT; NELA Hawaii Chap-
ter; NELA—Kansas City Affiliate; NELA—
Saint Louis; NELA—Alabama; Nenana
Tortella Council on Aging, INC; Network for
Environmental & Economic Responsibility;
NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Jus-
tice.
New Jersey Policy Perspective; New Jersey
State Coalition of Labor Union Women; New
Jersey Tenants Organization; New Mexico
Association of Community Partners
(NMACP); New Mexico Black Caucus; New
Mexico Center on Law and Poverty; New Or-
leans Associates of the Sisters of the Blessed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:01 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.013 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7103
July 18, 2019
Sacrament; New Voices for Reproductive
Justice; New York Paid Leave Coalition;
North American Climate, Conservation and
Environment(NACCE); North Carolina Alli-
ance for Retired Americans; North Carolina
Coalition Against Domestic Violence; North
Carolina Council of Churches; North Dakota
Chapter of the National Association of So-
cial Workers; North Dakota Economic Secu-
rity and Prosperity Alliance.
Northwest Indiana Community Action;
Northwest Pilot Project; Oakland Park
Democratic Club; Oakland Symphony; Oasis
Legal Services; Ohaha Family Foundation;
Ohio Coalition of Labor Union Women; Ohio
Domestic Violence Network; Oklahoma Pol-
icy Institute; Oklahoma Women’s Coalition;
One Pennsylvania; One Stop Career Center of
PR Inc; Orange County Poverty Alleviation
Coalition; Organize Florida; OURNOVA.
Oxfam America; Pathways PA; Patriotic
Millionaires; Pax Christi Florida; Pax Chris-
ti Illinois; Pax Christi USA; Peace, Justice,
Sustainability Florida; Pennsylvania Budget
and Policy Center; Pennsylvania Council of
Churches; Pennsylvania Together; People
Demanding Action; People’s Institute for
Housing Justice; Philadelphia Coalition of
Labor Union Women; Philly Neighborhood
Networks; Piedmont Housing Alliance.
Planet Earth; Policy Matters Ohio; Poor
Peoples Economic Human Rights Campaign;
Positive Women’s Network-USA; PowHer
New York; Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.);
Pride at Work; Princeton Community Hous-
ing; Professional Child Care Provider Net-
work of Prince George’s Co., Inc; Project
Bread-The Walk for Hunger; Promise The
Children; Provincial Council Clerics of St.
Viator (Viatorians); Public Advocacy for
Kids; Public Citizen; Public Citizens for Chil-
dren and Youth (PCCY); Public Justice Cen-
ter.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, as our colleagues have noted,
States and localities may enact higher
minimum wages than the Federal min-
imum wage, and there are examples of
that. But let’s leave freedom in the
hands of the people, in the hands of the
States. That is what this country is all
about.
In socialist regimes, all decisions are
made by a small group of people at a
central government. That is not the
American way.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
KELLY).
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman
from North Carolina for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I think dates matter
and I think votes matter, and I think
that sometimes because of where we
are, this is kind of this Potomac amne-
sia.
We say we want to raise people’s
wages, we want to create jobs, we want
to be able to do things that lift every
single boat because that is what a ris-
ing tide does. It is not a Democrat tide;
it is not a Republican tide; it is a rising
tide for the American people.
I would just want to remind my col-
leagues, in December of 2017, not one of
you was on board with the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act. You could not vote for it
in the House; you could not vote for it
in the Senate.
And we come here today and we talk
about minimum wage and raising min-
imum wages, and I would just suggest
to you that America is not about
minimals. Nobody comes to America
because I may get a minimum wage in-
crease. They come to America because
of maximum opportunity.
Why would we dwell on a minimum
wage when you had the chance in De-
cember of 2017 to lift all boats?
Why would we turn our back on an
opportunity to completely change the
economy of the United States?
Why would we turn our back on
workers who had not been employed for
many years, and we sit today with mil-
lions of open jobs and we don’t have
enough workers to fill them?
And what are we talking about
today? We are trying to right a wrong.
We are trying to fix, somehow, a
wrongheaded decision to vote against
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
And a lot of it had to do with not be-
cause we were Republicans, but be-
cause we have somebody in the White
House that we just don’t like; and, my
God, if we do something that lifts the
hopes of all Americans and the wishes
of all Americans and Donald Trump
gets credit for it, that just won’t work
in 2020.
I would ask my friends on the other
side, if you really want to see America
soar, stop putting roadblocks in the
way. Stop standing in the way of hard-
working American taxpayers who
couldn’t care less what your political
affiliation is but watch the legislation
that you pass and, more importantly,
the legislation that you passed on.
I would just remind you—and I know
you are going to tell me the average
wages in Pennsylvania—those wages
are only available if you get hired.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
as the gentleman has suggested, his
vote against the bill is a vote to deny
about 43 percent of the workers in his
district in Pennsylvania an average
raise of $3,900 a year, while the tax bill
that he supported, 80 percent of the
benefits of that bill went to the top 1
percent and corporations.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. HOYER),
the House majority leader.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I like the gentleman from Pennsyl-
vania. He and I are friends. We dis-
agree.
I proudly voted against the tax bill
which, I think, spiked the deficit, and
we had a continuation of the extraor-
dinary growth of jobs and the economy
under the Obama administration, and
that has continued in a straight line. It
didn’t spike up—straight line.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of the Raise the Wage Act. This is di-
rect—not indirect, not trickle down, di-
rect—saying to some of the people who
worked hardest and make the least: We
are going to help. We think what you
do is valuable to our community and to
our society.
We need to make certain that wages
keep pace with the cost of living. We
haven’t done that. For 10 years, we
haven’t given a raise.
We need to value the labor that our
people contribute into the economy.
That is why we have a Federal min-
imum wage, to ensure that everyone
who works hard, full time, ought to be
able to afford, not simply to get by, but
to try to get ahead.
I have heard from many in my dis-
trict who have told me that increasing
the minimum wage will have a major
impact on their incomes and their
lives.
Dana Hudson from Owings in Calvert
County, Maryland, makes the min-
imum wage of $10.10 an hour and sup-
plements his income with farming on
his land. He is 60 years old and looking
ahead to retirement, knowing that a
higher minimum wage in his final
years of working will go a long way to-
wards giving him and his wife retire-
ment security.
Delano Alexander of Clinton, Mary-
land, is an environmental services aide
at Prince George’s Hospital Center. He
earns $12.85 an hour, presently, and if
we pass this bill, he will get an income
boost through the years to help him
and his family get ahead.
Victor Reyes of Berwyn Heights,
Maryland, started his career as a non-
union day laborer barely making a liv-
ing. Now he has a union construction
job, and he is earning better pay. He
wrote to ask me to support a higher
minimum wage so that others who are
working with him and haven’t found
better jobs can get the same economic
security he now has.
We referred to 27 million, 33 million—
whatever that number is between 27
and 33—are going to get a raise by this
bill. That didn’t happen in the tax bill.
Some of the richest people in America
got a huge increase, but not the aver-
age working guy and gal.
In June, we marked 10 years since
the last minimum wage increase went
into effect, the longest period without
an increase since the minimum wage
was first introduced under Franklin
Roosevelt’s New Deal.
I was proud to bring legislation to
the floor in 2007 to raise the minimum
wage the last time Congress did so, and
I am proud to do it again today. This is
long overdue, something the previous
Republican majority should have made
a priority but failed to accomplish.
Today, low-income workers in our
economy are getting a bad deal with a
minimum wage that doesn’t even allow
many workers to get by, let alone get
ahead working 40 hours a week and liv-
ing in poverty. That is not a successful
American economy, because 10 years
have passed without an increase.
Workers stuck earning the current
minimum wage of just $7.25 an hour
have effectively received a 17 percent
pay cut over the last 10 years. That is
why the House will vote today on the
Raise the Wage Act, which will gradu-
ally raise the Federal minimum wage
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:01 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.010 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7104 July 18, 2019
to $15 an hour by 2025, 6 years from
now.
This bill also eliminates the submin-
imum wage for those with disabilities,
which will ensure their equal pay and
the ability to live with independence.
Many States and municipalities have
already raised their minimum wages to
this level, and it has not caused the
dire consequences that some on the
other side of the aisle have predicted.
My home State of Maryland took ac-
tion earlier this year to raise the min-
imum wage to $15 an hour. I am proud
of that fact.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budg-
et Office has determined that raising
the minimum wage to $15 an hour
would lift 1.3 million Americans di-
rectly out of poverty.
Isn’t that a good thing to do? Doesn’t
that make you feel better that we are
helping to lift people out of poverty?
And the Economic Policy Institute
says that doing so would cause wages
to go up for 33 million Americans. That
is good for them.
What I suggest is, well, it is good for
our economy and it is good for all of
us, because it will help grow the econ-
omy, make folks more independent,
and make them feel better about them-
selves and about what they are doing.
We campaigned on a promise to raise
wages and make sure that American
workers can access all the opportuni-
ties that make the American Dream
possible. That is what we are doing
today.
I thank Chairman BOBBY SCOTT and
Democrats on the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor for their hard work
on this legislation.
We said we were going to raise the
wage. Today we are going to raise the
wage. It is the right thing to do. I urge
every Member to support it.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, Speaker PELOSI promised that
a $15 minimum wage hike would be
passed by the House in the first 100
hours of this Congress, so it is not sur-
prising that 7 months later the Rules
Committee accepted a manager’s
amendment to add a modest amount of
extra time for small businesses to feel
the full effect of this bill.
Also, our colleague has said that this
will lift 1.3 million people out of pov-
erty, but it is also going to knock 3.7
million people out of jobs. So, let’s
keep it all in perspective.
I yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. ALLEN).
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I think it
is laughable for anybody in this House
to say that the government is going to
raise your wages. The government
doesn’t raise wages. What the govern-
ment does is provide an environment
for businesses to raise wages, and that
is where the decision should be.
And it is laughable to me that Mem-
bers of Congress actually believe that
they are going to raise the wages of
people in this country by this legisla-
tion. The Congressional Budget Office
recently released a report saying that
almost 4 million jobs could be lost if
this legislation were implemented.
I remind my colleagues that we had
an 8-year war on business, and, guess
what. In 2016, we said that war is over.
America is open for business.
b 1000
With Georgia being the number one
State to do business in for the past 6
years, this damaging Federal mandate
would reverse all of the great work our
State has done to grow jobs and the
economy.
And I am telling you, we are getting
it done in Georgia, but I don’t want
Maryland to determine what Georgia is
going to do and I don’t want Seattle to
determine what Georgia is going to do.
As a businessman, I know that our
economy is all about supply and de-
mand, and with more job openings,
then job seekers’ wages are going to go
up. You have to pay more to keep tal-
ent. It is supply and demand, folks.
In fact, in 2018, wages and salaries
saw the largest increase in more than a
decade, thanks to the economic envi-
ronment led by a Republican-led Con-
gress and President Trump that has
spurred economic growth and pros-
perity.
The last thing we need are more one-
size-fits-all Washington mandates that
lead to job cuts, cut workers’ hours for
automation, and ultimately shut the
doors of our Nation’s small businesses.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on
this legislation.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I remind my colleague that his vote
against this bill is a vote to deny 41
percent of the workers in his district in
Georgia an average raise of about $3,800
a year, and I don’t think they are
laughing about that.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
POCAN), the co-chair of the Progressive
Caucus.
Mr. POCAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mr. SCOTT for yielding.
I do find it interesting to sit and lis-
ten to a debate today where people who
make $174,000 a year and half of which
are millionaires are telling people they
should be satisfied trying to exist on
$15,000 a year, which is the very reason
we are here today: to try to raise the
wage for 33 million people, a quarter of
the workforce in this country.
No family in the United States can
live on $7.25 an hour and make ends
meet.
In my home State of Wisconsin, you
would have to work 93 hours a week at
minimum wage in order to afford a
modest two-bedroom apartment, and
there is not a single county in the
country where a worker earning the
minimum wage for 40 hours a week can
afford a two-bedroom apartment.
I come to Congress with 3 decades as
a small businessowner. Small business
owners know our workers are our cus-
tomers, our neighbors, and our commu-
nity members.
When workers have more money in
their pockets, they have more money
to spend to care for their families and
stimulate our economy.
This is especially true in rural areas,
where workers have only a handful of
employment options. If the primary
employer in a rural town is a multibil-
lion-dollar corporation like Walmart,
they can afford to pay their workers
$15 an hour instead of holding down
wages for the entire community.
Congress recently set a new record
for the longest stretch in U.S. history
without a hike in the minimum wage:
10 years. It is long past due that we
show workers respect by putting more
money in their pockets and support
this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter from the United Food and
Commercial Workers.
UFCW,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
To All Members of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
United Food and Commercial Workers Inter-
national Union (UFCW) which represents
more than 1.3 million hard-working Ameri-
cans in food and non-food retail, pharmacy,
food processing, and manufacturing, I urge
you to vote for the Raise the Wage Act (H.R.
582) and vote against any amendments that
would weaken the bill. UFCW will be scoring
this vote.
The Raise the Wage Act will raise the fed-
eral minimum wage from $7.25 to $8.55 this
year and gradually increase it over the next
five years until it reaches $15 an hour in 2024.
After 2024, the minimum wage will be in-
dexed so that it continues to rise along with
a typical workers wage. The Raise the Wage
Act will also end unfair exclusions for tipped
workers, people with disabilities, and youth
so that they, too, can benefit from a decent
minimum wage.
Raising the minimum wage will be good for
the economy and stimulate consumer spend-
ing. Today’s low-wage workers earn less per
hour than their counterparts did 50 years ago
but productivity has nearly doubled in that
time. If the minimum wage had been raised
at the same pace as productivity growth, it
would be over $20 an hour today. Increasing
the minimum wage would generate $144 bil-
lion in additional wages and most of those
extra earnings would be spent in grocery
stores and other main street businesses be-
cause lower-paid workers spend a greater
proportion of their earnings.
The Raise the Wage Act would deliver
long-overdue raises to a large segment of the
workforce. Gradually raising the federal
minimum wage to $15 by 2024 would lift pay
for nearly 40 million workers—26.6 percent of
the U.S. workforce. A $15 minimum wage
would begin to reverse decades of pay in-
equality between the lowest-paid workers
and the middle class.
Raising the minimum wage would signifi-
cantly benefit workers of color and women.
Nearly two-fifths (38 percent) of African
Americans and one-third (33 percent) of
Latinos would get a raise and 56 percent of
women workers would benefit.
Across the country, there is overwhelming
momentum in favor of raising wages for our
nation’s lowest-wage workers. Since 2014,
twenty-one states, plus D.C., have approved
minimum wage increases. California, Massa-
chusetts, New York, and the District of Co-
lumbia have approved raising their min-
imum wages to $15 an hour and Washington,
Oregon, Colorado, Arizona, Missouri, Michi-
gan, and Maine have approved minimum
wages ranging from $12 to $14.75 an hour.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:01 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.015 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7105
July 18, 2019
UFCW opposes a regional minimum wage.
Regional minimum wages bake-in low wages
to already low-wage places. Rural counties
and Southern cities where wages have been
depressed for a variety of social, political,
and economic reasons would effectively have
their low-wage status locked in. The power
of the minimum wage to boost worker in-
comes, and thus consumer buying power,
would be legislatively kneecapped for the
areas that could most use a boost in local
consumer demand.
Raising the minimum wage is long over-
due. I call on every member of Congress to
vote for the Raise the Wage Act and enact
this import piece of legislation as quickly as
possible.
Sincerely,
ADEMOLA OYEFESO,
International Vice President, Director,
Legislative and Political Action Department.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Alabama (Mr. BYRNE).
Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in opposition to H.R. 582.
This bill would cause disruptive job
losses and harm entry-level workers in
many regions around the country, ef-
fectively knocking the bottom rung off
the career ladder and especially hurt-
ing young workers.
Last Monday, CBO issued a long-
awaited study, which estimates that up
to 3.7 million jobs would be lost from a
$15 minimum wage, with a median esti-
mate of 1.3 million jobs lost. That in-
cludes 44,000 jobs that would be lost in
my home State of Alabama, and those
under 21 will suffer half those job
losses.
When comparing those numbers with
the report’s estimate that only 1.3 mil-
lion individuals would be lifted out of
poverty, H.R. 582 would cost at least
one job to be lost for every person who
moved out of poverty. In the CBO’s
high-impact scenario, as many as three
jobs would be lost for every individual
moving out of poverty.
This is not a tradeoff that Congress
should ask America’s workers and
small businesses to make, and I espe-
cially don’t think we should ask our
young workers to make it.
Significantly, CBO has also found
there would be a reduction in real fam-
ily income by 2025 of $9 billion, effec-
tively reducing pay for many American
families.
Remember, wages are currently on
the rise thanks to a booming economy,
the Republican Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,
and President Trump’s focus on elimi-
nating wasteful regulations.
With 7.3 million unfilled jobs nation-
wide, job creators know they must
offer competitive wages and benefits to
attract and retain workers, and 29
States already have a minimum wage
higher than the Federal floor.
Instead of providing tangible benefits
to working class Americans, H.R. 582
would cause the most harm to the very
people its supporters claim to help.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
oppose this bill.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I remind my colleague that his vote
against this bill is a vote to deny about
37 percent of the workers in his district
in Alabama an average wage of about
$3,700 a year.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. NOR-
CROSS), a distinguished member of the
Committee on Education and Labor.
Mr. NORCROSS. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Mr. SCOTT for making sure that
we finally, after 11 years, will have a
vote to raise the minimum wage.
This is America. You play by the
rules, you work hard, you are supposed
to be able to make it, but that is not
the way it is.
Less than 2 years ago, our colleagues
on the other side of the aisle made sure
that the top 1 percent got their raise,
as they are stepping on the American
worker.
Today is the day that we set the
record straight and give opportunities
to those who need it the most.
Henry Ford said it: Make sure you
pay your employees enough money so
they can buy your product and serv-
ices.
That is the true case of what is going
on here today. You give a raise to the
people who need it the most to survive,
not to invest overseas or in a shore
home. They will spend it right in their
neighborhood going to the supermarket
and drugstore.
They shouldn’t have to make the de-
cision whether or not to put clothes on
their kids’ backs or to feed them, but
that is what is going on today.
Those in the top 1 percent got their
raise. It is time that those who work
hard and have the dignity of a job get
their raise.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter from the United Steel Workers.
UNITED STEELWORKERS,
Pittsburgh, PA, July 15, 2019.
Re United Steelworkers support H.R. 582, the
Raise the Wage Act.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
850,000 members of the United Steelworkers
(USW), I urge you to stand with workers and
support the Raise the Wage Act (H.R. 582).
In the 10 years since Congress last took ac-
tion, the federal minimum wage has re-
mained stagnant, eroding the earnings and
purchasing power for millions of American
wage workers and their families. According
to the Economic Policy Institute, the cur-
rent federal minimum wage is worth 17 per-
cent less than it was 10 years ago, down a
staggering 31 percent from its peak value in
1968. It is clear that this stagnation has re-
sulted in a cut in real wages for those work-
ers who can least afford it.
While 29 states and the District of Colum-
bia have taken action to raise their wage
floors, the failure of federal action on the
minimum wage means roughly 40 percent of
Americans and their communities have seen
continued wage stagnation.
It is past time for America to address the
growing needs of low-wage workers and low-
income families and raise the federal min-
imum wage. Under the Raise the Wage Act
(H.R. 582), the value of the federal minimum
wage would be restored by incrementally
raising the nation’s wage floor to $15.00 an
hour by 2024 and indexing it to inflation. The
legislation would also eliminate the submin-
imum wages currently in effect for tipped
workers and workers with disabilities, ensur-
ing that all groups have access to consistent
wages.
Everyone benefits when the floor is raised.
According to the Congressional Budget Of-
fice, raising the wage to $15.00 an hour would
boost the earnings of 27 million workers and
their families, lifting some of America’s
neediest families out of poverty. Through
this wage increase, the Raise the Wage Act
(H.R. 582) will not only help low-wage work-
ers to meet their basic needs, but it will in-
crease workers’ purchasing power, helping to
stimulate and grow America’s economy.
All workers deserve to make a livable
wage. Combined with critically needed labor
law reforms, this legislation will serve as an
important step to empowering workers. USW
urges you to give America’s lowest paid
workers a raise and enact the Raise the
Wage Act (H.R. 582).
Sincerely,
THOMAS M. CONWAY,
International President.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, our colleagues say all the
time that we need to help the people at
the bottom of the ladder.
Those are exactly the people who are
being helped by the Republican policies
that were enacted in the first 2 years of
this administration. We are seeing peo-
ple at the bottom get the highest per-
centage increase. So that is already
being done, and it is because of regula-
tions being reduced and the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
distinguished gentleman from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. SMUCKER).
Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
When I was a teenager, at 14 years
old, one of my first jobs was serving as
a dishwasher at Smoketown family res-
taurant. I had no previous work experi-
ence, but the owner took a chance on
me. I certainly didn’t receive a great
wage, but it was a starting point, and
the lessons that I learned in that job
were lessons that I used during my en-
tire career.
I went on after high school to buy a
small construction company, operated
it for 25 years, creating family-sus-
taining jobs for hundreds of individ-
uals.
Today, my 16-year-old son serves food
in a skilled nursing center after school
at a wage of $9 an hour. He is very
thrilled with that; again, learning the
skills, the people skills, needed, learn-
ing to show up for work on time, learn-
ing to work hard.
In fact, one of the best indicators of
success in a career is whether or not
you had a job during high school.
This bill, unfortunately, would rob
many of the opportunity to hold that
first job. CBO specifically said 3.7 mil-
lion jobs will be lost as a result of this
bill.
Our friends on the other side of the
aisle are not talking about that aspect
of the bill.
There is no question here about the
desire to see every individual that we
represent have the opportunity to live
the American Dream: the idea the pre-
vious speaker just said, the idea that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.012 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7106 July 18, 2019
you can work hard, play by the rules,
and you can live your dream.
The question is the prescription, and
it is a fundamental choice. It is a
choice of believing in our free enter-
prise system, believing in our economic
system that has created more oppor-
tunity than ever before in the history
of the world, or believing in more gov-
ernment control.
Today, someone can apply at the con-
struction company that I operated for
many years——
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield an additional 20 sec-
onds to the gentleman.
Mr. SMUCKER. Today, someone can
apply at that company and have no ex-
perience and start at $16 an hour. That
wasn’t a government prescription.
That is the free enterprise system at
work.
I am very, very proud, as the result
of the work that we have done over the
last 2 years, the tax reform act, for the
first time, we are seeing wages rise.
Again, it is not as a result of a bill
like this, which would have exactly the
opposite effect on that ability to
achieve upward mobility.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I remind my colleague that his vote
against the bill is a vote to deny about
34 percent of the workers in his district
in Pennsylvania an average raise of
$3,200, and that, in fact, wages for low-
income workers have been going up,
but only because States and localities
have been increasing the minimum
wage, just like this bill does.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. LEVIN),
the vice chair of the Education and
Labor Committee.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Speaker,
I include in the RECORD a letter to all
Members of the House from the AFL–
CIO.
AFL-CIO,
July 12, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
AFL-CIO, I am writing to urge you to vote
for the ‘‘Raise the Wage Act of 2019’’ (H.R.
582) scheduled for floor consideration this
week. This legislation would gradually raise
the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour by
the year 2024. In addition to indexing future
increases to the growth in the median wage,
the bill would gradually eliminate the sub-
minimum wage for tipped workers, which
has been stuck at $2.13 since 1991.
Because Congress has not raised the min-
imum wage in more than 10 years, millions
of our Nation’s full time workers live in pov-
erty. If the minimum wage had risen at the
same pace as productivity growth since 1969,
it would be over $20 an hour today.
Phasing in a $15 minimum wage would ben-
efit 41 million workers and begin to address
the growing crisis of wage inequality. More
than half of the workers who would benefit
are adults between the ages of 25 and 54, and
nearly two-thirds work full time. More than
half (56 percent) are women, nearly 30 per-
cent of whom have children.
According to the Economic Policy Insti-
tute, by 2024 a single adult without children
will need at least $31,200 ($15 per hour on an
annual basis) to achieve an adequate stand-
ard of living in all parts of the country. Al-
lowing for a lower regional minimum wage,
as some have suggested, would lock millions
of workers into poverty, and would be espe-
cially harmful to people of color and women
who would benefit most from a minimum
wage increase.
Multiple studies have shown that modest
increases in the minimum wage have not re-
sulted in significant job loss, and the income
boost experienced by low-income families
benefits the country overall by reducing
both poverty and income inequality.
Raising the minimum wage to $15 has the
support of an overwhelming majority of
Americans, and the benefits far exceed any
potential cost. Once again, we urge you to
vote YES on the Raise the Wage Act and NO
on any weakening amendments. In addition,
since any Motion to Recommit would be the
equivalent of voting against the Raise the
Wage Act, we urge you to vote no on the
MTR.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM SAMUEL,
Govemment Affairs Department.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Speaker,
I want to thank Chairman BOBBY
SCOTT for his incredible leadership on
this bill, and I rise in strong support of
the Raise the Wage Act.
Mr. Speaker, I would remind the pre-
vious speaker and the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. ALLEN) that we are pro-
posing precisely zero more regulation
than exists. In fact, the Federal Gov-
ernment has set a minimum wage in
this country since 1938, all the great
growth years of this economy. We are
just saying that the rate should be sen-
sible.
I came to Washington to raise the
standard of living for working people in
Michigan’s Ninth District and all
across this country, and that is exactly
what this bill does.
Working a full-time job should guar-
antee that you can provide for your
family, and a $7.25-an-hour minimum
wage doesn’t cut it, especially while
worker productivity has increased ex-
ponentially, and executive salaries
have skyrocketed.
The gentlewoman from North Caro-
lina (Ms. FOXX) said the CBO score said
a minimum of 1.3 million jobs would be
lost. I want to correct the record. They
said a minimum of zero would be. The
median projection is that 1.3 million
might be.
Mr. Speaker, I want to remind all of
my colleagues that in 2018, the Bureau
of Labor Statistics said that 7,769,000
American workers were working mul-
tiple jobs because one job didn’t cut it,
it didn’t pay enough for them. And that
is almost certainly an undercount, ac-
cording to all experts.
If just one in five of those people
being forced to work multiple jobs
could quit their second and third job
because one job paid enough, that
would take care of 1.6 million jobs we
wouldn’t need, because workers were
being paid a living wage.
We have waited more than 10 years to
give American families a raise. And I
can tell you that the people of Michi-
gan’s Ninth District, where about
104,800 people would get a raise under
this bill, have waited long enough.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to support this historic legislation.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. PELOSI), the dis-
tinguished Speaker of the United
States House of Representatives.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding. I thank
him for his extraordinary leadership,
historic, really, for giving us this op-
portunity today to do something very
special for the American people, for
America’s working families.
This is an historic day, yes, because
we are raising the minimum wage here
in the House of Representatives, be-
cause we are channeling the energy of
so many people across the country for
fairness in the workplace, but it also
happens to be the 171st anniversary of
the Seneca Falls Convention.
The Seneca Falls Convention shook
the world, when they had that conven-
tion, with the simple proclamation
that all men and women are created
equal.
This bill achieves that equality, giv-
ing nearly 20 million working women,
that is nearly one-third of all working
women, a raise. And it helps narrow
the gender wage gap that dispropor-
tionately targets women of color, put-
ting more money in the pockets of
more than one-third of working women
of color.
b 1015
Today, we wake up for a day of jubi-
lation because of the sense of fairness
that this legislation engenders. We
wake up every morning with a smile on
our face, showing the world all the love
in our hearts, and that love in our
hearts is about fairness for the Amer-
ican people.
It is interesting to note, Mr. Speaker,
as has been acknowledged—as I just
heard Congressman LEVIN mention, and
others, as well—that it has been 10
years since the Federal minimum wage
was raised in the previous Democratic
majority. It had been 11 years before
then, when we passed it in 2007, and it
was signed by President Bush.
It was bipartisan, and we were
thrilled about that.
It is interesting to see what has hap-
pened in the time since then. While
families work hard to make ends meet,
the cost of living has surged to
unsustainable highs. Inflation has
eaten nearly 20 percent of their wages,
and the GOP special interest agenda
has left them far behind.
I mentioned that this is about equal-
ity for women. It is also about 30 mil-
lion people in our country getting a
raise—30 million people—and so many
people being lifted out of poverty.
I talked about 2007. That is when we
first passed it in the House. It took a
little more time for it to be law, going
through the Senate and the rest.
When we passed it, we were so
thrilled, knowing that the President
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.018 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7107
July 18, 2019
would sign it. We had a big rally out-
side the Capitol. As soon as the rally
was finished, Senator Ted Kennedy,
who had been a really important part
of the Senate action on raising the
minimum wage, said: ‘‘You know what
we have to do now? We have to raise
the minimum wage!’’
We always have to be injecting fair-
ness, all the time. We must never stop
fighting to honor the dignity of work
and pushing forward for working fami-
lies and women, again, affected so dras-
tically in all of this.
American workers deserve a raise. No
one can live with dignity on a $7.25 per
hour wage. Can you?
The Raise the Wage Act honors work-
ers and supports families, giving 33
million Americans a long-overdue raise
and lifting many out of poverty.
The bill grows our economy, increas-
ing families’ purchasing power, which
drives economic growth that lifts up
all communities. The consumer con-
fidence of America’s working families
is an important element in growing our
economy.
It brings our democracy closer to the
founding ideals, upholding the bedrock
idea of fairness in our country, that
hard work deserves a decent wage.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a strong, bipar-
tisan vote for this victory for working
families and for America because every
Member of this institution should be
fighting to put more money in the
pockets of workers in their commu-
nity.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I continue to reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. TRONE), the distin-
guished member of the Committee on
Education and Labor.
Mr. TRONE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of the Raise the Wage Act.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter signed by over 1,000 businesses
that support a fair minimum wage.
BUSINESS FOR A FAIR MINIMUM WAGE
FEDERAL $15 SIGN ON STATEMENT
PART 2 OF LIST OF ABOUT 1,000 SIGNERS AND
COUNTING AS OF JULY 17, 2019
Alan Chebot, Owner, Parallax Productions,
Allston, MA; Dean Cycon, CEO, Dean’s Beans
Organic Coffee Company, Orange, MA; Fred
Davis, President, Fred Davis Corporation,
Medfield, MA; Megan Driscoll, CEO,
Pharmalogics Recruiting, Quincy, MA; Doro-
thy Emerson, Co-founder, Rainbow Solu-
tions, Medford, MA; Paul English, CTO and
President, Lola.com Boston, MA; Rob
Everts, Co-CEO, Equal Exchange West
Bridgewater, MA; Jen Faigel, Executive Di-
rector, CommonWealth Kitchen, Dorchester,
MA; Nancy Feton, Co-owner, Broadside
Bookshop, Northampton, MA; Laura Fisher,
Owner, Fisher Agencies—American Income
Life, Buington, MA; Tim Fisk, Owner, Salon
Herdis, Northampton, MA; Vincent Frano,
Owner, The Bower Studio, Pelham, MA;
Julie Fraser, Principal & Director, Lyno Ad-
visors Inc & Present Source, Cummaquid,
MA; David Gardner, President/Owner, Boyds
Direct Corp, Stoneham, MA; Julie
Goodridge, CEO, Northstar Asset Manage-
ment. Inc., Boston, MA.
Myrna Greenfield, Owner, Good Egg Mar-
keting, Jamaica Plain, MA; Jeff Greim,
Founder/CEO, Your Choice Brands, Long-
meadow, MA; Tim Greiner, Owner, Pure
Strategies, Gloucester, MA; Valerie + Lhsan
Gurdal, Owners, Formaggio Kitchen, Boston,
MA; Abraham Gutman, President & CEO, AG
Mednet, Inc., Boston, MA; Laury Hammel,
Owner and CEO, The Longfellow Clubs,
Wayland, MA; Laurence Hammel, Executive
Director, Sustainable Business Network of
Massachusetts, Wayland, MA; Jackie
Herskovitz Russell, Founder and President,
Teak Media + Communication, Boston, MA;
Shel Horowitz, Owner, Going Beyond Sus-
tainability, Hadley, MA; Yscaira Jimenez,
CEO, LaborX, Boston, MA; Michael Kanter,
Owner, Cambridge Naturals, Cambridge, MA;
Emily Kanter, Owner, Cambridge Naturals,
Boston, MA; Stephen Katsurlnls, Owner, 8
Dyer Hotel, Provincetown, MA; Sonia Kowal,
President, Zevin Asset Management, Boston,
MA; Susan Labandlbar, President, Tech Net-
works of Boston, Cambridge, MA; Mike
Lapham, Project Director, Responsible
Wealth, Boston, MA.
Joseph Laur, Owner, MapleMama Bev-
erages, Wendell, MA; Gail Leondar-Wright,
Owner, Gail Leondar Public Relations, Ar-
lington, MA; Karen Levy, Owner, Karen Ann
Massage, Jamaica Plain, MA; Rob Libon, In-
vestment Advisor, Greenvest, West Whately,
MA; Carol Marsh, Owner, Helios Design
Group, Jamaica Plain, MA; Philip Mccarron,
Owner, Beacon Solar, Fall River, MA; Ann
McEwen, Hospital Administrator, Riverbend
Animal Hospital, Hadley, MA; Tim McNer-
ney, Founder, Repair Collective, Shutesbury,
MA; Kim Mitchell, Owner, Boing! JP’s Toy
Shop, Jamaica Plain, MA; Nick Moore,
Owner, Moore Agencies, Marlborough, MA;
Merry Nasser, Partner, Lesser Newman Aleo
& Nasser, Northampton, MA; Larry O’Toole,
Founder and CEO, Gentle Giant Moving
Company, Somerville, MA; Heather Odell,
Owner, 3cross Fermentation Cooperative,
Worcester, MA; M Older, Owner (Retired),
Martha’s, Cambridge, MA; John Pepper,
Founder, Owner, Boloco, Boston, MA.
Berit Pratt, CEO, NitWits LLC, Belmont,
MA; James Razsa, CEO, Democracy Brewing,
Boston, MA; Dan Rosenberg, General Man-
ager, Real Pickles, Greenfield, MA; Joseph
Rotella, President, Spencer Organ Company,
Waltham, MA; David Sandberg, Owner, Por-
ter Square Books, Cambridge, MA; John
Schall, Owner, El Jefe’s Taqueria, Cam-
bridge, MA; David Schreiber, Investment Ad-
visor, CFP, Greenvest, Arlington, MA; Cullen
Schwarz, Founder/CEO, DoneGood, PBC,
Cambridge, MA; Anne Sherman, Director of
Operations & Sustainability, Staach Inc.,
Cambridge, MA; Alex Silva, Owner, Best
Value Janitorial, Malden, MA; Joy Silver-
stein, Owner, Fresh Hair, Jamaica Plain,
MA; Harvy Simkovlts, President, Business
Wisdom, Lexington, MA; Peter Simpson,
Owner, Haymarket Cafe, Northampton, MA;
Holly Sklar, CEO, Business for a Fair Min-
imum Wage, Boston, MA; Peter Smith, Prin-
cipal, Global Urban Solutions Newton, MA;
Rachael Solem, Owner, Irving House at Har-
vard, Cambridge, MA.
Alan Solomont, Ambassador (Ret), For-
merly Chairman of Solomont Bailis Ven-
tures, Weston, MA; David Starr, Managing
Partner, Berkshire Natural, Florence, MA;
Dorie Stolley, Owner, Three Birds Con-
sulting, Plymouth, MA; Robert Thomas, So-
cial(k) Inc., Social(k) Inc., Springfield, MA;
Sidney Topol, President, The Topal Group,
Boston, MA; Marlo Troiani, IT Consultant,
MIC, Newton, MA; David Warner, Owner,
City Feed and Supply, Boston, MA; Nicola
WIiiiams, President, The Williams Agency,
Cambridge, MA; Michael Alexander, Presi-
dent, Conscious Living, LLC, Clinton, MD;
Bilal Ali, Executive Director, Omnis Health
Life Wellness Center, Baltimore, MD; Ned
Atwater, Owner, Atwater’s Traditional Food,
Baltimore, MD; Souley Bah, Owner, Bah
Agencies, Lanham, MD; Alissa Barron-
Menza, Vice President, Business for a Fair
Minimum Wage, Silver Spring, MD; Mitchell
Berliner, Owner, Skinny Salamis, Potomac,
MD.
Denise Bowyer, Vice President, American
Income Life Insurance Company, North
Beach, MD; Holly Budd, PresidenUCEO, Wil-
liams & Heintz Map Corporation, Capitol
Heights, MD; Andrew Buerger, Owner,
B’more Organic, Baltimore, MD; Annebeth
Bunker, Owner, Annebeth’s, Annapolis, MD;
Tim Cureton, Owner, Rise Up Coffee Roast-
ers, Easton, MD; Brian England, President,
BA Auto Care, Columbia, MD; Alan
Gregerman, President and Chief Innovation
Officer, VENTURE WORKS Inc., Silver
Spring, MD; Seth Grimes, Owner, Alta Plana
Corporation, Takoma Park, MD; Molty
Hauck, President, Molly Perkins Hauck,
Ph.D., LLC, Rockville, MD; Laura Hodges,
Owner, Laura Hodges Studio, Catonsville,
MD; Irwin Hoenig, Owner, Living Calmness,
Laurel, MD; Dennis Hoffman, Owner, Dis-
trict East, Frederick, MD; Damian Jones,
Owner, Aid Through Trade, Annapolis, MD;
Jacquelyn Jones Ziegler, Owner, Sugar, Bal-
timore, MD; Tamira Keith, Owner, Fashion
Hangers Boutique, Baltimore, MD; Devora
Kimelman-Block, CEO, KOL Foods, Silver
Spring, MD.
Tom Koerber, President, On Point Help,
Baltimore, MD; Gabriel Kroiz, Principal,
Kroiz Architecture, Baltimore, MD; Jeffrey
Landsman, Owner, Specialty Food Sales,
Towson, MD; Michael Lastoria, Founder and
CEO, &pizza, Baltimore, MD; Ivan
Makfinsky, Owner, Endosys, LLC, Mont-
gomery Village, MD; Cerrill Meister, Owner,
Eye Candy Opticianry Inc, Baltimore, MD;
Nancy Meyer, CEO, Community Forklift,
Edmonston, MD; John Mitchell, Owner,
Interaction Law, Accokeek, MD; Karim
Morsli, Owner, Winkler Automotive Service
Center, Gaithersburg, MO; Scott Nash,
Owner, CEO, MOM’s Organic Market, Rock-
ville, MD; Ellen Reich, Owner, Three Stone
Steps, Baltimore, MD; Aaeron Robb, Owner,
Ramsay Construction, Baltimore, MD; Glenn
Roessler, Business Development Strategist,
Vigilante Coffee Company, Hyattsville, MD;
Abigail Rome, Owner, Tierra Vista, Silver
Spring, MD; Gina Schaefer, Owner, Canton,
Federal Hill, Waverly, Old Takoma Ace
Hardware Stores, Baltimore, MD; Aaron
Seyedian, Owner, Well-Paid Maids, Balti-
more, MD; Andy Shallal, Owner, Busboys
and Poets Restaurants, Hyattsville, MD.
Daniel Solomon, Managing Member, Soap-
stone Investments, Bethesda, MD; Mayaah
Tansi, Owner, Unik Touch Hair Palace,
Windsor Mill, MD; Richard Torgerson, Reg-
istered Principal, SharePower Responsible
Investing, Westminster, MD; Christopher
Vigilante, Owner, Vigilante Coffee Company,
Hyattsville, MD; Eleanor Whalen, CEO,
Sprayology, Gaithersburg, MD; Scott Coo-
per, Director of Finance, Crown O’Maine,
North Vassalboro, ME; Steve Corman,
Owner, Vena’s Fizz House, Portland, ME; Re-
becca Darr, Co-Owner, Atayne Brunswick,
ME; Susan Farnsworth, Owner, Farnsworth
Law Office Hallowell, ME; Michael
Landgarten, CEO/Owner, Bob’s Clam Hut/
Lil’s Cafe, Kittery, ME; Jonathan Motzkin,
Co-Owner, Makewell, Portland, ME; Sharon
Peralta, Principal, Custom Computer Serv-
ices & more, Springvale, ME; Mike Shunney,
Owner, Inner Works Center, Rockland, ME;
James Wellehan, President, Lamey-Wellehan
Shoes, Auburn, ME; Phillis Engelbert, Co-
founder & Co-owner, The Lunch Room Diner
and Canteen & The Detroit Filling Station,
Ann Arbor, MI; Wap John, CEO, Grafaktri
Inc., Ann Arbor, MI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.020 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7108 July 18, 2019
Heather Leavitt, Owner, Sweet Heather
Anne, Ann Arbor, MI; Katherine Lesse, Co-
Owner, Abracadabra Jewelry, Ann Arbor, MI;
William Martin, Founder and Director, Bio-
Health Centre, Lansing, MI; Joel Panozzo,
Co-founder & Co-owner, The Lunch Room
Diner and Canteen & The Detroit Filling
Station, Ann Arbor, MI; Nat Pernick, CEO,
PathologyOutlines.com, Inc., Bingham
Farms, MI; Paul Saginaw, Co-Founding Part-
ner, Zingerman’s Community of Businesses,
Ann Arbor, MI; Scott Urbanowski, Owner,
Humanoid Digital, Kentwood, MI; Robert
Vogt, CEO, IOSiX, Ypsilanti, MI; Arlys
Alford, Owner, Believe You Can Sing!, Eden
Prairie, MN; Kevin Brown, Owner, Smart
Set, Inc., Minneapolis, MN; Bruce Champeau,
President and COO, Room & Board, Golden
Valley, MN; Bruce Champeau, President and
COO, Room & Board, Edina, MN; Chad Deley,
CEO, The Deley Group, Brooklyn Park, MN;
Karen Denzel, CEO, Insight Restoration,
Plymouth, MN; RJ Devick, President, Bond
& Devick Wealth Partners, St Louis Park,
MN; Susan Edgington, Owner, Adventure
Inn, Ely, MN; Audrey Fairchild-Ehm, Owner,
Fairchild-Ehm Foster Care, Roseville, MN.
Eileen Fisher, Founder, EILEEN FISHER,
Edina, MN; Chris Hanson, CEO, thedatabank,
gbc, Saint Paul, MN; Melina Lamer, CEO,
Superior Switchel, Saint Cloud, MN; Chris-
topher Loch, Owner, CONTEMPLB T-
SHIRTS, Minneapolis, MN; Edna McKenzie,
CEO, Midwest Select Contracting, Min-
neapolis, MN; Niel Ritchie, CEO, Main Street
Project, Minneapolis, MN; Steven Rothberg,
Founder, College Recruiter, Minneapolis,
MN; Linh Tu, President, LKT Consulting,
Brooklyn Park, MN; Randy Alberhasky,
Owner, Randy Alberhasky Attorney At Law,
Springfield, MO; Michael Allen, Owner, Blos-
soms Floral, Springfield, MO; Blanca
Anchondo-Polite, Owner, Engage and Con-
nect LLC, Kansas City, MO; Luke Babich,
Principal & Chief Strategy Officer, Clever
Real Estate, St. Louis, MO; Amy Blansit,
Owner, Solely Jolie, Springfield, MO; Pris-
cilla Block, Executive Director, St. Louis
ArtWorks, St. Louis, MO; Keith Bradley, Co-
Owner, Made in KC, Kansas City, MO; Beth-
any Budde-Cohen, Owner, SqWires Res-
taurant, St. Louis, MO; Jordan Carr, Owner,
Oddities Prints, Kansas City, MO.
Jessie Chappell, Owner, CG Immigration
Law, St. Louis, MO; Joseph Chevalier,
Owner, Yellow Dog Bookshop, Columbia, MO;
Pam Clark, Owner, Clark’s Appliances,
Raytown, MO; Frances Collier, Owner, CEO,
River City Rebar LLC, Kansas City, MO;
Zaid Consuegra, Owner & Chef, Pirate’s
Bone, Kansas City, MO; Caitlin Corcoran,
Managing Partner, Ça Va, Kansas City, MO;
Dominique Davison, Owner & CEO, DRAW
Architecture, Kansas City, MO; Fred Domke,
President, Bridge Bread Bakery, St. Louis,
MO; Nancy Dornan, Owner, Maschino’s,
Springfield, MO; Mike Draper, Owner,
Raygun LLC, Kansas City, MO; Keely
Edgington, Owner, Julep Kansas City, MO;
Joe Edwards, Owner, The Pageant & Delmar
Hall Concert Nightclubs, St. Louis, MO; Joe
Edwards, Owner, Blueberry Hill Restaurant
& Music Club, St. Louis, MO; James Fields,
Owner, Divine Deli and Drop In University,
City, MO; Jeff Gold, Owner, Anji Mountain,
St. Louis, MO; David Gragg, Agency Owner,
David Gragg—Farmers Insurance Agent,
Springfield, MO; Blake Green, Owner, BG
Law, North Kansas City, MO.
Howard Hanna, Owner, The Rieger, Kansas
City, MO; Ruth Ellen Hasser, Celebrant, St.
Louis Ceremonies, St. Louis, MO; Pam
Hausner, Owner, Big Vision Design, Kansas
City, MO; Notley Hawkins, Owner, Notley
Hawkins Photography, Columbia, MO; Cindy
Higgerson, Owner, Larder & Cupboard, Ma-
plewood, MO; Craig Hosmer, Owner, Hosmer
King & Royce, Springfield, MO; Nate Hunt,
Co-Owner, Correa-Hunt Agency, Kansas City,
MO; Joe Jackson, Owner and CEO, Jackson
Pianos, St. Louis, MO; Dorothy Jones,
Owner, Bespoke, St. Louis, MO; Stacy
Jurado-Miller, Owner, Chief Mission Officer,
The Vecino Group, Springfield, MO; Karen
Karabell, Managing Partner, S.F. Shannon
Real Estate Management LLC, St. Louis,
MO; Laurie Knowlton, Owner, Zen3 Spa and
Bodyworks, Springfield, MO; Laurie
Knowlton, Owner, Pickwick Underground
Framing, Springfield, MO; Liz Kuba, Owner,
Tea Rex, St. Louis, MO; Matthew
Laufketter, Owner, The Ink Spot, St. Louis,
MO; Paul Lauritsen, General Manager,
Moonrise Hotel, St. Louis, MO.
Ronnie Light, Owner, Sam Light Loan Co.,
St. Louis, MO; Leigh Lockhart, Owner, Main
Squeeze, Columbia, MO; Katie McCroskey,
Co-Owner, Bob McCroskey Real Estate, Inc.,
Springfield, MO; Andre McCullum, Owner,
Hart-McCallum Agency, Earth City, MO;
Chris Meyers, Owner, Crane Brewing Com-
pany, Raytown, MO; Alyson Miller, Execu-
tive Director, Partners for Just Trade, St.
Louis, MO; Andrew Montee, Owner, Mokaska
Coffee Company, St. Joseph, MO; Erin Noble,
VP of Business Operations, StraightUp Solar
LLC, St. Louis, MO; Hilary Noonan, Prin-
cipal, Syntax Land Design, LLC, Kansas
City, MO; Dorian Oldham, Owner, Oldham
Midwest, Kansas City, MO; Lew Prince, Co-
Founder & CEO (Ret.), Vintage Vinyl, St.
Louis, MO; Marissa Rosen, Owner, Climate
Social, St. Louis, MO; Julie Sommer, Owner
& Operating Manager, Sommer Property In-
vestments, LLC, St. Louis, MO; Matthew
Thenhaus, Owner & General Manager, The
Fortune Teller Bar, St. Louis, MO; Phil
Wages, Co-Owner, Wages Brewing Company,
West Plains, MO; Peter Wallach, Director,
Peter Wallach Fine Art, St. Louis, MO; Nick
Ward-Bopp, Owner, Maker Village, Kansas
City, MO.
Bridget Weible, Owner, Flowers to the Peo-
ple, St. Louis, MO; William Handsaker, Part-
ner, C&J Painting, Bozeman, MT; Anne Alex-
ander, Owner, Authentic Alternatives, Inc.,
Pisgah Forest, NC; Elizabeth Altman, Owner,
New Bridge Organic Market, Jacksonville,
NC; Philip Chagnon, Owner/Manager, Resi-
dential Rental Properties, Raleigh, NC;
Kristen Daniels, Owner, Kamibashi Corpora-
tion, Leicester, NC; Susan Inglis, Executive
Director, Sustainable Furnishings Council,
Edenton, NC; Jeffrey Jones, Owner, Rock
Hard Media Group, Bolivia, NC; Angela
McElwee, President, Gaia Herbs, Brevard,
NC; Antonio Reyes, Owner, Reyes Agency,
Mathews, NC; Lloyd Smith, President and
CEO, Cortech Solutions, Wilmington, NC;
Daniel Swimm, Founder, Grow Fragrance,
Durham, NC; Gunnar Berg, Partner, Hill
People LLC, N. Sandwich, NH; Jessica
Christoferson, Owner, Cymbidium Floral, Ex-
eter, NH; Rebecca Hamilton, Co-CEO and
Family Owner, W.S. Badger Company,
Gilsum, NH; Kyle Swann, Owner, Angelica’s
Muse, Portsmouth, NH.
Kris Thieme, Owner, Thieme Agency, Lon-
donderry, NH; Esteve Torrens, CEO,
Stonyfield Farm, Londonderry, NH; Bill
Whyte, Co-Founder, W.S. Badger Company,
Gilsum, NH; Jeffrey Axelbank, Owner, Jef-
frey Axelbank, Psy.D., Highland Park, NJ;
Alicia Biasotti Belotta, Owner, ACB Con-
sulting Services, Verona, NJ; Mitch Cahn,
President, Unionwear, Newark, NJ; Vincent
Clyne, Managing Partner, PAIRINGS,
Cranford, NJ; James Devine, Owner, CEO,
Devine Advertising Associates, Rahway, NJ;
Gall Friedberg, Vice President, Zago Manu-
facturing Company, Newark, NJ; Timothy
Glordano, Attorney, Timothy K. Giordano,
Esq., Montclair, NJ; Richard Lawton, Found-
er, Triple Ethos, Point Pleasant Beach, NJ;
Richard Lawton, Executive Director, New
Jersey Sustainable Business Council, Point
Pleasant Beach, NJ; Sally Malanga, CEO,
Ecco Bella, West Orange, NJ; Myles Men-
doza, Owner & Design Director,
Designmaster Group, Edgewater, NJ; Eric
Russell, Owner, Drinkable Air Northeast,
Basking Ridge, NJ; Andy Smith, Owner,
Andy Smith Photography, Newton, NJ; Chet
Van Wert, President, Sustainable Business
Partners, Scotch Plains, NJ.
Kelly Vlahakis-Hanks, President and CEO,
Earth Friendly Products (Makers of ECOS),
Parsippany, NJ; Kimi Wei, CEO, The Wei,
Fair Lawn, NJ; Adam Woods, CEO, Camden
Printworks, Camden, NJ; Dr. Kathleen
Burke, MD, Las Cruces, NM; Beatriz
Ferreira, Owner, Paz International, Las
Cruces, NM; Elene Gusch, CEO, Kuan Yin
Acupuncture, Albuquerque, NM; Linda
Lillow, Owner, Triple L, Ink Graphic Design,
Albuquerque, NM; Alston Lundgren, Owner
(retired), Alston C Lundgren, MD, PC, Santa
Fe, NM; Judith Shipsky, President, Solu-
tions!, Albuquerque, NM; Drew Tulchin,
Owner, UpSpring, Santa Fe, NM; Anam
Kinsey, Owner, BnB SEO, Reno, NV; Corey
Neff, Owner, Neff Agency, Las Vegas, NV;
Steven Abel, CEO, Center for Mediation &
Training, Upper Nyack, NY; Nick Balaban,
President, Nick Balaban Music, Inc., Brook-
lyn, NY; Sebastian Bardin-Greenberg, Owner,
Overtime Records, Brooklyn, NY; Dave
Bauer, President & Owner, The Change Cir-
cle, Inc, Williamsville, NY; David Bolotsky,
Founder and CEO, UncommonGoods, Brook-
lyn, NY.
Nancy Boyd, President, Bright Wings Inc.,
Briarcliff Manor, NY; Richard Brook, Mem-
ber, Meyer, Suozzi, English & Klein, New
York, NY; Ann Bryan, Owner, Ann Krupp De-
signer Goldsmith, Saugerties, NY; Simon
Burke-Lipiczky, Owner, Build Smart With
Simon, Troy, NY; Linda Christensen, Owner,
Blue Quarry Designs, Trumansburg, NY; Jon
Cooper, President, Spectronics Corporation,
Westbury, NY; Jennifer Dotson, Executive
Director, Ithaca Carshare, Ithaca, NY; Marie
Duryea, President, Special Instruction,
Northport, NY; Kathie Fox, Co-Owner, Fan-
ciful Fox, New York, NY; Jeff Furman,
Board Member Emeritus, Ben & Jerry’s,
Ithaca, NY; Ajax Greene, Founder/CEO, On
Belay Business Advisors Inc., Gardiner, NY;
Brett Gryska, Owner, Oldham-Gryska Agen-
cy, Rochester, NY; Valerie + lhsan Gurdal,
Owners, Formaggio Kitchen, New York, NY;
Amy Hall, Vice President. Social Conscious-
ness, EILEEN FISHER, Irvington, NY; Susan
Hansen, Owner, Hansen’s Advisory Services,
Inc., Fayetteville, NY; Seth Hirsh, President,
Equus Bloodstock LLC, North Woodmere,
NY; Kathleen Hoffman, Owner, Law Office of
Thomas Hoffman, New York, NY.
Brian Hogan, Owner, ICT, Bronx, NY; Jef-
frey Hollender, Founder, Jeffrey Hollender
Partners, New York, NY; Eric Horowitz,
Owner, The Double Windsor, Brooklyn, NY;
Gintas Janusonis, Owner, Janusonic Music,
Brooklyn, NY; Margaret Johnston, Owner,
BEZ Services LLC, Binghamton, NY; Heidi
Jones, Partner, Allen Street Consulting, Buf-
falo, NY; Iva Kaufman, Principal, lva Kauf-
man Associates, New York, NY; Jenny
Krauss, President, Jenny Krauss, New York,
NY; Carole Laible, CEO, Domini Impact In-
vestments, New York, NY; David Levine,
President, American Sustainable Business
Council, New York, NY; Paul Lightfoot,
CEO, BrightFarms, Inc., New York, NY;
Bright Limm, Owner, Principal, Bright D
Limm, Esq., Flushing, NY; George McDon-
ald, President, The Doe Fund, New York, NY;
Keith Mestrich, President and CEO, Amal-
gamated Bank, New York, NY; Jeff
Mikkelson, Owner, Jeff Mikkelson Photog-
raphy, New York, NY; Michael Miller, Man-
aging Partner, Rowan Consulting, Howard
Beach, NY; Leon Miller-Out, President/CTO,
Singlebrook Technology, Ithaca, NY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.016 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7109
July 18, 2019
Prish Moran, Owner, Sweet_ness 7 Café,
Buffalo, NY; Joshua Morton, Owner, Proof of
Concept, LLC, Brooklyn, NY; Ean Murphy,
Managing Partner, Moxie Bookkeeping, New
York, NY; Michael Owen, Principal,
MediaCombo, New York, NY; Clifton Pat-
rick, Owner, Clifton Patrick P&C Insurance,
Chester, NY; Del Pedro, Managing Partner,
Tooker Alley, Brooklyn, NY; Eleanor Prior,
Owner, Prior Beeswax, Germantown, NY;
Erwin Rakoczy, Director, CUFF, Clarence,
NY; Jan Rhodes Norman, Owner, Silk Oak,
Ithaca, NY; Jonathan Rose, President,
Jonanthan Rose Companies, New York, NY;
Darius Ross, Managing Partner, D Alexander
Ross Real Estate Capital Partners, New
York, NY; Patrick Rousseau, Owner, Iris
MediaWorks, Brooklyn, NY; Lesli Sagan,
Owner, Avital’s Apiaries, Ithaca, NY; Steven
Salsberg, Chairman, Global Access, New
York, NY; Jeffrey Scales, Managing Prin-
cipal, JSA Financial Group, Rhinebeck, NY;
Elizabeth Scalisi, Owner/President, Green
Effects Landscaping Services, Inc., Manlius,
NY; Jason Schuler, Founder and President,
Drink More Good, Beacon, NY.
Elizabeth Schwartz, Co-Owner, Better
Speech Now, Long Island City, NY; Dylan
Skolnick, Co-Director, Cinema Arts Centre,
Huntington, NY; Esther Sokolsky, Co-
Owner, Granny Press, Nyack, NY; Simon
Thoresen, Owner, Thoresen and Linard Ar-
chitects, New York, NY; Scott Tillitt,
Founder, Antidote Collective, Beacon, NY;
Scott Tillitt, Founder, BEAHIVE, Beacon,
NY; Brad Walrod, President, Kenoza Type,
Inc., Kenoza Lake, NY; Steve Zorn, Racing
Manager/Owner, Castle Village Farm, Garden
City, NY; Pat Benedure, Owner, The SS
Bendure-Hartwig Group, Columbus, OH;
Nicholas Eastman, President, Electroshield,
Yellow Springs, OH; Kevin Holtz, Owner,
Holtz Agency, Cincinnati, OH; Gary Johnson,
President, AFI Contractors, Toledo, OH;
Chris Kloth, Owner, ChangeWorks of the
Heartland, Columbus, OH; Steve Mokris,
Owner, Kosada, Athens, OH; Matthew Parks,
Owner, SS-Parks-Salvaggi Agency, North
Royalton, OH; Jim Surace, Owner, Surace-
Smith Agency, North Royalton, OH; Paul
Akins, Owner, Distinctive Designs Salon,
The Village, OK.
Andrea Anderson, Owner, AM Artistry
Printing & Vinyl, Oklahoma City, OK;
Dorshak Blok, Owner, Planet Dorshak, Okla-
homa City, OK; William Bourne, Owner,
Bachle’s Fireplace Furnishings, Oklahoma
City, OK; Lourdes Chavez, Owner, Dog Dy-
nasty Grooming, Oklahoma City, OK; Ely
Cocklin, Owner, BY.E Gallery, Oklahoma
City, OK; Michael Dixon, Owner, Earthwise
Pet Supply, Oklahoma City, OK; John Dun-
ning, Owner, Trolley Stop Record Shop,
Oklahoma City, OK; Jerry Fina, Owner,
Dee’s Shoe Repair, Oklahoma City, OK; Rex
Friend, Attorney at Law, Attorney at Law,
Oklahoma City, OK; Gena Goforth, Owner,
Architectural Hardware Designs, Oklahoma
City, OK; Diana Harris, Owner, Bad Granny’s
Bazaar, Oklahoma City, OK; Kyle Hix,
Owner, Hix Design, Oklahoma City, OK; An-
gela Hodgkinson, Co-Owner, Solare, Okla-
homa City, OK; Anthony Hurndon, Owner, K.
Marie’s Premium Kutz & Stylez, Oklahoma
City, OK; Samuel Jones, Owner, Sammy’s
Barber Shop, Oklahoma City, OK; Phillip
Jordan, Owner, Fitzgerald’s Barber & Sup-
ply, Oklahoma City, OK; Ron Lira, Owner,
Honest Ron’s Guitars, Oklahoma City, OK.
Charles Martin, Owner, Literati Press,
Oklahoma City, OK; Richard Mills, Owner,
The Scuba Dudes, Oklahoma City, OK; Bryan
Moore, Barber, Rooted Barber Shop, Okla-
homa City, OK; Pam Nath, Owner, Drybar,
Oklahoma City, OK; Jessi Newsome, Co-
Owner, OKcollective Candle Co., Oklahoma
City, OK; Seth Nun, Owner, AM: Donuts,
Oklahoma City, OK; Patrick Patterson,
Owner, Prairie Arts Collective, Oklahoma
City, OK; Max Radcliffe, Owner, Annex Bar-
ber Shop, Oklahoma City, OK; Aadi
Rajbhandari, Co-Owner, Fix A Phone, Okla-
homa City, OK; Chelsea Ricks, Owner, Chan-
tilly Couture, Oklahoma City, OK; Angel Ri-
vera, Owner, Manhattan Tailors, Oklahoma
City, OK; James Scott, Owner, Scott’s Gen-
eral Store, Oklahoma City, OK; John Sew-
ard, Co-Founder, AMP Variety, Oklahoma
City, OK; Mandy Smith, Owner, The Motley
Parlour, Oklahoma City, OK; Julie Stanfill,
Owner, Julie’s Barber Shop, Oklahoma City,
OK; Beth Stetson, Weddle Prof. of Account-
ing, U. of Oklahoma, Norman, OK; Vartan
‘‘Tony’’ Tonian, Owner, A1 NW Vacuum &
Janitor Supplies, Oklahoma City, OK.
Eden Turrentine, Owner, Eden, Oklahoma
City, OK; Robin Venters, Owner, OKC Music
and Sound, Oklahoma City, OK; Paul
Windham, Owner, The Mattress Place, Okla-
homa City, OK; Pete & Jeanie Barkett,
Owner, Vinnie’s Pizza, Portland, OR; Adri-
enne Catone, CEO, Faerie’s Dance, Inc.,
Happy Valley, OR; Daniel Davis, Owner and
President, D2X Construction LLC/ D2X Asso-
ciates, Central Point, OR; Larry Fried,
Owner, Do Good Investing, LLC, Eugene, OR;
Rosa Gerstner, Owner, Sympatico Clothing,
Jacksonville, OR; Nicole Loffler, Owner,
Nomadics Tipi Makers, Bend, OR; Kevin
Marr, Owner, Motel Del Rogue, Grants Pass,
OR; Constance Palaia, Owner, Motel Del
Rogue, Grants Pass, OR; Mitch Rofsky,
President, Better World Club, Portland, OR;
Julie Wasmer, Owner, Food Smart LLC, Cor-
vallis, OR; Dana Weintraub, Owner, Ever-
green Sustainability, LLC, Beaverton, OR;
Eugene Aleci, Owner, Community Heritage
Partners, Lancaster, PA; Simon Arias,
Owner, Arias Agencies, Wexford, PA; Ben-
jamin Bingham, CEO, Scarab Funds, Phila-
delphia, PA.
Laura Blau, Principal, BluPath Design,
Philadelphia, PA; Mark Bortman, Owner,
Exact Solar, Yardley, PA; Peg Botto, Owner,
Cosmic Catering, Philadelphia, PA; Jona-
than Brandow, Owner, BizMiner, Camp Hill,
PA; Pelcha Chang, CEO, Vault+Vine, Phila-
delphia, PA; Matt Cleveland, Owner, Occa-
sions Disc Jockeys, Elizabethtown, PA;
Charlie Crystle, Principal, Crystle Con-
sulting, Lancaster, PA; Amy Edelman,
Owner, Night Kitchen Bakery, Philadelphia,
PA; Jennie Groff, CEO, Stroopies, Inc., Lan-
caster, PA; Kenny Grono, President,
Buckminster Green, Philadelphia, PA; Steve
Hackman, Owner, One Village Coffee,
Souderton, PA; Michael Lastoria, Founder
and CEO, &pizza, Philadelphia, PA; Cindy
Lou, Owner, Cindy’s Pet Care, Philadelphia,
PA; Patrick McMahon, CEO, One Point,
Scranton, PA; Scott Nash, Owner, CEO,
MOM’s Organic Market, Bryn Mawr, PA; Mi-
chael O’Connor, Owner, La Barberia
Jenkintown, PA; Gerald Onesi, Owner, West
Side Auto Repair, Uniontown, PA.
Jesse Pellman, Co-Owner, Longview Struc-
tures Lancaster, PA; Salam Quadrl, Owner,
P&Q Partners, Blue Bell, PA; Anna Shipp,
Executive Director, Sustainable Business
Network of Greater Philadelphia, Philadel-
phia, PA; Brian Taussig-Lux, Co-founder,
Untours, Media, PA; John Traynor, Owner,
Harrisburg Midtown Arts Center, Harrisburg,
PA; Ken Weinstein, Owner, Trolley Car
Diner, Philadelphia, PA; Peggy Zwerver,
Owner, Earth—Bread+ Brewery, Philadel-
phia, PA; Katie Dyer, Owner, Cadeaux du
Mende, Newport, RI; Deborah Schimberg,
CEO, Verve, Inc/ Glee Gum, Providence, RI;
Lee Barbour, CEO, Avant Garage,
Charteston, SC; Judy Doty, Operations Man-
ager & CoFounder, Doty Scientific, Colum-
bia, SC; Jamee Haley, Executive Director,
Lowcountry Local First, Charteston, SC;
Brady Quirk-Garvan, Owner, Money With A
Mission, North Charteston, SC; Mark Tilsen,
President & Co-Founder, Native American
Natural Foods, Kyle, SD; Richard Aberdeen,
President, Freedom Tracks Records, Hermit-
age, TN; Ruth Black, Owner/Operator, Hid-
den Springs Nursery, Cookeville, TN.
Maryanna Clarke, Founding Artistic Direc-
tor, Tennessee Women’s Theater Project,
Nashville, TN; Doug Havron, Owner, Gabby’s
Burgers and Fries, Nashville, TN; MaryAnne
Howland, CEO, Ibis, Communications Nash-
ville, TN; Stephen Prince, Owner, Card Mar-
keting Services, Nolensville, TN; Sherry
Stewart Deutschmann, Founder, Letterlogic,
Inc., Nashville. TN; Malissa Anderson, Presi-
dent, EarthWorksTile, Burnet, TX; Chris Ap-
plegate, Owner, SHED Barber and Supply,
Austin, TX; Domenico Bertini, Executive
Vice President, American Income Life,
Waco, TX; Kelly Blanscet, Owner, Graphic
Granola, Austin, TX; Beth Carls, CEO,
OneSeventeen Media, PBC, Austin, TX;
Bruce Champeau, President and COO, Room
& Board, Dallas, TX; Ronnie ‘‘Merlot’’ Cole-
man, Jr., Owner, Mer1ot’s Barbershop, Hous-
ton, TX; Ed Fiedler, Owner, Fiedler On the
Roof Construction, Austin, TX; EIieen Fish-
er, Founder, EILEEN FISHER, Dallas, TX;
Steve Greer, CEO, American Income Life/Na-
tional Income Life, Waco, TX; Manlsh Gupta,
Owner/CEO, Matr Boomie, Austin, TX; An-
gela Hudson, Co-Owner, Memorial Music,
Houston, TX.
Cliff Hybarger, Owner, Charde Jewelers,
Houston, TX; Michael Jones, Owner, River
Oaks Bookstore, Houston, TX; Max Kabat,
Co-Founder, goodDog, Marfa, TX; Linda J.
Mann, Owner, Old Blue House Antiques,
Houston, TX; Amanda May, Owner, The Pur-
ple Fig Eco Cleaning Co., Austin, TX; Mike
Mulloy, Owner, House of Coffee Beans, Hous-
ton, TX; Tuyen Kim Ngyuen, Owner, A One
Hour Alteration, Houston, TX; Carol Niemi,
Owner, Aloha Services Houston, TX; Leslie
Ohayon, Owner, Sacred Leaf Wellness, Hous-
ton, TX; Adam Orman, Owner/GM, L’Oca
d’Oro, Austin, TX; Manuel Oviedo, Owner,
Town & Country Tailors, Houston, TX; Dave
Panganiban, Owner, Tea Bar and Organics,
Houston, TX; Dorothy Perez, Owner, AIIArt
Framing & Gallery, Houston, TX; Cindy
Reich, Owner, Whim Boutique, Houston, TX;
Mustafa Saleem, Owner, Guyz ‘N’ Style,
Houston, TX; Mary Shaffer, Owner, Shaffer
Studios, Marfa, TX; Suzanne Smith, Found-
er, Social Impact Architects, Dallas, TX.
Michael Vasu, Owner, Vasu Agency, Hous-
ton, TX; Melissa Vogt, Managing Director,
The Butterfly Bar @ The VORTEX, Austin,
TX; Matt Wright, Co-Founder, Little Brother
Bar, Austin, TX; Matt Wright, Owner, Better
Half Coffee & Cocktails, Austin, TX; Matt
Wright, Owner, Wright Bros. Brew & Brew,
Austin, TX; Uriel Yoemi, Owner, Custom
With Us LLC, Houston, TX; Karim Zltoun,
Owner, Sam’s Repair, Houston, TX; Ziad
Zobaidy, Owner, Ziad’s Beauty Salon, Hous-
ton, TX; Darwin Crosland, CEO & Founder,
Abundant Life Social Services, Syracuse,
UT; Barry Clemson, Owner, Cybemetica
Press, Norfolk, VA; Bruce Grossberg, owner,
Buz and Ned’s Real Barbecue, Richmond, VA;
Michael Lastoria, Founder and CEO, &pizza,
Alexandria, VA; Sandra Leibowitz, Managing
Principal, Sustainable Design Consulting,
Richmond, VA; Sarah Mason, Owner, Posei-
don’s Pantry, Chincoteague, VA; Scott Nash,
Owner, CEO, MOM’s Organic Market, Arling-
ton, VA; James Samans, Executive Member,
XENSHA, Alexandria, VA.
Gina Schaefer, Owner, Old Town Ace Hard-
ware, Alexandria, VA; Andy Shallal, Owner,
Busboys & Poets Restaurants, Artington,
VA; Yvonne Baab, Owner, Global Gifts,
Montpelier, VT; Joey Bergsteln, CEO, Sev-
enth Generation, Burtington, VT; Theodore
Casparian, Founder, Sustainable Investing 4
All, Morrisville, VT; Ben Cohen, Co-Founder,
Ben and Jerry’s, South Burlington, VT; Eliz-
abeth Glenshaw, President, Clean Yield
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.018 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7110 July 18, 2019
Asset Management Norwich, VT; Patricia C.
Heffernan, President and Founder, Mar-
keting Partners Burtington, VT; Jeffrey
Hollender, Chairman, Sustain Natural, Bur-
lington, VT; Sascha Mayer, CEO, Mamava,
Burtington, VT; Sue Morris, Owner, Editide,
Marshfield, VT; Todd Walker, Senior Finan-
cial Advisor, Greenvest, Wells, VT; Martin
Wolf, Director, Product Sustainability, Sev-
enth Generation, Burlington, VT; Rick Altig,
President, Altig International, Redmond,
WA; Denise Attwood, Owner, Ganesh Himal
Trading, Spokane, WA; Kelly Bell, Founder,
Gotham City Drupal, Mossyrock, WA.
Diane Emerson, Associate, Watershed LLC,
Vashon, WA; Kelsey Marshall, Co-Founder,
Grounds for Change, Poulsbo, WA; William
McColl, Owner, McColl Studio, Blaine, WA;
Gage Mitchell, Owner, Principal, Modern
Species, Seattle, WA; John Perkins, CEO,
Dream Change, Bainbridge Island, WA; Jyoti
Stephens, Sustainability and Stewardship
Manager, Nature’s Path, Richmond, WA;
Sash Sunday, Owner, OlyKraut, Olympia,
WA; Kelly Vlahakls-Hanks, President and
CEO, Earth Friendly Products (Makers of
ECOS), Lacey, WA; Bruce Wade, Owner, Tau-
rus Tech, Mount Vernon, WA; Eric Yarnell,
President, Heron Botanicals, Kingston, WA;
Michael Katz, President, Molded Dimen-
sions, Port Washington, WI; Gary Lemke,
Owner, Gary L. Lemke Landscaping, Potter,
WI; Margaret May, Owner, May Educational
Psychology, Richland Center, WI; Jerry
McGeorge, Vice President of Cooperative Af-
fairs, Organic Valley, La Farge, WI; Jerry
Moors, Senior VP of Sales, Springs Window
Fashions, Middleton, WI; Mary Stelletello,
Founder, Vista Global Coaching & Con-
sulting, Madison, WI.
Mr. TRONE. Mr. Speaker, I have a
unique perspective on this issue. I was
a businessman. Before I ran for Con-
gress, I founded a small business with
just a few employees. Now, I own a
business with over 7,000 employees in 25
States.
At my company, we understand that
if you take care of your team members
by paying them a living wage, they will
take care of our customers, and our
business will do better because of it.
Everyone wins.
This isn’t hypothetical for me. My
business operates in many cities, like
Seattle, with a $15 minimum wage.
When the laws changed, we didn’t cut
jobs, and our business did not suffer.
Quite the opposite.
When we raise the wage, we see 1.3
million Americans lifted out of pov-
erty, 600,000 of whom are children; we
see families who can afford their rent,
healthcare, and other necessities; and
we see a stronger economy.
When we raise the wage, we see a win
for business, a win for working fami-
lies, and a win for our economy.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman
SCOTT for his leadership on this criti-
cally important issue, and I urge my
colleagues to support this bill.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
PERRY).
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I started,
like many folks did, working when I
was a young man. People have different
reasons for seeking employment. I
needed to get out of the house, as some
things were happening at the house,
but I didn’t have any skills.
I rode my bike to a nearby farm, and
I picked fruit. I didn’t make minimum
wage because I couldn’t pick fruit fast
enough, because I didn’t have the skills
to do that when I was 13 years old, but
I learned to show up on time with a
good attitude. That is a valuable thing.
That is where we start out.
That job wouldn’t have been avail-
able if this minimum wage of $15, en-
acted from the Federal level, would
have forced that employer to make a
choice whether they hired me or hired
somebody else. I didn’t want to make
the minimum wage. I wanted to make
the maximum wage, but I had to have
some skills.
The next job I got still wasn’t min-
imum wage, but I worked hard. Now, I
had the skill of showing up on time
with a good attitude. I kept on doing
better and better and better for myself
because the jobs were available.
Mr. Speaker, if this legislation is en-
acted, young people and people at the
bottom of the economic spectrum that
we are trying to help are not going to
have that opportunity. That is what
this is really about in America, having
opportunity.
A minimum wage requirement from
the Federal level doesn’t draw any dis-
tinctions between Los Angeles and
Gratz, Pennsylvania, a great little
town that I am privileged to represent.
It doesn’t draw a distinction between
Chicago or Shiremanstown. It says
they all have to do the same thing.
Dover or New York, all the same wage,
really.
I don’t have tall skyscrapers in cen-
tral Pennsylvania like they do in New
York City, Chicago, and L.A., but I
have hardworking people who want the
opportunity that is provided by the
market.
There are 7.5 million jobs open right
now. The market is providing the
wages to incentivize people to come to
them, and they have an opportunity to
go to another job and make even more
under the free market.
The Federal Government is going to
stifle that with this $15 an hour min-
imum wage.
Mr. Speaker, I urge us not to vote for
this bill.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I remind my colleague that his vote
against this bill is a vote to deny about
35 percent of the workers in his district
in Pennsylvania an average raise of
about $3,200 a year.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
WILD), a distinguished member of the
Committee on Education and Labor.
Ms. WILD. Mr. Speaker, there should
not be anybody in this room arguing
that $7.25 an hour is sufficient for a
worker’s well-being. When adjusted for
inflation, $7.25 is less than the Federal
minimum wage of 50 years ago.
I support this bill because 98,000
workers in my district in Pennsylvania
deserve a long-overdue raise. We are
now in the midst of the longest period
of time without an increase to the Fed-
eral minimum wage.
I support this bill because, while cor-
porations are making record profits off
the backs of workers, wage stagnation
and increased cost of living have bank-
rupted hardworking families across my
district.
This bill would increase the min-
imum wage gradually.
This is not a ‘‘bad for business’’ piece
of legislation, as my colleagues across
the aisle allege. It is a ‘‘good for every-
one’’ bill that puts more money into
our workers’ pockets.
Our colleagues of the past would be
baffled by the opposition to this bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania.
Ms. WILD. The Federal Labor Stand-
ards Act was passed in 1938 for the ex-
plicit purpose of protecting workers
from substandard wages. That land-
mark bill passed the House by a vote of
291–89.
By the letter of that law, the min-
imum standard of living necessary for
a worker’s well-being is in Congress’
hands. Members of both parties chose
not to leave it up to market forces be-
cause poverty-level wages, sweatshops,
and poor working conditions should
not happen in the United States of
America in 1938 or in 2019.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. WRIGHT).
Mr. WRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
opposition to H.R. 582, the Raise the
Wage Act, or, as it should be called, the
Raising Unemployment for American
Workers Act.
I was disappointed to hear that
Democratic members on the Rules
Committee failed to make my amend-
ment in order. The amendment prohib-
ited H.R. 582 from going into effect if
the Government Accountability Office
found that over 500,000 jobs would be
lost to automation as a direct result of
this legislation, a very reasonable
amendment.
This amendment was intended to
make sure that, in seeking to improve
economic outcomes for workers, espe-
cially lower-wage and lesser-skilled
workers, we don’t adopt policies that
have the opposite effect.
This radical legislation would more
than double the Federal minimum
wage, the largest-ever increase since
its creation. The recent Congressional
Budget Office report on this bill paints
a bleak picture of the consequences if
it ever becomes law.
When fully implemented, this legisla-
tion would result in as many as 3.7 mil-
lion, almost 270,000 from the State of
Texas, jobs lost. Across the country,
total real family income would drop by
$9 billion.
At a time when the economy is ex-
panding, wages are rising above infla-
tion, and unemployment is the lowest
it has been in decades, we should not be
considering job-killing, income-reduc-
ing legislation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.019 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7111
July 18, 2019
The negative impacts of such a disas-
trous bill would be felt in high-income
urban areas, but they would be even
more severe in lower income rural
areas. The economic conditions of
Navarro County, Texas, in my district,
where the median income is $45,000 a
year, are not the same as San Fran-
cisco, where the median income is
more than double that. A federally
mandated doubling of the minimum
wage would burden these people and
businesses, forcing them to cut hours,
let employees go, and close business
doors.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield an additional 15 sec-
onds to the gentleman from Texas.
Mr. WRIGHT. My colleagues across
the aisle like to point to the number of
people who will be lifted out of poverty
but consistently fail to acknowledge
that the same number of Americans
are expected to lose their jobs. It seems
to me that this bill is a sweet deal, but
only if you get to keep your job.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
may I inquire as to how much time is
left on both sides.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Virginia has 101⁄2 minutes
remaining. The gentlewoman from
North Carolina has 21⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I remind my colleague from Texas that
a vote against this bill is a vote to
deny about 30 percent of the workers in
his district in Texas an average raise of
about $3,800 a year.
I also will point out that the same
CBO report that he cited cites the
three most recent studies showing the
number of jobs will actually go up as a
direct result of the passage of this bill,
and 27 million people are getting a
raise.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Massachusetts (Mrs.
TRAHAN), a distinguished member of
the Committee on Education and
Labor.
Mrs. TRAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I in-
clude in the RECORD a letter from wom-
en’s community groups in support of
this legislation.
JULY 15, 2019.
Pass the Raise the Wage Act
DEAR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS: As members
of a broad coalition of organizations that
promote economic security and equity for
women, we strongly urge you to pass the
Raise the Wage Act as a top priority of the
116th Congress.
The Raise the Wage Act will raise the fed-
eral minimum wage from $7.25 to $15 an hour
by 2024, then index the minimum wage so
that it continues to rise along with wages
overall. It will also end unfair exclusions for
tipped workers, people with disabilities, and
youth so that they, too, can benefit from a
decent minimum wage.
Women across the country—especially
women of color—continue to experience a
pay gap and a higher risk of poverty than
men. Women working full time, year round
typically make only 80 percent of what their
male counterparts make, leaving a wage gap
of 20 cents on the dollar. This wage gap var-
ies by race and is larger for women of color:
Black women working full time, year round
typically make only 61 cents, Native women
only 58 cents, and Latinas only 53 cents, for
every dollar paid to their white, non-His-
panic male counterparts. While Asian Amer-
ican and Pacific Islander (AAPI) women
make 85 cents for every dollar paid to white,
non-Hispanic men, many AAPI communities
experience drastically wider pay gaps.
Women’s overrepresentation in low-wage
jobs is a driving force behind the gender pay
gap. Women are close to two-thirds of the
workforce in jobs that pay the minimum
wage or just a few dollars above it, as well as
two-thirds of workers in tipped jobs. Women
of color are particularly overrepresented
among tipped workers and other low-wage
workers. They are particularly harmed by
the $7.25 federal minimum wage that has not
gone up in a decade and by the $2.13 tipped
minimum cash wage that has been frozen for
an astonishing 28 years.
Poverty-level wages heighten women’s eco-
nomic vulnerability, which in turn heightens
their vulnerability to sexual harassment on
the job. Women who rely on tips to survive
often feel compelled to tolerate inappro-
priate behavior from customers so as not to
jeopardize their income and employers are
often unwilling to protect their employees
for fear of upsetting a paying customer.
Women’s lack of economic power in these
workplaces perpetuates the already perva-
sive culture of sexual harassment in indus-
tries that employ large numbers of tipped
workers.
The Raise the Wage Act is critically need-
ed to advance women’s economic security
and dignity in the workplace. The Economic
Policy Institute estimates that increasing
the federal minimum wage to $15 by 2024
would give nearly one in three working
women a raise, including 41 percent of Black
working women, 38 percent of working
Latinas, 29 percent of white working women,
and 18 percent of Asian working women.
Women and people of color have been left
behind by our economy and our policies far
too often, for far too long. Adopting the
Raise the Wage Act would mark a crucial
step toward ensuring they can work with eq-
uity, dignity, and safety. There is no more
fitting way to begin this historic Congress
than by making real, concrete progress in
ensuring all women receive adequate pay.
We urge you to prioritize the Raise the
Wage Act in the 116th Congress by swiftly
passing this legislation.
Sincerely,
9to5, National Association of Working
Women; 9to5 Georgia; A Better Balance;
Abortion Access Front; ACCESS; African
American Health Alliance; All-Options;
Amara Legal Center; American Association
of University Women (AAUW); American
Federation of State, County, and Municipal
Employees (AFSCME).
American Federation of Teachers, AFL–
CIO; AFT Local 1766 (Union of Rutgers Ad-
ministrators); American Medical Student
Association; American Psychological Asso-
ciation; Americans for Democratic Action
(ADA); Arizona Coalition to End Sexual &
Domestic Violence; Asian Pacific American
Labor Alliance, AFL–CIO; Black Women’s
Roundtable; MS Black Women’s Roundtable;
Bucks County Women’s Advocacy Coalition.
California Child Care Resource & Referral
Network; Cambridge Committee to Raise the
Minimum Wage; Caring Across Generations;
Center for American Progress; Center for
Frontline Retail; Center for Law and Social
Policy (CLASP); Center for Popular Democ-
racy; Chelsea Collaborative; Citizen Action
of New York; Clearinghouse on Women’s
Issues.
Coalition of Labor Union Women (CLUW);
California Capital Chapter, CLUW; Capital
Area Chapter, CLUW; Chesapeake Bay Chap-
ter, CLUW; Chicago Chapter, CLUW; Cleve-
land Chapter, CLUW; Florida Chapter,
CLUW; Genesee County Chapter, CLUW;
Grand Prairie Arlington Chapter, CLUW;
Greater Kansas City Chapter, CLUW.
Greater New Jersey Chapter, CLUW;
Greater Oklahoma City Chapter, CLUW;
Houston Chapter, CLUW; Kate Mullany
Chapter, CLUW; King County Chapter,
CLUW; Lorain County Chapter, CLUW; Los
Angeles Chapter, CLUW; Metro-Detroit
Chapter, CLUW; Metropolitan District of Co-
lumbia Chapter, CLUW; Missouri Chapter,
CLUW.
Northeast Cleveland Chapter, CLUW;
Pennsylvania State Chapter, CLUW ; Phila-
delphia Chapter, CLUW; Rhode Island Chap-
ter, CLUW; San Diego Chapter, CLUW; San
Francisco Chapter, CLUW; Southwestern
Pennsylvania Chapter, CLUW; St. Louis
Chapter, CLUW; Western New York Chapter,
CLUW; Western Virginia Chapter, CLUW.
Coalition on Human Needs; Color of
Change; Connecticut Women’s Education and
Legal Fund (CWEALF); Criminalization of
Poverty Project at the Institute for Policy
Studies; Day One; Domestic Violence Legal
Empowerment & Appeals Project; Economic
Opportunity Institute; Empire Justice Cen-
ter; Equal Rights Advocates; Equality North
Carolina.
Equality Ohio; Fair World Project; Feder-
ally Employed Women; Feminist Majority
Foundation; Food Chain Workers Alliance;
Forward Together; Found Objects Trans-
formed; Friends Committee on National Leg-
islation; Futures Without Violence; Gender
Justice.
Health Care for America Now; If/When/
How: Lawyering for Reproductive Justice; Il-
linois Coalition Against Sexual Assault; In
Our Own Voice: National Black Women’s Re-
productive Justice Agenda; Innovation Ohio
Education Fund; Institute for Women’s Pol-
icy Research; Interfaith Worker Justice;
Jewish Alliance for Law and Social Action;
Jewish Women International; Jobs With Jus-
tice; Jobs With Justice, Cleveland; Jobs With
Justice, St Joseph Valley Project.
Justice for Migrant Women; Kentucky
Equal Justice Center; Labor Council for
Latin American Advancement (LCLAA); Las
Hermanas USA; Laundry Workers Center;
Legal Momentum, The Women’s Legal De-
fense and Education Fund; Maine Women’s
Lobby; Massachusetts Voter Table; Mil-
waukee Area Service & Hospitality Workers
Organization (MASH); Mississippi Coalition
Against Domestic Violence.
MNCASA; Moms Demand Action, Triad
North Carolina; MomsRising; NAACP;
NARAL Pro-Choice, North Carolina; Na-
tional Alliance to End Sexual Violence; Na-
tional Asian Pacific American Women’s
Forum (NAPAWF); National Association of
Social Workers, Massachusetts Chapter; Na-
tional Center for Lesbian Rights; National
Coalition for the Homeless.
National Coalition of 100 Black Women,
Central Ohio Chapter; National Coalition of
100 Black Women, Queen City Metropolitan
Chapter; National Committee on Pay Equity;
National Council of Jewish Women; National
Council of Jewish Women, Arizona; National
Council of Jewish Women, Greater New Orle-
ans; National Council of Jewish Women,
Pennsylvania; National Domestic Workers
Alliance; National Employment Law
Project; National Employment Lawyers As-
sociation.
National Immigration Law Center; Na-
tional Institute for Reproductive Health
(NIRH); National LGBTQ Task Force Action
Fund; National Network of Abortion Funds;
National Organization for Women (NOW);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.022 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7112 July 18, 2019
NOW, Louisiana; NOW, North Carolina;
NOW, Raleigh; NOW, Southwest Pennsyl-
vania; NOW, Triad North Carolina.
National Partnership for Women & Fami-
lies; National Women’s Law Center; National
Women’s Health Network; NETWORK Lobby
for Catholic Social Justice; Nevada Coalition
to End Domestic and Sexual Violence; New
Mexico Coalition of Sexual Assault Pro-
grams; New Voices for Reproductive Justice;
New York Union Child Care Coalition; North
Carolina State AFL–CIO; North Carolina
Women United.
Nurses for Sexual and Reproductive
Health; Ohio Alliance to End Sexual Vio-
lence; Ohio Domestic Violence Network;
Ohio Religious Coalition for Reproductive
Choice; Oklahoma Women’s Coalition; Orga-
nization United for Respect; Oxfam America;
Path Ways PA; Pennsylvania NOW; People
For the American Way.
PHENOM (Public Higher Education Net-
work of Massachusetts); Physicians for Re-
productive Health; PL+US: Paid Leave for
the United States; PowHer New York;
Project IRENE; Public Justice Center; PWN–
USA; Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities
Coalition; Restaurant Opportunities Centers
United; Restaurant Opportunities Center,
Pennsylvania.
Sexuality Information and Education
Council of the United States (SIECUS);
Shriver Center on Poverty Law; Solace Cri-
sis Treatment Center; Tennessee Valley Coa-
lition to End Homelessness; Tewa Women
United; The Women’s Law Center of Mary-
land; Union for Reform Judaism; Unitarian
Universalist Mass Action Network; United
Church of Christ, Justice and Witness Min-
istries; United for A Fair Economy.
United Democratic Women of MD, Inc.;
URGE: Unite for Reproductive & Gender Eq-
uity; V.I. Domestic Violence & Sexual As-
sault Council; Valencia Shelter Services;
Vermont Network Against Domestic and
Sexual Violence; Voices for Progress; Wash-
ington Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights
and Urban Affairs; Washington State Coali-
tion of Sexual Assault Programs; West Vir-
ginia Center on Budget and Policy; Western
Center on Law and Poverty.
Women & Girls Foundation of Southwest
Pennsylvania; Women Employed; Women
Lawyers of Sacramento; Women of Reform
Judaism; Women’s Law Project; Women’s
Rights and Empowerment Network; Women’s
Medical Fund, Pennsylvania; WomenRising,
Inc.; Working Washington/Fair Work Center;
Workplace Fairness.
WV FREE; Yellowhammer Fund; YWCA
USA; YWCA, Dayton; ZERO TO THREE.
b 1030
Mrs. TRAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to urge my colleagues to give
more than 33 million deserving Ameri-
cans a raise by voting for the Raise the
Wage Act.
I want to commend Chairman SCOTT
and his staff for their outstanding
work to get us to this point.
The current Federal minimum wage
rate hasn’t budged in a decade, but
basic costs have, and they have dra-
matically. It is an affront to basic fair-
ness and an intolerable conditions for
families working hard yet falling fur-
ther and further behind.
They live on a razor’s edge facing im-
possible choices:
Paying the rent or the car;
Buying diapers and formula for their
children or medication for themselves;
Cutting a check for a student loan
debt payment or a doctor’s visit.
Today, a single mother with two chil-
dren working full-time at $7.25 an hour
is living well below the Federal pov-
erty line. We can fix that by voting to
give her a raise.
Let’s do the same for the rest of
America by passing the Raise the Wage
Act. It is long overdue.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ), the
chair of the Committee on Small Busi-
ness.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I am
from New York, and I rise in support of
the Raise the Wage Act of 2019 for
workers in my district and workers ev-
erywhere, particularly rural America.
The Raise the Wage Act is a long
overdue minimum wage increase that
will lift wages for millions of Ameri-
cans and boost the small business econ-
omy.
Today, under the current minimum
wage of just $7.25 per hour, American
workers and their families are living
on the margins. They spend nights at
the dinner table having to decide
whether to pay for their child’s school
trip or groceries for the week.
If we are to build a better economy
for all Americans, we must ensure that
our workers can make a good living
and have a good life.
Poll after poll shows that small busi-
ness owners support raising the min-
imum wage. This is because doing so
has been proven to help small firms
better retain employees who, in turn,
are more productive and higher per-
forming.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a sign-on statement from Business for
a Fair Minimum Wage.
BUSINESS FOR A FAIR MINIMUM WAGE
FEDERAL $15 SIGN ON STATEMENT
As business owners and executives, we sup-
port gradually raising the federal minimum
wage to $15 by 2024. It’s good for business,
good for customers and good for our econ-
omy.
Workers are also customers. Today’s $7.25
minimum wage—just $15,080 a year for full-
time workers—doesn’t even cover the basics.
Raising the minimum wage puts money in
the pockets of people who most need to
spend it, increasing sales at businesses and
boosting the economy.
Raising the minimum wage makes good
business sense. Low pay typically means
high turnover. Raising the minimum wage
pays off in lower employee turnover, reduced
hiring and training costs, lower error rates,
increased productivity and better customer
service. Employees often make the difference
between repeat customers or lost customers.
Raising the minimum wage is smart pol-
icy. It will reduce the strain on the safety
net caused by wages that people can’t live
on. It will help level the playing field for
businesses and strengthen the consumer
spending businesses depend on to thrive.
ABOUT 1,000 SIGNERS AND COUNTING AS OF JULY
17, 2019
Holly Sklar, CEO, Business for a Fair Min-
imum Wage; Jen Landry, Owner, Steller Bo-
tanical Health, Gustavus, AK; Phillip Aus-
tin, Owner, DJ Cabinetry Tuscaloosa, AL;
Eddie Babies, Owner, Eddie B’s Barber Shop
Montgomery, AL; Varis Berry, Owner, New
Beginning Barber & Style Montgomery, AL;
Larry Bethune, Owner, Brenda’s BBQ, Mont-
gomery, AL; Joseph Bradley, Co-Owner,
Sidekicks Sneaker Shop, Birmingham, AL;
Tahera Broadnax, Owner, The Hair Day Bir-
mingham, AL; David Brown, Owner, Manitou
Supply, Birmingham, AL; Stephanie Brown,
Owner, Hue Studio, Montgomery, AL; Dawn
Cassizzi, Owner, Beacon Yoga, Birmingham,
AL; Michael Crayton, Owner, MandE Suits,
Montgomery, AL.
Robert Dean, Owner, Momma Goldberg’s
Deli, Homewood, AL; Adriane Dunson,
Owner, Cora Bella LLC, Tuscaloosa, AL;
Newman Evans, Owner, Newman’s Classic
Cuts, Birmingham, AL; Dan Hall, Owner,
Queen City Cycles, Tuscaloosa, AL; Benita
Hall, Owner, Shaebreezy Beauty Bar, Mont-
gomery, AL; Carla Hamilton, Owner, Four
Comers Gallery, Birmingham, AL; James
Harris, President, Harvest Midwest, Bir-
mingham, AL; Tim Hicks, Owner, Veteran
Cuts Barber Shop, Montgomery, AL; Ashraf
Hijaz, Owner, Beauty & Beyond, Mont-
gomery, AL; Justin Holt, Owner, Dotson’s
Burger Spot, Tuscaloosa, AL; Jose lzaguarre,
Owner, TechniGO, Tuscaloosa, AL; Nate
Johnson, Owner, Teamwork Barber Shop,
Selma, AL; Walter L Johnson Sr., Owner,
Village East Shoe Center, Montgomery, AL;
Raymond Josof, Owner, Five Points Hotdogs,
Birmingham, AL; Melissa Kendrick, CEO,
Sojourns, Birmingham, AL; Uluybell
Khorsanov, Owner, Prof Alterations, Tusca-
loosa, AL; Dr. Jerry Kirby, Owner, Kirby
Chiropractic Clinic, Montgomery, AL;
LaKeitha Knox, Owner, The Head Doctor,
Tuscaloosa, AL; Nicholas Lewis, Owner, Tha
Cutting Zone, Tuscaloosa, AL; Brandon Mac-
Donald, Owner, MacDonald Insurance Group,
Birmingham, AL; Alexis Martin, Owner, Lex
Couture Boutique, Selma, AL; Charli Mat-
thews, CEO, Empowering Brands, Tusca-
loosa, AL; Marisa Mitchell, Owner, Swaddle,
Birmingham, AL; Kenya Mitchell, Owner,
SKT Hair Salon, Selina, AL; Byong Hyon
Moon, Owner, Tuny Custom T-shirts, Mont-
gomery, AL.
Naboo A. Obeird, Owner, Makano’s Kabob
Express, Birmingham, AL; Derrick Paoletto,
Owner, The Record Stop, Montgomery, AL;
Salisha Parker, Owner, This & That LLC,
Selma, AL; Kirsten Perry, Owner, KD Bridal
& Prom, Selma, AL; Brittney Powell, Owner,
Kay Couture, Montgomery, AL; Jim Reed,
Owner, Reed’s Book Store, Birmingham, AL;
Katie Rengers, Director and Vicar, The
Abbey, Birmingham, AL; Juan Rivera,
Owner, Rivera’s Barber Shop, Northport, AL;
Jim Robertson, Owner, Robertson’s Health
Food Center, Northport, AL; Betty Rollins,
Owner, Cloverdale Laundry & Dry Cleaners,
Montgomery, AL; Chris Roycroft, Owner,
Olive Tree, Tuscaloosa, AL; Vanessa Sand-
ers, Owner, Kut N Go, Montgomery, AL;
Craig Shaw, Owner, True Story Brewing Co.,
Birmingham, AL.
William Sheppard, Owner, Sheppard’s Pet
Supply, Birmingham, AL; Muhammad
Sikander, Owner, Shoe Times, Montgomery,
AL; Mellissa Smith, Owner, Island Delight,
Montgomery, AL; Jarrell Smith, Owner,
Cutz & Budz, Montgomery, AL; Gregory
Smitherman, Owner, Anatomy of Pi, Dora,
AL; Justin Snipes, Owner, The Comic Strip,
Tuscaloosa, AL; Casey Snipes, Owner, Trxi
Vintage, Birmingham, AL; Mark Snyder,
Owner, Mark’s Joint Restaurant, Homewood,
AL; Robby Spaeth, Owner, Capital City Tire
& Auto Sales, Montgomery, AL; Curtis
Starks, Co-owner, Train & Burn, Bir-
mingham, AL; Cheri Stewart, Owner, Trim
Tab Brewing, Birmingham, AL; Deon Trone,
Owner, Deon’s Style & Barber Shop, Tusca-
loosa, AL; Deon Trone, Owner, Deon’s Auto-
motive, Tuscaloosa, AL; Teresa Vickrey,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.014 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7113
July 18, 2019
Owner, Natural Healing, Montgomery, AL;
Johnny Weatherspoon, Owner, Style Connec-
tion Barber Shop, Tuscaloosa, AL; LaTesha
Wells, Owner, Salon Ambience, Tuscaloosa,
AL; Christie White, Owner, Arcadia Salon,
Birmingham, AL; Tim Williamson, Owner,
Carter Drug, Selma, AL; Kandice Wright,
Owner, Hair by Kandice, Tuscaloosa, AL;
Bradley Wyatt, Owner, Copper Top, Tusca-
loosa, AL; Blake Ralston, Owner, Ralston
Agency, Fort Smith, AR; Steve Svendson,
Owner, Svendson Agency, Rogers, AR; Daniel
Aguilera, Owner, 480 Barber Shop, Chandler,
AZ; Janice Brian, Owner, Alley Cats
Haircutting Salon, Flagstaff, AZ; Malcolm
Bates, Owner, Rogue Antiques Retro and
Vintage, Flagstaff, AZ.
Paula Beltran, Owner, V.I. Alterations &
Tailoring, Mesa, AZ; Rita Burnette, Owner,
Make-U-Mobile, Mesa, AZ; Eric Cady, Co-
Owner, Chupacabra Taproom, Mesa, AZ;
Francisco Carlos, Owner, Cabinets by Design,
Phoenix, AZ; Cartiye Carter, Owner, 24K
Hair Spa, Phoenix, AZ; Jorge Castillo, Co-
Owner, The Gaming Zone, Tempe, AZ; Alison
Chandler, Co-Owner, Noble Beast Pet Mar-
ket, Phoenix, AZ; Abel Chavez, Owner, Cha-
vez Barber Shop, Tempe, AZ; Shang Syun
Chiu, Owner, Dealer Electronics, Mesa, AZ;
Natalie Clark, Owner, AZ Lash Lady, Chan-
dler, AZ; Kimberly Clarke, Owner, Solstice
Intimates, Tempe, AZ; Mark Cosmas, Owner,
iRun, Phoenix, AZ.
Phil Costa, Owner, Unique Pianos, Phoe-
nix, AZ; Lauren Danuser, Owner, Local
Nomad, Phoenix, AZ; Daniel DeHoyos,
Owner, Fritz’s Barbershop, Mesa, AZ; Eileen
Fisher, Founder, EILEEN FISHER, Scotts-
dale, AZ; Alfredo Flores, Owner, Watch &
Jewelry Repair, Tempe, AZ; Farrell
Friedland, President, Professional Alter-
natives of Arizona, LLC, Scottsdale, AZ; Jus-
tin Fultz, Owner, Let Us Floor You, Inc,
Chandler, AZ; Gina Galaviz, Co-Owner, Flag
T Factory, Flagstaff, AZ; Kristin Garcia,
Owner, Purge Love Peace Rage Room, Chan-
dler, AZ; Brenda Hackman, Co-Owner,
EmbroidMe, Phoenix, AZ; Tim Hackman, Co-
Owner, EmbroidMe, Phoenix, AZ; Billy
Halton, Co-Owner, Casa Grande Dry Clean-
ing, Casa Grande, AZ.
Eddie Hantas, Owner, Hummus Express,
Tempe, AZ; Lamar Harris, Co-Owner, Get
Sassy Beauty Supply, Chandler, AZ; Nich-
olas Harron, Owner, 1UPGames, Mesa, AZ;
Fahima Hassan, Owner, Khyber Halal, Phoe-
nix, AZ; Dionne Hauke, Owner, Ziggie’s
Music, Phoenix, AZ; Jason Hemann, Owner,
Kitchen AZ, Chandler, AZ; Gabrielle Hop-
kins, Owner, Food Diva AZ, Chandler, AZ;
Gabrielle Hopkins, Owner, Wild Elk Den,
Chandler, AZ; Jeannette Housner, Owner,
Dion’s Le Wig Shoppe, Scottsdale, AZ; Skip
Jones, Owner, Caveman Printing & Apparel,
Mesa, AZ; Brad Keeling, Owner, Maroney’s
Cleaners & Laundry, Phoenix, AZ.
Brad Keeling, President, OrganiCare, Phoe-
nix, AZ; Danyelle Kimbell, Owner, Just In
Time Hair Design, Chandler, AZ; Anthony
Kyhn, Owner, Salon Red Arcadia, Phoenix,
AZ; Adele LaVoie, Owner, French Method
Salon, Phoenix, AZ; Cenobio Lopez, Owner,
Nancy’s Jewelry and Clothing, Chandler, AZ;
Alison Lueders, CEO, Great Green Content,
Phoenix, AZ; David Luna, Owner, Luna’s
Hair & Barbershop, Mesa, AZ; Treasure
Mandley, Owner, HairADize, Chandler, AZ;
Nancy J. McCulla, Owner, Simply Delicious
Catering & Cafe Daily Fare, Flagstaff, AZ;
Edmundo Meraz, Co-Owner, Republica
Empanada, Mesa, AZ; Scott Miner D.C.,
Owner, OMNI Chiropractic, Tempe, AZ; Kim
Natori, Founder, Let’s Begin Again, Phoenix,
AZ; Maria Ortiz, Owner, La Nortenita, Flag-
staff, AZ; Heather Phalan, Owner, All
Awards Studio, Flagstaff, AZ; Meir
Pinhkasov, Owner, Brooklyn’z Barbershop
LLC, Phoenix, AZ; Turney Postlewait,
Owner, Biff’s Bagels’ Flagstaff, AZ; Urban
Quintero, Co-Owner, Quintero Jewelry,
Chandler, AZ; Leo Ramirez, Co-Owner, Sa
Morz Bakery, Casa Grande, AZ;Alma Reyes,
Owner, Isela’s Beauty Salon, Chandler, AZ;
Dianne Ripplinger, Owner, Di’s Hair & Nail
Salon, Mesa, AZ; Laurel Roach, Owner,
Trifit Wellness, Phoenix, AZ; John Rooney,
Co-Owner, Adventures in Stained Glass, Casa
Grande, AZ; Michael Roviello, Owner, An-
dromeda LLC, Phoenix, AZ; Sergio Sanchez,
Owner, Crates Records, Phoenix, AZ; Michael
Spangenberg, Owner, State Forty Eight,
Chandler, AZ; Wayne B. Taylor, President,
Taylor’s Flooring, Mesa, AZ.
Bob Thomas, Owner, Bob’s Tropical Inc.,
Phoenix, AZ; Chris Thomas, Owner, Uni-
versal Cuts & Design, Mesa, AZ; Paul Torok,
CEO, PS YES LLC, Phoenix, AZ; Harold
Torres, President, Hair 2 Day, Tempe, AZ;
Pete Turner, Owner, Illegal Pete’s Res-
taurants, Tucson, AZ; Alvaro Valentin,
Owner, Fresh As Can ‘‘V’’, Chandler, AZ; Dan
Vasquez, Owner, Dapper Dan’s Barber Shop,
Scottsdale, AZ; Dustin Venekamp, Owner,
Altig-Venekamp Agency, Phoenix, AZ; Marie
Verdugo, Owner, NuYou Life Center, Phoe-
nix, AZ; Jamie Warner, Co-Owner, Yellow
Jacket Comics LLC, Tempe, AZ; Brittany
Weir, Owner, The Mad Bird, Phoenix, AZ;
Paul Williams, Owner/Chef, Smoke Dem
Bones BBQ, Phoenix, AZ.
Maury Williamson, Owner, The Country
Clipper Barbershop, Chandler, AZ; Natasha
Winnik, Owner, Originate Natural Building
Materials Showroom, Tucson, AZ; Carolyn
Young, Owner, West of the Moon Jewelry &
Art, Flagstaff, AZ; Annette Zepeda, Co-
Owner, Hair Deco, Phoenix, AZ; Feliciano
Zizzo, Owner, Zizzo Tailoring, Scottsdale,
AZ; Ruksana Azhu Valappil, Founder and
CEO, NEEV, San Jose, CA; Brenda Balanda,
Owner/Broker, Marin Sunshine Realty, Point
Reyes Station, CA; Kae Bender, Founder,
SocioEnergetics Foundation, Lancaster, CA;
Neil Blomquist, Managing Director, Natural
Habitats USA Inc., Richmond, CA; Neil
Blomquist, Owner, Sustainable Solutions
Consulting, Sebastopol, CA; David Bronner,
CEO, Dr. Bronner’s, Vista, CA; Rinaldo
Brutoco, Founding President & CEO, World
Business Academy, Santa Barbara, CA;
Sattie Clark, Owner, Eleek Incorporated,
Redwood Valley, CA; Eric Cohen, Owner,
Justice Grace Vineyards, Sonoma, CA.
Thomas Cook, Attorney, Thomas Cook In-
tellectual Property Attorneys, Sausalito,
CA; Fred Dew, Professional Engineer,
Consultancy, Altadena, CA; Desi Dimitrova,
Owner, Dimitrova Agency, San Dimas, CA;
Jerome Dodson, President, Pamassus Invest-
ments, San Francisco, CA; Eric Edelson,
CEO, Fireday Tile, San Francisco, CA; Mika
Endo, Operations Manager, Mafia Bags, San
Francisco, CA; Malia Everette, CEO,
Altruvistas, Richmond, CA; Monica Farbiarz,
CEO, Encanto Jewels, Grass Valley, CA;
Deborah Frangquist, Owner, Chosen Futures,
San Francisco, CA; Jim Frazin, Principal,
Financial Planner, Communitas Financial
Planning Inc., San Francisco, CA; Gary Ger-
ber, CEO, Sun Light & Power, Berkeley, CA;
Michael Hannigan, CEO, Community Benefit
Corporation, Berkeley, CA.
Janie Hoffman, CEO & Founder, Mamma
Chia, Carlsbad, CA; Kip Howard, Former CEO
(retired), Navis LLC, Larkspur, CA; Ari
Isaak, Owner, Evan GIS Consulting, San
Diego, CA; Donald M. Johnson, Retired, Ar-
chitect, Ventura, CA; Bakari Kafele, Owner,
BioDiesel Hauling, San Pablo, CA. Steve
Kaye, Owner, Steve Kaye Photo, Placentia,
CA; Dr. Mha Atma S Khalsa, Owner, Khalsa
Chiropractic, Los Angeles, CA; Martin
Kruger, COO, Follow Your Heart (Earth Is-
land), Chatsworth, CA; Carolyn McMaster,
CEO, Thinkshift Communications, San Fran-
cisco, CA; Carolina Miranda, Founder and
CEO, Cultivating Capital, Richmond, CA;
Virginia Morrison, President, Collaboration
Specialists, San Anselmo, CA; Allan
Moskowitz, Owner, Transformative Wealth
Management, El Cerrito, CA.
Erin Musgrave, Principal, EMC Strategies,
Santa Cruz, CA; Mark Nelson, Owner, Ren-
aissance Remodelers, San Anselmo, CA; S.
Ostertag, Co-Owner, GLYDE America, Los
Angeles, CA; Jennifer Piette, Founder, CEO,
Narrative Food, Chatsworth, CA; Dylan Pol-
lard, Partner, Pollard|Bailey, Beverly Hills,
CA; Ben Rosenthal, Owner, Sustainable Com-
puting, Berkeley, CA; Frank Scarpaci, Presi-
dent, VIANOVA, San Diego, CA; John
Schmidt, Director, Quiksilver, Huntington
Beach, CA; Leslie Sheridan, President, The
Added Edge, Clearlake, CA; Michelle Ste-
vens, Founder & CEO, The Refill Shoppe,
Ventura, CA; Donald Taylor, President, Con-
tinental-Pacific Lumber, Gold River, CA;
Alan Thiesen, Vice-President, Digital Re-
search (retired), Nevada City, CA; Kelly
Vlahakis-Hanks, President and CEO, Earth
Friendly Products (Makers of ECOS), Cy-
press, CA; Esther Wagner, CFO, Excellent
Packaging & Supply, Richmond, CA.
James Weil, CEO, Weil Aquatronics, Inc,
Norwalk, CA; Robynne Winchester, Owner,
Revelation in Fit, Oakland, CA; George
Yenoki, Owner, Hackberry solutions, Mon-
rovia, CA; Ben C. Alexander, Certified Gen-
eral Appraiser, Ben C. Alexander Appraisers,
Byers, CO; Carlos Álvarez-Aranyos, Man-
aging Partner, Boulder Transport, Boulder,
CO; Bryan Birsic, CEO, Wunder Capital,
Boulder, CO; Richard Correa, Owner, Richard
Correa Agencies, Aurora, CO; Jenny Davies,
Owner, Progressive Promotions, Denver, CO;
Matthew Elliott, Partner, Super Humane,
Denver, CO; Jeffrey Fierberg, CEO, Sora Dig-
ital, Denver, CO; Kathleen Furr, Owner, eX-
traOrdinary Gift Company, Denver, CO; Toby
Gadd, President, Nuance Chocolate, Fort
Collins, CO; Kyle Garner, CEO, Organic India
USA, Boulder, CO.
Chris Graves, Owner, Bardo Coffee House,
Denver, CO; Sharon Hwang, Owner, The
Wellness Center, Glendale, CO; Heather
Jernberg, Partner, Boreas Group, Denver,
CO; John Kuebler, Owner, Kilgore Books,
Denver, CO; Jason Kuri, Founder, Ionzero
LLC, Fort Collins, CO; Craig Lamberty,
Owner, Conscious Coffees, Boulder, CO;
Blake Manion, Founder, Soul Salve, Denver,
CO; Stacey Marcellus, Co-Founder & CEO,
Cappello’s, Denver, CO; Alicia Marsicovetere,
Owner, Renew Massage Studio LLC, Wheat
Ridge, CO; Marilyn Megenity, Owner, Mer-
cury Cafe, Denver, CO; Allison Parks, Owner/
Managing Broker, Conscious Real Estate,
Denver, CO; Chad Schubert, Director, Busi-
ness Development, Pivot Energy, Denver,
CO; Julie Tasche, Director of Community
and Culture, Illegal Pete’s, Inc., Denver, CO;
Pete Turner, Founder/President, Illegal
Pete’s Restaurants, Denver, CO; Marie
Venner, Owner and CEO, Venner Consulting,
Lakewood, CO; Samuel Weaver, CEO, Cool
Energy, Boulder, CO; Joshua Angelus,
Owner, Self-employed, Waterbury, CT; Jonell
Carr, Business Manager, Exquisite Contrac-
tors, Bridgeport, CT.
Nikki Colodny, Owner, Medical Practice,
Guilford, CT; Jenifer Gorin, Founder, Impact
Growth Partners, Westport, CT; Walter
Greissle, Accountant, CPA, Stamford, CT;
William Potvin, Owner, Hosmer Mountain
Bottling Co., Willimantic, CT; Nancy Ruzow,
Design Director, Ruzow Graphics Inc, West-
port, CT; Margot Dorfman, CEO, U.S. Wom-
en’s Chamber of Commerce, Washington, DC;
Mike Englert, President, Eighty2degrees De-
sign Studio, Washington, DC; Jeffrey
Hollender, CEO, American Sustainable Busi-
ness Council, Washington, DC; Pennye
Jones-Napier, Owner & CEO, BBWoof Inc.,
Washington, DC; Michael Lastoria, Founder
and CEO, &pizza, Washington, DC; Gloria
Nauden, CMO, City First Bank, Washington,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.025 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7114 July 18, 2019
DC; Thomas Oppel, Executive Vice Presi-
dent, American Sustainable Business Coun-
cil, Washington, DC; Michael Peck, Founder,
MAPA Group, Washington, DC; Gina Schae-
fer, Owner, Logan, Glover Park, Frager’s,
Tenleytown, other Ace Hardware stores,
Washington, DC; Aaron Seyedian, Owner,
Well-Paid Maids, Washington, DC; Andy
Shallal, Owner, Busboys & Poets Res-
taurants, Washington, DC.
Fran Teplitz, Executive Co-Director for
Business, Investing & Policy, Green Amer-
ica’s Green Business Network, Washington,
DC; Troy Toliver, Owner, We Buy Houses Na-
tionwide USA, Washington, DC; Daniel Tur-
ner, President, TCG, Washington, DC; Dr.
Kimberly Grimes, Co-Owner, Made by Hand
International, South Bethany, DE; Gabriel
Feldmann, Owner, The Feldmann Agency,
Pensacola, FL; Matt Henderson, Owner, Hen-
derson Agency, Orlando, FL; Orlando Heras,
President, The Royal Gourmet Co., Holly-
wood, FL; Karen Joslin, Creatrix, Karen
Joslin, Tallahassee, FL; Michelle Martinez,
Owner, Williams-Martinez Agency, Miami
Lakes, FL; KathySue McGuire, Principal, 3
Pillar Solutions, Jupiter, FL; MaryAnn Nel-
son, Owner, GQ Solutions, LLC, Jackson-
ville, FL; Joel Pollock, Co-Owner, Panther
Coffee Roasters, Miami, FL; Natalie
Albright, Owner, RSVP Prom and Pageant,
Johns Creek, GA; Toula Argentis, Owner,
2BWhole Gluten Free Bakery, Alpharetta,
GA; Lisa Bobb, Owner, Squash Blossom Bou-
tique, Decatur, GA; Kizuwanda Boyd, Owner,
Dreams Beauty Experience, Atlanta, GA;
Brian Brock, Managing Partner, Antwerp
Diamonds, Roswell, GA; Douglas Burks,
CEO, Burks Jewelers, Atlanta, GA; Rand
Cabus, Owner, Mojo Vinyl Records, Roswell,
GA.
Kal Cauthen, Owner, KC Groomer & Beau-
ty Bar, Alpharetta, GA; Bruce Champeau,
President and COO, Room & Board, Atlanta,
GA; Randall Cook, Owner, Cook Agency,
Buford, GA; Belon Durham, Owner, B
Lashfull, Atlanta, GA; George Edward,
Owner, The Hair Artists, Sandy Springs, GA;
Rick Elibert, Owner/CEO, Positive Image
Barber Shop, Chamblee, GA; Solera Foster,
Owner, Solera’s Salon, Sandy Springs, GA;
Lola Foxx, Co-Owner, Foxx Original Jamai-
can Restaurant, Atlanta, GA; Phnewfula
Frederiksen, Owner, Happy Mango, Atlanta,
GA; Saba Gebrekiedan, Owner, Village Coffee
Shop, Atlanta, GA; Brandy Hall, Founder,
Shades of Green Permaculture Design, Deca-
tur, GA; William Herman, Co-Owner, Raging
Burrito, Decatur, GA; Warren Hudson,
Owner, Decatur CD & Vinyl, Decatur, GA;
Xavier Jarque, Owner, Xavier & Sons Auto
Body & Paint, Alpharetta, GA; Ty Jenkins,
Owner, Olive Branch Green Beauty, Decatur,
GA; Kyle Johnson, Owner, Johnson Agency,
Manetta, GA.
John Kang, Founder and General Manager,
Salad Express, Roswell, GA; Sooill Kim,
Owner, Donut Shack, Roswell, GA; Michael
Knight, Owner, Kaboodle Home, Atlanta, GA;
RuthE Levy, Owner, And Thou Shalt Read,
Marietta, GA; RuthE Levy, Owner, Oy Toys,
Roswell, GA; Godfrey Lewis, Owner, Avocado
Vegan Cafe, Johns Creek, GA; Brandon Ley,
Co-Owner, Georgia Beer Garden, Atlanta,
GA; Brandon Ley, Co-Owner, Joystick
Gamebar, Atlanta, GA; Celestino Loera,
Owner, Mr. Tino’s Ice Cream, Roswell, GA;
Kathy Mai, Owner, K Hair Salon, Alpharetta,
GA; Johnny Martinez, Co-Owner, Georgia
Beer Garden, Atlanta, GA; Johnny Martinez,
Co-Owner, Joystick Gamebar, Atlanta, GA;
Juel McGhee, Owner, Closing Deals LLC, At-
lanta, GA; Irene McGuire, Owner, Christian
Print Shop, Johns Creek, GA; Michael
Minga, Owner, Vivid Boutique Decatur, GA;
Nataki Minix Owner, Star Taki Hair Lounge,
Atlanta, GA.
Melissa Moore, Owner, Sq/Ft, Decatur, GA;
Zalman Niktalov, Owner, North Point Uphol-
stery, Roswell, GA; Jeffrey Oparnica, Owner,
Sabbath Brewing, Atlanta, GA; Cliff Owens-
Leech, Please Select, COL Agency, Stone
Mountain, GA; Joseph Peta, Owner, Feather
Baby, Decatur, GA; LaKesia Phelps, Owner,
Anna’s BBQ, Atlanta, GA; Al Rauf, Owner,
Al’s European Barber, Alpharetta, GA; Al
Raye, Owner, Clay’s Sports Cafe, Sandy
Springs, GA; Robert Rhein, Owner, GBG
Market, Atlanta, GA; Robert Rhein, Owner,
The Square Pub, Decatur, GA; Joann
Schwartz, Owner, Kirkwood Feed & Seed Pet
Supply, Atlanta, GA; Joann Schwartz,
Owner, Kirkwood Bark & Lounge, Atlanta,
GA; Jason Shadix, Owner, Found Co., Deca-
tur, GA; Sana Shah, Owner, Sana Beauty
Salon, Johns Creek, GA; Lucius Simon,
Owner, 1st Class Barber & Beauty Salon, At-
lanta, GA; John Thompson, Owner, Clothes
Horse Men’s Apparel & Gifts, Alpharetta,
GA; Lisa Turner, Co-Owner, Trinity Mer-
cantile & Design, Decatur, GA; Alex
Vershkov, Owner, Alex Auto, Roswell, GA;
Lan Vu, Owner, Classic Tailor & Alterations,
Roswell, GA; Debbie Wallace, CEO, 360
Health Broadcasting Network, Atlanta, GA;
Debbie Wallace, CEO, A Full Taste Res-
taurant, Decatur, GA; Jamison
Weatherspoon, Owner, Weatherspoon Agen-
cies, Duluth, GA; Darryl Pellegrini, Owner,
Music business, Aiea, HI; Mo Ajram, Owner,
Kamal’s Inc, Cedar Rapids, IA; Anthony
Albizo, Owner, Flash Screen Printing & Em-
broidery, West Des Moines, IA; Steve Ander-
son, Owner, A-Kleen Sweep, West Des
Moines, IA.
Dina Bachman, Owner, Five Monkeys Inc,
Des Moines, IA; John Bartlett, Owner, i
Work & Play, West Des Moines, IA; Mike
Blanchard, Owner, The CORE Cedar Falls,
IA; Michael Glenn Breitbach, Owner, The
Food Store, Dubuque, IA; Beth Brown,
Owner, Beth’s Custom Cakes, Dubuque, IA;
Jesus Castro, Owner, La Michoacana Mexi-
can Groceries, West Des Moines, IA;
Martavious ‘‘Taye’’ Clayton, Owner, House
of Fades, Des Moines, IA; Mel Dameron,
Owner, TwinFadez Barber Shop, Urbandale,
IA; Rebecca Davidson, Owner, Dash Coffee
Roasters, Iowa City, IA; Rebecca Davidson,
Owner, Dash Coffee Roasters, Cedar Rapids,
IA; Charla Davidson, President, Zebras on
5th, West Des Moines, IA; Jodi Deery, Owner,
Jennifer’s on Main, Cedar Falls, IA; David
Deibler, Co-Owner, Octopus, Cedar Falls, IA;
Darrell Delaney, Owner, House of Fades, Des
Moines, IA.
Mike Draper, Owner, Raygun LLC, Des
Moines, IA; Mike Draper, Owner, Raygun
LLC, Cedar Rapids, IA; Ann Eastman, Owner,
Miss Wonderful Vintage, Cedar Falls, IA;
Kathy and Herb Eckhouse, Owners, La
Quercia, Norwalk, IA; Christopher Ellis, Co-
Owner & Managing Partner, Quarter Barrel
Arcade & Brewery, Cedar Rapids, IA; Hart
Epstein, Owner, Bluebird Diner, Iowa City,
IA; Josh Garrett, Owner, Jett & Monkey’s,
Des Moines, IA; Robert Guthart, Owner,
Bob’s Guitars, Cedar Falls, IA; Lisa Haley,
Owner, Ice Cream U Scream, Dubuque, IA;
Kevin Hedley, Owner, Uncle Ike’s Music, Du-
buque, IA; Catherine Hickey, Owner, Mem-
ory Lane Antiques Gifts Collectibles, West
Des Moines, IA; Suman Hoque, Owner, HOQ
Restaurant, Des Moines, IA; Jacob Jenkins,
Owner, Big Acai, West Des Moines, IA.
Chrissy Jensen, Owner, Domestics, Des
Moines, IA; Kevin Jones, Owner, Subsect
Skateshop, Des Moines, IA; Amber Keppler,
Owner, Look @ You, Des Moines, IA; Jorene
King, Owner, Wines of Iowa, West Des
Moines, IA; Jay Kozel, Owner, Back Country,
Des Moines, IA; Mike Kunzler, Co-Owner/Art
Director, Kunzler Studios, West Des Moines,
IA; Robert Larson, Owner, Record Collector,
Iowa City, IA; Carol Lauber, Owner, Caboose
Stop Hobbies, Cedar Falls, IA; Julie
Lewerke, Owner, Metro Market, West Des
Moines, IA; Joseph Logsdon, Owner, La Mie
Bakery, Des Moines, IA; Nicole Lorenson,
Owner, Preservation, Des Moines, IA; Keith
Luter, Owner, Head 2 Toe Barbershop, Cedar
Rapids, IA; Delaney Lynch, Owner, Bun-
galow, West Des Moines, IA; Allison Lyons,
Owner, Rumors, Des Moines, IA; Adrian Mad-
dox, Owner, Always Good Kutz LLC, Des
Moines, IA; Ellen Martinson, Owner, Leona
Ruby, Des Moines, IA; Ruth McDanel, Owner,
Foxglove Chiropractic, West Des Moines, IA;
Natalie Meester, Owner, Little Prairie Girl,
Cedar Falls, IA.
Kristy Meyer, Co-Owner, Carol Ann Bou-
tique & Body, Dubuque, IA; Nicole Myers,
Owner, Polka Dots & Denim, Cedar Rapids,
IA; Lacie Navin, Owner, Your CBD Store
Valley Junction, West Des Moines, IA;
Amber Neville, Owner, Willow & Stock, Iowa
City, IA; Tony Nguyen, Owner, T-Tech, Des
Moines, IA; Nate Niceswanger, Owner, ZZZ
Records, Des Moines, IA; Michael Papich,
President, Papich-Kuba Funeral Service,
Cedar Rapids, IA; Joan Peiffer, Owner,
Peiffer Paws Pet Grooming, Cedar Rapids,
IA; Michael Price, Owner, Price Check
Kicks, Cedar Falls, IA; Kathleen Rash,
Owner and President, The Art Mission, Iowa
City, IA; Tray Rochon, Owner, Blades Bar-
bershop, Des Moines, IA; John Rohlf, Owner,
Metro Records, Cedar Falls, IA; Sheila
Sayre, Owner, She Home & Gift, Des Moines,
IA; Barb Schilf, Owner, Mohair Pear, Cedar
Falls, IA; Nate Sherwood, Owner, Eduskate,
Cedar Rapids, IA; Bryan Smith, Owner, Blaz-
ing Saddle, Des Moines, IA; Andrew Snyder,
Owner, Andy’s Frame Shop, Des Moines, IA.
Kristin Solberg, Owner, Solberg’s, Cedar
Rapids, IA; Margeaux Spain, Owner,
Margeaux Spain Wellness, Des Moines, IA;
Glen Stillmunkes, Owner, Freddie’s Popcorn
Co., Dubuque, IA; Uzma Sultana, Owner,
Gyro Hut, Cedar Rapids, IA; Anne Temple,
Owner, Iowa Artisans Gallery, Iowa City, IA;
Jennifer Veak, Owner, T-Shirt Graphix, Des
Moines, IA; Victoria Veiock, Owner, Bing’s,
West Des Moines, IA; David Wetter, Owner, C
& D Delivery LLC, Dubuque, IA; David Wet-
ter, Owner, Tavern on the Main, Dubuque,
IA; Dena Wright, Owner, Paula’s Cafe, West
Des Moines, IA; Stan Yoder, Owner, Stan’s
Barber Stylists, Iowa City, IA; ReShonda
Young, Founder, Popcorn Heaven, Waterloo,
IA; David Zaghloul, Owner/Chef, Chez Grace,
Coralville, IA; Amanda Zeitner, Owner,
Snowwhite Botanicals, Des Moines, IA; Scot
McGavin, Co-Owner, Puentes Language Pro-
grams, Boise, ID; Bill Parks, President and
Founder, NRS, Moscow, ID.
Kathy Stearns, Owner, Arc Advisers, Boise,
ID; Ellen Anderson, President, Rally Insur-
ance Group, Volo, IL; Chuck Blumenthal,
Owner, Bean Products, Inc., Chicago, IL;
David Borris, Owner and President, Hel’s
Kitchen Catering, Northbrook, IL; Nancy
Brandt, Retired, Investor, Chicago, IL;
James Brandt, Board Member, Ringspann
Corp., Franklin Park, IL; Bruce Champeau,
Presidnet and COO, Room & Board, Oak
Brook, IL; Joyce Coffee, President, Climate
Resilience Consulting, Chicago, IL; James
Coleman, President, The Metro Group, Chi-
cago, IL; Elizabeth Colon, President,
Metaphrasis Language & Cultural Solutions,
Chicago, IL; Mike Draper, Owner, Raygun
LLC, Chicago, IL; Emily Farr, Owner, Farr &
Farr, LLC, Chicago, IL.
Tim Frick, CEO, Mightybytes, Chicago, IL;
Pamella Gronemeyer, M.D., Owner, SEMC
Pathology, Highland, IL; Kate Jakubas,
Founder, Meliora Cleaning Products, Chi-
cago, IL; Michelle Knox, Founder/President,
WindSolarUSA, Springfield, IL; Kevin
Lampe, Co-Founder & Executive Vice Presi-
dent, Kurth Lampe Worldwide, Chicago, IL;
Michael Londo, President, Just in Time Di-
rection, Glen Ellyn, IL; Emily Lonigro, CEO,
LimeRed, Chicago, IL; Thomas MacRoy,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.026 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7115
July 18, 2019
Owner, DuPage Psychological Associates,
Naperville, IL; Sarah McGuire, Owner, Sarah
McGuire Studio, Chicago, IL; Bob Olson,
President and CEO, Olson Agencies, Lom-
bard, IL; Scott Pfeiffer, Managing Partner,
Threshold Acoustics, Downers Grove, IL;
Michelle Sheldon, President, Eco Pro-
motional Products, Vernon Hills, IL; Dimitri
Syrkin-Nikolau, Owner, Dimo’s Pizza, Chi-
cago, IL.
Lauren Venell, Co-founder & CXO, Joone
Creative, Inc., Chicago, IL; Kelly Vlahakis-
Hanks, President and CEO, Earth Friendly
Products (Makers of ECOS), Addison, IL;
Kelly Weinberger, Founder and Co-Owner,
WorldFinds, Westmont, IL; James
Cunningham, Owner, James Cunningham
Agency, Indianapolis, IN; Gregg Keesling,
President, RecycleForce, Indianapolis, IN;
Deborah Pierce, Managing Partner,
GoodMustGrow, Brownsburg, IN; Becky
Reimbold, Owner, Just Goods, South Bend,
IN; Yadrada Alvarez, Owner, Yady Beauty
Salon, Mission, KS; Jon Amyx, Owner,
Downtown Barber, Lawrence, KS; Carl
Applequist, Owner, Carl’s Salon, Overland
Park, KS; Rashida Bonds, Owner, Beautiful
Hair Parlor, Mission, KS; Brenda Clarke,
Owner, The Hair House, Shawnee, KS; Mike
Cole, Owner, The General Store, Overland
Park, KS; Molly Crook, Owner, Essential
Goods, Lawrence, KS; Kerry Doan, Owner,
Bombshell Boutique, Mission, KS.
Ken Fleming, Owner, Ken’s Swap-d-Shop,
Olathe, KS; Marlon Ford, Owner, For’s Bar-
ber Shop, Kansas City, KS; Kathy Gates,
Owner, The Running Well Store, Mission,
KS; Patricia H. Goodfriend, Owner, Teal
Lotus, Overland Park, KS; Dave Grigsby,
Owner, Parkwood Barber Shop, Kansas City,
KS; Carmen Hinojos, Manager, Las Gorditas
Mexican Restaurant, Kansas City, KS;
Dustin Hothan, Owner, CBD of Lawrence,
Lawrence, KS; Angelynn Howell, Owner,
Anna’s BLD Bistro, Kansas City, KS; Lewis
Hurtt, Owner, Shoe Master, Fairway, KS;
Ronell Jones, Owner, JC Barbershop; Shaw-
nee, KS; Denise Kirk, Owner, Aunt Jean’s,
Shawnee, KS; Lane Lambert, Owner, 3 Wish-
es—Books, Art, Music, Merriam, KS; Sam
Lloyd, Co-owner, Harbor Leaf Tea Company,
Lawrence, KS.
Cole Maggart, Owner, Brothers Music, Mis-
sion, KS; Nicole Manriquez, Owner, Striped
Cow, Lawrence, KS; Joey Mendez, Co-Owner,
ULAH, Westwood, KS; Haile Michaels,
Owner, Elsa’s Ethiopian, Overland Park, KS;
Marilyn O’Hearne, Owner, Marilyn Oh Exec-
utive & Team Coaching, Leawood, KS; Wil-
liam O’Rourke, Owner, Orange Cat Records,
Lawrence, KS; Tracy Ochester, Owner,
Ochester Psychological Services, LLC,
Leawood, KS; Keyla Osuna, Manager, Osuna
Bakery, Kansas City, KS; Dan Phillips,
Owner, Vinyl Renaissance, Overland Park,
KS; Ron Phillips, Shop Supervisor, Klemp
Electric, Kansas City, KS; Darby Pool,
Owner, Bikes for the Likes of Us, Olathe, KS;
Jenny Pugh, Owner, Lulu’s Boutique, Mis-
sion, KS; Jorge Ramos, Owner, Ramos Up-
holstery, Kansas City, KS; Daisy Rodriguez,
Owner, Oregano & Thyme Market, Mission,
KS; Amrik Sandhu, Manager, Black’s Liq-
uor, Kansas City, KS; Dave Seal, Owner,
Framewoods, Lawrence, KS; Ben Stallings,
Co-Owner, Interdependent Web, Emporia,
KS.
Sherry Sullivan, Owner, Brian’s Bakery,
Mission, KS; Sara Thompson, President, Ce-
ramic Cafe, Overland Park, KS; Tara
Vandervalk, Owner, Radiance: Beautiful
Skin, Overland Park, KS; Teresa Hendricks,
Owner, Lucia’s World Emporium, Lexington,
KY; Camille Moran, Owner, Caramor Indus-
tries; 4 Seasons Christmas Tree and Plant
Farm, Natchitoches, LA; Angela O’Byrne,
Owner, Perez APC, New Orleans, LA; Mallory
Whitfield, Owner, Malaprop LLC, New Orle-
ans, LA; Janet Axelrod, Owner, Wealth Mat-
ters, Cambridge, MA; Robert Baker, Presi-
dent, Key Polymer Corp., Lawrence, MA;
Ann Baker, Owner, On Camera Commercial
Coaching, Wayland, MA; Jessie Banhazl, CEO
& Founder, Green City Growers, Somerville,
MA; Phil Bannatyne, Owner, Cambridge
Brewing Company, Cambridge, MA; Ted Bar-
ber, Founder, Prosperity Candle,
Easthampton, MA; Jeff Barry, President,
Boston Organics, Charlestown, MA; Sam
Barstow, President & COO, Forsake, Boston,
MA; Paul Benoit, Co-Owner, Box Save, Ar-
lington, MA; Andrew Bonfiglio, Co-Founder,
Emzingo, Somerville, MA.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, take
it from the words of Rebecca Hamilton,
CEO of Badger Balm, a small cosmetic
company in New Hampshire. She said:
‘‘Paying a living wage is a core part of
our culture and has helped us hire and
retain excellent staff even in a time
when other businesses have struggled.’’
We have heard businesses that start-
ed out small, such as the popular res-
taurant &pizza, that attribute their
fast-growing success to their practice
of paying fair wages while maintaining
competitive prices.
Small companies make up 99 percent
of U.S. employers, and nearly 70 per-
cent of our economic activity comes
from consumer spending.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentlewoman from New York.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, by
raising the minimum wage, we can help
put money back into consumers’ pock-
ets, injecting new life into our Main
Street and our economy.
I ask everyone to support this impor-
tant bill.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself 1 minute.
Mr. Speaker, as my colleagues from
Georgia said, the Democrats want to
make the American people think that
they, as agents of the Federal Govern-
ment, are giving them something by
raising this minimum wage. That is
not true.
Small businesses, families, workers,
and the economy at large will all suffer
debilitating loss if this bill is passed.
Forcing our Nation’s job creators to
raise the minimum wage arbitrarily
around the country by 107 percent will
hurt the very people this ill-advised
legislation is alleged to help.
The case studies from States and lo-
calities with large minimum wage
hikes are clear and have shown that
workers and employers are punished by
these risky schemes.
Apparently, House Democrats have
missed the fact that wages are already
on the rise. With unemployment near a
50-year low, the competition for em-
ployees is driving wages up.
Instead of stifling our booming econ-
omy by forcing employers to imple-
ment a crippling, mandated wage hike,
we should advance legislation that em-
powers communities, creates opportu-
nities, and opens doors for workers.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Connecticut (Ms. DELAURO), the
chair of the Labor, Health and Human
Services, Education, and Related Agen-
cies Subcommittee of the Appropria-
tions Committee.
Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, let’s be
clear. Since Franklin Roosevelt, the
Federal Government has been increas-
ing the Federal wage.
Don’t let them get away with this
hogwash about what we do and what we
don’t do here.
Wages for the top 1 percent have
grown 150 percent since 1979.
Wages for middle-class families and
working families have stagnated. Their
wages do not keep up with the sky-
rocketing costs of healthcare, prescrip-
tion drugs, childcare, housing, and a
college education.
This is the single biggest economic
challenge of our time. So, today, full-
time, year-round work at the Federal
minimum wage of $7.25 leaves a family
of three below the Federal poverty line.
It is unacceptable, because working
people have more than earned a raise.
According to the Economic Policy In-
stitute, if the minimum wage increased
equal to the increases in workers’ pro-
ductivity, it would be more than $20 an
hour.
Congress needs to make this right.
Clearly, my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle do not respect the
work of 34 million Americans. They
don’t respect the dignity of the work
that these folks do.
It is our job. Let us pass the Raise
the Minimum Wage Act. Working peo-
ple are doing their jobs. Let us do ours.
I include in the RECORD a letter from
the AFT, the American Federation of
Teachers.
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS,
Washington, DC, July 17, 2019.
Hon. ROBERT ‘‘BOBBY’’ SCOTT,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REP. SCOTT: On behalf of the 1.7 mil-
lion members of the American Federation of
Teachers, I thank you for introducing the
Raise the Wage Act of 2019 (H.R. 582). By
raising the federal minimum wage from $7.25
to $15 per hour by 2024, H.R. 582 would em-
power millions of struggling Americans to
make ends meet and support their families.
The federal minimum wage was last raised
to $7.25 per hour in 2009, and, over the past
decade, the cost of living has increased at a
pace that significantly exceeds the average
earnings of a minimum wage worker. Raising
the wage is a matter of economic and social
justice because a $15 minimum wage would
lift millions out of poverty, help close the ra-
cial and gender wage gaps, and help reverse
decades of growing pay inequality.
The Economic Policy Institute estimates
that increasing the federal minimum wage to
$15 by 2024 would give more than 1 in 3 work-
ing women a raise, including 43 percent of
African American working women, 38 per-
cent of working Latinas, 32 percent of white
working women, and 20 percent of Asian and
Pacific Islander working women.
Of particular note for the AFT, our re-
search tells us that one-fifth of educators
and one-fourth of healthcare workers would
get a raise under H.R. 582—including but not
limited to preschool teachers, who on aver-
age earn $13.84 per hour; substitute teachers,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.027 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7116 July 18, 2019
who average $13.47 per hour; child care work-
ers, who earn an average of $10.18 per hour;
and home healthcare workers, who on aver-
age receive $10.87 per hour. With higher
wages, more Americans would be better able
to afford food, clothing, housing and other
necessities, which, in turn, would support
local businesses and economic growth.
Too many hardworking families in the
United States are being forced to depend on
poverty-level wages. Congress can help
strengthen our economy and lift families out
of poverty by raising the federal minimum
wage.
Thank you for your introduction of H.R.
582.
Sincerely,
RANDI WEINGARTEN,
President.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. LEE).
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker,
let me first thank Chairman SCOTT for
yielding and for his tireless, incredible,
and brilliant leadership.
I include in the RECORD a letter from
The Leadership Conference on Civil
and Human Rights expressing their
strong support for H.R. 582.
THE LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE
ON CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
VOTE RECOMMENDATION: SUPPORT THE RAISE
THE WAGE ACT OF 2019
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of The
Leadership Conference on Civil and Human
Rights, a coalition charged by its diverse
membership of more than 200 national orga-
nizations to promote and protect the civil
and human rights of all persons in the
United States, we write to express our strong
support for the Raise the Wage Act of 2019
(H.R. 582). This important legislation would
gradually raise the federal minimum wage to
$15 an hour by 2025, index it to median fed-
eral wages, and ensure that all tipped work-
ers, working people with disabilities, and
young people get paid at least the full min-
imum wage. Passage of the Raise the Wage
Act is a top legislative priority of our coali-
tion. We urge you to vote YES on final pas-
sage of a clean bill and NO on any Motion to
Recommit (MTR) in connection with this
legislation. The Leadership Conference will
score both of these votes in our voting record
for the 116th Congress.
At the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs
and Freedom, one of the founders of The
Leadership Conference, Black labor leader A.
Philip Randolph, noted, ‘‘Nor is the goal of
our civil rights revolution merely the pas-
sage of civil rights legislation. Yes, we want
all public accommodations open to all citi-
zens, but those accommodations will mean
little to those who cannot afford to use
them.’’
This week, the House of Representatives
has the opportunity to champion working
people by passing the Raise the Wage Act of
2019. In February 2019, I testified at a hearing
held by the U.S. House Committee on Edu-
cation & Labor entitled ‘‘Gradually Raising
the Minimum Wage to $15: Good for Workers,
Good for Businesses, and Good for the Econ-
omy.’’ What I said then remains true today:
low-wage working people are overdue for a
raise. For decades, wages for most people in
America have stagnated while productivity
has increased. This has been particularly
true for low-wage earners. Congress has not
raised the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an
hour since 2007. And the tipped minimum
wage has been stuck at $2.13 an hour since
1991.
Raising the federal minimum wage is a ra-
cial and gender justice issue. The National
Women’s Law Center has noted that women
make up nearly two-thirds of those earning
the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour.
Women of color are more likely than any
other group to be paid the lowest wages.
Paying tipped workers the full minimum
wage would rectify longstanding injustices
and ensure that no one works for pennies in
America. The subminimum wage that tipped
workers receive is rooted in the history of
slavery. The practice of tipping proliferated
in the United States after the Civil War
when the restaurant and hospitality indus-
try, exemplified by the Pullman Company,
‘‘hired’’ newly freed slaves without paying
them base wages. The effect was to create a
permanent servant class, for whom the re-
sponsibility of paying a wage was shifted
from employers to customers. Today, pov-
erty rates for people who work for tips are
more than twice as high as rates for working
people overall—with female tipped workers,
especially women of color, at a particular
disadvantage. According to the 2012–2015 ACS
data on gender and race for tipped occupa-
tions, of the almost 6 million tipped working
people in our country, 66 percent are women.
And women of color are disproportionately
represented in the tipped workforce.
As with the tipped minimum wage, the
subminimum wage under Section 14(c) of the
Fair Labor Standards Act that allows people
with disabilities working in segregated set-
tings to be paid less than the minimum wage
leaves this community vulnerable to poverty
and exploitation. The National Disability
Rights Network believes that ‘‘sheltered
workshops have replaced institutions in
many states as the new warehousing system
and are the new favored locations where peo-
ple with disabilities are sent to occupy their
days.’’ Enacted in 1938, Section 14(c) reflects
what should be a bygone era of how we as a
nation treat people with disabilities. The
time has come for federal action to support
and fully integrate people with disabilities
into the workplace.
The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) re-
cently released a report looking at the po-
tential effects of increasing the federal min-
imum wage to $15 an hour incrementally
through 2025 and found that the benefits
strongly outweigh its costs. The CBO report
predicted that this gradual increase would
decrease the number of individuals living in
poverty by 1.3 million people and dispropor-
tionately increase the incomes of families
that are low-income.
The civil rights community has long sup-
ported a universal floor for wages that would
provide a base line for all people in our coun-
try. Indeed, one of the core demands of the
1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Free-
dom was for ‘‘[a] national minimum wage
that will give all Americans a decent stand-
ard of living.’’ Cost of living data show that
in all 50 states today a single working person
without children currently needs or will soon
need a wage of at least $15 per hour to cover
basic living costs. Working people with chil-
dren and those in high-cost states will need
even more.
Fair wages are essential for working people
to cover basic expenses like housing, food,
transportation, childcare, health care, and
other necessities. We urge you to vote for
clean passage of the Raise the Wage Act of
2019—and against any MTR that is offered—
to address the economic security concerns of
working families. Thank you for your con-
sideration.
Sincerely,
VANITA GUPTA,
President and CEO.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
rise in strong support of this bill, the
Raise the Wage Act. This critical bill
would increase the minimum wage to
$15 an hour and give 33 million workers
a raise, including 16 million people of
color who are disproportionately paid
poverty wages.
Once more, it would lift 1.3 million
Americans out of poverty.
Mr. Speaker, this bill is long overdue.
The current minimum wage of $7.25 is a
poverty wage, plain and simple.
I, too, am a former business owner
with hundreds of employees who saw
firsthand how productivity was
achieved and increased by paying good
wages.
These poverty wages must end for ev-
eryone. Homelessness is rising. People
can’t afford to pay their rent. They are
living on the edge.
No one in the richest nation on Earth
should be struggling like this, working
two and three jobs just to survive.
Mr. Speaker, I have been proud to
have joined my union brothers and sis-
ters, along with the attorney general of
Minnesota, former co-chair of the Pro-
gressive Caucus, Keith Ellison, and my
union brothers and sisters on picket
lines, in rallies, and marches in the
fight for $15. I want to thank them for
their bold and committed leadership.
When we fight, we win.
I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on raising the
wage to $15 an hour.
I thank Chairman SCOTT, again, for
his leadership.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I continue to reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
may I inquire again as to the time re-
maining on both sides.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Virginia has 43⁄4 minutes
remaining. The gentlewoman from
North Carolina has 11⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from New York (Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY), the vice chair on the Joint
Economic Committee.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of the Raise the Wage Act, which
will raise the Federal minimum wage
to $15 per hour by 2025.
I include in the RECORD a letter
signed by many youth organizations in
support of this legislation.
DEAR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS: The under-
signed organizations are writing to express
our support for the Raise the Wage Act of
2019, which would incrementally increase the
federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $15.00
over the next 6 years. Beyond raising the
wage, the bill’s important provisions include
phasing out the subminimum wages for
tipped workers, people with disabilities, and
youth. As organizations committed to the
wellbeing and economic security of young
people, we are united in our goal of ensuring
all youth are paid a livable wage to provide
for themselves and their families.
Adults and youth both struggle to make
ends meet on today’s minimum wage. Cur-
rently, the poverty rate for youth {ages 18 to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.020 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7117
July 18, 2019
24) is 16.1 percent, which is higher than the
national rate of 12.3 percent. Existing law al-
lows employers to pay youth under age 20 a
subminimum wage of $4.25 for the first 90
days of their employment. While rarely used,
this subminimum wage prohibits youth from
being active consumers in their commu-
nities, saving money, or achieving true eco-
nomic stability. The Raise the Wage Act will
benefit millions of low-wage workers by in-
creasing their income to a wage that would
allow them to meet their financial needs.
Youth, like many others in this country,
use their wages to support themselves and
their families. For example, young people
use their summer jobs earnings to purchase
school supplies and assist family with buying
food and contributing to college costs. Some
use their wages to support their own chil-
dren, pay rent, and buy other basic neces-
sities. According to the Census Bureau, ap-
proximately 27 percent of young adults with
children live in poverty. Low wages make it
increasingly difficult for these parents to ap-
propriately care for their children.
Congress has not raised the minimum wage
in over a decade. Studies show that one in
nine U.S. workers are paid wages that leave
them in poverty, even when working full
time and year-round. The economy is leaving
too many people behind—including youth
and young adults. Because poverty is struc-
tural and caused by systems and policies—
like discrimination, segregation, and low-
quality jobs—policymakers have an impor-
tant role in addressing it.
Congress must act to raise the wage be-
cause it’s the equitable thing to do for work-
ers and it’s a financial imperative—providing
individuals with the means to meet their
basic financial needs. By raising the min-
imum wage and eliminating the submin-
imum wage for youth, Congress would sup-
port young people in becoming more eco-
nomically secure to help provide for their
families and themselves. We urge Congress
to pass the Raise the Wage Act for the good
of our country’s economy and the youth who
will play a critical role now and in our fu-
ture.
Sincerely,
National Organizations: America’s Promise
Alliance; Center for Law and Social Policy;
Heartland Alliance; Kaleidoscope Pathways;
Opportunity Youth United; Project Z;
SparkAction; Strive International;
YouthBuild USA.
State and Local: Arizona: Opportunities
for Youth; California: KIWA (Koreatown Im-
migrant Workers Alliance); Georgia: Georgia
Shift; Louisiana: Dreams are Weapons;
Maryland: Baltimore Algebra Project; New
York: City of Albany, Department of Recre-
ation; Pennsylvania: E5, LLC.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, the minimum wage
has been stuck at $7.25 for the past 10
years. During that time, the cost of
housing, food, childcare, education, all
of this has risen higher and higher, but
the minimum wage has been stuck.
This week, the Joint Economic Com-
mittee, where I serve as vice chair, re-
leased a report on the Federal min-
imum wage, and it begins with this
chart. It shows that, in 1968, a full-time
worker working year-round at min-
imum wage would take home roughly
$21,000 a year.
Now, 15 years later, a worker work-
ing full-time making minimum wage
earns only $15,000 a year in the same
dollars, a loss of over $6,000 in real 2018
dollars. This is a 30 percent drop.
A full-time worker earning $7.25 min-
imum wage earns roughly $1,250 per
month. That is not enough to cover
even half of the monthly expenses of an
average family, which total roughly
$3,000. It is not enough to live on, let
alone, to support a family.
Now, some critics say the minimum
wage is earned mostly by teenagers,
but that is wrong. More than half of
those working at or below the min-
imum wage are above 25 years of age.
It ignores the fact that the typical
minimum wage worker earns half of
their family’s income. As a result,
boosting the wage will support millions
of children and families across our Na-
tion.
Workers with more money in their
pockets will spend it, stimulating the
economy.
It is important to end the gender gap,
because half the people working for
minimum wage are women.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield an additional 15 seconds to the
gentlewoman.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I just want to ap-
plaud the gentleman from Virginia,
BOBBY SCOTT, for his selfless and bold
work. He faced many obstacles.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. I yield the
gentlewoman such time as she may
consume.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I urge a very strong
vote on this to support the minimum
wage and to get millions of workers the
raise they so justly deserve. Over 33
million Americans deserve this raise.
This chart shows it all.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I compliment my colleague
on his sense of humor, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE), a leader
of the Judiciary Committee.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for his leadership.
This is for the children.
Can you believe that this is a min-
imum wage increase spanning over 6
years, and you hear my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle. This will
allow small businesses to go in gradu-
ally and then provide all of these dol-
lars into the economy.
This is for the children.
I just heard from a mother who
works for McDonald’s who cannot pro-
vide for her children and is on food
stamps.
Mr. Speaker, 41.3 percent of those in
my district will benefit in Texas in the
18th Congressional District. This will
help the gender gap. But more impor-
tantly, it will benefit 19 million chil-
dren whose parents will get a raise.
It will increase worker productivity
by incentivizing people to work harder;
reduce the gender gap, as women make
up a disproportionate share of min-
imum wage workers; and reduce the
rate at which renters default on their
leases by giving families more money
to spend on their household budgets.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
statistics relating to the 18th Congres-
sional District of Texas.
TEXAS 18TH DISTRICT
Share of workers affected: 41.3%
Total workers affected: 155,800
Total wage increase for all affected work-
ers (thousands, 2018$): $638,584
Chanqe in avg. annual earnings among all
$4,100 year-round affected workers (2018$):
$4,100
Percent change in avg. annual earnings
among all year-round affected workers: 18.6%
Ages 16 to 24—Total workers affected:
41,400
Ages 16 to 24—Share affected: 81.8%
Ages 25 to 39—Total workers affected:
63,900
Ages 25 to 39—Share affected: 41.0%
Ages 40 to 54—Total workers affected:
33,100
Ages 40 to 54—Share affected: 29.4%
Ages 55 or older—Total workers affected:
17,400
Ages 55 or older—Share affected: 29.8%
Men—Total workers affected: 72,000
Men—Share affected: 35.1%
Women—Total workers affected: 83,900
Women—Share affected: 48.5%
Asian or other—Total workers affected:
7,600
Asian or other—Share affected: 29.2%
Black—Total workers affected: 49,100
Black—Share affected: 40.8
White—Total workers affected: 10,000
White—Share affected: 15.7%
Hispanic—Total workers affected: 89,100
Hispanic—Share affected: 53.2%
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
apartment complexes, local stores,
local clothing stores, churches, and
nonprofits benefit from the generosity
of individuals who now have a decent
wage.
I am standing with working people
and unions. I am standing with the
American people and 41.3 percent of my
district.
Let us raise the minimum wage. That
is the right thing to do. It is for our
children.
Mr. Speaker, as an original cosponsor, I rise
in strong support of H.R. 582, the ‘‘Raise the
Wage Act.’’
With the passage of this bill, the House of
Representatives will take another step in mak-
ing good on its commitment to working fami-
lies and individuals to put their economic inter-
ests and concerns first and attach the highest
priority to making the real economy work for
ordinary Americans who work hard, play by
the rules, and are struggling to get by through
no fault of their own.
We Democrats promised to chart a new di-
rection for America if the voters entrusted us
with the majority.
They did and with our votes today in sup-
port of H.R. 582, we are making good on our
promise.
Mr. Speaker, before I discuss the impor-
tance of this bill in detail, I wish to commend
Chairman SCOTT, Speaker PELOSI, Majority
Leader HOYER, Majority Whip CLYBURN, and
the rest of the Democratic leadership, as well
as my colleagues in the Congressional Black
Caucus, which is led so ably by Congressman
BASS.
Because of their resolve and visionary lead-
ership, more than 27 million workers, and as
many as 34 million, will soon receive a long
overdue raise.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.022 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7118 July 18, 2019
What a difference an election makes.
H.R. 582 helps the most deserving Amer-
ican families by raising the minimum wage
from $7.25 to $15.00 over six years, and in-
dexing increases after that to median wage
growth.
Mr. Speaker, did you know that the value of
the current minimum wage represents a 51-
year low?
Had the minimum wage kept pace with infla-
tion, it would be $10.15 today, nearly $3 more
per hour than it is currently.
If the wages of that worker had kept up with
the pace of productivity growth, the minimum
wage would be $19.33, over $40,000 per year.
It is scandalous, Mr. Speaker, that a person
can work full-time, 40 hours per week, for 52
weeks, earning the minimum wage and would
gross just $15,000, which is $6,100 below the
$25,100 needed to lift a family of three out of
poverty.
In 2018, the average CEO was paid 1,140
times the amount earned yearly by a minimum
wage worker.
Mr. Speaker, since 2009 the cost of college
tuition has risen more than 40 percent and
health insurance premiums have skyrocketed
by 41 percent.
But during that time, the minimum wage has
not increased one cent.
That is unconscionable and downright un-
American.
H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage Act, will
change this sorry state of affairs.
Mr. Speaker, today more than ever Amer-
ica’s hard-working families are feeling
squeezed, living paycheck to paycheck.
I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, that prices at
the pump, skyrocketing health care costs and
the rising cost of college in the face of falling
or flat wages, are squeezing hard-working
Texans in my Houston-based Congressional
District as they struggle to make ends meet.
That is why I support increasing the min-
imum wage.
For Texas workers the basic cost of living is
rising; it is only fair that the pay for hard-work-
ing Texans does too.
Mr. Speaker, 29 states and the District of
Columbia have increased their minimum wage
above the federal minimum of $7.25 per hour,
but regrettably my home state of Texas is not
one of them.
For approximately 4.7 million Texans and
nearly 155,800 hardworking persons in the
18th Congressional District of Texas, passage
of the Raise the Wage Act would bring imme-
diate, tangible, and substantial economic ben-
efits.
Increasing the minimum wage would give
these families a much needed additional
$4,100 a year to meet critical needs such as
rent, health care, food and child care.
The increase the minimum wage to $15.00
per hour over the next six years will not allow
workers to live as large as the typical CEO,
who now earns 1,140 times more than a min-
imum wage worker, but at least it will allow
these low-wage workers to make a little better
life for themselves and their families.
Raising the minimum wage will benefit work-
ing families:
1. Benefit 19 million children whose parents
will get a raise;
2. Increase worker productivity by
incentivizing people to work harder;
3. Reduce the gender wage gap, as women
make up a disproportionate share of minimum
wage workers; and
4. Reduce the rate at which renters default
on their leases by giving families more money
to spend on their household budgets.
Increasing the minimum wage will also pro-
vide a boost to the economy, since lower
wage workers are more likely than other in-
come groups to spend extra earnings imme-
diately and researchers estimate that a 10
percent increase in the minimum wage would
increase sales by around $2 billion each year.
Mr. Speaker, the earnings of minimum wage
workers are crucial to their families’ well-being
since the average minimum wage worker
brings home more than half (51.9 percent) of
his or her family’s weekly earnings.
Raising the minimum wage helps women
and workers of color.
More than 49,000, or 41 percent, of African
American workers and 89,100, or 53.2 percent
of Hispanic workers in my congressional dis-
trict would get a raise under the Raise the
Wage Act.
The Raise the Wage Act would substantially
increase the purchasing power of 83,900, or
48.5 percent, of low-wage women workers in
my district.
Since women make up nearly two-thirds of
all minimum wage workers, the Raise the
Wage Act would provide the greatest benefit
to workers of color and women.
Single mothers would benefit disproportion-
ately from an increase—single mothers are
10.4 percent of workers affected by an in-
crease, but they make up only 5.3 percent of
the overall workforce.
Approximately 1.8 million Texas parents
with children under 18 would benefit.
Contrary to popular myths and urban leg-
ends, adults make up the largest share of
workers (80 percent) who would benefit from
a minimum wage increase:
More than half (54 percent) of workers who
would benefit from a minimum wage increase
work full time and another third (34.5 percent)
work between 20 and 34 hours per week.
Minimum wage increases benefit disadvan-
taged workers, and women are the largest
group of beneficiaries:
1. More than 23 million (66 percent) of
workers who would benefit from an increase to
$15.00 are women.
2. Approximately 11.2 million (28 percent) of
workers who would benefit from an increase to
$15.00 are the parents of 14.4 million children,
and of these, 5.4 million (48 percent) are sin-
gle parents. In my District in Texas, 41.3 per-
cent of the workers would benefit.
A disproportionate share of persons of color
would benefit from a minimum wage increase:
1. African Americans represent 11.1 percent
of the total workforce but are 15.3 percent of
workers affected by an increase.
2. Similarly, 13.4 percent of the total work-
force is Hispanic, but Hispanics are 19.7 per-
cent of workers affected by an increase.
The benefits of an increase minimum wage
disproportionately help those working house-
holds at the bottom of the income scale.
Although households in the bottom 20 per-
cent received only 5.1 percent of national in-
come, 38.1 percent of the benefits of a min-
imum wage increase to $15.00 would go to
these workers.
Thirty-six percent of such workers actually
contribute 100 percent of their family’s earn-
ings.
A minimum wage increase would help re-
verse the trend of declining real wages for
low-wage workers.
Between 2009 and 2018, the minimum
wage lost 29 percent of its real value.
In contrast, between 1989 and 1997, the
year it was raised to $5.15, the minimum
wage was raised four times and recovered
about one-third of the value it lost in the
1980s.
Income inequality has been increasing, in
part, because of the declining real value of the
minimum wage.
Mr. Speaker, the opponents of the minimum
wage often claim that increasing the wage will
cost jobs and harm the economy.
Of course, Mr. Speaker there is no credible
to support such claims.
The truth is that following the most recent
increase in the minimum wage in 2009, and
the rescue of the economy by President
Barack Obama after the Great Recession, the
country went on to enjoy one the more sus-
tained period of economic prosperity in history.
Mr. Speaker, studies have shown that the
best performing small businesses are located
in states with the highest minimum wages.
The job growth for small businesses in
states with a minimum wage higher than the
federal level was 9,4 percent compared to a
6.6 percent growth in states where the federal
level prevailed.
So much for the discredited notion that rais-
ing the minimum wage harms the economy; it
does not.
But raising the minimum wage helps the
economy by increasing the purchasing power
of those who most need the money, which is
far more than can be said of the Republicans’
devotion to cutting taxes for billionaires and
multimillionaires.
Mr. Speaker, Americans overwhelmingly
side with progressive principles of rewarding
hard work with a living wage.
A post-election Hill-Harris poll found that 82
percent of Americans favored the hourly min-
imum wage and a clear majority, 55 percent,
favored increasing the minimum wage to
$15.00, while only 14 percent favored keeping
in place the current $7.25 wage rate.
Mr. Speaker, it is time we gave the Ameri-
cans we represent a long-over due pay raise
by increasing the minimum wage to $15.00
over six years and indexing future increases to
the growth in median wages so that a full-time
worker making the minimum wage can afford
the basic essentials, which is not the case
today anywhere in America.
I urge all members to support this nec-
essary and timely legislation.
Vote aye on H.R. 582, the ‘‘Raise the Wage
Act.’’
b 1045
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Mr. Speaker, I do take offense at
anyone who characterizes Republicans
as not caring about children, not car-
ing about women, not caring about
people of color, and not caring about
people in poverty. We care for all peo-
ple, too, Mr. Speaker, and I want to
make that very clear. We will disagree
philosophically, but we care about peo-
ple, and we love our fellow Americans.
Democrats continue to point to fig-
ures of potential wage increases in our
congressional districts, but not once
have they acknowledged that CBO esti-
mates that as many as three jobs could
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.023 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7119
July 18, 2019
be lost for every one person pulled out
of poverty.
So will the Democrats who vote for
this bill come to our congressional dis-
tricts and answer for the jobs lost?
Will they look at the women and
young people and those without a high
school degree who will face the brunt
of the job losses from this bill in our
congressional districts?
The harm inflicted by this bill far
outweighs the benefits. We should not
inflict that pain on our constituents
just to satisfy a far left, socialist polit-
ical promise. The economy is growing,
wages are rising, and opportunities are
increasing. We should not dampen this
progress with any kind of policy.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
oppose this costly, job-killing bill, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
letters from the following organiza-
tions in support of the Raise the Wage
Act: the National Employment Law
Project, cosigned by 500 other organiza-
tions, AFSCME, the National Women’s
Law Center, Lawyers’ Committee for
Civil Rights Under Law, National
Urban League, Disability Coalition,
healthcare groups, Interreligious
Working Group on Domestic Human
Needs, First Focus Campaign for Chil-
dren, NETWORK Lobby for Catholic
Social Justice, Oxfam, Americans for
Democratic Action, National Employ-
ment Lawyers Association, and a re-
cent article in Politico by Reverend
William Barber.
NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT LAW PROJECT,
July 15, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: The National Em-
ployment Law Project (NELP), a non-profit
organization that advocates on behalf of
workers in low-wage jobs, enthusiastically
supports the Raise the Wage Act of 2019. We
urge you to vote Yes on the bill and No on
any Motion to Recommit when the measure
comes before the House later this week.
Last month, our nation marked a shameful
milestone when the longest period passed
without an increase since the 1938 enactment
of the minimum wage. Nearly ten years have
passed since the last increase to $7.25 on July
24, 2009. The cost of wage stagnation for
workers making wages at or near the federal
minimum wage is inexcusable in a country
with the collective wealth we enjoy and with
an economy that is booming for those who
already live comfortable lives.
The Raise the Wage Act will gradually
raise the federal minimum wage to $15 by
2025, gradually eliminate the subminimum
wages for tipped, disabled and youth work-
ers, and eventually index the minimum wage
so that it rises as all other wages rise.
If signed into law, this Act will not only
dramatically decrease poverty and income
inequality. By phasing out subminimum
wages and restoring the value of the federal
minimum wage, this Act will also help ad-
dress the systemically lower wages dis-
proportionately affecting people of color,
women and disabled workers as a result of
the structural inequities baked into our cur-
rent federal minimum wage policy.
Though opponents of raising the minimum
wage will claim that it will result in job loss,
these prophesies of doom have no basis in
fact. Just two weeks ago, a detailed and rig-
orous study of minimum wage increases
since 2005, including the first increases that
went to $15, demonstrated that there are no
discernable negative effects on employment
or hours worked. Rather, it found that min-
imum wage increases lead to substantial de-
clines in household and child poverty. Fur-
ther studies show that raising the minimum
wage also leads to a reduction in suicides, a
decrease in criminal recidivism, improved
maternal and child health, increased con-
sumer spending, increased worker produc-
tivity, lower turnover in jobs, and rise in em-
ployment of older workers.
It’s no wonder that the minimum wage en-
joys such broad popular support, with polling
showing 65% for a $15 federal minimum wage
even in battleground Congressional districts.
This bill is a crucial step forward in the
move to raise wages, fight income inequal-
ity, reduce poverty, and eradicate at least
some measure of racial, gender and dis-
ability discrimination that is inherent in our
federal minimum wage policy. It is also an
important step in making sure that working
people achieve a more equitable share of the
rewards of their labor.
We hope that you will stand with the near-
ly 35 million workers who will receive a raise
if the Raise the Wage Act is passed and vote
Yes on the bill and No on any Motion to Re-
commit that is offered.
Sincerely,
CHRISTINE L. OWENS,
Executive Director.
AFSCME,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
members of the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME), I am writing in support of the
‘‘Raise the Wage Act of 2019’’ (H.R. 582). This
legislation would have a critical impact on
millions of workers by gradually lifting the
current federal minimum wage.
The current federal minimum wage rate of
$7.25 an hour makes it very difficult for
workers to meet basic family needs. The last
federal minimum wage increase was in 2009.
This unjustifiable delay contributes to wage
stagnation in our country. A full-time min-
imum-wage worker earning the federal min-
imum wage makes barely $15,000 per year. A
worker supporting two kids on an equivalent
salary would not even make enough to reach
the poverty level. Taking that into consider-
ation coupled with the fact that most min-
imum-wage jobs rarely include health insur-
ance coverage or child-care assistance, it
should be easy to understand why working
families in America deserve better. As a re-
sult of wage stagnation and income disparity
nearly 40 percent of all American families
struggle with basic needs.
Raising the minimum wage lifts the wages
of low-wage workers but also helps to raise
the wages of all workers. H.R. 582 allows for
a raise in the federal minimum wage to $8.55
this year and increases over the next six
years until it reaches $15 an hour at the end
of that period. Subsequently, the minimum
wage will adjust each year to keep pace with
growth in typical workers’ wages. The legis-
lation also immediately phases out the out-
dated subminimum wage for tipped workers,
which has been frozen at a meager $2.13 since
1991 and sunsets the subminimum wage for
workers with disabilities.
Raising the minimum wage will help grow
the economy. Workers who are paid a living
wage are more productive, and more likely
to spend their extra earnings immediately.
America needs a raise. AFSCME strongly
supports the ‘‘Raise the Wage Act of 2019.’’
The 10-year delay has pushed millions of
working families below the poverty line.
Please vote yes on the bill and no on any ef-
forts to weaken it, including any motions to
recommit.
Sincerely,
SCOTT FREY,
Director of Federal Government Affairs.
NATIONAL WOMEN’S LAW CENTER,
July 15, 2019.
Re: Pass the Raise the Wage Act of 2019
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
National Women’s Law Center, I strongly
urge you to vote for the Raise the Wage Act
of 2019 when it comes to the House floor, and
vote against any Motion to Recommit, or
any amendment that would limit the scope
of the bill or create anything other than a
single, fair, and adequate federal minimum
wage for all working people in the United
States. Like the recently passed Paycheck
Fairness Act, the Raise the Wage Act is es-
sential to advance equal pay for women and
economic security for their families.
Today, women across the country—espe-
cially women of color—continue to experi-
ence a pay gap and a higher risk of poverty
than men. Women working full time, year
round typically make only 80 percent of
what their male counterparts make, leaving
a wage gap of 20 cents on the dollar. This
wage gap varies by race and is larger for
women of color: Black women working full
time, year round typically make only 61
cents, Native women only 58 cents, and
Latinas only 53 cents, for every dollar paid
to their white, non-Hispanic male counter-
parts. While Asian American and Pacific Is-
lander (AAPI) women make 85 cents for
every dollar paid to white, non-Hispanic
men, many AAPI communities experience
drastically wider pay gaps.
The Paycheck Fairness Act will address
the pay discrimination, often cloaked by em-
ployer-imposed pay secrecy policies, that is
one factor driving these persistent wage
gaps. But women’s overrepresentation in
low-wage jobs is another key factor: women
are close to two-thirds of the workforce in
jobs that pay the minimum wage or just a
few dollars above it, and more than two-
thirds of workers in tipped jobs. Women of
color are particularly overrepresented
among tipped workers and other low-wage
workers. And they are particularly harmed
by a $7.25 federal minimum wage that has
not gone up in a decade—and by a $2.13
tipped minimum cash wage that has been
frozen for an astonishing 28 years.
The Raise the Wage Act will raise the fed-
eral minimum wage from $7.25 to $15 an hour
by 2025, then index the minimum wage so
that it continues to rise along with wages
overall. It will also end unfair exclusions for
tipped workers, people with disabilities, and
youth so that they, too, can benefit from a
decent minimum wage. The Economic Policy
Institute (EPI) estimates that the bill (as in-
troduced) would give nearly one in three
working women a raise, including 41 percent
of Black working women, 38 percent of work-
ing Latinas, 29 percent of white working
women, and 18 percent of Asian working
women. Because women are the majority of
workers who would see their pay go up, wage
gaps would likely narrow as well; indeed,
NWLC research shows that women working
full time, year round in states with a min-
imum wage of at least $10 per hour face a
gender wage gap that is one-third smaller
than the wage gap across states with a $7.25
minimum wage. And in ‘‘One Fair Wage’’
states where employers already have to pay
their tipped workers the regular minimum
wage before tips, the average poverty rate
for women tipped workers is lower—and
wage gaps for women overall are smaller—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.030 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7120 July 18, 2019
than in states that follow the $2.13 federal
standard. One Fair Wage also ensures that
women in tipped jobs have a paycheck they
can count on, making them less vulnerable
to the sexual harassment from customers
that women can feel forced to tolerate when
they have to rely on tips for nearly all of
their income.
A $15 minimum wage will make a meaning-
ful difference for millions across the country
who are struggling to put food on the table,
access the health care they need, and sup-
port themselves and their families. But it is
still a modest wage relative to the expenses
that women and their families face every
day, no matter where they live in the United
States. According to EPI, by 2025, a single
worker without children will need at least
full-time earnings at $15 an hour ($31,200 an-
nually) to meet basic needs, and workers in
costlier areas and those supporting families
will need more. By establishing a $15 federal
minimum wage by 2025 and phasing out
harmful exclusions, the Raise the Wage Act
gradually reaches a single wage floor that
will benefit working people and our economy
nationwide.
We strongly urge you to reject any amend-
ments or alternatives that would establish a
regional minimum wage at the federal level,
which would leave women of color behind
and cement the wage disparities that the
Raise the Wage Act is critically needed to
address. And we urge you equally strongly to
reject any and all carveouts for certain em-
ployers or certain types of employees. Equal
pay for women requires a single, fair, and de-
cent federal wage floor for all working peo-
ple across the country—including the tipped
workers, young workers, and workers with
disabilities who have been harmed by exclu-
sionary policies for generations.
Women and people of color have been left
behind by our economy and our policies far
too often, for far too long. Adopting the
Raise the Wage Act will mark a vitally im-
portant step toward ensuring they can work
with equity, dignity, and safety. We urge you
to pass the Raise the Wage Act on the House
floor and reject any alternative, or any
amendments that would reduce its strength
or scope.
Sincerely,
EMILY J. MARTIN,
Vice President for Education
& Workplace Justice.
LAWYERS’ COMMITTEE FOR
CIVIL RIGHTS UNDER LAW,
July 12, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE, On behalf of the
Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under
Law (hereinafter ‘‘Lawyers’’ Committee’’), a
nonpartisan civil rights organization formed
at the request of President Kennedy to enlist
the private bar in providing legal services to
address racial discrimination, we urge you to
vote for H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage Act,
and against any motion to recommit (MTR)
the bill. The Raise the Wage Act is a nec-
essary step to increase the federal minimum
wage, which has remained at $7.25 per hour
for ten years, and phase out the submin-
imum wage for tipped workers, which has
been frozen at $2.13 for nearly three decades.
The Act would raise wages for millions of
workers of color and reverse the growing
trend of pay inequality that disproportion-
ately impacts African Americans, Hispanics
and other people of color.
The Lawyers’ Committee strongly believes
the Raise the Wage Act is an essential step
towards reducing pay inequality and achiev-
ing economic security for communities of
color. Our economy has grown immensely
over the past several decades, but wages
have not—particularly for people of color.
Workers of color are more likely to be
among the working poor, with African Amer-
ican and Hispanic women respectively mak-
ing up 10.5% and 9.6%, compared to 4.9% of
white women. Additionally, people of color
disproportionately live in poverty, with 20%
of African Americans and 16% of Hispanics
living in poverty compared to 8% of whites.
With the Raise the Wage Act, nearly two-
fifths of African Americans and one-third of
Hispanics would receive a raise, lifting many
of these families out of poverty and ensuring
they can work with equity, dignity and safe-
ty.
We urge you to vote for final passage of the
Raise the Wage Act and against any motion
to recommit because all workers, especially
workers of color, need and deserve adequate
wages to achieve economic security.
Respectfully submitted,
KRISTEN CLARK,
President & Executive Director.
JULY 16, 2019.
The undersigned organizations enthusiasti-
cally support the Raise the Wage Act of 2019,
introduced by Senators Bernie Sanders (VT)
and Patty Murray (WA), Representatives
Robert C. ‘‘Bobby’’ Scott (VA), Mark Pocan
(WI) and Stephanie Murphy (FL).
If enacted, this legislation would:
∑ Gradually raise the federal minimum
wage to $15 an hour in 2025;
∑ After 2025, adjust the minimum wage
each year to keep pace with growth in the
typical worker’s wages;
∑ Phase out the outdated subminimum
wage for tipped workers, which has been fro-
zen at a meager $2.13 since 1991; and,
∑ Sunset the much criticized ability of em-
ployers to pay workers with disabilities a
subminimum wage through certificates
issued by DOL.
∑ Phase out the subminimum wage for
workers under the age of 20.
At a time when wage stagnation and in-
come inequality pose serious threats to our
families and our economy, the Raise the
Wage Act of 2019 will begin to reverse that
cycle and raise pay broadly across the bot-
tom of the workforce. According to the Eco-
nomic Policy Institute, this Act will deliver
long-overdue raises to more than 1 in 4 work-
ers, 90% of whom are over the age of 20. The
average age of workers who would get a raise
is 35, nearly half have some years of college
education. In fact, those who work year-
round would see a raise in the order of $3,000
a year, which is enough to make a tremen-
dous difference in the life of a preschool
teacher, bank teller, or fastfood worker who
today struggles to get by on around $20,000
per year.
28 percent are working parents with chil-
dren, and half have family incomes of less
than $40,000 per year. Women make up nearly
58 percent of the workers who would benefit
from a $15 minimum wage, which would be
instrumental in helping to close the gender-
wage-gap. Raising the minimum wage to $15
would also significantly benefit workers of
color, with 38 percent of African American
workers and 33 percent of Latinos seeing a
pay increase once this law goes into effect.
These are the frontline workers who make
America run—yet due to the erosion of the
real value of the minimum wage over the
last half century, they are struggling even as
our economy enjoys a solid recovery.
The time for the Raise the Wage Act is
long overdue, and we cannot delay in work-
ing toward its passage. We call on Congress
to enact this important piece of legislation
as quickly as possible, and for President
Trump to sign it when it comes to his desk.
Sincerely,
9to5; A Better Balance; A Place at the
Table; AAUW Texas; Abortion Care Network;
ACCESS Women’s Health Justice; Accessible
Housing Resources, Inc. (AHRI); Action Inc.;
Action Together NEPA; ADAPT Montana.
Advocate For Justice Inc.; Advocates for
Youth; AFL-CIO; African American Min-
isters In Action; Agape Missions, NFP; AIDS
Alabama South, LLC; Alabama Arise; Ala-
meda County Community Food Bank;
Alianza Nacional de Campesinas, Inc.; All
Our Kin.
Allegheny Valley Association of Churches;
All-Options; Amara Legal Center; American
Association of People with Disabilities;
American Association of University Women;
American Federation of State, County, and
Municipal Employees (AFSCME); American
Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO; American
Federation of Teachers, Washington; Amer-
ican Postal Workers Union—St Louis Gate-
way District Area Local; American Psycho-
logical Association.
American Public Health Association;
Americans for Democratic Action (ADA);
Anne Arundel County NOW; Appalachian
lndepoendence Center, Inc.; Arizona Center
for Economic Progress; Arkansas Advocates
for Children and Families; Asian Law Alli-
ance; Asian Pacific American Labor Alli-
ance, AFL-CIO; Association of Programs for
Rural Independent Living; Association of
U.S. Catholic Priests (AUSCP).
ATD Fourth World Movement; Atlanta
Community Food Bank; AtWork!; AUSCP—
Association of U.S. Catholic Priests; Autistic
Self Advocacy Network; Autistic Women &
Nonbinary Network; Bazelon Center for Men-
tal Health Law; Bend the Arc: Jewish Ac-
tion; Benedictine Sisters of Erie; Black AIDS
Institute.
Black Women’s Roundtable; Bread for the
World; Bucks County Women’s Advocacy Co-
alition; CA Capital Chapter—Coalition of
Labor Union Women; California Employment
Lawyers Association; California Food Policy
Advocates; Cambridge United for Justice
with Prace; Campaign for America’s Future;
Campesinos Sin Fronteras; CAP Services,
lnc./Community Assets for People.
CARECEN-Central American Resource
Center; Caring Across Generations; CASA;
CASA of Oregon; Catalyst for Positive
Change!; Catholic Charities of Chemung/
Schuyler counties, NY; Center for Changing
Lives; Center for Groveport Madison Human
Needs; Center for Independence of the Dis-
abled, NY; Center for Law and Social Policy
(CLASP).
Center for New York City Affairs at The
New School; Center for Popular Democracy
Action; Center for Public Policy Priorities;
Center for Public Representation; Centro de
los Derechos del Migrante, Inc.; ChangeLab
Solutions; Chester County Food Bank; Chi-
cago Chapter of RESULTS, Domestic; Chi-
cago Jobs Council; Chicago Women’s AIDS
Project.
Child Care Resources; Children’s Defense
Fund; Children’s Advocacy Institute; Church
World Service; Cities of Peace Detroit; Civil
Liberties and Public Policy Program; Cleve-
land Nonviolence Network; CLUW of South-
western PA; CLUW: NORTHEAST CLEVE-
LAND CHAPTER; Coalition Ending Gender-
Based Violence.
Coalition for Low Income Pennsylvanians;
Coalition of Black Trade Unionist—Northern
California; Coalition of Labor Union Women;
Coalition of Labor Union Women GPA; Coali-
tion on Human Needs; Collaborative Center
for Justice; Collin County Democrats With
Disabilities (CCDWD); Collin County Voters
With Disabilities; Colorado Center on Law
and Policy; Colorado Coalition for the Home-
less.
Communications Workers of America
(CWA); Communities Creating Opportunity;
Community Action Agency of Somerville,
Inc.; Community Action Partnership, NJ;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.043 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7121
July 18, 2019
Community Advocates of Northern Indiana;
Community Labor United; Community Rein-
vestment Alliance of South Florida; Con-
gregation Beth El, Berkeley; Congregation of
Our Lady of Charity of the Good Shepherd,
US Provinces; Congregation of Our Lady of
the Good Shepherd, US Provinces.
Congregation of Sisters of St. Agnes; Con-
gregation of the Infant Jesus Nursing Sisters
of the Sick Poor, Inc.; Connecticut Associa-
tion for Human Services, Inc; Connecticut
Legal Services, Inc.; Connecticut Voices for
Children; Cronucopia Community Advocates;
CWA Local 6450; D.C. Hunger Solutions; Da-
kota Prairie Community Action Agency.
DC KinCare Alliance; DC Language Access
Coalition; DC Law Students in Court; DC
Volunteer Lawyers Project; DCAEHS, Inc.;
Delaware Ecumenical Council on Children
and Families; Demos; Disability Law Center;
Disability Rights Education & Defense Fund
(DREDF); Disability Voters of Maine.
Disabled in Action of Greater Syracuse
Inc.; Disciples Center for Public Witness
(Disciples of Christ); Disciples Justice Ac-
tion Network; Dominican Development Cen-
ter, Inc.; Dominican Sisters—Grand Rapids;
Dominican Sisters of Houston; DV LEAP;
East Central Illinois Community Action
Agency; East Hampton Housing Authority;
EcoC2S.
Economic Opportunity Institute; Economic
Policy Institute; Economic Progress Insti-
tute; Economic Roundtable; Ecumenical
Poverty Initiative; Educate. Advocate.; Edu-
cation Equals Making Community Connec-
tions; Equal Pay Today; Equal Rights Advo-
cates; Equality California.
Equality North Carolina; Estreet Verdors
Assiotation Of Chicago (SVAC); Faith Voices
Arkansas; Family Promise of Greater Des
Moines; Family Promise of Knoxville; Fam-
ily Values@Work; Farmworker Association
of Florida; Feeding Texas; Feminist Major-
ity; First Christian Church.
First Focus Campaign for Children; First
United Methodist Church; Florida Impact;
Food Chain Workers Alliance; Food Finders
Food Bank; Food Lifeline; Food Research &
Action Center (FRAC); For Our Future PA;
Freedom Network USA; Futures Without Vi-
olence.
GCC/IBT Local 24M/9N; Gender Justice;
GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders
(GLAD); Global Justice Institute, Metropoli-
tan Community Churches; Godwin-Ternbach
Museum, Queens College, CUNY; Good Jobs
Nation; GRANDS AS PARENTS INC; Great-
er Kansas City Coalition of Labor Union
Women; Greater New Jersey CLUW Chapter;
Greater Oklahoma City Chapter CLUW.
Greater Pittsburgh Community Food
Bank; Grey Nuns of the Sacred Heart;
H.O.P.E.; HANA Center; Hawaii Appleseed;
Head Start; Headstart; HEAL Trafficking;
Healthy and Free Tennessee; HEAR US Inc.
Hill Snowdon Foundation; Hispanic Fed-
eration; Holy Cross Ministries; Housing Au-
thority of the County of Lawrence; Housing
Choice Partners; Howard Brown Health; Hud-
son County Housing Resource Center; Hu-
manity; Hunger Action Network of NYS;
Hunger Free Vermont.
Hunger Solutions New York; Idaho Inter-
faith Roundtable Against Hunger; IHM Sis-
ters IHM Sisters Justice, Peace and Sustain-
ability Office; lllinois Hunger Coalition; Illi-
nois Collaboration on Youth; Impact Fund;
In Our Own Voice: National Black Women’s
Reproductive Justice Agenda; Indiana Com-
munity Action Association; Indiana Insti-
tute for Working Families; Indivisible Michi-
gan 8th—Ingham.
Inspirational Gospel Assembly; Interfaith
Impact of New York State; Interfaith Work-
er Justice; International Labor Rights
Forum; International Union, United Auto-
mobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Imple-
ment Workers of America, UAW; Iowa Citi-
zens for Community Improvement; Iowa Coa-
lition Against Domestic Violence.
[From Politico, July 17, 2019]
THE RACIST HISTORY OF TIPPING
(By Rev. Dr. William J. Barber II)
This week, the House of Representatives
will have a chance to end a pernicious legacy
of slavery. Lawmakers will vote on the Raise
the Wage Act, which would boost the min-
imum wage across the country to $15 an hour
by 2024. This would be a crucial step toward
the first federal minimum wage increase in
more than a decade.
A just-released Congressional Budget Of-
fice report finds that a $15 minimum wage
would have tremendous benefits for low-
wage workers of all races and ethnicities.
Yet the stakes are particularly high for
black workers. The share who would benefit
from the Raise the Wage Act is far larger
than the share of white workers who would
benefit—38 percent compared with 23 per-
cent.
There’s another provision in the legisla-
tion—eliminating the subminimum tipped
wage—that corrects a wrong that goes much
further back than the previous federal min-
imum wage increase. For workers regularly
making more than $30 a month in tips, em-
ployers can currently pay as little as $2.13 an
hour. That subminimum wage has been fro-
zen at this level for decades. Should the
Raise the Wage Act pass the House, it will
mark the first time that either chamber of
Congress has moved to eliminate the sub-
minimum wage, which not only deepens eco-
nomic inequalities but also happens to be a
relic of slavery.
You might not think of tipping as a legacy
of slavery, but it has a far more racialized
history than most Americans realize. Tip-
ping originated in feudal Europe and was im-
ported back to the United States by Amer-
ican travelers eager to seem sophisticated.
The practice spread throughout the country
after the Civil War as U.S. employers, large-
ly in the hospitality sector, looked for ways
to avoid paying formerly enslaved workers.
One of the most notorious examples comes
from the Pullman Company, which hired
newly freed African American men as por-
ters. Rather than paying them a real wage,
Pullman provided the black porters with just
a meager pittance, forcing them to rely on
tips from their white clientele for most of
their pay.
Tipping further entrenched a unique and
often racialized class structure in service
jobs, in which workers must please both cus-
tomer and employer to earn anything at all.
A journalist quoted in Kerry Segrave’s 2009
book, Tipping: An American Social History
of Gratuities, wrote in 1902 that he was em-
barrassed to offer a tip to a white man. ‘‘Ne-
groes take tips, of course; one expects that of
them—it is a token of their inferiority,’’ he
wrote. ‘‘Tips go with servility, and no man
who is a voter in this country is in the least
justified in being in service.’’
The immorality of paying an insufficient
wage to workers, who then were forced to
rely on tips, was acknowledged at the time.
In his popular 1916 anti-tipping study, The
Itching Palm, writer William Scott described
tipping as an aristocratic custom that went
against American ideals. ‘‘The relation of a
man giving a tip and a man accepting it is as
undemocratic as the relation of master and
slave,’’ Scott wrote. ‘‘A citizen in a republic
ought to stand shoulder to shoulder with
every other citizen, with no thought of
cringing, without an assumption of superi-
ority or an acknowledgment of inferiority.’’
Several states sought to end the practice
in the early 1900s, often in recognition of its
racist roots. But the restaurant industry
fought back and was powerful enough to roll
back local bans on tipping. And tipped work-
ers—along with most others, as the act ap-
plied to industries that together made up
only one-fifth of the labor force—were ex-
cluded from the first, limited federal min-
imum wage law passed in 1938.
It took until 1966 for advocates to win a
base wage for tipped workers, and that
amounted to only 50 percent of the minimum
wage already guaranteed to other workers.
Congress continued to raise the subminimum
tipped wage until 1996, when Herman Cain,
who headed the National Restaurant Asso-
ciation at the time, offered legislators a bar-
gain: The industry would accept a small in-
crease in the minimum wage as long as the
tipped wage was frozen at $2.13 an hour.
Congress agreed to the deal, and the tipped
minimum wage remains just $2.13 to this
day. Employers are supposed to pay the dif-
ference if tips don’t bring workers to the full
regular minimum wage. But too often that
law is not enforced. When the Department of
Labor conducted an unusual compliance
sweep of 9,000 full-service restaurants be-
tween 2010 and 2012, they found that 84 per-
cent had violated the subminimum wage sys-
tem.
A century later, the industry lobby con-
tinues its fight to uphold this two-tiered pay
system. Where social movements have got-
ten cities to pass minimum wage hikes, the
lobby has pressured state legislatures to ban
local wage increases altogether. The indus-
try also fought to overturn voter-approved
initiatives in Maine and Washington, D.C.,
that would have ended the subminimum
tipped wage, while they lobbied legislators in
Michigan to keep the issue from reaching the
ballot in the first place.
That’s why national action to finally re-
verse this particular vestige of slavery is so
vital. No one can live on $2.13 an hour—a
poverty wage.
We may live in a very different society
from 150 years ago, but the subminimum
tipped wage still exacerbates the inequalities
passed down from that time. Workers in the
restaurant industry are far more likely to be
poor or near-poor than the general popu-
lation. Sure, upscale restaurants where
wealthy patrons offer servers good tips on
expensive menu items can provide a good liv-
ing, but those jobs are few and far between—
and dominated by white men.
Research also shows that tipping itself has
a racial component: Customers generally
give white workers bigger tips than black
workers, regardless of service quality.
Thanks in part to segregation within the in-
dustry and discrimination from patrons, res-
taurant worker poverty rates are highest for
women and people of color.
Ending the subminimum wage would right
one of the historical wrongs keeping certain
groups of workers from receiving the full
protections they are due, but ultimately, low
wages driven by racism hurt workers of all
races. Three times as many white workers as
black workers stand to get a raise if the fed-
eral minimum wage hike passes. Undoing
systemic racism opens up opportunities for
all people.
With a Republican Senate and president,
the Raise the Wage Act might not become
national law in the immediate future. But a
vote by the House to end the subminimum
tipped wage would send an unmistakable sig-
nal to the several states considering similar
legislation: The days of these racist tiered
wage systems are coming to an end.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Will the
Chair please tell me how much time is
remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has 11⁄2 minutes remaining.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.044 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7122 July 18, 2019
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I would just like to say that youth
workers—we have heard about youth
workers—should not be paid less for
the same work than anyone else. Sev-
eral of my colleagues have pointed out
that there may be a $9 billion loss in
income. According to the CBO, that
comes from families making more than
$232,000 a year. Families making less
than that will get an increase in pay.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank all of
my colleagues, including members of
the Committee on Education and Labor
and Representatives across the Nation
who have been instrumental in advanc-
ing this legislation. But most of all, I
want to recognize the workers in com-
munities across the country who stood
up and demanded a fair day’s pay for a
fair day’s work. There are some of
them with us today, the Fight for $15
workers, the SEIU workers, and others
from across the country.
I also want to acknowledge a broad
coalition of business support, including
Business for a Fair Minimum Wage and
the U.S. Women’s Chamber of Com-
merce.
Proposals to increase the minimum
wage are always met with the same
baseless predictions we have heard
today. Opponents cried wolf in the
1930s, and we should not fear the im-
pact of putting money in workers’
pockets or, as President Roosevelt said
in a fireside chat way back in 1938: ‘‘Do
not let any calamity-howling executive
with an income of $1,000 a day . . . tell
you . . . that a wage of $11 a week is
going to have a disastrous effect on all
American industry.’’
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
take that advice, pass the Raise the
Wage Act and give a raise to 33 million
Americans. It is a raise that is long
overdue.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. CUELLAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the importance of raising the min-
imum wage for millions in our country. This
important legislation raises the wage for 45
percent of workers in my district, and provides
a wage increase of nearly $640,000.
The Raise the Wage Act will indeed lift
thousands of my constituents out of poverty
and provide opportunity for economic mobility.
However, I would like to highlight the work I
have done on this legislation to make it more
amenable to small, family owned businesses.
While I certainly acknowledge that every
day Americans deserve a raise, we in Con-
gress must be above rhetoric and talking
points. With such a significant change pro-
posed to the minimum wage, this must be car-
ried out in a precise, tactful manner. As of
June of this year, the unemployment rate in
the United States is a mere 3.7 percent. It is
critical that policies we pass through this
House do not interrupt or deter this economic
prosperity.
Furthermore, while I support this important
legislation, we must consider how it will affect
small businesses and their economic futures.
Therefore, I have negotiated with the Com-
mittee a provision to lengthen the phase in pe-
riod to $15 minimum wage until the year 2026.
Additionally, I am a co-sponsor of the
O’Halleran Amendment. This amendment will
require a comprehensive GAO report on na-
tional and regional economic impacts of the
minimum wage increases in this bill. The re-
port will have a special focus on small busi-
ness and agricultural sectors. It will facilitate
Congress’ ability to make policy changes
based on the actual economic effects of this
legislation.
Lastly, I submitted two amendments that ex-
empt local and small farms, as well as small
businesses from the $15 minimum wage.
These amendments delayed the minimum
wage from reaching $15 until the year 2029,
as well as kept the current ‘‘tipped-wage’’ pro-
vision for restaurant workers. I also sought to
create a small business tax credit, along with
providing two additional years to comply with
a doubling of the federal minimum wage.
By providing tax credits, compliance exemp-
tions, and a longer runway to $15, my amend-
ments intended to give small businesses the
tools they need to thrive in the economy this
bill will create.
I was disappointed that my amendments
were not included in this measure, but will
work for their inclusion elsewhere given the
vast economic benefits that small businesses
provide in my community, and around the
country. There are over 30 million small busi-
nesses in the United States today. Addition-
ally, there are 24.3 million individually oper-
ated businesses with no employees. Small
businesses employ over 60 million Ameri-
cans—nearly half of the private workforce—
and there are now over 287,000 small busi-
ness exporters.
The United States small business commu-
nity contributes approximately $8.5 trillion to
the economy, roughly half of the United States
total $17 trillion GDP.
Small businesses are the back bone of our
country, and the engine that drives our econ-
omy. While I will vote in favor of this legisla-
tion, I hope to have my amendments incor-
porated as this bill moves through the legisla-
tive process. I include them for the RECORD.
Passage of this act is simply the first step.
As this legislation heads over to the Senate, I
look forward to working with my friends to im-
prove this bill and ensure further small busi-
nesses provisions are included, as well as
with my colleagues in the House on future leg-
islation that would help address these con-
cerns.
Mr. Speaker, I thank you for the time to rec-
ognize the importance of small businesses to
our great nation, and the need to pay Ameri-
cans a living wage.
AMENDMENT TO H.R. 582, AS REPORTED
OFFERED BY MR. CUELLAR OF TEXAS
Strike section 3 and insert the following
new section:
SEC. 3. MINIMUM WAGE FOR SMALL BUSINESS
CONCERNS.
Section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act,
as amended, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(i) SMALL BUSINESS MINIMUM WAGE
RATE.—With respect to an employer that is a
small business concern (as defined in section
3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)),
except as otherwise provided in this section,
the wage in effect under subsection (a)(1)
shall be—
‘‘(1) $9.00 an hour during the calendar year
2019;
‘‘(2) $9.50 an hour during the calendar year
2020;
‘‘(3) $10.00 an hour during the calendar year
2021;
‘‘(4) $10.50 an hour during the calendar year
2022;
‘‘(5) $11.00 an hour during the calendar year
2023;
‘‘(6) $11.50 an hour during the calendar year
2024;
‘‘(7) $12.00 an hour during the calendar year
2025;
‘‘(8) $12.50 an hour during the calendar year
2026;
‘‘(9) $13.00 an hour during the calendar year
2027;
‘‘(10) $13.50 an hour during the calendar
years 2028, 2029, and 2030; and
‘‘(11) $15.00 an hour during the calendar
year 2031 and each year thereafter.’’.
Add at the end the following new section:
SECTION lll. MINIMUM-WAGE EMPLOYEE
CREDIT FOR SMALL EMPLOYERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subpart D of part IV of
subchapter A of chapter 1 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 45T. MINIMUM-WAGE EMPLOYEE CREDIT
FOR SMALL EMPLOYERS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section
38, in the case of an eligible small employer,
the minimum-wage employee credit for a
taxable year determined under this section is
an amount equal to $200 for each minimum-
wage employee of the employer.
‘‘(b) LIMITATION.—The amount of the credit
determined under subsection (a) for any tax-
able year shall not exceed $10,000.
‘‘(c) ELIGIBLE SMALL EMPLOYER.—For pur-
poses of this section—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘eligible small
employer’ means an employer with not more
than 50 employees.
‘‘(2) AGGREGATION AND OTHER RULES.—For
purposes of this section—
‘‘(A) AGGREGATION RULES.—All employers
treated as a single employer under sub-
section (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section 414 shall
be treated as a single employer.
‘‘(B) OTHER RULES.—Rules similar to the
rules of subsections (c), (d), and (e) of section
52 shall apply.’’.
(b) CREDIT TO BE PART OF GENERAL BUSI-
NESS CREDIT.—Section 38(b) of such Code is
amended by striking ‘‘plus’’ at the end of
paragraph (31), by striking the period at the
end of paragraph (32) and inserting ‘‘, plus’’,
and by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(33) in the case of an eligible small em-
ployer (as such term is defined in section
45T, the minimum-wage employee credit de-
termined under section 45T(a).’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for subpart D of part IV of sub-
chapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is
amended by adding at the end the following
the item:
‘‘Sec 45T. Minimum-wage employee credit
for small employers.’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to taxable
years ending after the date of the enactment
of this Act.
AMENDMENT TO H.R. 582, AS REPORTED
OFFERED BY MR. CUELLAR OF TEXAS
Add at the end the following:
SEC. ll. AGRICULTURE EXEMPTION.
Nothing in this Act, or the amendments
made under this Act, shall be construed to
repeal or alter the exemption under section
13(a)(6) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 (29 U.S.C. 213(a)(6)).
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speak-
er, I strongly support the Raise the Wage Act
that raises the federal minimum wage to $15,
This bill is smart federal policy that will im-
prove the lives of workers and their children
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.031 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7123
July 18, 2019
across the nation, helping them pay their bills,
support their children, and grow our economy
via their increased spending power.
Many do not remember that—from the out-
set—the intent was that the minimum wage
should be a livable wage, The federal min-
imum wage was part of the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act of 1938; critical legislation supporting
workers and children by setting a federal min-
imum wage, requiring time-and-a-half pay, and
banning the atrocity of child labor in factories.
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt even
said, ‘‘It seems to me to be equally plain that
no business which depends for existence on
paying less than living wages to its workers
has any right to continue in this country . . .
and by living wages I mean more than a bare
subsistence level—I mean the wages of de-
cent living.’’
At a time in our country when the wealth
gap is appallingly large, I am proud that the
Democratic Leadership is prioritizing a livable
wage. For over a decade millions of hard-
working Americans worked full-time making
just $7.25 an hour. Tipped workers, teen work-
ers, or workers with disabilities have made
even less. Current law allows tipped workers
to make just $2.13 an hour plus tips, allows
teen workers to be paid just $4.25 an hour for
their first 90 days, and allows a subminimum
wage for people with disabilities, unjustly de-
nying them the equal pay that they deserve.
Men and women throughout the nation work
full-time yet remain trapped in poverty by their
low-wages. According to the American Asso-
ciation of University Women, a single mom
raising two kids while working a full-time min-
imum wage job earns only about $14,500 or
$5,000 below the poverty line. Clearly, the cur-
rent minimum wage is not a living wage but a
policy that systematically grows the divide be-
tween the poor and the secure, creating bar-
riers for low-income workers to break out of
poverty.
The minimum wage increase in this bill will
help close the wage gap that women—espe-
cially African-American and Latina-American
women—face due to their disproportionate
overrepresentation in tipped employment.
Raising the minimum wages also will reduce
child poverty. According to the Economic Pol-
icy Institute, the increased minimum wage will
give raises to 41 million women, 28 percent of
whom have children.
As many may know, helping low-income
workers is a primary legislative priority for me.
In my District, almost 31 percent of children
live in poverty and half of those children live
in extreme poverty, Further, 25 percent of the
tax filers in my district are low-income working
parents. I see the challenges that these chil-
dren and their families face first hand. They
are hard-working and incredible people trying
to better themselves.
I reject opponents’ arguments that increas-
ing the federal minimum wage will eviscerate
jobs. I know first-hand the benefits of an in-
creased minimum wage because the minimum
wage in the City of Chicago is $13 an hour,
much higher than the federal wage of $7.25.
According to the Illinois Economic Policy Insti-
tute, the transition to this wage had no impact
on the employment rate nor did it negatively
affect private businesses. Rather, the higher
minimum wage created a higher demand by
low-income households for employment. Given
the positive outcomes from raising the min-
imum wage in Chicago and given state-wide
economic needs, Governor J.B. Pritzker and
our state legislators just raised the state min-
imum wage to $15—making Illinois, D.C., and
five other states national leaders in providing
livable wages for their workers. Our new law
will help almost 1.4 million Illinoisans currently
making less than $15 an hour, lifting thou-
sands out of poverty and growing our econ-
omy at the same time.
Now today as a Congressman, I proudly
cast my vote in support of raising the federal
minimum wage to strengthen workers, fami-
lies, and our economy.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in opposition to H.R. 582. This bill is yet an-
other overreaching power-grab from Wash-
ington. Missouri voters already decided to
raise their minimum wage last year. However,
now the federal government believes it knows
better than the states and wants to force a
one-size-fits-all policy on all Americans. Unfor-
tunately, this policy will cost 3.7 million jobs
nationwide, and would cause nearly half of
families with a minimum wage earner to see a
reduction in household income.
Even more concerning, H.R. 582 contains a
provision to remove choices for disabled work-
ers and their families. Section 6 of this bill
would eliminate the 14(c) certificates which
enable Sheltered Workshops to operate.
Sheltered Workshops are non-profit, local,
or state organizations that provide dignified
employment opportunities for individuals who
are developmentally, physically, or mentally
impaired. These opportunities are enabled by
the 14(c) certificates which allows individuals
to be paid a wage commensurate with their
ability level. Sheltered Workshops also provide
the necessary tools for those with disabilities
to succeed in their jobs and can help these in-
dividuals acclimate to the workforce, and even
learn and hone their life and social skills. The
level of training and support provided by Shel-
tered Workshops is essential to the success of
the individuals who work there.
No family wants fewer options when decid-
ing how to help their child with disabilities suc-
ceed. That is why the 14(c) provision and the
Sheltered Workshops provide more options,
especially for those who may not ‘‘fit’’ or de-
sire Vocational Rehabilitation services or Med-
icaid Waiver services. Without the 14(c) provi-
sion, many of the people working in sheltered
workshops would be left to fend for them-
selves in the ‘‘competitive workforce’’ or stay
home. The 14(c) provision is necessary for
providing these individuals the tools they need
to succeed.
That is why I submitted an amendment to
strike Section 6 from H.R. 582. Unfortunately,
my amendment was not made in order which
is one more reason why I must oppose this
flawed legislation. Let’s defeat this bill and
preserve job choices for Americans.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 582, the Raise the
Wage Act. We must advocate for an increase
in the minimum wage, as stagnant wages im-
pede economic mobility and are a detriment to
our nation’s working class.
According to the Economic Policy Institute,
the current minimum wage places nearly
78,000 Texans at this unlivable income, while
118,000 Texans earn even less. The Raise
the Wage Act will result in a significant in-
crease in the average annual earnings for
Texans. In my home district, this figure is esti-
mated to increase by 18.2 percent, which will
make an immeasurable different in our com-
munities.
Many people in my district are forced to
work multiple jobs for long hours to ensure
food is on the table for their families. This leg-
islation will eliminate this burden on our work-
ing-class families. The economy may be grow-
ing, and wages may be rising, but the benefits
of economic and wage growth are not felt
equally. Individuals working 40 hours a week
should be able to afford the basic necessities
for themselves and their family.
I proudly stand in this chamber as a co-
sponsor of H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage Act.
I urge my colleagues on both sides to join me
in voting for this legislation to promote eco-
nomic freedom and equity for all Americans.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, today
I rise in support of H.R. 582, the Raise the
Wage Act, a bill that would radically improve
the lives of millions of Americans.
For ten years, the longest period in United
States history, workers have suffered as the
federal minimum wage stayed the same as in-
flation rose. With the same wages and rising
prices, workers essentially received a 17 per-
cent pay cut. That’s unacceptable, and it’s
about time we give American workers a raise.
Americans are working just as hard as any
generation, and yet, they are receiving less
than their parents and they are struggling to
afford basic necessities and claim their share
of the American dream.
Nationwide polls show that Americans sup-
port raising the minimum wage across geo-
graphic and party lines.
Georgia’s Second Congressional District,
which I represent, is one of many that would
be most impacted. 43 percent of workers
would receive a wage increase. A majority of
these workers are women and people of color,
who are disproportionately affected by poverty.
The largest age group that would benefit are
those between the ages of 25 and 39.
Nationally, raising the minimum wage to $15
would lift 1.3 million Americans out of poverty,
including 600,000 children. Poverty has dev-
astating effects on families, and studies have
shown children born into poverty have greater
difficulties succeeding in the future.
Mr. Speaker, Americans work hard and
should be able to support themselves and
their families. This bill is modest and gradual,
giving businesses plenty of time to adjust.
Raising the minimum wage is simply another
way to help our constituents improve their
lives and boost the economy.
I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate on the bill has expired.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. O’HALLERAN
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
In the header of section 8, strike ‘‘GAO Re-
port’’ and insert ‘‘GAO Report on the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands’’.
Add at the end the following new section:
SEC. lll. GAO REPORT ON WAGE INCREASE IM-
PACT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days be-
fore the date of the third wage increase to
first take effect after the date of enactment
of this Act, the Comptroller General, in con-
sultation with the persons described in sub-
section (b), shall prepare and submit to Con-
gress a report, that—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.037 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7124 July 18, 2019
(1) identifies and analyzes the effects, in
the aggregate, of the first wage increases and
second wage increases after such date of en-
actment on business enterprises (including
small business enterprises) including the ef-
fects, with respect to such enterprises, on—
(A) the wages and compensation of employ-
ees;
(B) the number of employees,
disaggregated by full-time and part-time em-
ployees;
(C) the prices, sales, and revenues;
(D) employee turnover and retention;
(E) hiring and training costs; and
(F) productivity and absenteeism;
(2) to the extent practicable, identifies
such effects in isolation from other factors
that may affect business enterprises (includ-
ing small business enterprises), including—
(A) broader economic conditions;
(B) changes in Federal, State, and local
law, policy, and regulation;
(C) industry consolidation;
(D) natural disasters; and
(E) significant demographic changes;
(3) to the extent practicable, identifies and
analyzes such effects for the Nation as a
whole, and, separately, for—
(A) each census division, as designated by
the Bureau of the Census;
(B) each metropolitan statistical area and
nonmetropolitan portion (as such terms are
defined by the Office of Management and
Budget with respect to 2013); and
(C) each urbanized area, urbanized cluster,
and rural area, as designated by the Bureau
of the Census; and
(4) describes the methodology used to gen-
erate the information in the report.
(b) EXPERT CONSULTATION.—The persons
described in this subsection are—
(1) labor economists with expertise in min-
imum wage and low wage labor markets;
(2) workers (including agricultural work-
ers), and the labor organizations and worker
groups representing such workers;
(3) representatives of businesses, including
small businesses, agricultural employers,
and businesses in the accommodation and
food services sector;
(4) State and local governments; and
(5) the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System.
(c) CONGRESSIONAL ASSESSMENT AND REC-
OMMENDATIONS.—Not later than 60 days after
the date on which Congress receives the re-
port under subsection (a), Congress shall—
(1) assess the findings of such report; and
(2) make recommendations with respect to
actions of Congress to address the findings of
such report, including actions to delay the
next scheduled wage increases.
(d) WAGE INCREASE DEFINED.—The term
‘‘wage increase’’ means an increase in wages
that takes effect under subsection (a)(1) or
(g)(1) of section 6, section 3(m)(2)(A)(i), or
section 14(c)(1)(A) of the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), as
amended by this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 492, the gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. O’HALLERAN)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. This prudent,
commonsense amendment is necessary
to ensure that once this legislation is
passed, it has the positive effects we in-
tended. I strongly support the Raise
the Wage Act, and I believe it will posi-
tively impact communities nationwide
and lift families out of poverty.
The State of Arizona and my con-
stituents in the First District voted
overwhelmingly to raise the minimum
wage in 2016. It is currently $11 an
hour. During this implementation of
this minimum wage increase, Arizona
has seen a 4.3 percent growth in State
GDP—the third fastest growing econ-
omy in the Nation. We have seen in Ar-
izona that increasing the wage pays off
for our economy and our families.
My amendment will only strengthen
the underlying bill. It requires inde-
pendent, objective analysis of the eco-
nomic and employment impacts of this
legislation. It would require the Gov-
ernment Accountability Office to sub-
mit a report to Congress on the effects
of the first two wage increases in the
legislation.
Specifically, the GAO must report on
the effects on small businesses and on
wages and compensation. The report
also includes an analysis of the law’s
effects on urbanized and rural areas.
Importantly, this amendment would
require the GAO to consult various
stakeholders and experts when devel-
oping its report. These would include
small business owners, labor econo-
mists, agricultural workers, the food
service industry, and State and local
governments.
It would allow constituents to pro-
vide their input on how their families,
businesses, and communities have been
affected.
This thoughtful, data-driven ap-
proach will allow us to see the real im-
pacts of this legislation.
I believe as lawmakers we do the best
job of responding to the needs of our
constituents when we are best in-
formed.
I want to thank the cosponsors of the
amendment and the Education and
Labor Committee for working with us
and the Rules Committee for making
this amendment in order.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I claim the time in opposition
to the amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, a hot economy is lead-
ing to higher wages. There are 7.3 mil-
lion unfilled jobs which puts all work-
ers in a good position to receive higher
wages, and we have seen robust wage
growth for nearly a year in all cat-
egories. Unfortunately, this amend-
ment does nothing to prevent the nega-
tive impacts of H.R. 582.
Calling this amendment a fig leaf is
an insult to fig leaves.
First, the amendment requires that
GAO study only—only—the effects of
the first two of the seven wage hikes in
H.R. 582, rather than the actual effect
of the bill which is increasing the min-
imum wage by 107 percent to $15 an
hour and indexing the wage rate for-
ever after that.
As my colleagues well know, the first
two wage hikes in the bill will not be
as damaging as the increase to $15. So
the results of the proposed GAO study
are rigged to avoid use the damaging
107 percent hike as the appropriate
benchmark.
Second, this amendment has no
teeth. It merely says that Congress can
make recommendations after the first
two wage hikes have gone into effect.
Give me a break. But there is no re-
quirement that Congress do anything
in response to these recommendations,
and there is no fast-track authority in
this amendment.
Third, we already have in our posses-
sion a recent detailed and highly cred-
ible study of the effects of a 107 percent
wage hike to the current Federal min-
imum wage. With regard to GAO’s
studies, at the Education and Labor
Committee markup of H.R. 582 in
March, Chairman SCOTT already dis-
missed the effectiveness and conclu-
sions of a potential GAO report that
might show jobs lost.
Explaining his opposition to a pro-
posed GAO study, Mr. SCOTT said, This
amendment suggests that there will be
job loss. All of the studies show other-
wise.
I urge my colleagues to see this
amendment for what it is: an attempt
to provide political cover to Democrat
Members who are justifiably concerned
about the negative impact of a $15 Fed-
eral minimum wage in their districts.
Vote ‘‘no’’ on this amendment and
‘‘no’’ on H.R. 582.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. COX).
Mr. COX of California. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in strong support of our
amendment to the Raise the Wage Act.
I joined this amendment to look out
for the small businesses and the agri-
cultural businesses that are so vital to
the Central Valley of California and to
our Nation.
The minimum wage has not been
raised since 2009. In the decade since,
due to inflation and rising costs, the
paychecks of millions of hardworking
Americans naturally don’t go as far as
they used to.
Every worker deserves a living wage,
and this amendment ensures that we
can give at least 17 million Americans
a raise while also protecting farms and
small businesses. We do this by requir-
ing the Government Accountability Of-
fice to analyze and produce a study of
the impact of the first two scheduled
wage increases on our Nation’s small
businesses, our agriculture industry,
and our workers.
The study will consider the specific
effects of raising the minimum wage in
each Census tract and rural area, so
families, like those I serve in the Cen-
tral Valley of California, aren’t left be-
hind.
If we find the negative impacts are
too great, the relevant committees are
required to make recommendations to
Congress which may include actions
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.031 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7125
July 18, 2019
necessary to delay the next scheduled
increases, if necessary.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this amendment.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, as I said earlier, the chairman
of the Education and Labor Committee
already has a low opinion of these
types of studies, and his mind is made
up about a $15 Federal minimum wage.
This amendment sets up a rigged
process in which House Democrat lead-
ers who already support a 107 percent
hike will decide whether to move for-
ward with it. There is no doubt how
they will decide.
Congressman GRIJALVA agrees with
Chairman SCOTT. He is quoted in a July
15 article in The Hill regarding the
amendment’s proposed study: ‘‘It’s al-
most perfunctory. Look what we did.
So I don’t think it’s consequential. But
I don’t think it’s needed, either.’’
Mr. Speaker, this amendment is not
necessary. Let the Democrats vote for
the $15 wage hike and take the con-
sequences of it. Democrats should stop
trying to provide political cover for
themselves with this amendment which
does absolutely nothing.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, may
I inquire how much time is remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Arizona has 11⁄2 minutes
remaining. The gentlewoman from
North Carolina has 11⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
want to point out that the discussion
in committee and Chairman SCOTT’s
comments were not about this bill.
They were about another bill.
To identify that the Members of this
Congress do not need data on which to
make further decisions, I hope we don’t
get to that point in time in Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, it is my understanding I am
allowed to close, so I will reserve until
the other side does so.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman is correct.
b 1100
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Virginia
(Mr. SCOTT), committee chairman, for
all the hard work he has done. And I
want to look forward to a time in
America that we can see a time when
the working families of America can
partake in the economy as others do
today.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I will say again to our col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle,
there is no group of people more than
the Republicans on this side of the
aisle who care about working families
and who work every day for the phi-
losophies that will support those work-
ing families and, again, all other
groups.
Let me say again, the amendment re-
quires the GAO study only the effects
of the first two of the seven wage hikes
in H.R. 582 rather than the actual ef-
fect of this bill, which is increasing the
minimum wage by 107 percent.
As my colleagues well know, the first
two wage hikes will not be as damaging
as the increase to $15, so the results of
the proposed GAO study are rigged to
avoid using the damaging 107 percent
hike as the appropriate benchmark.
Second, this amendment has no
teeth. It merely says that Congress can
make recommendations after the first
two wage hikes have gone into effect,
but there is no requirement that Con-
gress do anything in response, and
there is no fast-track authority in this
amendment.
Again, I will say that this amend-
ment is not necessary.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
see this amendment for what it is: an
attempt to provide political cover to
Democrat Members who are justifiably
concerned about the negative impacts
of a $15 Federal minimum wage in their
district.
Vote ‘‘no’’ on this amendment and
‘‘no’’ on H.R. 582.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the previous question
is ordered on the bill and on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. O’HALLERAN).
The question is on the amendment
offered by the gentleman from Arizona
(Mr. O’HALLERAN).
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on the amendment offered
by the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
O’HALLERAN) will be followed by 5-
minute votes on:
A motion to recommit, if offered; and
Passage of the bill, if ordered; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 248, noes 181,
not voting 3, as follows:
[Roll No. 494]
AYES—248
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—181
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.033 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7126 July 18, 2019
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—3
Abraham Fortenberry Gabbard
b 1132
Mrs. HARTZLER, Messrs. ROSE of
New York and GROTHMAN changed
their vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
NEGUSE). The question is on the en-
grossment and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, I have a
motion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. MEUSER. I am, in its current
form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Meuser moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 582 to the Committee on Education and
Labor with instructions to report the same
back to the House forthwith, with the fol-
lowing amendment:
Add at the end the following:
SEC. ll. SMALL BUSINESS SURVIVAL.
The amendments made by this Act shall
not apply with respect to an enterprise (as
defined in section 3 of the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 203)) that—
(1) employs fewer than 10 individuals; or
(2) whose annual gross volume of sales
made or business done is less than $1,000,000.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Pennsylvania is recognized for 5 min-
utes in support of his motion.
Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, this mo-
tion will not delay passage of this bill
or return it to committee. It is our last
opportunity as a House to amend this
legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I am here to offer a mo-
tion to recommit that is about small
business survival. It is about pro-
tecting the 8 million minority-owned
small businesses, the 9.9 million
women-owned small businesses, and
the 2.5 million veteran-owned small
businesses around the country from the
devastating repercussions of H.R. 582.
With this motion to recommit, em-
ployers with fewer than 10 employees
or annual sales under $1 million will
not be forced to implement a $15-per-
hour minimum wage.
If this amendment is adopted, mom-
and-pop shops across the country will
be protected from this bill’s extreme
and unnecessary one-size-fits-all Wash-
ington mandate.
Small businesses employ almost half
of all U.S. employees and account for
two-thirds of net new jobs. 99.9 percent
of U.S. businesses are small.
We know small businesses and their
employees are the most vulnerable to
this radical and unprecedented in-
crease in the Federal minimum wage.
The National Federation of Inde-
pendent Business estimates that busi-
nesses with fewer than 500 employees
will account for 57 percent of jobs lost
due to this bill, and businesses with
fewer than 100 employees will account
for 43 percent of jobs lost.
Yet my Democrat colleagues have
done nothing to protect these job cre-
ators from a 107 percent minimum
wage hike. Instead, this legislation
treats big and small businesses exactly
same.
Without the financial resilience
needed to absorb the increase in bot-
tom-line costs that this legislation will
bring about, small businesses and
towns in every congressional district
will be forced to make very tough
choices: Do they lay off workers? Raise
prices on their customers? Replace
workers with robotics? Or shut their
doors completely?
Congress should not force our Na-
tion’s smallest and most vital job cre-
ators to make those kinds of decisions.
Small business workers and their
families will also take a significant
hit. The nonpartisan CBO backs up this
reality, reporting that mandating a $15
minimum wage would ‘‘reduce business
income and raise prices as higher labor
costs would be absorbed by business
owners and then passed on to con-
sumers.’’
From coast to coast, we have already
seen real-world examples of how work-
ers and employers would be punished
by this socialist policy. One study
found that Washington-knows-best
mandates that stretch across our Na-
tion—or better known as socialist poli-
cies—we have real-world examples
showing that they simply do not work.
There was a very thorough study by
Washington State University which
showed, in Seattle, a $15 minimum
wage law reduced total income paid to
the city’s low-wage workers by $120
million per year in that one city alone.
The cost of living in Seattle, Los An-
geles, and New York City, where a $15
minimum wage is already in place, or
soon to be, is much higher than my dis-
trict in Pennsylvania. With such dis-
parities in the cost of living across the
country, imagine what a wage hike will
do to rural areas, rural workers rep-
resented by many of us in Congress.
Mr. Speaker, despite today’s booming
economy and rising wages, supporters
of H.R. 582 think it is best to force a
punishing, Washington one-size-fits-all
wage hike on small businesses across
America.
A small business owner in the State
of Washington actually said it best:
Congress should not and cannot mandate
its way to wage growth and prosperity, be-
cause those mandates hit small business
hardest.
Mr. Speaker, even the liberal Wash-
ington Post said yesterday: ‘‘There is a
trade-off in raising the minimum wage
so substantially.’’
The Washington Post went on to say:
‘‘Those who would lose out, in the form
of no job at all, would wind up not with
less pay but with no pay.’’
I urge all my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle to support this modest but
important amendment to H.R. 582. The
small businesses and their workers
back home in each and every one of our
districts will thank us for protecting
their livelihood.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mrs. MURPHY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
opposition to the motion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Florida is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Mrs. MURPHY. Mr. Speaker, there
has been an awful lot of talk recently
about what it means to be a patriotic
American, and the fact is the answer
for each of us is deeply personal.
I wasn’t blessed to be born an Amer-
ican citizen. I was born in Vietnam,
where my parents faced persecution by
a communist government, in part, for
their wartime affiliation with the U.S.
military.
When I was a baby, we fled Vietnam
by boat, running out of fuel in the
South China Sea when a U.S. Navy ship
came to our rescue, helping us reach a
Malaysian refugee camp. A Lutheran
church then sponsored our passage to
America, where we became proud citi-
zens.
Although we were eternally grateful
to be here, life wasn’t always easy. My
mom worked as a seamstress and my
dad at a power plant, and together,
they cleaned office buildings at night,
often bringing my brother and me
along.
My parents didn’t speak English well
or have a community of close friends,
but what they did have, like so many
immigrants, was a strong work ethic.
My dad also had a labor union in his
corner, and the union spoke for him
and they fought for him.
My parents worked hard to make
ends meet so that their children would
have opportunities they themselves
never had. And that is the American
Dream, which brings me back to the
question of what it means to be a pa-
triot.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.032 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7127
July 18, 2019
For me, it starts with gratitude for
this country and an appreciation for its
exceptional qualities.
This country saved my family’s life.
It gave us refuge and opportunity, as it
has done for so many across genera-
tions.
But I think patriotism goes beyond
love of country. It is also about striv-
ing to make this country even strong-
er. It is about trying to make life a lit-
tle bit easier for Americans who work
hard and play by the rules, folks like
my parents and like so many of my
constituents.
I support this bill for a simple rea-
son: In the greatest country on Earth,
nobody with the dignity of a full-time
job should suffer the indignity of not
being able to provide for themselves or
their loved ones.
For a decade, the minimum wage has
been stuck at $7.25 an hour, while the
cost of living has skyrocketed, and
there is no part in this great country
where $7.25 is a living wage anymore.
It is past time we gave hardworking
American families a raise. They have
earned it.
This bill gradually increases the min-
imum wage in seven steps, reaching $15
by 2025 at the earliest. This is a reason-
able bill, not a radical one.
CBO estimates this bill will raise
wages for nearly 30 million workers
and lift millions out of poverty. They
will have more money to spend in the
local economy because workers are
consumers, too, and they will be less
reliant on government programs. And
given that our deficit will exceed a tril-
lion dollars this year, that should be
music to my Republican colleagues’
ears.
I oppose this MTR because every
American who works hard deserves a
fair shot at the American Dream.
Whether you live in Pennsylvania or
Arizona or Minnesota or Florida, you
deserve a raise. And whether you work
for a large corporation or a small busi-
ness, you deserve a raise; you deserve a
living wage; and you certainly deserve
$15 an hour.
Public polling shows strong bipar-
tisan support for increasing the min-
imum wage.
Make no mistake: This MTR is sim-
ply a Republican attempt to defeat this
bill because they oppose any increase
to the Federal minimum wage. Some
oppose the concept of a minimum wage
at all. Well, the American people dis-
agree, and as Democrats, we stand with
the American people.
The contrast is clear: Our Republican
colleagues made working families pay
for tax cuts for the wealthiest individ-
uals and corporations. Yes, they did.
And now they are opposing our efforts
to give those working families a raise.
That is not just bad policy; that is
shameful.
When I vote ‘‘yes’’ on final passage, I
will be thinking about my parents and
my hardworking constituents; and
thank God families like these have
labor unions fighting for them in the
workplace and in the Halls of Congress.
This will be one of the proudest votes I
cast.
I urge my colleagues to oppose the
MTR. Let’s pass this bill. Let’s con-
tinue this fight in the Senate and in
State capitals across this country.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, I demand
a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 210, noes 218,
not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 495]
AYES—210
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schrader
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—218
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cummings
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—4
Abraham
Fortenberry
Gabbard
Green, Al (TX)
b 1154
Mr. BILIRAKIS changed his vote
from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.040 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7128 July 18, 2019
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, had I
been present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on
rollcall No. 495.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 231, noes 199,
not voting 3, as follows:
[Roll No. 496]
AYES—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—199
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schrader
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—3
Abraham Fortenberry Gabbard
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). The Chair will remind all
persons in the gallery that they are
here as guests of the House and that
any manifestation of approval or dis-
approval of proceedings is in violation
of the rules of the House.
b 1201
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will remind all persons in the
gallery that they are here as guests of
the House and that any manifestation
of approval or disapproval of pro-
ceedings is in violation of the rules of
the House.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on H.R. 582.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
JUDY CHU of California). Is there objec-
tion to the request of the gentleman
from Virginia?
There was no objection.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Survivors Protection
Act, and ask for its immediate consid-
eration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, if
this unanimous consent request cannot
be entertained, I urge the Speaker and
majority leader to immediately sched-
ule the born-alive bill so that we can
stand up and protect the sanctity of
human life.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM CHIEF OF
STAFF, THE HONORABLE STEVE
SCALISE, MEMBER OF CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from Jennifer Megan Bel Mil-
ler, Chief of Staff, the Honorable STEVE
SCALISE, Member of Congress:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.056 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7129
July 18, 2019
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, July 17, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: This is to notify
you formally, pursuant to Rule VIII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, that
I, Jenifer Megan Bel Miller, have been served
with a subpoena for testimony in a criminal
trial issued by the United States District
Court for the Western District of New York.
This criminal trial is in relation to alleged
threats made against Congressman Steve
Scalise and his family, received through
Congressman Scalise’s official government
office.
After consultation with the Office of Gen-
eral Counsel, I have determined that compli-
ance with the subpoena is consistent with
the privileges and rights of the House.
Sincerely,
JENIFER MEGAN BEL MILLER,
Chief of Staff.
f
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
yield to the gentleman from Maryland
(Mr. HOYER), the majority leader, for
the purpose of inquiring about next
week’s schedule.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, on Tuesday, the
House will meet at noon for morning-
hour debate and 2 p.m. for legislative
business, with votes postponed until
6:30 p.m.
On Wednesday and Thursday, the
House will meet at 10 a.m. for morning-
hour debate and noon for legislative
business.
On Friday, the House will meet at 9
a.m. for legislative business, and last
votes of the week would be expected no
later than 3 p.m.
We will consider several bills, Madam
Speaker, under suspension of the rules.
The complete list of suspension bills
will be announced by close of business
tomorrow.
The House will also consider H.R. 397,
the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer
Pensions Act, commonly referred to as
the Butch Lewis Act.
The 10 million Americans who have
paid into multiemployer pensions de-
serve to know they will receive the
benefits they have earned when they
retire. The bill will help ensure a se-
cure retirement for these workers and
retirees.
In addition, Madam Speaker, the
House will consider H.R. 2203, the
Homeland Security Improvement Act.
This legislation introduced by Con-
gresswoman ESCOBAR will ensure that
the Department of Homeland Security
addresses border issues in a responsible
and humane manner. The bill fosters
greater accountability when it comes
to the handling of children and mi-
grant families at all levels within the
Department of Homeland Security.
The House is also expected to con-
sider additional legislation, Madam
Speaker, related to the current human-
itarian crisis on the southern border.
Members are advised that additional
legislative items are expected. As we
know, it is the last week before we ad-
journ, and there is an effort to try to
get things done that can, in fact, be
done within the timeframe we have
available to us.
It is my sincere hope that an agree-
ment is reached to raise budget caps
and the debt limit. The Speaker and
Secretary Mnuchin and others have
been working very hard on this objec-
tive, and I am hopeful that they will
reach an agreement that we can agree
on as a House and as a Senate. Assum-
ing an agreement is reached, we will
consider that as soon as they reach it,
and hopefully, that will be next week.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for giving that
update on the schedule.
I know that we have been in talks on
a budget caps agreement. I met with
the Vice President earlier this morn-
ing, talking through some of the things
that may be included.
Obviously, there is no final agree-
ment. We would hope that those talks
go on, and we, hopefully, reach an
agreement where we can give real cer-
tainty, especially to our Department of
Defense, that we will look at what se-
questration would do to defense. We
have been able to rebuild our defense
over the last 2 years. We would like to
see that progress continue.
A lot of other issues are at stake
there, and we encourage those talks to
move forward. We will be ready to
move if there is an agreement reached
between all the parties, including the
White House.
I did not hear mention of anything
regarding the BDS legislation. We have
heard that there might be some move-
ment on standing up against the BDS
movement.
I know that when we looked at a
number of bills, there are some resolu-
tions that are out there, some good,
some bad. As we know, there is time
for talk, and then, there is time for ac-
tion. The resolutions are only talk.
The legislation, H.R. 336 by Mr.
MCCAUL, is the only bill out there. S. 1
moved through the Senate with a
large, overwhelming bipartisan vote. It
is similar legislation that would actu-
ally have teeth, not just words, which
are important, but words followed up
with action, real teeth to help not only
this country but our States that are
also standing up against the BDS
movement, to give them some muscle,
some ability to stand up to the BDS
movement.
Madam Speaker, I would ask the gen-
tleman, is there any indication that
there might be movement on H.R. 336,
to follow up the words with real action
against the BDS movement?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. In response to my
friend, Madam Speaker, I will tell him
that the committee did, in fact, mark
up bills this past Wednesday, yester-
day, and those bills are being looked at
to possibly move to the floor.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, spe-
cifically, if I could ask my friend, H.R.
336 was not one of those bills that was
marked up. The only bills that were
marked up were resolutions.
Again, while some of those resolu-
tions might have some good language
in them, there are no actual teeth.
There is no policy. There is no change
in law to give us more tools as a coun-
try to stand up to the BDS movement,
to defend our friend Israel.
As we know, the BDS movement real-
ly is rooted in anti-Semitism to under-
mine Israel’s economy, which none of
us should want to see. I know my
friend doesn’t want to see Israel’s econ-
omy undermined, but there is a move-
ment to do that. If we are going to
truly stand up against it, words are not
enough. We need action.
H.R. 336, again, reflects similar legis-
lation that passed the Senate with an
overwhelming vote, Republicans and
Democrats coming together to give
real tools to stand up to this move-
ment and support our friend Israel.
Madam Speaker, I would inquire of
the gentleman, would that bill be con-
sidered? It was not part of the package
of bills that were brought up in com-
mittee this week. I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, again,
I will tell my friend, as he has articu-
lated, that bill has not been marked up
in committee. There are two bills that
were marked up in committee, and
there is a possibility that we will con-
sider those, but the other bill was not
marked up.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
would encourage that we go back and
look. This committee can do better. If
we are going to stand up against this
movement and support our friend
Israel against this attempt to under-
mine their economy, we need real
tools.
H.R. 336 is the only instrument out
there. It is similar to S. 1. We would
love to see S. 1 passed. There have been
questions about whether or not it has
an origination problem, so that is why
H.R. 336 was filed.
But, again, H.R. 336 has the same lan-
guage that passed with 77 votes in the
Senate, overwhelmingly, Republicans
and Democrats coming together. I
would encourage us to follow that lead
of bipartisanship, standing with Israel.
I am disappointed that it is not in-
cluded in the package. It moved out of
committee. I would hope we would go
back and consider bringing that bill to
the floor.
Again, words are nice, but words
without action don’t give us the tools
we need to stand with our friend Israel
against this undermining attempt
known as BDS.
I yield to the gentleman from Mary-
land.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.058 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7130 July 18, 2019
b 1215
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate the gentleman’s comments. Un-
fortunately, of course, three of the
component parts of the bill, to which
the gentleman refers, we are strongly
for. Unfortunately, they were held up
in the Senate, as the gentleman may
know.
We want to see the MOU for Israel as-
sistance package, which we strongly
support, which was negotiated by the
Obama administration and which we
strongly support in terms of the
amount of money, available not only
on a general basis, but also a specific
basis, for support of Israel’s defense
against rockets and other munitions
that would be sent into Israel.
We also support the Syria sanctions
and the Jordan MOU, so we hope, at
some point, they will move. I will reit-
erate, however, there have been two
bills marked up, and the possibility of
considering those for next week is
there.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, clearly,
if there are issues that need to be
worked out, differences that might
exist between the chairman and the
lead Republican on the committee,
that work needs to be done. There have
been no indications given to us of some
counteroffer, some different way to do
it, some better way to do it, than what
is in H.R. 336.
But again, the language in H.R. 336 is
the same language that was in S. 1,
which passed the Senate with a 77–23
vote. It doesn’t mean that the Senate
has the best idea, but it shows there
was a way that Republicans and Demo-
crats could come together to stand
with Israel against this movement.
If there is a better way to do it, we
would be more than happy to work
through those better ideas. None of
those better ideas have been presented
to us. They just shut down that bill.
They shut down the ability to have a
bill come to the floor to actually put
teeth in law to give us more tools.
I would urge that if there is a better
alternative, that the chairman of the
committee or the leadership on your
side has, please present that and let’s
negotiate it, but none of that has been
presented up until now.
So, I would just encourage us to do
better as we try to give more support
to our friend Israel against this grow-
ing movement.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask
about the agenda as we have seen it so
far in the decorum. The agenda we
have seen this week alone, multiple
pieces of legislation—whether it is tar-
geted at the President, we had a resolu-
tion on the President’s tweet. There
was a resolution filed to impeach the
President of the United States. There
was a resolution to hold Trump offi-
cials in contempt of Congress with no
basis for that contempt. There were
multiple resolutions just this week to
target and harass different policies of
the administration—there is so much
legislation we ought to be on this floor
debating to do things that would actu-
ally help real families.
There is a crisis at our border, and
there has been no bipartisan legisla-
tion. The bills that are going to be
coming to the floor next week, that the
gentleman mentioned, dealing with
homeland security are known by many
in the homeland security field as the
open borders bill, not a bipartisan ap-
proach to solving our problem at the
border. We need a secure border. We
need to solve the crisis at the border.
Fix our broken asylum laws. We want
to encourage asylum to work. There
ought to be a way to apply for asylum.
But, in all honesty, if somebody goes
through other countries and turns
down asylum in those countries and
comes here and just reads a script, be-
cause they know there is a loophole in
our law, we ought to work together to
fix those broken loopholes and the
things that are causing an over-
whelming crisis at our border. That has
not been done.
Bills to lower drug prices. We had a
bipartisan agreement in the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, to
lower drug prices, and yet that was
abandoned when that bill came to the
floor and sent in a way that became a
partisan bill. These shouldn’t be par-
tisan issues.
I would hope that we would move
away from the harassment agenda and
get back to an agenda that is focused
on Republicans and Democrats working
together, not in a partisan way to say,
hey, we passed some bill out of the
House, that everybody knows is going
nowhere because it was a partisan ap-
proach.
Look at what the Senate has done to
move bipartisan bills through their
Chamber. We can do the same. We can
do better than the Senate, but we are
not.
When the Speaker breaks the House
rules, when you see this break down, it
just raises the ire because there is not
that attempt to work in a bipartisan
way to solve these problems. And there
are a lot of good ideas that are bipar-
tisan to solve these problems. The dis-
appointment is that we don’t see those
coming to the House floor.
The bills that deal with real policy
coming to the House floor are only
brought, by and large, from a partisan
perspective, and the bipartisan ap-
proaches are being discarded.
BDS is one clear example where there
is a way to solve the problem, where
Republicans and Democrats came to-
gether. Even from the gentleman’s ac-
knowledgement, there is no indication
that it is going to move out of com-
mittee any time soon. It ought to be
out of committee and it ought to be on
the House floor, so that we can not
only debate it, but pass it, and get a
bill to the President’s desk to allow us
to stand up more against the BDS
movement in support of Israel.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
First of all, let me say two things:
We are confronting, in my view, an
unprecedented refusal of an adminis-
tration to cooperate with the Congress
in the exercise of its constitutional du-
ties. I refer specifically to the issuance
of subpoenas, either for testimony or
for documentary evidence, so the Con-
gress can properly exercise its over-
sight responsibilities under the Con-
stitution.
I have been here for some almost four
decades, and I have never seen any ad-
ministration, essentially, direct across
the board no response to the Congress
of the United States or to its commit-
tees. So, yes, we are pursuing.
The gentleman referred to the con-
tempt citation dealing with Mr. BARR
and Mr. Ross. Now, the issue at the
center of that, as the gentleman
knows, is the administration ulti-
mately decided it would not pursue the
policies that were the subject of that
investigation. However, it is not about
the specific, but it is about the general
constitutional responsibility that this
Congress has to the American people.
We ask for information not on behalf
of ourselves individually, but on behalf
of the American people, so they will
know what their government is doing,
there will be a transparency to the op-
erations of government, and they will
be able to determine whether or not
any administrative official, or the ad-
ministration generally, is acting on its
behalf personally or whether it is act-
ing on behalf of the American people.
So, from that perspective, I think the
resolutions that we have offered, of
which there, essentially, have been two
dealing with this issue, and maybe
more, the refusal to cooperate with
subpoenas has continued.
I hope the gentleman will understand
that we are trying to protect the re-
sponsibilities and authority of the Con-
gress of the United States, the people’s
body, the article I body, to do its duty
properly.
Secondly, yes, we did have a very dif-
ficult day yesterday. But I will tell my
friend from Louisiana that I think it is
the absolute responsibility of this body
to respond if it sees things that are
being done by the administration or by
others that it perceives to be contrary
to the ideas of this country, contrary
to the declaration that we believe that
all men and, yes, all women are created
equal; contrary to the extraordinary
wrenching war that we had among the
States to determine that all were
equal. And a construction period.
And then, as I grew up in the 1950s
and the 1960s, looking racism in the
face and saying, we reject it, that we
reject racism, we reject prejudices, we
reject simplifying if people are a cer-
tain color, a certain race, a certain na-
tionality, or a certain gender, that
somehow, they are less than other
Americans. I think it is our responsi-
bility to confront that.
That is what we did yesterday. It was
difficult, I understand. I was sorry that
it was not a bipartisan vote, because I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.049 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7131
July 18, 2019
don’t believe that Members on your
side of the aisle want to tolerate rac-
ism any more than we want to tolerate
racism. And if we see it, I think we
have a responsibility to speak out, to
stand up, and to say this is not right in
America, this is not America.
So, yes, we had a resolution yester-
day that the gentlemen refers to in re-
sponse to a tweet. It was not the tweet,
it was what the tweet said, what it im-
plied, what it diminished in terms of
America’s sense of decency and equal-
ity and tolerance and inclusion for our
people.
Now, let me go to legislation. As the
gentleman knows, we have passed sub-
stantial pieces of legislation.
We passed H.R. 1. No Republicans
voted for that, but it seeks to make it
easier for people to vote in America,
make sure their vote is protected and
counted.
It made sure that we have trans-
parency in the financing of campaigns.
It made sure that our redistricting
was fair to our citizens and that we
politicians were not drawing the dis-
tricts, but that the districts are drawn
in fairness to the American people.
It also demanded ethics performance.
But then we passed an anti-hate reso-
lution. It was just words, but it said no
to hate: 173 Republicans voted for that.
It overwhelming passed bipartisan.
We passed a Land and Water Con-
servation Fund that made that fund
permanent, a very important bill for a
State like Louisiana and, quite frank-
ly, my own State of Maryland, who are
all surrounded by water, have a lot of
water. That bill got 133 Republicans. It
languishes still in the Senate.
We passed the SECURE Act, which
makes it easier for people to get retire-
ment security. That was supported by
187 Republicans.
We passed the violence against
women reauthorization. Unfortunately,
it didn’t get overwhelming votes, but it
got 33 Republicans voting for it. It lan-
guishes in the Senate.
We passed a provision that said we
want to protect preexisting conditions
in the Affordable Care Act. We got 8
Republicans. I would have wished we
had gotten more.
We passed disaster relief. The gen-
tleman knows a lot about disaster re-
lief, important to his State. Unfortu-
nately, we only got 34 Republicans, but
it was a bipartisan bill.
We have also passed background
checks, which are supported by 90 per-
cent of the American people, to try to
make gun violence lessened in the
United States of America. For that
bill, we only got 8 Republicans.
But those two bills, supported by 90
percent of the American people, lan-
guishes in the United States Senate,
the majority leader not bringing up
that legislation.
We passed a national emergency reso-
lution, which said, Mr. President, you
can’t take money that we appropriated
for X and just send it over to Y. That
was, I thought, a protection of our con-
stitutional authority. The Constitution
says we raise, and we spend money and
we direct the executive—we direct the
executive—how to do that. That got 13
Republicans supporting it, a major
piece of legislation.
We passed a Dreamer legislation. We
have been asking for that legislation
for almost a decade, or at least 6 years,
I should say. And that legislation got
no vote over the last 5 years. It got a
vote this year. We got a number of Re-
publicans—7 to be exact—to vote for
that.
Now, I could go through a number of
other pieces of legislation, including,
lastly, the minimum wage bill. This
was about capitalism, not socialism.
We are capitalists over here. We be-
lieve in the free market system over
here. And any assertion to the con-
trary, Madam Speaker, is absolutely
false.
It is a good political tactic, it is a
scare tactic, Madam Speaker, but I re-
ject it out of hand. We believe in the
free market system. We believe the
free market system has been the sys-
tem that has provided the most bene-
fits for the broadest number of people.
b 1230
We believe that is one of the great
facets of our democracy, our free mar-
ket system. And I will tell my friend,
Madam Speaker, that it was Democrats
in the 1930s that saved the free market
system. It was Democrats in December
of 2007 that came in and made sure that
the free market system did not crash
after 8 years of Republican leadership.
I would hope that the gentleman
would not make the assertion that
surely he knows is not true, Madam
Speaker, that we on this side are look-
ing to support a socialist agenda. We
are promoting and continue to promote
a socially sensitive agenda for the
American people to make sure that
they have healthcare.
Medicare was called a socialist pro-
gram, Madam Speaker, when it was
adopted. That is a program that mil-
lions and millions of Americans rely on
and have been brought out of poverty.
Medicare was a called a socialist pro-
gram when it was adopted. That pro-
gram, combined with Social Security,
has millions of Americans having a
sense of security, a sense of independ-
ence, a sense that they are not going to
fall through the cracks.
So we ought not to be debating, I say,
Madam Speaker, this phony shibboleth
of socialism.
The minimum wage is simply saying,
in America, we value people who work,
and we want to ensure that people who
work are not living in poverty and
have some ability to support them-
selves and their families in a decent
way. We passed that bill today. We are
proud of passing that bill.
Very frankly, for 10 years of Repub-
lican control of the House of Rep-
resentatives, we pleaded with them to
bring a minimum wage bill of whatever
number to the floor, and they didn’t
bring a single cent raise in a decade,
the longest time since the minimum
wage was adopted in the 1930s, to make
sure that Americans were lifted out of
the deepest recession that this country
has ever had.
So I say to my friend, we have done
a lot. I wish the Senate would move it.
Let me close in terms of this re-
sponse. I am very proud of this. We
have passed 10 appropriations bills out
of 12, the most since 2006.
Now, in 2006, the Republicans were in
charge. I don’t refer to the gentleman
personally, but the Republicans were in
charge, and they didn’t bring the
Labor-Health bill to the floor. I am not
sure why, but I had offered a minimum
wage increase in that bill, in the
Labor-Health Subcommittee, and they
never brought it to the floor.
It passed in committee, even though
the Republicans were in charge and the
majority of Members in the committee
were Republicans. That minimum wage
increase passed, but they refused to
bring it to the floor. I can only con-
clude that they are not for increasing
the minimum wage.
We disagree with that position. We
believe that in America, if you are
working, playing by the rules, and
making our economy grow, then you
ought to be paid a wage that you can
survive on and, better than that, live
on.
And so I am proud of the legislation
that we passed, and I am proud of the
10 appropriations bills, which, by the
way, fund 96 percent of the govern-
ment.
Our colleagues in the Senate, Madam
Speaker, have not passed a single ap-
propriations bill through committee,
not one.
So we are doing our job, Madam
Speaker, and we are addressing the
issues of the American people.
I agree 100 percent with the minority,
with the Republican whip that we need
to deal with drug pricing. We have
pledged to do that. We are working to-
gether. The President says he wants to
do that. Hopefully, we can get to a con-
sensus.
I agree with the gentleman from Lou-
isiana, Madam Speaker, we haven’t
gotten there yet. Hopefully, we can get
there. Hopefully, we can strengthen the
Affordable Care Act so that people will
have the confidence that it will be
available to them.
I know that was a relatively—maybe
not relatively—a long answer, but I
think we have done a lot of work. I am
very proud of the 6 months that we
have had.
We spent the first 35 days trying to
open up the government. This is the
first Congress in the history of the
United States in which the government
was shut down when the new Congress
started. It has been shut down before,
but this was the first time when we
started. It took us 35 days to get it
open. And when we did get it open, we
started on an agenda of which I am
proud.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.050 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7132 July 18, 2019
Do we have more work to do? We do.
Madam Speaker, we intend to continue
on an agenda that does that work.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, there
is clearly a lot to cover there. Let’s
start with the big debate, and that is
what the gentleman alluded to, and
that is government control versus free-
dom, because that is going to be the de-
bate over the next year where there is
already a Presidential primary debate
process going on.
When you see every candidate for
President on one side saying that they
want to give free healthcare benefits to
people who are here illegally, yet many
of them embrace a plan that would lit-
erally end private insurance for fami-
lies that enjoy the healthcare plans
they have in the private marketplace,
the Medicare for All proposal, there are
so many different areas where we see
this debate about government control
versus freedom.
And, yes, to the gentleman, there are
some on his side who refer to them-
selves as socialist Democrats. And so if
they want to call themselves that, then
at least own the things that go with so-
cialism and recognize the damage that
is done by socialism.
To think that any one party has
some kind of ownership of capitalism
in the free market system, I would be
more than happy to see us engage in a
debate about capitalism, because there
are some on the other side that attack
it on a regular basis.
But if you look at how Republican
policies have gotten us to where we are
with the most booming economy in the
world, our economy is the envy of the
world. People’s wages are rising. Low-
income people, in fact, are benefiting
the most. And we are seeing the in-
crease in the rebuilding of our middle
class that was evaporating.
For 8 years in a row under the pre-
vious administration, every single
quarter, our economy had less than 2
percent growth. The economy wasn’t
even that bad during the Great Depres-
sion that the gentleman cited.
So when we came in with the Repub-
lican majority and the Republican
President, we were able to pass actual
policies like the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act, like reversing so many of the rad-
ical regulations that we saw that had
nothing to do with health and safety
but had to do with carrying out an
agenda to shut down industries in this
country like the fossil fuel industry
and so many others that are providing
not only jobs, lower carbon emission,
dominance in the world, helping our
friends around the world, and lowering
energy prices for families in America.
Those policies have actually been in-
creasing wages for lower income peo-
ple, not government-controlled prices
as passed today where the government
is going to try to come in and set arti-
ficial rates for what people ought to
make as opposed to letting this great
market that is working incredibly well
raise wages for families.
We have seen the studies. We have
seen the University of Washington
study, which was cited today, where we
can look at real examples of commu-
nities that have had artificially high
minimum wages, like Seattle, where
they put in place a $15 minimum wage.
It sounds great. The government is
going to set everybody’s rates and tell
everybody how much they are going to
make, and what it resulted in is over 5
million hours lost for workers.
In fact, the lower income families in
Seattle were hurt the most by that pol-
icy by a margin of 3 to 1. It damages
low-income families.
Again, it might sound good that the
government is going to tell everyone
what they can make, but most of us
who believe in the free market system
reject that idea that we should set poli-
cies that are crushing jobs in America.
There is a bar in New York that was
closed because of the increase in the
minimum wage that one of our col-
leagues used to work at. It was closed
because of an artificially set price,
minimum wage, in the city of New
York.
So when you look at jobs that are
fleeing some communities and going to
other communities, that ought to tell
you how those policies are working.
But we have a growing economy, not
because we had a lot of government
control out of Washington, but, in fact,
because we allowed freedom. We al-
lowed people to keep more of what they
earned. We allowed people to make
their own choices. And it is a success-
ful formula. We want to see more of it.
Now, if we can get into the issue of
the harassment agenda, the subpoenas,
the finding people in contempt, let’s
talk about Secretary Ross and the
work that was done to comply with the
committee’s request.
If you look, and this is reading from
a document sent by Secretary Ross and
Attorney General Barr to the com-
mittee, it says:
The Department’s engagement with the
committee is a good faith accommodation
process, rooted in the separation of powers.
As part of that process, both Departments
have made multiple witnesses available for
voluntary, transcribed interviews and have
produced more than 30,000 pages of docu-
ments to the committee.
Before the committee abruptly and pre-
maturely terminated the accommodation
process last month, the Department of Jus-
tice intended to provide a significant number
of additional documents identified as respon-
sive to the committee’s subpoena.
They go on to talk about how they
were complying with the committee,
producing over 30,000 pages of docu-
ments just related to the Census. And
then the committee abruptly decides
they just want to hold him in contempt
because there were some documents
they wanted that the Attorney General
would have actually broken the law if
he turned them over.
So you saw a Department complying
and going overboard to ensure that the
separation of powers and the oversight
that existed would continue.
Of course, when we were in the ma-
jority and the previous administration
of the other party was there, we had a
lot of oversight hearings, exercising
our Article I powers as we all should,
but we didn’t go week after week.
Just this week alone, there was a res-
olution condemning the President’s
tweets, an impeachment resolution, a
resolution to hold two Cabinet Secre-
taries in contempt, and three resolu-
tions of disapproval on policy. That
was just this week.
The American people don’t want to
see us fighting over power. They want
to see us fighting for their needs, the
needs of hardworking families.
Again, I identified so many things.
Just to finish up on the resolution
that was discussed earlier, the gen-
tleman said we need to respond to
things that violate this country’s prin-
ciples.
First of all, we reject racism whole-
heartedly. We reject hate. We reject
anti-Semitism.
There have been comments made by
Members of the gentleman’s party that
have not been addressed on this floor
that violate those principles.
We can all bring resolutions broadly
stating things, but if the intention is
to identify people by name, it is, to us,
rather conspicuous that, when people
of the other party say those things,
they are not addressed on this floor by
name. And so we know that happened.
Again, the way that the Speaker vio-
lated the rules of the House, and then
a vote was brought to this floor to ba-
sically say that those rules don’t apply
to the Speaker.
If the rules don’t apply to the Speak-
er, then who do they apply to? They
ought to apply to all of us equally.
If any of us break the rules of the
House and are called out on it and are
found by the Chair to be in violation of
the rules, then we ought to accept that.
We ought not have the vote on the
House floor to say, well, the rules
apply to some people, but not every-
body.
If the rules are in place, they ought
to be in place to be enforced equally,
not that some in power have an exemp-
tion and have a free pass to break
those rules.
So if we are going to talk about what
we reject, let’s be fair and equal about
it.
I yield to the gentleman from Mary-
land.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I want to go back to
this free market and the minimum
wage.
The gentleman, Madam Speaker,
projects that: Let the free market op-
erate.
We do not allow employers to hire
people under a certain age because we
want to protect children. I suppose
that is interfering with the free market
because we know that, throughout the
world, we have 8-, 9-, and 10-year-old
children being asked to work 10-, 12-,
14-hour days at rudimentary tasks.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.051 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7133
July 18, 2019
b 1245
Perhaps he believes that we ought to
have people work 80, 90 hours a week
trying to manage their families and
their lives and not have a 40-hour week
because of the free market. After all,
individuals can decide whether they
are going to work 80 or 90 hours a
week. We have known that in our his-
tory.
Perhaps we ought to have a free mar-
ket that doesn’t worry about whether
workers are safe on the job. Whether it
is in a mine or a factory, we require
places to be safe so that we can protect
workers.
We don’t believe that undermines the
free market system. We think that im-
proves the free market system. So
there are rules.
Mr. SCALISE. If I could interject, we
share that. That is not an us versus
them issue. We agree with those. Obvi-
ously, there are some that we disagree
with. The ones that the gentleman
mentioned are things that we agree
with.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, my
point to the gentleman is, yes, we
think people ought to be paid a decent
wage, and we know there are people in
our workplace and in our community
who have no bargaining power whatso-
ever. They don’t have fancy college
educations, and they don’t have fancy
skills, but they are needed in our econ-
omy. They are needed to do things that
the community needs done. When you
go to a hotel, you hope that bed is
made up. You hope the bathrooms are
clean. When you go to the grocery
store, you hope that the peas and corn
have been picked.
We believe that those folks are nec-
essary for our community and need to
be paid a decent wage, just as we think
they need to be safe. I am glad the gen-
tleman agrees on that. I thought he
did.
But my point, Madam Speaker, is
that there is an analogy here to safety,
to hours, to working conditions, and
yes, to wages.
I don’t know that the party that the
gentleman represents has ever offered
an increase in the minimum wage. I am
going to check on that. I don’t know.
Since I have been here, they have not.
It has always been us offering the in-
crease.
President George Bush, to his credit,
signed the Fair Minimum Wage Act in
2007, which was still less than it was in
1968. As a matter of fact, it is 40 per-
cent less today than it was in 1968.
Workers are being paid 40 percent less.
Lastly, I will say, Madam Speaker,
one thing our party agrees with is that
men and women have a right to come
together and bargain collectively for
their wages, their working conditions,
and their benefits. They need to be on
some degree of parity because we know
that with big employers, and even
small employers, individuals are not on
parity. They either do this or don’t,
and if there are no rules, then people
are subjected, in my view and in my
observation, to unfair tactics that they
have no defense against other than us.
I say to my friend, I think he and I
agree on hours, hopefully, the age at
which people can work certain hours,
and on safety conditions in workplaces.
I am not sure about bargaining collec-
tively in unions. I think they are crit-
ical to the creation of a middle class
and the maintenance of a strong mid-
dle class. We also very strongly believe
in the free market system.
I could pick out one or two of your
Members who may have some dif-
ferences of agreement. I won’t mention
any names, but I can think of some
names on the gentleman’s side of the
aisle. I am sure the gentleman can as
well and, in fact, does disagree, from
his perspective, with some people on
my side of the aisle. But we intend to
continue to be very supportive of build-
ing jobs.
My friend knows that I have an agen-
da. I call it Make It In America. It is
about growing jobs, growing enter-
prises, helping entrepreneurs, and mak-
ing sure that people have good wages
and a good future through the free en-
terprise system.
Mr. SCALISE. Clearly, Madam
Speaker, if we talk about what makes
this country great, it is the freedoms
and the economic success that we have
seen for families, businesses, and ev-
erybody. It is the reason people come
here from all around the world. What
we have done to create this great free
market system has unleashed potential
for anybody to come here and be any-
thing they want to be.
I have been proud to help pass poli-
cies that have actually increased wages
for families not through government
price controls but through economic
growth and through giving people more
of their money back instead of their
having to come to Washington to get
an amount or come to a union boss to
get the amount that they can earn.
They can actually go do it on their
own.
It is playing out in reality, not in
theory, but in reality, where we are
seeing the lowest-income workers ben-
efiting the most from our policies of
cutting taxes, not by telling people
how much they can make but by let-
ting them go out and make even more
on their own.
They are doing it. It is the lower-in-
come people who are benefiting the
most from those policies. We ought to
encourage more of that.
The unemployment rate amongst Af-
rican Americans and Hispanics is at
the lowest rate in our country’s history
not through government controls but
by cutting taxes and letting them have
more of their money, by seeing busi-
nesses grow, and by hiring more people.
We are seeing more job openings
today than there are people looking for
work. That is what is so exciting.
We see that women-owned businesses
are up 20 percent over the last few
years because of these conservative
policies that I have helped pass.
Yes, when I support right-to-work
laws, if a person wants to go work for
a company that happens to be in a
union-based industry or a union-based
State, and they say they don’t want
dues forced out of their paychecks, to
give dues to somebody who believes in
things that they don’t agree with, they
shouldn’t be forced to do that. In many
places, they are.
I want more individual freedom. I
want more ability for people to go out
and live that American Dream, to start
up their own business in their garage
and then one day maybe become a bil-
lionaire because there was that oppor-
tunity provided to them, not our tell-
ing them how much they can make,
but our allowing them, in a safe way,
the ability to go be the best they can
be.
I will use an example because I know
the gentleman and I share the belief
that people need to be safe in the work-
place, and we need to do all we can to
ensure that. Look at deepwater drilling
in the Gulf of Mexico, which is based
out of parts of my district. Port
Fourchon in Louisiana is the hub of all
that deepwater drilling that we saw.
There was the horrible tragedy, the
Deepwater Horizon. People died, and
the environment was polluted. That
was done not because there weren’t
enough laws in place but because a
company broke the laws. A company
went around those safety standards
that we put in place.
We went and hammered them. We
fined them. I passed a bill out of this
House in a very bipartisan way called
the RESTORE Act that ensured that
they pay billions of dollars back to fix
the damage that they had done and to
hold that company accountable for
what they had done. Its purpose was
not to shut the whole industry down,
because every other company that was
out there had done things the right
way.
What we saw from the previous ad-
ministration was a rule that came out
called the Well Control Rule that
wasn’t rooted in safety. After industry
did an even better job to put well con-
tainment in place so that, if something
like that ever happened again, they
could quickly move to stop it, instead
of government working to help expe-
dite that process, government sat back
and waited until industry came up with
a better way to solve that problem on
their own. Then, it came up with a rule
that actually would have undermined
the new safety standards they put in
place. It would have made it difficult
because Washington would have been
able to tell them how to manage a well
in the middle of the Gulf of Mexico in-
stead of understanding that pressure
changes instantly and that they have
to be able to respond to it.
Government was setting a standard
that would have undermined safety.
Luckily, we reversed that Obama-era
rule that would have made things less
safe.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.054 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7134 July 18, 2019
Let’s not think that every regulation
is about increasing safety. We ought to
stand together to support safety stand-
ards and strengthen them where we
can. There may be rules and regula-
tions that undermine safety because
some people just don’t want drilling for
oil, and some people support the Green
New Deal kind of approaches that I and
many don’t. But don’t try to under-
mine safety just to shut an industry
down because people don’t believe in it.
After September 11, our government
came together in many ways, politi-
cally and policy-wise, to address what
had happened. We didn’t shut down the
entire airline industry. We made safety
standards at airports better so that
people who get on a plane feel more
comfortable that somebody doesn’t
have box cutters, guns, or knives that
can undermine the safety of those peo-
ple and of our country. Then, we got
planes back up and running very quick-
ly.
Safety standards are something we
both share. But when government gets
in the way just because they don’t
agree with what somebody is doing,
that is a different story. That is the
kind of government control versus free-
dom battle that we are seeing play out
and will continue seeing play out, I am
sure, over the next year and a half be-
tween now and next November.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, we
could go another many minutes, but I
am going to comment on one of the
things the gentleman said about the
person who wanted to go to work for a
company but didn’t want to join the
union and right-to-work. The prob-
ability is the reason you wanted to
work for that company was because the
wages were good, the benefits were
good, and safety conditions were good,
which the union got, but he or she
doesn’t want to pay dues to the union.
They don’t have to join the union; they
have to pay dues to the union.
I think it is somewhat ironic but de-
monstrative that when the gentleman
speaks of safety regulations, very
frankly, Republicans spent a lot of
time, when they were in charge, pass-
ing reductions of regulations that we
think undermine the safety of con-
sumers, workers, and individuals.
We have a disagreement on that,
Madam Speaker, but that is what we
believe, and that is the tension here.
We represent, I think, an attitude that
we need to make sure that everybody
plays by the rules so that people are
safe.
In any event, we will discuss that
further, I am sure, in the coming days,
weeks, and maybe years.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I ap-
preciate the gentleman’s comments. I
respect our ability to have these dis-
agreements but, again, to disagree in a
civil way where we can at least talk
about the policy and keep it focused
that way and, hopefully, one day ad-
dress those areas of concern that we
both share and that we can both solve
working together.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMOR-
ROW, AND ADJOURNMENT FROM
FRIDAY, JULY 19, 2019, TO TUES-
DAY, JULY 23, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow; and, fur-
ther, when the House adjourns on that
day, it adjourn to meet on Tuesday,
July 23, 2019, when it shall convene at
noon for morning-hour debate and 2
p.m. for legislative business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
FRANKEL). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
f
PROTECT RETIREES’ EARNED
PENSIONS
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, pen-
sions have afforded millions of middle-
class Americans the opportunity to
enjoy their golden years with economic
peace of mind.
Congress did not ensure that security
for all retirees when it passed the Mul-
tiemployer Pension Reform Act in De-
cember 2014, attaching it to unrelated,
must-pass legislation.
For the past 5 years, I have listened
to the anxiety of thousands of retirees
from Ohio and across our Nation, and I
have fought for a better solution for
them.
Next week, this body will consider
the Rehabilitation for Multiemployer
Pensions Act, better known as the
Butch Lewis Act. This bill is long over-
due and a great step toward restoring
economic security for over 1,300,000
pensioners in our country.
Congress can provide relief for these
1.3 million workers and retirees in
plans running out of money through no
fault of the workers. Many of these
hardworking individuals worked 30
years or more but now, every day, they
live with economic uncertainty, some
facing drastic cuts, as much as 70 per-
cent, to their earned pensions. Many of
these individuals are too old to return
to the workforce. This is criminal.
Madam Speaker, this Congress
should improve our constituents’ lives.
It is with great anticipation that next
week we offer a glimmer of hope for
millions of pensioners caught far out
on the ledge of economic disaster. The
Butch Lewis Act is overdue and a rea-
sonable solution to address this multi-
employer pension crisis and end the
economic terror that affects these re-
tirees’ lives.
b 1300
HONORING THE LIFE OF CLYDE
OWEN
(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the memory of
Clyde Owen of Moses Lake, Wash-
ington, an individual who dedicated his
life to serving the country and improv-
ing his community before passing on
July 1, at the age of 100.
Clyde was a pilot during World War II
and the only member of his air crew to
escape enemy fire during the landing at
Anzio in 1943. Surviving these adversi-
ties, he continued to serve in the Air
Force, traveling the world before set-
tling in Moses Lake in 1961. There, he
served as the last commander of the
Larson Air Force Base, overseeing cru-
cial tanker and bomber fleets before its
closure in 1966.
Far from ready to retire, he went on
to work as the first executive director
for the Port of Moses Lake, working to
foster economic development and cre-
ate opportunity for the people of cen-
tral Washington.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in honoring Clyde’s
long life of service and his commit-
ment to the United States and to the
people of Moses Lake.
f
LITTLE LEAGUE TEAM FROM
HUMBOLDT PARK
(Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I would like to, today, recog-
nize the historic feat from a team of
boys aged 11 to 13 in my district.
The Roberto Clemente Little League
of Humboldt Park in Chicago made his-
tory on Monday, July 15, by becoming
Illinois champions and advancing to
the regionals. They are the first Little
League team from Humboldt Park to
ever qualify and represent the city and
the State of Illinois. It is exciting to
know that these kids have a real
chance of making it to the Little
League World Series.
As a father, grandfather, and an avid
baseball fan, their achievement makes
me extremely proud. They are showing
us the power of sports and community,
and I would like to congratulate them,
their coaches, and their families, for
their determination.
The Roberto Clemente Little League
of Humboldt Park is bringing a lot of
joy and pride to the Fourth Congres-
sional District and the State of Illi-
nois, and they are just getting started.
Go Roberto Clemente Little
Leaguers.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF MAJOR
GENERAL MARK BERRY
(Mr. WESTERMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.055 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7135
July 18, 2019
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor Major General
Mark Berry, commander of the Arkan-
sas National Guard. After a long career
of dedicated service, Major General
Berry is retiring on August 10, 2019.
He first assumed duties as the adju-
tant general of the Arkansas National
Guard on January 13, 2015. Prior to this
post, Major General Berry was the A–4
assistant to the director of the Air Na-
tional Guard in Arlington, Virginia.
In addition to his highly decorated
career, Major General Berry is a man
who goes out of his way to protect and
to serve his fellow countrymen. Most
recently, Major Berry provided critical
immediate assistance when flooding
devastated many parts of Arkansas.
I had the opportunity to work side by
side with him during flood relief efforts
and saw how he worked around the
clock to save lives and to protect
homes and businesses. He is a great
leader, a great friend, and, above all, a
great American.
I thank Major General Berry for his
service and wish him all the best in re-
tirement.
f
IN SOLEMN MEMORY OF THE
LIVES LOST IN THE AURORA
THEATER SHOOTING
(Mr. CROW asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CROW. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in solemn memory of the 12 lives
lost and the many lives changed for-
ever 7 years ago in the Aurora theater
shooting.
Since then, I have come to know
many of the victims’ families, and I
stand in awe of their courage and
strength. Many have become stewards
in our community, and their example
is an inspiration to us all, people like
State Representative Tom Sullivan,
who honors his son’s life by serving in
the Colorado State Legislature and
fighting every day for commonsense
gun violence prevention, or Sandy and
Lonnie Phillips, who lost their daugh-
ter and have spent their days since ad-
vocating for survivors around the coun-
try.
Today, my only wish is to tell them
that we haven’t forgotten.
Looking at this Chamber, it may
seem as if we have moved on. In the 7
years since, little has changed. Our
country is no safer. We disagree about
how to solve the problem, but we do
agree that there is a problem. There is
a public health crisis in our country,
and it doesn’t matter if you live in a
red or blue district.
I stand here today, committed to
making a change, committed to show-
ing families in our community that
just because time has passed, our ur-
gency to addressing gun violence has
not.
IN RECOGNITION OF STENNIS
SPACE CENTER TEAM
(Mr. GUEST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. GUEST. Madam Speaker, 50
years ago, rockets tested at the Mis-
sissippi Test Facility, now known as
the Stennis Space Center, carried Neil
Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael
Collins high above the Earth’s atmos-
phere.
These brave Americans were aided by
the technical and engineering expertise
of Mississippi scientists and engineers.
The men and women at the Stennis
Space Center conducted 2,475 man-
years of rocket engine testing to en-
sure that the astronauts successfully
carried American ingenuity toward the
stars and returned home safely to a
proud nation.
Following the successful mission, the
Stennis Space Center team continued
to support the Apollo program by per-
forming tests on the Saturn V rockets
and continues today to support NASA
in our exploration of space.
As a Mississippian, I join the rest of
our States as we remember the crucial
role we played in this historic accom-
plishment of our great Nation.
f
HONORING BETSY BOSSART FOR 30
YEARS OF SERVICE
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, all of
us who serve in this House are deeply
indebted to our hardworking staff who
enable us to serve our constituents and
meet the rigorous demands of this job.
In particular, all of us are grateful
for our district directors, as we are for
all of our staff. But our district direc-
tors are ‘‘us’’ for so many instances, for
so many constituents, and for so many
different events.
They represent us when we cannot be
there, when we are here in Washington.
They are our eyes and ears on the
ground when we are here. They are the
angels on our shoulders who remind us
that everything we do on a national
level needs to benefit our constituents
back home.
For the past 30 years, I have been
blessed—the Fifth Congressional Dis-
trict has been blessed—to be a col-
league of Betsy Bossart.
I love Betsy Bossart, and my con-
stituents love Betsy Bossart.
Before she served as my district di-
rector, she was my administrative as-
sistant, the jack of all trades who made
sure my office ran smoothly, and
served as one of my chief advisers.
Betsy joined my staff on March 3,
1989, 30 years ago, and until she re-
tired—sadly, from my perspective—last
month, she served me, the people of the
Fifth District, and our country every
day.
With her departure, my office—and,
indeed, this House—is diminished by
the end of her extraordinary service.
Betsy gave her time and energy self-
lessly for the people of the Fifth Dis-
trict, working many, many late nights,
many weekends, and long days.
She has taken meetings with every
organization and visited nearly every
school and medical facility and govern-
ment office in the counties I represent.
Betsy Bossart has been so successful
as my district director because she is
an excellent listener and has a deep
wellspring of empathy for people.
She has been a role model, Madam
Speaker, for others on my staff and a
champion, an advocate for young peo-
ple coming into public service and
waiting to make differences in their
communities and in their country.
She has been an unsung hero of my
team for three decades.
It is largely because of Betsy’s hard
work behind the scenes that we are
able to organize the Rebuilding To-
gether program—formerly known as
Christmas in April—in all five counties
in our district. It is a day of service
that brings people from all walks of
life together to repair homes, revitalize
communities, and help our neighbors.
Because of Betsy’s efforts, we have
the annual Fifth District Women’s
Luncheon, dedicated to advancing
women’s equality and raising aware-
ness of women leaders in the Fifth Dis-
trict and our country.
Because of her, we have robust sup-
port for the network of early childhood
centers in Maryland named in memory
of my wife, Judy, who had a wonderful
relationship with Betsy as well.
Maryland’s Judy Centers will always
be a major part of Betsy’s legacy, and
the thousands of children and families
who benefited from their services may
not know Betsy or what she did to
make the Judy Centers possible, but
they will always owe her and her col-
leagues who partnered with her on that
effort a debt of gratitude.
Along with her friend and my friend,
Betty Richardson—another longtime
member of my team, who has since re-
tired but remains very active in my
district—as partners, Betty and Betsy
were also instrumental in launching
the annual Fifth District Black His-
tory Breakfast, now in its 38th year.
All the young people who participate
in the annual Greater Washington Soap
Box Derby have Betsy to thank for
being able to use the Capitol Grounds.
Madam Speaker, I will look back
with many, many, many fond memo-
ries of my time working with Betsy
Bossart, my friend, my colleague, my
coworker, whom I had the opportunity
to work with to advance the interest of
our district.
We traveled together to South Africa
and met with Nelson Mandela, dis-
cussing the important issue of racial
justice and unity through history and
healing.
We have attended so many events to-
gether across Prince George’s County
and southern Maryland, making sure
that every one of our constituent’s
voices is heard loudly and clearly in
Congress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.057 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7136 July 18, 2019
As majority leader and Democratic
whip over the past 16 years, I have had
to balance service to our district with
my responsibilities to our Caucus and
to our country. Betsy has spent every
single day of that time making sure
that our district always comes first.
I will miss Betsy. I expect to remain
her friend throughout my life, but I
will miss her daily advice and exper-
tise, though I am relieved that she will
always be just a phone call away.
As she retires, Madam Speaker, to
spend more time with her husband and
their family in Pennsylvania, I hope
my colleagues will join me in thanking
Betsy Bossart for 30 dedicated years,
yes, to me, but, more importantly, to
our constituents, to our State, and to
our country.
Madam Speaker, were I to speak an-
other 2 hours—as some fear—I could
not thank Betsy Bossart enough.
God bless Betsy Bossart, a wonderful
friend, a wonderful American.
f
SUPPORT MILITARY SURVIVING
SPOUSES
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, today is legislative
day 5 since House Democrats subverted
the Military Surviving Spouses Equity
Act from being a standalone bill.
I am grateful that 86 percent of Con-
gress, 371 Members, have cosponsored
this legislation, who were recruited by
determined widows in the veterans
service organizations.
As Minority Whip STEVE SCALISE
noted on the floor last week:
Here is a bill that can quickly get to
the President’s desk, and it gets in-
cluded in other pieces of legislation
that might come months away. But
here is a bill where a Member worked
in good faith under the rules that were
created, and it was unfortunate that
the rule to bring the NDAA bill to the
floor turned off the Consensus Calendar
specifically for that bill, that one bill,
which happened to be the first bill that
met that requirement.
We should work together, bipartisan,
to bring the Military Surviving
Spouses Equity Act up for a standalone
to eliminate the widow’s tax.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
b 1315
HELP LIMIT CORRUPTION IN
WASHINGTON
(Mr. MCNERNEY asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. MCNERNEY. Madam Speaker,
the way we finance campaigns in this
country is a true threat to our democ-
racy. This structure is a leading cause
of our Nation’s political paralysis and
voter apathy.
In the book ‘‘Dark Money,’’ Jane
Mayer wrote: ‘‘In 2006, only 2 percent of
‘outside’ political spending came from
‘social welfare’ groups that hid their
donors. In 2010, this number rose to 40
percent, masking hundreds of millions
of dollars.’’
Since the 2010 Citizens United deci-
sion and related decisions, this number
is even greater today. The massive
amount of money flowing into our po-
litical system corrupts the political
process and stymies effectiveness.
That is why I introduced a proposed
constitutional amendment to reform
our broken campaign finance system.
My amendment would eliminate polit-
ical action committees and ‘‘dark
money.’’ Funding for a candidate or
ballot measure would be limited to the
use of a public financing system or do-
nations given directly to the campaign
by individual citizens. This would end
much of the corruption in Washington.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to do everything possible to
help limit corruption in Washington,
including supporting this legislation.
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, I
yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
CARTER), a former district judge.
SWEARING IN OF THE HONORABLE RICHARD
HUDSON INTO THE TEXAS NAVY
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I thank my good friend, Mr.
GOHMERT, for yielding.
I rise today to honor my dear friend,
Congressman RICHARD HUDSON of North
Carolina.
Congressman HUDSON served as my
chief of staff from 2006 to 2008 and is
now forging his own path right here on
Capitol Hill.
Some time ago, Congressman HUDSON
gave me a hard time about other Mem-
bers being recognized as ‘‘Honorary
Texans’’ by Governor Abbott. Well,
after speaking with the Governor, we
have gone one step further with our
recognition here today, and I am
pleased to swear in Admiral Richard L.
Hudson to the Texas Navy.
I will now read the certificate grant-
ing his commission:
‘‘In the name and by the authority of
The State of Texas to all to whom
these presents shall come, Greetings.
Know ye, that Richard Hudson is here-
by commissioned an honorary Admiral
in the Texas Navy with all rights and
privileges appertaining thereto and
with the duty of assisting in the pres-
ervation of the history, boundaries,
water resources, and defense of the
State.
‘‘In testimony whereof, I have signed
my name and caused the Seal of the
State of Texas to be affixed at the City
of Austin, this the 10th day of May,
2019.’’
Signed: Greg Abbott, Governor of
Texas.
I am now going to read the oath that
Mr. Hudson will take as he takes this
commission:
‘‘I, Richard Hudson, do solemnly
swear that I will support and defend
the Constitution of the United States
and the State of Texas against all en-
emies, foreign and domestic; that I will
bear true faith and allegiance to the
same; and that I will obey the orders of
the President of the United States, the
Governor of Texas, and the orders of
the officers appointed over me, accord-
ing to regulations and the Uniform
Code of Military Justice. And I will re-
member the Alamo. So help me God.’’
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, I
yield to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. HUDSON).
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I
thank Mr. GOHMERT for yielding, and I
thank Judge Carter for this incredible
honor. The gentleman is a dear friend
and someone I admire very much. His
love for the State of Texas is un-
matched.
This truly is an honor. I am proud to
be a North Carolinian, but I do love the
State of Texas.
I would first suggest that we should
all remember that seven North Caro-
linians, if my recollection is correct,
died defending the Alamo.
I also have family ties to Texas. My
great uncle Joseph Wesley Humphrey
was a deputy sheriff, a member of the
Texas legislature, and county judge in
Rains County, Texas.
Another great uncle, Reverend Dan-
iel A. McRae, was a Methodist minister
in San Augustine County, Texas. I be-
lieve that might even be in Mr. GOH-
MERT’s district. And the church and the
cemetery there is still named ‘‘McRae’’
after my great uncle.
So I do have family ties. I do love the
State. I am deeply honored to receive
this commission, honorary as it may
be, and I will be proud to recite the
oath:
I, RICHARD HUDSON, do solemnly swear that
I will support and defend the Constitution of
the United States and of the State of Texas
against all enemies, foreign and domestic;
that I will bear true faith and allegiance to
the same; and that I will obey the orders of
the President of the United States, the Gov-
ernor of Texas, and the orders of the officers
appointed over me, according to regulations
and the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
And I will remember the Alamo. So help me
God.
Madam Speaker, I thank Judge Car-
ter.
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I congratulate Mr. HUDSON.
Mr. GOHMERT. It is wonderful to
have a new admiral in the Texas Navy,
and we welcome Congressman HUDSON
to that role, that honorary role, in the
Texas Navy.
And we are grateful to Judge Carter
for his role in making that happen and
to our great Governor Greg Abbott. I
thank both the gentlemen.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.059 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7137
July 18, 2019
It is nice to be able to do something
that brings a smile. But I think, for
Texans to ask that people remember
the Alamo harkens back to feelings
within us that freedom and liberty are
something worth dying for. That is
what all of those Texans did.
And with due deference to my friend
from Tennessee, MARSHA BLACKBURN—
yes, I know—we are grateful to Ten-
nessee for their contribution at the
Alamo and to Texas as well.
But those people had a choice: Were
they going to run or were they going to
stand for freedom, stand against des-
potism. And they chose to stand.
And here it is 163 years later, and we
still remember, and we are still in-
spired. Liberty comes at great cost,
and we are forever grateful to our God
and to our predecessors who took such
a stand against tyranny.
There is a lot of tyranny going on in
the Middle East, and there will be until
the end of time. But each of us has a
responsibility to do what we can to
help accommodate and protect those
who can’t help themselves.
That is why some of us are pro-life.
But when it comes to life in the Middle
East, it has been shocking now for
years, under the previous administra-
tion, the people that were supported,
the weapons that were provided to peo-
ple that were called the ‘‘vetted mod-
erate rebels’’ against the leader of
Syria.
Yet we saw over and over again those
so-called ‘‘vetted moderate rebels’’
were constantly allowing their weap-
ons to be seized—there is some ques-
tion whether they were actually turned
over—to radical Islamists who hate
Americans, who made clear, yeah, they
are not crazy about some fellow Mus-
lims, but they like them a whole lot
better than they do the United States
and Christians.
So it was tragic, in years prior, when
our current U.N. general secretary was
in charge of the refugee program at the
U.N. and people were noticing, under
the then head of the refugee program
at the U.N., now general secretary—
they were noticing that, gee, you are
helping all these Muslims, which is
wonderful, but there is a significant
percentage in those areas, some areas
there, that are being overrun by ISIS,
where there are Christians and the
Christians appear to be the target of
genocide.
And it has been a long time since I
read his quote, but in essence it was
basically, well, those Christians are
very important to those areas histori-
cally where they are, and so we think
it is important to just let them stay in
those areas.
Well, what Christians had found was,
if they tried to go to the refugee camps
where they were unwelcome and bru-
talized, they were lucky if they got out
with their lives. But they weren’t wel-
come.
And the head of the refugee program
did nothing that we can find to accom-
modate Christians to the extent that
he was accommodating Muslims. I
don’t know if it was an innate bias,
prejudice, bigotry that he had—maybe
still has—or whether it was just sheer
ignorance on his part, deciding to save
some people and not save a big bulk of
the Christians.
So they were being wiped out. There
was a genocide going on.
I saw this story today by Edwin
Mora. The title of the article is, ‘‘Hope
Is Back: Trump Helps Save Christians,
Yazidis in Iraq From Extinction.’’
It goes on to say, ‘‘U.S. President
Donald Trump’s administration is help-
ing bring Christians and Yazidis in Iraq
back from the brink of extinction fo-
mented by a genocidal campaign at the
hands of the Islamic State, religious
minority representatives declared this
week at the second Ministerial to Ad-
vance Religious Freedom convened by
the Department of State.
‘‘The U.S. Government has officially
determined that ISIS committed geno-
cide against Christians, Yazidis, and
other religious minorities during its
reign of terror in the Middle East that
began in 2014 . . . ‘’
Of course, that was when the Obama
administration was in its heyday. Of
course, we didn’t realize how much the
DOJ, FBI, and some of the Intel com-
munity had been weaponized and actu-
ally corrupted.
The article goes on, ‘‘Echoing Yazidis
activists and a U.S.-based Syriac
Catholic Iraqi priest who spoke to
Breitbart News, a Chaldean Catholic
priest from a parish in a Christian
Iraqi town indicated that hope for the
future along with security improve-
ments have returned to religious mi-
nority communities devastated by
ISIS, courtesy of the Trump adminis-
tration efforts.
‘‘Their comments came during the 3-
day ministerial summit. . . .
‘‘While delivering a speech during the
event on Wednesday, Father Thabet
Habib Youssef, a Chaldean Catholic
priest from the town of Karamles in
Iraq’s Nineveh Province, thanked the
Trump administration for its assist-
ance.’’
And this is what Father Youssef had
to say:
‘‘I wish to give thanks to the govern-
ment of the United States for including
us in this important conference and a
special thanks to the administration of
President Trump for his concern and
commitment to the persecuted minor-
ity communities in Iraq.
‘‘I can say this conference gives us
hope. Our greatest fear in the early
years was that the world would forget
us. This conference tells us we are not
forgotten.’
‘‘Nearly half of the Christian families
who fled Karamles, liberated by U.S.
and local forces in November 2016, have
returned, and Father Thabet expects
many more to come back in the coming
year.
‘‘Although ISIS burned down the
homes and churches in the Christian
town, ‘We are determined to return and
rebuild.’
‘‘Today we have 45 percent of our
families returned, and we hope in this
next year we will see many more.’
‘‘He went on to say that the Iraqi
government needs to do more to bring
about ‘real change and support for the
protection, safety, and equal rights for
the minority communities in Iraq.’
‘‘The U.S.-funded nation-building ef-
forts, coupled with’’—and let me make
myself clear on that, I’m talking about
helping others build their nations—for
those who claim that America is trying
to build some hegemony, has impe-
rialistic notions, as it always has—it
just tells us they had terrible history
teachers.
b 1330
They are not intentionally spreading
untruths. They are just ignorant. They
don’t know what the real truth is be-
cause the real truth is, we have never
been an imperialistic nation. If we
were, if we had been then English
would be all that was spoken in
France, and Germany, and Japan, and
many other nations. That is not who
we are. That is not who we have been.
We have given our most precious
commodity, American lives, for an-
other people’s freedom.
Back to this article. It says: ‘‘The
U.S.-funded nation-building efforts,
coupled with assistance from the
Catholic group Knights of Columbus
and the government of Hungary, have
rendered the town of Karamles a ‘story
of success and we are optimistic it will
survive’ ’’, Father Thabet also said.
‘‘Northern Iraq’s Nineveh province is
the historical homeland of Iraqi Chris-
tians and home to the largest con-
centration of religious minorities in
the country.’’
So it goes on and also talks about the
help this has been to Yazidis.
And I note this week we had resolu-
tions or amendments to condemn and
express the majority of the House’s
sentiment that we shouldn’t do any-
thing to help in the effort against
those who are killing, persecuting, and
trying to commit a genocide against
the Yazidis in Yemen. But, thankfully,
that is only from the majority in the
House. That is really unfortunate.
But there has also been news this
week that we may have a very strong
anti-Israeli resolution filed. Why not?
The majority doesn’t ever condemn
specific anti-Semitism by Members
here in the House; so why not file a res-
olution? We will see if it gets filed.
That is the news.
That resolution supports the boycott
against Israel; even though the people
it supports, that resolution would sup-
port, would be the very people that
have said they want Israel wiped off
the map. They want no Israel from the
river to the sea. They want it gone.
They want a genocide. They want the
Jews wiped out, and that is a goal.
It was a goal of Arafat. It is why,
when Ehud Barak, as prime minister of
Israel, when President Clinton was
twisting his arm so strongly, basically
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.061 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7138 July 18, 2019
offered Arafat virtually everything he
wanted.
I, personally, knowing biblical his-
tory, I think you had a case where, just
as God hardened the heart of Pharaoh,
initially, when Moses was asking to let
his people go, I think Arafat’s heart
was hardened. He got basically every-
thing he wanted, but he turned it all
down.
If he had accepted it, it would have
been basically impossible for Israel to
defend itself under anything but nu-
clear means; no conventional way to
defend Israel if Arafat had accepted
that, what I would consider, out-
rageous proposal. But fortunately, he
didn’t accept it, and so Israel has been
able to defend itself since then.
But the attacks are daily. They are
ongoing. There is an ongoing effort by
enemies of Israel that are being pro-
moted by some Democrats, some in
Congress, some outside of Congress.
That is who they are supporting, peo-
ple that are, every single day, smug-
gling rockets into Gaza, smuggling
weapons, trying to smuggle weapons
into Israel, and continuing to teach ha-
tred, blind bigotry against the Jewish
people, against Israel.
So I would be thrilled if that resolu-
tion did not get filed; but that is up to
individuals in Congress. Everybody has
a right to file whatever bill they think
will be most helpful.
But I have looked for Scripture in
the Bible that says, those who curse or
seek to harm Israel will be blessed. And
I just—it is just not there. So it causes
me grave concern to think that we may
have people in leadership positions in
the United States, again, who really
want to harm Israel. They want to di-
vide it.
I know we have a growing group that
don’t believe anything in the Bible.
But for those of us who do, when we are
told that any nation that divides or at-
tempts to divide Israel will bring down
judgment on itself, that causes me
great concern for the country for which
I have taken an oath to defend repeat-
edly; as a member of the United States
Army, as an Assistant District Attor-
ney, as a District Judge, as a Chief Jus-
tice, and as a Member of Congress.
That oath means so much to me that
I think it would be a good idea to be
supportive of the Nation of Israel, and
I am thrilled we have a President that
is doing that.
Even though, reports I have heard
from people that were there, he had
Cabinet officials telling him he was
going to start World War III if he rec-
ognized Jerusalem as the capital. A bit
like some of the stories of Lincoln
being told by every member of the Cab-
inet it would be a disaster if he final-
ized the Emancipation Proclamation.
Lincoln knew it was right in his
heart, and with every Cabinet member
reportedly against him and arguing
against it, he, in essence, said the ayes
have it. He was the only one.
Here you had not all, but most of the
Cabinet really hammering President
Trump not to recognize Jerusalem as
the capital. He knew in his heart it was
the right thing to do. He had said he
would do it; he did it.
I know some can’t find anything at
all admirable about President Trump;
they are so blinded by their hatred.
But I think that is a pretty amazing
thing that President Trump has done.
And now, to hear from Christians in
the Middle East who were the objects
of genocide, being wiped out, being
killed, destroyed, taken off of the map
completely, without much of anything
helpful from the so-called United Na-
tions, it is amazing what President
Trump has done in that regard.
So when I hear friends across the
aisle saying we have lost respect
around the world, they are not seeing
and hearing what I am. The last polls I
saw were that, around the world, there
is more respect for our President than
the prior administration.
And the truth is, in respect, there is
a little element of fear. You can not
like somebody, but still respect them,
and fear can be involved.
We have a reputation that is growing
again, that we have a President that
will do what he said. Sometimes he is
talked out of taking steps, like bomb-
ing and killing 100 or more in Iran. But
what we are seeing in Iran is amazing,
because their economy is suffering dra-
matically, so much so you see them
lashing out and trying to, whether it is
by attacking ships, trying to use what-
ever power they can. The pressure is
intensifying.
And I would humbly submit, this will
not be a President who, in response to
the biggest supporter of terrorism in
world history, sends them pallets full
of billions and billions of dollars in
cash to help the biggest supporter of
terrorism, who has killed and been re-
sponsible for the deaths of more Amer-
ican military than anybody else in re-
cent decades.
So they can say what they want
about our President. He is doing amaz-
ing work.
And it is interesting, I keep hearing
this term ‘‘racist’’ and the President
keeps talking about American citizens.
Well, until recent days, it has never
been racist to talk about American
citizens.
In fact, going back again to the com-
ment of Benjamin Franklin after the
Constitutional Convention: ‘‘It’s a re-
public, if you can keep it.’’
He knew that republics, the very few
that have been established, that just
means they elect representatives. It is
not the totally democratic governing
that was, for example, in Athens, as a
city state. They had a democracy.
And what historians have seen, clear-
ly, is that when it is a true democracy,
where everybody participates—they
had jurors, they would have 501 jurors
in just a court case. And what that
would often lead to what would be mob
action. I mean, people get stirred up,
and they end up coming out with a sen-
tence like they did for Socrates, that
was far beyond anything appropriate
whatsoever. You take an innocent man
like that and have him put to death
simply because you had too many ju-
rors that got each other worked up.
So that is where Rome made a great
stride forward. They said, you know
what? There were problems. It was a
good idea, but there were problems
with a complete democracy, where ev-
erybody participates in all governing
decisions, except jurors, and that is 501.
But Rome figured out, we need a rep-
resentative form of government; so it
has parts of it that are democracies,
and in part it is a representative gov-
ernment, so it is a republic. And until
Caesar crossed the Rubicon and made
it into a virtual dictatorship—of
course, that didn’t last long because as,
Mark Antony said:
Brutus says he was ambitious, and Brutus
is an honorable man. So are they all, all hon-
orable men.
There was trouble in the Roman em-
pire. But they began to have a flood of
people that were not Roman citizens.
They lost their power. They had begun
bread and circuses; gave away way too
much in what was considered welfare of
that day, bread and circuses.
And, as I recall, it was even Caesar
that decided maybe we are corrupting
people by providing this form of wel-
fare and entertainment. But by that
point, it was too late to rein it in and,
for all of these factors, and others com-
ing into play, people crossing the bor-
ders and taking a toll, the Roman Em-
pire was eventually lost.
No country is going to last forever. I
love this country. I have offered to die
for this country. That is what you do
when you sign up and take an oath in
the U.S. military.
But when people begin not to appre-
ciate the good things that their nation
does and is doing, has done, and they
build up hatred toward their own na-
tion, you really are on the downhill
slide and you are moving ever closer to
the dustbin of history. Eventually
every country is going to get there.
But our goal in this body should be to
perpetuate this little experiment in
self-government, the best ever con-
trived. Keep it going as long as pos-
sible. Don’t let it die on our watch. But
it is in trouble.
And as we have bills, I don’t know
anybody on this entire House floor, ei-
ther party, who is against standing be-
hind and helping those incredible
American heroes of 9/11 and the days
following. We are all for that.
b 1345
But then we have people in the ma-
jority who see an opportunity. Instead
of doing what we normally do and have
an authorization for 5 years and 5 years
extend 10 years, we had a bill that was
extended to 2092.
There will not be a firefighter or po-
liceman who is alive anywhere close to
2092, first responder that was there dur-
ing 9/11 and doing these heroic works.
So why would they choose 2092?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.063 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7139
July 18, 2019
Well, the saying in Washington is no
matter how cynical you get, it is never
enough to catch up. But you go by
what we have seen.
People in this body often, and it has
happened on both sides of the aisle,
like to get a bill, especially with
money, get it extended out as far as
possible, way beyond the existence of
people for whom it is dedicated, and
then when those people eventually pass
away, you will see an effort to come in
here and say, wow, we had all this
money that we have passed overwhelm-
ingly, and now the people aren’t there
that it was originally meant for, so
let’s start giving this money to other
people, people that we want to curry
favor with.
That is not the way it is supposed to
go. I voted for it out of respect for our
heroes, but for goodness’ sake, 2092, se-
riously? How could anybody with a
straight face say: Oh, if you are not for
paying out billions and billions of dol-
lars in 2091 to 2092, then you must hate
the first responders of 9/11? That is ri-
diculous.
They have inspired me from that
time, and in my hometown in east
Texas and other towns all over east
Texas, all the same thing. People lined
up to give blood.
The first time I went, they said:
There is hours and hours of wait to
give blood for people in New York so
we would ask that you come back to-
morrow.
You couldn’t even get in. That was
true all over east Texas and all over
the country. People cared deeply about
what they had seen happen. We were
under attack from outside. There were
no hyphenated Americans. We were all
just Americans wanting to help each
other and help those who had been
harmed.
So I hope that the Senate will take a
look at that and be able to be more re-
sponsible so that the 9/11 fund will
truly be for the people who the 9/11
fund says it is supposed to be for.
We are loading up future generations
with so much debt. That alone could be
enough to bring down our country. It is
time to become responsible.
And I know across the aisle we have
had these hearings on the bills, the
Equality Act, for example, and I under-
stand the sentiment behind it is to try
to avoid any type of discomfort, un-
comfortable feelings by anybody be-
cause of their chosen gender.
But as we brought out at our hear-
ings before the Equality Act was
passed in committee and here on the
floor, there is a danger, and it is not
about making people a little uncom-
fortable because they are biologically
male but they want to go to a women’s
restroom.
As a former felony judge, I have
heard the testimony about the trauma.
I have seen the effects of sexual assault
on women. I have read and understand
that women who are victims of sexual
assault have three to four times more
occurrence of PTSD.
There are different explanations as to
why they have so much higher rate of
PTSD than even our soldiers in com-
bat, but also that a trigger for reliving
the horrors, the awful crime against
them and their person is to be in a
small, confined area and have someone
of the opposite sex come in. We were
laughed at and belittled when we
brought up that concern.
The story was contained in another
story. It was about a British leader
who was pushing for transgender bath-
rooms. It is now under criminal inves-
tigation or charges.
But this was a story I missed back in
February: ‘‘A trans ‘woman’ ’’—mean-
ing biological man but considered him-
self, herself, whatever you want to say,
to be a woman—‘‘was allowed to walk
free from Kirkcaldy Sheriff Court in
Scotland after being convicted of sexu-
ally assaulting a 10-year-old girl in a
supermarket restroom.
‘‘The attacker, whose name is given
as Katie Dolatowski, waited for the
young victim to come out of a toilet
cubicle at Morrisons supermarket . . .
then grabbed her by the face and forced
her back inside.
‘‘Dolatowski told the girl to remove
her trousers and warned that a man
outside would kill her mother . . . but
she fought back, striking the pedophile
in the face, belly, and crotch and tear-
ing away to her father and siblings out-
side.
‘‘Dolatowski had attempted to photo-
graph a 12-year-old as she urinated at
another supermarket a month prior
. . . but Judge James Williamson de-
cided not to send the sex offender to
prison, instead handing down a tagging
order and community service order.
. . . The girl’s mother was horrified,
saying she felt ‘very, very let down’
and that she did not have any con-
fidence whatsoever that Dolatowski
will not go out and do something
equally as bad or worse.’’
It is important to still discuss this
because the Senate hasn’t taken it up,
and I hope they won’t take it up be-
cause of the problems of the so-called,
misnamed Equality Act. It is not
equality for female sexual assault vic-
tims, that is for sure.
But then it contained another ref-
erence: ‘‘Girl Guides’’—it is like Girl
Scouts—‘‘Expels Leaders Who Opposed
Trans Shower-Sharing Policies.
And this insert says: Two Girl Guides
leaders were expelled after they op-
posed ‘‘new rules which compel units to
let transgender-identifying males share
showers and other facilities with girls
as young as 5.’’
There are other references like: Al-
legedly transgender prisoner gets life
after raping two women, sexually as-
saulting inmates in female jail.
Another: Mother arrested in front of
her children for calling a trans activist
a man; said Kate Scottow was arrested
for calling a trans activist a man on-
line and a judge has banned her from
referencing their former male identity.
So there was a time when people
could say hurtful things in America,
but as we see with any declining soci-
ety—not declining in goods and serv-
ices, but declining in morality and as a
society. We see it in L.A.
The most so-called liberated and lib-
eral leaders of cities in America seem
to have more homelessness, more defe-
cation on the streets, more pollution.
Where are all the green activists, by
the way? I mean, these people are pol-
luting like crazy, and they are out
there with signs picketing everywhere
else, but for some reason they don’t
seem to be bothered by the destruction
of an orderly society.
You go back to some of the great
city-states, one of their big problems
was sewage. And if you have too much
homelessness, you encourage it, bless
it, then it can cause problems for any
society.
But that also brings us to our south-
ern border, the continued expressions
from this body about wanting to get
rid of any enforcement of our border
and refusing, in the $4.6 billion that
was passed out of this House, not one
dime for detention beds, not one dime
to help the Border Patrol do their job
to secure the border, not one dime to
help build a wall barrier where we need
it, when we basically, because of lib-
erals who may mean well, but they ba-
sically turned over our southern border
to drug cartels.
Some of the most evil people in the
world, these drug cartels, and we are
not going to enforce our border. That
message from the majority has gone
out over and over again, and what it
does, as the Border Patrol will tell you
if you go down there as often as I have:
Every time one of you guys in Congress
talk about amnesty, legalization, not
enforcing the border, any of those
things, we get surges.
And they will also tell you, and I
have seen it for myself, the drug car-
tels control everybody, when and where
they cross the border, and they will
send groups. The Border Patrol know
when they send a group in the middle
of the night, they have to stand there
and go through in-processing all these
people, asking them their questions.
And despite what some of our col-
leagues across the aisle have said,
these are sympathetic border patrol-
men. I have seen it over and over
again. I have seen hundreds of very
sympathetic border patrolmen, but
they are at their wits end.
An article here from Michaela Ross
today talking about ‘‘Sick, Exhausted
Border Agents Stoke Exodus Fear in
Migrant Surge,’’ the migrants, the ille-
gal aliens coming in.
I have been castigated for referring
to them as ‘‘aliens,’’ like they are from
some other planet; and I had to remind
my colleagues the very bill that they
were supporting referred to them as
aliens, and they were a little embar-
rassed because they didn’t realize they
referred to them as aliens. They
thought it was just mean-spirited Re-
publicans.
It is kind of interesting when you see
that kind of thing, but it is a tragedy,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.065 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7140 July 18, 2019
and it is a humanitarian crisis on our
southern border. And it is no longer
just a humanitarian crisis for those
who are pouring over our border ille-
gally. They are taking their toll on the
border patrolmen. Some have suspected
that: Gee, maybe that is a strategy of
the Democratic Party.
You keep talking about amnesty,
about getting rid of border enforce-
ment, which will encourage more and
more people to come in.
You keep claiming that people, no
matter whether they came in illegally
or legally, should be allowed to vote
and keep encouraging people in.
You refuse to give a dime for border
enforcement. You refuse to give a dime
for beds to house people who are pour-
ing in illegally for what they need to
be able to detain people that commit
criminal acts in coming into the coun-
try.
You continue to talk about doing
away with any criminality to violating
the law and more people come in.
You devastate those officers who
have taken an oath to defend our bor-
der and our Constitution, and they are
already having recruiting problems.
Why would somebody want to come
work where you have got a major party
of the two in the country that casti-
gates you at every turn, says you can’t
or won’t protect babies, children, you
do not care, you are mean, you are evil,
when you are out there doing every-
thing you can, and you are being har-
assed, not being given what you need?
And then we had this bill this week
in Judiciary talking about it was going
to add millions and millions and mil-
lions of dollars of requirements for the
Border Patrol to have to follow, lest
they be pursued with some kind of
charge or allegation, and yet not give
them a dime to do those jobs, knowing
that the result will be more and more
people flooding in, more and more hu-
manitarian crisis. Then you blame the
humanitarian crisis on those who are
trying to secure our Nation.
b 1400
Then you get an allowance for all of
those people who have poured in ille-
gally, and many of them don’t speak
English. They don’t know what is
going on. They have never been edu-
cated on how you sustain a self-gov-
erning country.
All I can figure, the assessment has
to have been made, yes, it will have our
country in chaos for a little while, and
we will have to take away some free-
doms because of all the chaos, but, as
Democrats have said, that will end the
Republican Party nationally, as the
Democrats were able to do in Cali-
fornia with 2 or 3 million pouring in
and voting that had come in illegally
after the amnesty in 1986.
Actually, after 1986, when they were
given amnesty, now it is legal for them
to vote, and that changed California
into a very Democratic State.
And there is an assessment: We can
do that for the Nation and eliminate
the Republican Party as having any
kind of viability. And then once we do
that, even though it has taken quite a
toll on the country, we will get control
back again. We will rein in the chaos,
and the Republicans will be gone and
we will be a one-party country.
Somebody must have made that kind
of assessment to be pushing the kind of
bills that they are.
We cannot allow that chaos to occur
and to build, because it wasn’t just
Ronald Reagan, but historians
throughout time have noted, once you
have a country that has had great free-
dom and it loses that freedom, it
doesn’t come back. Reagan said not in
that generation, but I have trouble
finding where it ever came back once a
nation of freedom lost it. That is a real
potential if we don’t get things under
control.
I think God has blessed this country
more than any country. I know Solo-
mon’s Israel was just an absolutely
amazing place, but there is no place
that has ever had our opportunities,
our individual freedoms, our individual
assets, never in the history of the
world.
There is nothing wrong with recog-
nizing the greatness that America has
been. It is only in recognizing Amer-
ica’s greatness that you can determine
we want to perpetuate that for future
generations to have those opportuni-
ties, those freedoms, those assets.
But we are in trouble, and there has
got to be a change or our time as the
greatest country in history will be-
come a self-fulfilling prophesy of those
who say: ‘‘Ah, it was never that great.’’
‘‘Nah, it is not a great country.’’ ‘‘No,
I have always been embarrassed of
America.’’ That will become a self-ful-
filling prophecy. We will lose our
greatness. We will lose our freedom.
I said to three individuals from Aus-
tralia who were here on Capitol Hill a
couple years ago: Hey, I have had peo-
ple up here say when we lose our free-
dom, I guess we can all come to Aus-
tralia.
Neither of them even laughed. One of
them said: Do you not understand, if
you lose your freedom in America,
China will take over Australia before
you could ever get there?
America is a shining light on a hill.
We give people hope. I have heard it
and seen it from Africans with tears in
their eyes—and, yes, they were Chris-
tians. Maybe you would be prejudiced
against them. But they said: We need
America strong if we are going to have
any chance of security and freedom in
our own country.
Let’s keep America strong. Let’s sup-
port Israel. Let’s support enforcing the
law as it is, as it has been, and as we
need it to prolong and perpetuate this
incredible country.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Ha-
waii (Mr. CASE) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the major-
ity leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the subject of my
Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Hawaii?
There was no objection.
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, I rise as
a proud member of the Democratic
Blue Dog Coalition.
For a quarter century, the Blue Dogs
in Congress have focused on three mis-
sions: fiscal responsibility for our
country, a strong national defense, and
commonsense solutions to practical
problems.
We are 27 proud Democrats with
democratic values. Our individual
views and votes on the broad range of
issues that come before this Congress
run the gamut from progressive to
moderate, centrist, and beyond; but to-
gether, we believe that the best way
forward for our country on all of these
issues is an underlying focus on fiscal
responsibility, a strong national de-
fense, and commonsense solutions
wherever they may be found to prac-
tical problems.
Today, I wish to focus on fiscal re-
sponsibility. I do so as co-chair with
my colleague from Utah, Mr.
MCADAMS, of the Blue Dog Task Force
on Fiscal Responsibility and Govern-
ment Reform.
Let me start by saying, unfortu-
nately, and very directly that it is very
arguable that at no point in our entire
history have we operated our Federal
Government in as fiscally irresponsible
a manner as we are operating it today.
There are lots of indicia of this out
there, but nowhere does this show up
more directly and stare us straight in
the face than our national debt. Let me
say what that is.
Our national debt is exactly what it
sounds like. It is the amount that our
Federal Government—you—owe to ev-
eryone who has loaned us money to pay
for government.
Why do we have to do that? Because
we are not bringing into government
the revenues that are sufficient to
match and pay for what we are paying
for out of expenses.
We are now operating with a chronic
and exploding deficit, and we are bor-
rowing with abandon to make up the
difference.
This particular chart is taken from
the Congressional Budget Office. You
will not find a more nonpartisan, objec-
tive, and professional group anywhere
studying our fiscal responsibilities, our
fiscal status, and our budgets than the
Congressional Budget Office. I encour-
age everybody to take a look at their
materials at cbo.org. This is just one of
their many publications, and it is a
wealth of information:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.066 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7141
July 18, 2019
CBO The Budget and Economic Outlook
Fiscal Years 2019 to 2049.
They are not only responsible for
what has happened today; they are re-
sponsible for taking a look at the long-
term, as any one of us would want to
do with our own budgets.
What this chart shows is outlays, or
spending, on the top line and revenues
on the bottom line. In this particular
chart, we are matching outlays over
time, and the timeframe here is about
15 years, against gross domestic prod-
uct, the percentage of gross domestic
product.
Why is that important? It is impor-
tant because one could have outlays
and revenues coming in, but the only
way to match it up is, how much is the
strength of your economy overall? It is
kind of like asking yourself: Well, in
my own household budget, what is my
level of spending, what is my level of
borrowing, what is my level of income
as opposed to my overall financial situ-
ation?
So here we have the percentage of
gross domestic product over on the left
in the vertical axis, and down here,
time.
We can clearly see here that as we
look out over a long, long period of
time, that if we continued on the way
we are today, we would see massive
continuing spread of the two lines be-
tween expenses on the top and revenues
at the bottom.
To amplify the situation, when we
take a look at where we are currently,
2019, that dotted line right over here,
that is about $1 trillion, that gap, $1
trillion in 1 year of a deficit.
So as we can see very obviously, not
only are we in a very difficult situation
today, but if we do nothing about it, it
will spread over time.
Now, what actually finances that dif-
ference? Debt. We go out and borrow it.
It doesn’t just arrive in the middle of
the night in an unmarked bag. It didn’t
just grow on the tree outside. We are
operating at a chronic and exploding
deficit and borrowing to make up this
difference.
I am a returnee to Congress. I served
in Congress from 2002 to 2007, so I tend
to match up my experiences then
versus now. I had a 12-year absence in
between, half a generation if you want
to think about it.
When I left Congress in early 2007,
our national debt stood at $9 trillion.
Today, our national debt stands at $22
trillion.
By the way, if you want to have a
harrowing view of something, take a
look at usdebtclock.org and watch the
numbers turn over about as rapidly as
anything you can see.
What you can see from studying the
debt over time is an incredible increase
over here on the right side of this
chart.
But $22.5 trillion today. Let’s just
think about that. That is $68,300 for
each and every citizen of this country,
$183,000 for each and every taxpayer.
Really? 230 years in our country’s his-
tory to get to a national debt of $9 tril-
lion, but just 12 years later, increasing
by 250 percent to $22.5 trillion?
Again, we can’t just look at the abso-
lute numbers, because they don’t tell
the full story. After all, if we had a
thriving economy that was producing
an incredible amount of money, some
of these figures wouldn’t make as much
sense.
So let’s, again, take the total debt
against the total gross domestic prod-
uct, again, just like any house or busi-
ness would do. We can see here that if
we chart total debt against GDP—
again, on the far left side on the
vertical axis, we have GDP—as a per-
cent of GDP, and down here, we have a
period that starts at the origins of our
country and concludes in 2049, from the
start of our country to 2049, you can
see the peaks right here.
Obviously, our country was in bad
shape at the beginning in the Revolu-
tionary War and thereafter. We were
just starting out as a country. And you
can see, for example, the Civil War,
this peak.
Wars are times when we have to bor-
row money. Wars are times that are
very, very difficult for economies, and
obviously our expenses are up and peo-
ple have needs, and during that period,
we borrow money. We always try, or
have always tried, to pay it back down
because we don’t know when the next
emergency will come along.
We can see another peak here, World
War I. We see the Great Depression
right here, the Great Depression and
Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal, which
was financed with borrowing. And
then, of course, the tragedy of World
War II, the absolute peak of our debt
versus our gross domestic product,
right there.
And why not? Our world was at war.
Our economy was in a shambles. We
had to finance that war.
Not only did we finance that war, we
financed the entire recovery of the
world, the Marshall Plan, in so many
ways. We rebuilt our cities. We rebuilt
the national highway system. We in-
curred that largely through debt. This
was the highest point of our debt to
date.
We see, again, some peaks that were
related to great recessions and down-
turns in our economy where we had to
borrow for a little while, then we came
back down. And then we came to the
last 15 to 20 years.
b 1415
Up until this point, we operated fair-
ly responsibly. By 15 to 20 years, we
abandoned fiscal responsibility and
started down a road of accelerating
debt, for the most part unrelated to
wars, other than for Iraq and Afghani-
stan, which definitely had a con-
sequence for our national debt, but
mostly a result of a failure in this body
and the administration to balance
budgets as we went along.
Here we are in 2017, 2018, and 2019.
What is scarier than anything else is
the CBO’s projection of where it is
going over time: out the roof, straight
up.
We can see that this is not a partisan
issue. In this particular graph, the per-
cent of GDP is over on the left axis,
and the bottom vertical axis is over
time. In more recent history, the post-
war period by Presidencies, we have
Democrats in blue and Republicans in
red.
We see over here President Truman
in the late 1940s had a high threshold of
debt-to-GDP, a little over 100 percent.
Then, of course, it came down after
that as we recovered. It went up in the
era of some of our Great Recessions
and, of course, our wars.
Then, we had the period when we did
the best, which was an evolution from
President Clinton into President Bush,
which was the last time we balanced
our budget.
Then, there is that spike starting
with President Bush through the last
Presidency and, especially, off the cur-
rent Presidency into an ascending col-
umn, which is a projection from the
Congressional Budget Office.
These are scary projections because
the CBO projects that if we do nothing,
we will see our debt climb to around
144 percent of GDP within a couple of
decades.
Where does that rank us in the
world? After all, we have had other
governments that have had high debt.
We have had other governments that
have collapsed. We have had other gov-
ernments for which their budget prob-
lems have caught up with them. Let’s
take a look at that.
This chart shows the period projected
from the current year out only 5 years.
It asks the question: What is the
growth in our debt-to-GDP as com-
pared to the rest of the world? How fast
are we growing in our debt versus the
rest of the world?
Unfortunately, the line on the right
is us. We project that our debt-to-GDP
will grow 11 percent over the next cou-
ple of years.
The next line is Italy. We have Korea
and Japan, but the rest of the world
seems to be getting their growth under
control. Some of these countries are re-
covering from recessions, but some of
these countries just have sound eco-
nomic practices.
The embarrassing thing about this
chart, the scary thing about this chart,
is that we are not the world’s leader.
We are the world’s loser, in terms of
controlling our national debt.
Why should we care about all of this?
One of the questions asked sometimes
is: Why does debt matter?
I think the first and foremost obvi-
ous answer is that debt costs some-
thing. It is not free. If we borrow
money, we pay interest. That is what
everybody who loans us money expects.
They expect to be paid some interest.
These interest payments accelerate
rapidly in times of accelerating debt.
We see here a projection, again based
on figures from the Congressional
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.068 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7142 July 18, 2019
Budget Office, of interest spending over
time, the next 10 years, in this par-
ticular case. We see that, today, we
have interest of somewhere around $400
billion a year but accelerating at a
very rapid rate over the next decade,
up to close to $1 trillion a year.
The red line is a scenario that is very
likely if we do not make some tough
decisions. That gets us even higher.
This is the actual trend that we are
looking at. That is a lot of money to be
paying just for interest.
To make matters worse, try to com-
pare that level of interest spending
against some of our other spending.
In this particular chart, we see this
line is our interest spending, kept rel-
atively modest until recently but then
accelerating very rapidly, as was indi-
cated in my prior chart, to the levels
out to 2029 that are truly scary. That is
not the scary part, if that is not scary
enough.
This line is our total spending on our
children. What do we do to take care of
the children of our country? That is
our spending line. Interest is just
crossing it right now. This is our total
defense spending projected out over
time with interest crossing over.
What this shows is that we are about
to pay, in a very short period of time,
if we don’t do anything, far more
money in basic interest on our national
debt than we are spending on our chil-
dren and our defense. That is an inex-
cusable situation for us to be in.
The first basic problem is that we
crowd out spending for other Federal
purposes, which forces us, by the way,
to borrow more, which forces us to
have higher debt, which forces us to
pay more interest. Everybody who has
been in a business or a personal situa-
tion knows this.
The second basic problem with that
is why should we care about debt—na-
tional security. Where does this money
come from? Who is lending us this
money?
Two-fifths of our interest payments
go overseas, two-fifths of the people in
this world who are loaning us money.
Two-fifths of our total debt is loaned to
us, basically, by other countries. Other
countries, 26 percent.
This is the line that is scary: China,
up to 7 percent now and growing.
Japan, okay, fine, we welcome Japan
loaning money to us. But on balance, I
would rather the blue be the blue rath-
er than owing the money to other
countries because who knows what is
going to happen over the next 10 or 20
years or generations.
This is, obviously, not just an issue
of our own fiscal stability, but it is a
question of national security.
Another question of national secu-
rity is that we need this money in case
we get into other situations in the
world, hopefully not, but prepare for
the situation where we may have to
have massive increases in defense
spending over the next generation.
These are areas where we have tradi-
tionally tried to pay down our debt so
that we can borrow back up to finance
these additional expenditures without
destroying our economy. Yet, when we
borrow in good times to finance even
larger Federal spending, then we have
very little safety net to be able to bor-
row in bad times.
That is not just a matter of budg-
etary stability. That is a matter of na-
tional security.
Finally, why should it matter? Eco-
nomic damage. There is a school out
there that is trying to justify more
debt, which is largely not agreed to by
most economists. Most economists
agree that, over time, large levels of
debt, large levels of interest payments,
drive up basic interest rates. They
drive up basic interest rates, and that
is bad for the economy. They drive up
inflation, and that is bad for the econ-
omy.
They lead to a situation where the
markets out there—the people who are
loaning us money, the people who are
relying on the United States for its full
faith and credit—start to doubt our
basic fiscal solvency. They start to not
only loan us money, but they start to
charge us more interest, and that
causes an economic problem.
Finally, it is just bad budgetary prac-
tice to skate too closely on thin ice.
This is why we should care: because
our interest payments are crowding
out spending; because it is a national
security issue; and because, over time,
it is an economic issue.
How did we get into this mess? Well,
obviously, we are spending more than
we are taking in. Our long-term deficit
buildup and short-term tax reduction
and spending increases are really the
issue.
This chart is an illustration, again
based on CBO information, of where
our deficits are coming from today.
When we are talking about the total
amount of deficits closing in on $1 tril-
lion, we see that absent recent legisla-
tion—we are talking about just the last
5 years or so—we had a chronic deficit
of close to $400 billion a year. That is
pretty bad since, if we take $400 billion
and times it by 5 years, all of a sudden,
we are at $2 trillion of debt.
But, then, we made major mistakes
from a fiscal responsibility perspective
in the last few years.
First of all, we had tax extenders
that were not paid for. We will get into
that. We had tax credits, tax reduc-
tions, and tax rates that were extended
without accounting on the other side
for the spending.
We had a major tax bill, which is still
debated in this Chamber as to whether
it was the right idea or not. What is in-
disputable about that tax bill was that
it drove incredibly increasing deficits
and incredibly and rapidly increasing
debt.
Then, finally, we had a budget agree-
ment, last year, to raise the amount of
spending. There is nothing wrong with
raising the amount of spending, per se,
if it is a public judgment and a policy
judgment that that is the best thing
for our country. What is wrong is to
pretend that there is no consequence to
our deficit, debt, and national fiscal
policy.
What do we do about it?
By the way, I want to go back to that
point for a second. We are not debating
here whether our government should be
bigger or smaller. We are not debating
here whether taxes should be higher or
lower. We can have that debate. It has
been going on, after all, for 250 years
and even before that back to the Colo-
nies. We have always talked about how
big government should or shouldn’t be,
how much we should or shouldn’t spend
through government. We just had that
debate here on this floor today.
We have always talked about the
overall level of taxes. Should they be
higher? Should they be lower? Should
we have high taxes to pay for spending?
Should they be lower to generate eco-
nomic growth? Those are good, solid
policy decisions to be made.
That is not what we are talking
about here. What we are talking about
here is the fiscal result when we don’t
balance spending and revenues, the re-
sult when we don’t balance spending
and revenues.
We can choose to have high spending,
but if we don’t generate the revenue for
that, then we are going to end up with
incredible deficits and debt. We can
choose to have lower taxes, but if we
don’t adjust the spending at the same
time, we are going to end up with high
deficits and debt. It just makes perfect
sense.
That is all that we are talking about
here. We are willing and able to have
the debate over the size of government
and taxes.
Again, within our Blue Dog Caucus,
we have disagreements on that. But
where we have centralization of agree-
ment is in managing the consequence
of that debate and having it be an hon-
est debate, not a debate that pulls the
wool over our fellow citizens’ eyes on
the consequences.
What do we do about it? Well, I
think, first of all, we start talking
about it again. It is really hard. Twen-
ty years ago, in the great times when
we actually did balance the budget in
the late 1990s and the early 2000s, pub-
lic sentiment was high on deficits and
debt. People cared about this. People
understood the risk.
Then, all of a sudden, politicians
stopped talking about it. They did, on
both sides of the aisle, what many of us
do when faced with a major issue: We
deny it. We don’t want to acknowledge
it. It is too much trouble. We don’t
want to say that when we cut taxes and
don’t adjust spending, there is a con-
sequence for our deficit and the debt.
We don’t want to say the reverse of
that. We want to tell everybody that
everything is okay. After all, we can
have our cake and eat it, too.
I don’t want to go back to my dis-
trict and say, well, I can’t vote for a
tax reduction because it is going to
blow our deficit and debt.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.069 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7143
July 18, 2019
This is an insidious situation. The
consequences of deficits and debt are
not apparent right up front. They don’t
catch up with us for a long time. But I
think we all know, deep down, that we
have a problem and that is not true.
b 1430
And the second thing we have to do,
at some point, is simply make a plan
and implement it. And that is what our
Democratic Blue Dog Coalition has
done and will try to do going forward.
We have tried to come up with a
blueprint for fiscal responsibility,
which today, we endorsed and released.
And these are a series of points that we
believe need to be pursued in order to
have some chance at fiscal responsi-
bility and sustainability over time.
From that perspective, I am very
pleased that I am joined today by my
colleague from Utah (Mr. MCADAMS),
my co-chair of the Blue Dog Task
Force on Fiscal Responsibility and
Government Reform, to share his views
and to outline some of our agenda
items.
I yield to the gentleman from Utah
(Mr. MCADAMS).
Mr. MCADAMS. Madam Speaker, I
thank Representative CASE for orga-
nizing this Special Order today, and I
thank him for his outstanding work as
the co-chair of the Blue Dog Task
Force on Fiscal Responsibility and
Government Reform.
I am lucky to serve alongside him as
co-chair, and I also want to thank
STEPHANIE MURPHY for her tireless
leadership in Congress and with the
Blue Dogs.
Madam Speaker, Washington has an
addiction problem. It is hooked on defi-
cits, and it is hooked on debt. Our en-
tire Nation, our children, and their
children will pay the price for this ad-
diction.
On March 2, 2019, the debt limit was
reinstated as $22 trillion as Representa-
tive CASE so appropriately outlined. To
operate the government at this limit,
the Treasury Department deployed ex-
traordinary measures, accounting ma-
neuvers, allowing government oper-
ations to continue. But if those meas-
ures run out and our cash reserves are
depleted, the Federal Government
would reach the unprecedented day on
which our Federal Government cannot
meet all of its obligations in full and
on time.
The consequences of defaulting on
our obligations are unknown, but could
be economically devastating, not only
for the United States, but globally.
As Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome
Powell said recently about the prospect
of not raising the debt limit: ‘‘It is be-
yond even considering that the United
States would not honor all of its obli-
gations and pay them when due. It is
just something that can’t even be con-
sidered,’’ he said.
We know that the costs of barreling
towards this fiscal cliff are already
mounting. American taxpayers foot the
bill for additional borrowing costs that
come from delays in extending the debt
limit.
In previous years, uncertainty has
caused interest rates on some Treasury
bills to spike in anticipation of going
over the fiscal cliff, resulting in many
millions, if not billions of dollars in
added interest costs.
As we have done more than 100 times,
we are now preparing to vote to raise
the debt limit. Raising it does not au-
thorize new spending. It enables the
government to pay its bills and avoid
the sorry reality of becoming an
untrustworthy borrower. What better
time to pair that vote with a plan to
reform government spending?
It is not as if we woke up this morn-
ing to suddenly face this fiscal calam-
ity. It has been building for decades, as
we just saw. Both parties in Republican
and Democratic administrations have
contributed to the problem. The ques-
tion is: What are we going to do about
it? And when will we start to get our
borrowing and our spending addiction
under control?
The Blue Dog Coalition, of which I
am a proud member, has a well-de-
served reputation for talking the talk
and walking the walk when it comes to
fiscal responsibility.
Look at the Blue Dog priorities on
fiscal responsibility and you will see a
comprehensive list of pragmatic steps
that we can take, some of which we
have already taken.
For example, Blue Dogs support the
House paygo rules. It is one of the first
things the Blue Dogs fought for when
we got sworn in this year. And I was
pleased to see the House keep paygo
rules.
We don’t want those rules to be
waived, but if they are, there should be
a vote held on a waiver. Blue Dogs sup-
port a constitutional amendment to re-
quire a balanced budget every year, ex-
cept in times of war, in times of na-
tional emergency, or recession.
I was proud that my first bill intro-
duced in this Congress was this exact
balanced budget amendment that the
Blue Dogs have endorsed. We want to
return to regular order. Passing a
budget every year and on time and
avoiding omnibus appropriation pack-
ages that do not align with that budg-
et.
As a former mayor myself who had to
balance a budget every year and do so
in a bipartisan fashion, I was then, as I
am now, accountable to the taxpayers
for every dollar we spent. Do elected
officials face tough tradeoffs? Yes, ab-
solutely. That comes with the job. Just
as hardworking families and small
business owners must do, you must
work together, and we, in Congress,
must work together to set priorities
and make sure the checkbook balances
at the end of each month.
It is important that we fully offset
the cost of all new spending or reduc-
tions in fiscal revenues with spending
cuts or revenue increases. We must
make those tough choices. We need
strict, enforceable spending caps to en-
sure a fiscally responsible budget.
The Blue Dogs also support better
oversight over our government spend-
ing. The Government Accountability
Office, or GAO, and the inspectors gen-
eral are important entities throughout
the Federal Government that hold Fed-
eral agencies accountable to taxpayers
and recommend improvements.
We believe that Congress should
know what it is voting on by having
every conference report and bill that
comes to the floor of the House accom-
panied by a cost estimate prepared by
the nonpartisan Congressional Budget
Office, and that should be done at least
24 hours in advance of the floor vote.
We believe that committees should
identify proper and related offsets be-
fore the legislation is reported out of
committee.
A $22 trillion debt burden is a heavy
lift to eliminate, for sure. But at the
very least, we should be able to agree
not to take on new policies that add to
that debt.
We teach our kids that if they want
something badly enough, they need to
figure out how to pay for it. Tax re-
form should be deficit neutral. Spend-
ing plans should be fully paid for. Even
emergency spending, which should be
passed quickly to respond when our
communities need it most, should in-
clude a plan to pay for it, and we can
think ahead and plan ahead for those
emergencies.
We should get away from the ad hoc
emergency spending and figure out how
to establish a rainy-day fund which 45
States currently have. Every man,
woman, and child in America owes
$68,000 as Representative CASE has
highlighted as their share of the na-
tional debt. We will all be morally
bankrupt, as well as financially bank-
rupt, if we don’t stop kicking the can
down the road and make future genera-
tions liable for our lack of fiscal dis-
cipline today.
And so my colleagues often ask me
why deficits matter? My answer is be-
cause future generations will be forced
to bear the burden of our failure if we
don’t act today. And the longer it
takes for us to act, the more difficult
those decisions become.
The cost of paying interest on our
debt is the fastest growing part of the
budget. We will spend more on interest
than on defense by the year 2025. That
is 6 years from now. Let that sink in.
The government is projected to spend
$383 billion on interest payments for its
debt this year alone. This year, $383
billion.
So why do I care about the debt and
deficits? It is because a strong fiscal
house means we have a stronger coun-
try. That $383 billion spent on interest
payments in our debt is $383 billion we
can’t spend on other priorities, such as
clean energy and transportation, and
affordable healthcare. The interest we
pay on the debt is simply going on to
our credit card. It is becoming part of
the debt.
So if you care about healthcare, if
you care about climate change and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.070 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7144 July 18, 2019
building a 21st century infrastructure
system, if you care about affordable
housing and any other investment that
the government can make, then I urge
you, care about the debt, and care
about our deficits. Because every dollar
spent on paying down the debt and its
deficits or interest on that debt is one
more dollar that could have been in-
vested in priorities that strengthen our
country, that strengthen our national
defense, and strengthens the American
people.
It is clear that we are on a dangerous
and unsustainable course. The deci-
sions will not be easy. But our children
and our grandchildren are counting on
us to make this right. We were elected
to make tough decisions.
I thank the gentleman for yielding to
me.
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman so much, and I am privi-
leged to be his co-chair.
Would the gentleman engage me in a
colloquy on a few of the issues that he
touched on?
Mr. MCADAMS. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. CASE. I yield to the gentleman
from Utah.
Mr. MCADAMS. I would be happy to.
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman. Let’s talk about his
proposed balanced budget amendment,
by the way, of which I am a proud co-
sponsor.
Some people criticized the balanced
budget amendment which would have
to be ratified throughout our country,
as an overly restrictive mechanism, es-
pecially in times of national emer-
gency.
As the gentleman’s balanced budget
amendment is crafted, is there flexi-
bility to borrow money and to deficit
spend in times of genuine national
need?
I yield to the gentleman from Utah.
Mr. MCADAMS. Yes, absolutely. We
recognize that there may be emer-
gencies that are unforeseen and un-
planned for. And in those cases, the
language of my proposed amendment
would allow for deficit spending to help
our communities in times of need, in
times of national disasters or other
emergencies. And I think that is im-
portant.
Mr. CASE. So we always have the
ability to override the basic provisions
with that balanced budget amendment
in Congress, or where we believe that
we do have to borrow that money. This
is just a mechanism to introduce the
same fiscal discipline that a well-run
business or household has to follow?
I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. MCADAMS. That is correct.
Mr. CASE. As, by the way, is the case
with 49 out of 50 of our States, who ei-
ther have a similar balanced budget
amendment in their constitution or by
statute.
Mr. MCADAMS. Madam Speaker,
that is correct. In my own State of
Utah that has a balanced budget re-
quirement, and has established a rainy-
day fund, as I mentioned, such that
when those emergencies arise, they
have funds available to account for
that.
I would urge us to not only have that
flexibility built into the language of
the amendment, but to plan ahead.
While we don’t know what the next
emergency will be or where it will
strike, we know that dark days are
ahead of us, and that there will be nat-
ural disasters and other emergencies
and we should plan ahead for those.
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, the gen-
tleman made reference to the fact that
he was a mayor, and I made the com-
ment to the gentleman once, and I be-
lieve it, that of all of the public offi-
cials I have ever worked with through-
out the country, I think mayors under-
stand fiscal responsibility the best.
The gentleman made reference to the
fact that he functioned under a bal-
anced budget as a mayor. Was there
any magic to that? How did the gen-
tleman do that? He had a requirement
to do that, so what did he do?
I yield to the gentleman from Utah.
Mr. MCADAMS. Well, one thing, I
had a council of nine members: five Re-
publicans and four Democrats. And one
thing I know from experience is bal-
ancing a budget is hard. We have to
make really tough choices. There are
certainly things that may not be meri-
torious expenses that are easy to say
no to, but by and large, we have to
make some really tough decisions.
We can’t do it all, even though we
might want to do it all. You cannot do
it all. And what it takes is, first of all,
have a bipartisan relationship where
people put their priorities on the table,
discuss what they want to accomplish,
and how they want to get there.
And then everyone has to continue to
work together to refine proposals, to
make sure that you cut the fat out of
proposals and make sure that they are
well refined, and every dollar spent is
justified.
Ultimately, we have been able to bal-
ance a budget. We have to make tough
decisions, but we are able to balance a
budget, because there is that expecta-
tion, that requirement that we must
get there, and so we do get there.
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, so to
that point, my experience in Hawaii,
where we have had a balanced budget
for a long time—and I was a State leg-
islator—so I had knock-down, drag-out
fights over all this kind of stuff, wheth-
er it be to increase spending, or tax re-
ductions, or tax increases. But it was
always against the backdrop that it
had to balance.
My sense was always that the folks
that we represented understood that
that presented us with a series of tough
choices, and they understood that in
the big picture, the tough choices that
we had to make as a result of a bal-
anced budget, were for the better, the
overall, long-term, big picture fiscal
health, economic health and social
health of Hawaii.
Did the gentleman have that experi-
ence in Utah?
I yield to the gentleman from Utah.
Mr. MCADAMS. Madam Speaker, we
did have that experience, and I would
add, it made us better. The county that
I presided over as mayor, we had a
AAA bond rating. The faith in our abil-
ity to pay our debts meant we paid
lower interest rates. People knew that
we would not default on those debts,
and we saved tax dollars because people
knew that we could balance our budg-
et.
I would like to add one point to the
gentleman’s consideration. Fiscal re-
sponsibility is important. It is impor-
tant for our States. It is important for
this country.
But another element that I found in
the process of balancing a budget, when
we had to make those tough choices,
when, at the end of the day, the ledger
had to balance, what we were forced to
do was go back and look at every ex-
penditure we made and ask ourselves:
Can it be done more effectively?
Can we stretch our dollars further?
Is the program or endeavor that we
are engaged in the lowest-cost alter-
native?
Are tax dollars being spent wisely?
Are programs invested in our citi-
zens, whether it is a program to reduce
recidivism or to improve early child-
hood learning?
We were expected to look and evalu-
ate the effectiveness of each and every
program because we were having to
make competing choices. We were
choosing between one good and, hope-
fully, a better good, and that required
us to quantify empirically the out-
comes we were receiving from our pro-
grams.
b 1445
That was good for fiscal responsi-
bility. More importantly, it was good
for the people we were serving because
the programs we were delivering were
expected to improve. We held those
programs to a high standard on behalf
of the citizens who we served.
Mr. CASE. I think what the gen-
tleman is saying in a very gracious
Utah way is that the lack of a balanced
budget where we always have the re-
course to just borrow money and kick
some cans down the road
disincentivizes the efficient and effec-
tive expenditure of government funds,
of taxpayer funds. After all, if there is
waste in that expenditure, there is a
safety valve there, whereas a balanced
budget drives a certain discipline.
Mr. MCADAMS. Waste in plowing
snow or fixing streetlights is one thing,
but in programs that serve our resi-
dents, there is a human cost to pro-
grams that aren’t held to a high stand-
ard. It takes a toll on individuals and
on families—on people—who were
promised one outcome. If a program
fails to deliver on that, there is a
human cost.
Mr. CASE. One other point that the
gentleman made that I think bears fur-
ther discussion is the gentleman’s ref-
erence to paygo. Of course, we throw
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.072 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7145
July 18, 2019
‘‘paygo’’ around here all the time.
Sometimes, people’s eyes kind of blank
out when we talk about paygo.
Can the gentleman talk a little bit
more about the simplistic and basic ap-
proach of paygo? What does it mean?
What is its effect on the work that we
do?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Utah.
Mr. MCADAMS. The rules of the
House require that any legislation that
would have a fiscal impact has to be
paid for. We can’t simply add that on
to the tab and put it on the taxpayers’
credit card. Every legislation has to be
paid for upfront.
Mr. CASE. In other words, not fi-
nanced by additional debt, which would
have the result of driving up the def-
icit, the debt, and interest payments?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Utah.
Mr. MCADAMS. That is exactly
right. I describe it as saying that the
first rule when you find yourself in a
hole and are not sure how to get out is
to stop digging.
Mr. CASE. Let’s take a pretty
straightforward example. Let’s say
that we wanted to reduce taxes.
By the way, we can acknowledge
there is a debate about whether reduc-
ing taxes does, in fact, generate rev-
enue or not. But for these purposes and
especially the recent large tax cut, we
simply did not see a return on revenues
from those tax cuts.
But let’s just stick with the fact that
if we reduce taxes, then we have to ei-
ther increase another tax and/or reduce
government spending somewhere to be
able to have a budget-neutral, a def-
icit-neutral outcome.
Is that correct?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Utah.
Mr. MCADAMS. That is right. Every
activity, whether it is reducing reve-
nues or increasing spending, should be
neutral as it relates to the Federal def-
icit.
Mr. CASE. Conversely, if we want to
increase Federal spending, we have to
either reduce some other Federal
spending or increase taxes, correct?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Utah.
Mr. MCADAMS. Exactly. That is cor-
rect.
Mr. CASE. The gentleman said that
the House rules already provided for
paygo. So why are we here so con-
cerned about it?
Mr. MCADAMS. One of my concerns
is the willingness with which both
sides, both parties, will waive paygo. It
takes a simple majority to waive
paygo. We have seen that happen from
time to time, whether it is exigent cir-
cumstances like emergencies, but
other things that we can plan ahead
and should look ahead for.
Mr. CASE. Essentially, we have a
rule that is honored in the breach?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Utah.
Mr. MCADAMS. Yes.
Mr. CASE. Of course. One of the ele-
ments of our Blue Dog fiscal responsi-
bility blueprint is to tighten up the
rules on paygo so that we stop the
bleeding on debt and deficit spending.
Mr. MCADAMS. Exactly.
Mr. CASE. Again, I am honored to be
the gentleman’s co-chair, and I thank
the gentleman for adding to our debate
today.
Madam Speaker, I want to make one
other point before I close on this sub-
ject. I want to emphasize one of the
points made by my colleague from
Utah. He talked about restoring the
budget and appropriations process.
This starts to be real inside baseball.
Congress goes through a process es-
tablishing a budget, which is the over-
all outline of Federal spending for the
next year—because we do everything
on a yearly basis, for the most part—
and then passing appropriations bills
that are consistent with that budget.
In other words, we make the big pic-
ture decision upfront in a budget, and
then we have our appropriations bills
that must match that budget.
In what we refer to here as regular
order, what we would do is first have a
budget resolution that passes the
House, passes the Senate, and is agreed
to by both the House and the Senate so
that we know what our roadmap is.
Then, we would take each of the areas
of government that needs appropria-
tions every year.
The way we do it is, there are 12 sepa-
rate appropriations bills, and we would
individually pass each of those bills
consistent with the budget. We would
do all of that by October 1, which is
when our fiscal year starts.
We would call that regular order.
That would be quite regular order for
any business and any personal budget.
The last time we followed regular
order was 1995. The last time we went
through a full budget process, an indi-
vidual appropriations bill process, was
1995. And that has simply thrown our
Federal fiscal house into disarray. We
saw that with an incredibly tragic and
unnecessary Federal Government shut-
down just late last year and earlier
this year. That was in part to be laid at
the feet of our failure to follow basic
budgetary, fiscal, and appropriations
procedures.
We have tried, on a bipartisan basis,
to fix this. In fact, just last year, we
had a bicameral, bipartisan committee
set up to reform the rules of the House
and the Senate as to the budget and
the appropriations process.
I want to read a passage from that
committee’s report. This was the Joint
Select Committee on Budget and Ap-
propriations Process Reform, Repub-
licans and Democrats, House and Sen-
ate.
Here is a quote from the committee’s
report in late 2018: ‘‘There have been
numerous breakdowns in the budget
process in recent decades. Fiscal year
1995 was the last time Congress passed
a conference report on the budget reso-
lution followed by passage of 13 sepa-
rate appropriations bills before the be-
ginning of the new fiscal year.’’
We now do 12.
‘‘Continuing resolutions, CRs, have
become the status quo for funding the
Federal Government, demonstrating
Congress’ failure to complete its work
on time. CRs create uncertainty for
agencies and the American people.’’
By the way, I stop to describe a CR as
a resolution that says: Sorry, we can’t
figure out what to do in this next fiscal
year. So while we are trying to figure
it out, all we are going to do is con-
tinue the spending the way it was in
the last fiscal year, no adjustment of
spending levels, no adjustment of prior-
ities, and no update for current situa-
tions. Let’s just kick this can down the
road.
That is a CR.
Back to the report.
‘‘In many years, there has been con-
cern that parts of the government
would have to shut down due to the
failure to enact even stopgap appro-
priations, and shutdowns of various du-
rations have actually occurred. In the
115th Congress alone,’’ the most recent
Congress, ‘‘there have been two govern-
ment shutdowns. Whether it is Federal
employees being furloughed, national
parks shutting down, adverse effects on
defense and law enforcement, shut-
downs inflict severe damage and uncer-
tainty on the Nation’s fiscal state. Ad-
ditionally, multiple JSCBAPR mem-
bers expressed frustration regarding
the lack of legislative tools available
for Congress to address national needs
or the national debt in a bipartisan
manner.’’
The committee’s report was sub-
mitted very, very late in the last Con-
gress, so there was really not enough
time to debate it fully and to proceed,
but the report certainly remains highly
relevant together with recommended
legislation. Our Blue Dog Caucus be-
lieves that reform along those lines is
necessary.
Finally—and I don’t speak now for
the Blue Dogs, but I do speak for my-
self and, I believe, many individual
Blue Dogs and perhaps others—we have
another mechanism available to us, a
mechanism that we shouldn’t have to
follow but that sometimes may be the
only way to cut through the political
dialogue and the fears of people to
make tough decisions. That is to de-
velop independent commissions outside
Congress of experts, hopefully on a
neutral basis and hopefully on a non-
partisan or bipartisan basis, who are
charged with reviewing and making de-
cisions on revenue and spending mat-
ters and reporting their results back to
Congress, hopefully for an up-or-down
vote. If Congress gets the opportunity
to pick at a balanced report once it
comes back, then it defeats the purpose
of the commission to start with. Simp-
son-Bowles was one very well-known
commission that failed, and there have
been others.
It is certainly conceivable that if we
can’t get our act in order in Congress—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.074 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7146 July 18, 2019
as we should be able to do, and as I be-
lieve the American people want and
think we should do—then we need to
resort to some other mechanism to get
this House in order.
Finally, we need public support. We
need to get people involved again in
this issue.
As I said earlier, the late 1990s and
early 2000s were the height of public
concern over deficits and debt, and it
resulted in external pressure to Con-
gress to balance our budget.
A succession of two Presidents with
bipartisan Congresses, by the way, got
it balanced. The public demanded it; we
delivered.
Now, it is almost a forgotten issue. It
doesn’t even rank in the top 10 of
major issues. We have many, many
major issues. But, Madam Speaker, I
will tell you one thing, the issues that
are in the top 10, our solutions to those
issues will be crippled if we don’t get
our basic fiscal house in order.
In conclusion, the Blue Dogs believe
that we are, in fact, in a national cri-
sis. We stand ready to work with any-
one and everyone toward common-
sense, mainstream solutions.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 2 o’clock and 55 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Fri-
day, July 19, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.
h
EXPENDITURE REPORTS CONCERNING OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the second quar-
ter of 2019, pursuant to Public Law 95–384, are as follows:
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO SLOVAKIA, EXPENDED BETWEEN MAY 30 AND JUNE 3, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Gerald Connolly ............................................... 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Hon. Michael Turner ................................................ 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Hon. Brett Guthrie ................................................... 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Hon. Linda Sánchez ................................................. 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Hon. Susan Davis .................................................... 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Hon. Neal Dunn ....................................................... 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Hon. James Sensenbrenner ..................................... 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Hon. Paul Cook ........................................................ 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Hon. James Costa .................................................... 6/1 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 611.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 611.40
Hon. Brendan Boyle ................................................. 5/31 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 917.10 .................... 3,382.20 .................... .................... .................... 4,299.30
Hon. Filemon Vela ................................................... 5/31 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 917.10 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 917.10
Hon. John Shimkus .................................................. 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Collin Davenport ...................................................... 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Adam Howard .......................................................... 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Edmund Rice ........................................................... 5/30 6/3 Slovakia ................................................ .................... 1222.80 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
Kate Knudson .......................................................... ............. ................. Slovakia ................................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 226.02 .................... 226.02
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 17,119.20 .................... 3,382.20 .................... 226.02 .................... 20,727.42
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY, July 2, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO MEXICO, EXPENDED BETWEEN JUNE 5 AND JUNE 8, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Katherine Monge ............................................. 6/5 6/8 Mexico ................................................... .................... 1,272.00 .................... 431.88 .................... .................... .................... 1,703.88
Hon. Jaime Lizarraga ............................................... 6/5 6/8 Mexico ................................................... .................... 1,272.00 .................... 431.75 .................... .................... .................... 1,703.75
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 2,544.00 .................... 863.63 .................... .................... .................... 3,407.63
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. NANCY PELOSI, July 3, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO FRANCE, EXPENDED BETWEEN JUNE 6 AND JUNE 9, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Nancy Pelosi .................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Kevin McCarthy ............................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Eliot Engel ....................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Mark Takano ................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Don Young ....................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Anna Eshoo ..................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Mac Thornberry ............................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Ron Kind ......................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. James Langevin .............................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Stephen Lynch ................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Dutch Ruppersberger ...................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. G.K. Butterfield ............................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Mike Conaway ................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. James Costa .................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Jeff Fortenberry ............................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Louie Gohmert ................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Kenny Marchant .............................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Mike McCaul ................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Debbie Wasserman Schultz ............................ 6/6 6/7 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) 820.23 .................... .................... .................... 3,410.23
Hon. Ed Perlmutter .................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Bob Latta ........................................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Jackie Speier ................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\K18JY7.075 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7147
July 18, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO FRANCE, EXPENDED BETWEEN JUNE 6 AND JUNE 9, 2019—Continued
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Mike Quigley .................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Larry Bucshon ................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Morgan Griffith ............................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Bill Huizenga ................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Bill Johnson ..................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. William Keating ............................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Julia Brownley ................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Matt Cartwright .............................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Paul Cook ........................................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Ann Kuster ...................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Sean Patrick Maloney ..................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Marc Veasey .................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Donald Norcross .............................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Brian Babin ..................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Barry Loudermilk ............................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Elise Stefanik .................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Don Bacon ....................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Jim Banks ....................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Nanette Barragán ........................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Salud Carbajal ................................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Neal Dunn ....................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Roger Marshall ................................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Jimmy Panetta ................................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Thomas Suozzi ................................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Gil Cisneros ..................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Jason Crow ...................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Chrissy Houlahan ............................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. John Joyce ....................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Mikie Sherrill ................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Abigail Spanberger ......................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Michael Waltz .................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Sheila Jackson Lee .......................................... 6/6 6/8 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Hon. Lee Zeldin ....................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Dr. Brian Monahan .................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Paul Irving ............................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Wyndee Parker ......................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Drew Hammill .......................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Kate Knudson Wolters ............................................. 6/2 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 4,662.00 .................... (3) 563.70 .................... .................... .................... 5,225.70
Emily Berret ............................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,073.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,073.00
Patti Ross ................................................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Kelsey Smith ............................................................ 6/2 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 4,662.00 .................... (3) 563.70 .................... .................... .................... 5,225.70
Kristina Jeter ........................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,073.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,073.00
Julio Obscura ........................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,073.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,073.00
Caleb Smith ............................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Will Dunham ............................................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,073.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,073.00
Brittan Specht ......................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,073.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,073.00
Laura Rauch ............................................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,073.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,073.00
Matt Reel ................................................................. 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,073.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,073.00
Erik Lesnewsky ........................................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,073.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,073.00
David Adams ........................................................... 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,590.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,590.00
Valerie Roberts ........................................................ 6/6 6/9 France ................................................... .................... 2,073.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,073.00
Committee Totals ....................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 188,561.00 .................... 1,947.63 .................... .................... .................... 190,508.63
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
HON. NANCY PELOSI, July 8, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON ETHICS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1, AND JUNE 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH, July 9, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON NATURAL RESOURCES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1 AND JUNE 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
HON. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA, July 3, 2019.
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON RULES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1 AND JUNE 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.059 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7148 July 18, 2019
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. JAMES. P. McGOVERN, July 5, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, SELECT COMMITTEE ON THE CLIMATE CRISIS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1 AND JUNE 30,
2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. KATHY CASTOR, July 8, 2019.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1672. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, transmitting a re-
port of a violation of the Antideficiency Act,
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1351; Public Law 97-258;
(96 Stat. 926); to the Committee on Appro-
priations.
1673. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Acquisition and Sustainment, Department of
Defense, transmitting the Department’s re-
port titled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2018 Purchases From
Foreign Entities’’, pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 8305;
Public Law 104-201, Sec. 827 (as amended by
Public Law 111-350, Sec. 3); (124 Stat. 3833)
and 41 U.S.C. 8304 note; Public Law 115-245,
Sec. 8028(b); (132 Stat. 3006); to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
1674. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Personnel and Readiness, Department of De-
fense, transmitting a letter authorizing
three (3) officers to wear the insignia of the
grade of major general, pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
777(b)(3)(B); Public Law 104-106, Sec. 503(a)(1)
(as added by Public Law 108-136, Sec.
509(a)(3)); (117 Stat. 1458); to the Committee
on Armed Services.
1675. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
on the approved retirement of Vice Admiral
Raquel C. Bono, United States Navy, and her
advancement to the grade of vice admiral on
the retired list, pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112 (as
amended by Public Law 104-106, Sec. 502(b));
(110 Stat. 293); to the Committee on Armed
Services.
1676. A letter from the Comptroller of the
Currency, Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, transmitting the 2018 annual re-
port to Congress containing a description of
actions taken to carry out section 308 of the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989, as amended,
pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1463 note; Public Law
101-73, Sec. 308 (as amended by Public Law
111-203, Sec. 367(4)); (124 Stat. 1556); to the
Committee on Financial Services.
1677. A letter from the Assistant Adminis-
trator, Bureau of Legislative and Public Af-
fairs, U.S Agency for International Develop-
ment, transmitting the Agency’s Report to
Congress on Global Health Innovations for
Fiscal Year 2018, pursuant to Public Law 115-
411, Sec. 2(a); to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
1678. A letter from the President and Chief
Executive Officer, Federal Home Loan Bank
of Indianapolis, transmitting the Federal
Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis 2018 man-
agement report and financial statements,
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 9106(a)(1); Public Law
97-258 (as amended by Public Law 101-576,
Sec. 306(a)); (104 Stat. 2854); to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
1679. A letter from the Acting Executive
Secretary, U.S. Agency for International De-
velopment, transmitting seven (7) notifica-
tions of a designation of acting officer, nomi-
nation, or action on nomination, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b);
(112 Stat. 2681-614); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
1680. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Several Groundfish
Species in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Is-
lands Management Area [Docket No.:
170817779-8161-02] (RIN: 0648-XG572) received
July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1681. A letter from the Attorney, CG-LRA,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Drawbridge Operation Regula-
tion; Shrewsbury River, Monmouth County
Highway Bridge, Sea Bright, New Jersey
[Docket No.: USCG-2017-0460] (RIN: 1625-
AA09) received July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
1682. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Regulations and Administrative
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s temporary final rule — Safety
Zone; Fireworks Display, Delaware River,
Chester, PA [Docket Number: USCG-2019-
0403] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received July 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
1683. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; New
Jersey Intracoastal Waterway, Atlantic
City, NJ [Docket Number: USCG-2019-0537]
(RIN: 1625-AA00) received July 15, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1684. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Anchorage Regulations;
Passagassawakeag River, Belfast, ME [Dock-
et Number: USCG-2016-0989] (RIN: 1625-AA01)
received July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
1685. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Colum-
bia River, Fireworks Kennewick, WA [Dock-
et Number: USCG-2019-0323] (RIN: 1625-AA00)
received July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
1686. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone, Newport
4th of July Fireworks, Yaquina Bay, New-
port, OR [Docket Number: USCG-2019-0520]
(RIN: 1625-AA00) received July 15, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1687. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Upper
Mississippi River, Miles 483 to 484, Rock Is-
land, IL [Docket Number: USCG-2019-0513]
(RIN: 1625-AA00) received July 15, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1688. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Red-
wood City Independence Day Fireworks Dis-
play; Port of Redwood City, Redwood City,
CA [Docket No.: USCG-2019-0467] (RIN: 1625-
AA00) received July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
1689. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Vallejo
Independence Day Fireworks Display; Mare
Island Strait, Vallejo, CA [Docket No.:
USCG-2019-0379] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received
July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
1690. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone: City of
Benicia Fourth of July Fireworks Display,
Carquinez Strait, Benicia, CA [Docket No.:
USCG-2019-0393] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received
July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
1691. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Regulations and Administrative
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Safety Zone; Fire-
works Display, Delaware River, Philadel-
phia, PA [Docket Number: USCG-2019-0338]
(RIN: 1625-AA00) received July 15, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.059 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7149
July 18, 2019
1692. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Safety Zone; San Francisco Wa-
terfront Celebration Fireworks Display; San
Francisco Bay, San Francisco, CA [Docket
No.: USCG-2019-0492] (RIN: 1625-AA00) re-
ceived July 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
1693. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone, City of
North Charleston Fireworks, North Charles-
ton, SC [Docket Number: USCG-2019-0371]
(RIN: 1625-AA00) received July 15, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 2943. A bill to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to make all fact sheets of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in
English and Spanish; with amendments
(Rept. 116–158). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. NEAL: Committee on Ways and Means.
H.R. 397. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to create a Pension Reha-
bilitation Trust Fund, to establish a Pension
Rehabilitation Administration within the
Department of the Treasury to make loans
to multiemployer defined benefit plans, and
for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–159, Pt. 1). Ordered to be printed.
Mr. NEAL: Committee on Ways and Means.
H.R. 3298. A bill to increase entitlement
funding for child care; with amendments
(Rept. 116–160). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. NEAL: Committee on Ways and Means.
H.R. 3299. A bill to permit legally married
same-sex couples to amend their filing sta-
tus for income tax returns outside the stat-
ute of limitations, to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to clarify that all pro-
visions shall apply to legally married same-
sex couples in the same manner as other
married couples, and for other purposes; with
an amendment (Rept. 116–161). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. UNDERWOOD (for herself and
Ms. SHALALA):
H.R. 3819. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for the contin-
ued implementation of the Climate and
Health program by the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. ROUDA (for himself, Mr.
BURCHETT, Mr. TRONE, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. JOHNSON of South
Dakota, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. KING of
New York, and Mr. JOYCE of Ohio):
H.R. 3820. A bill to amend the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy Reauthorization
Act of 1998 to direct the Office of National
Drug Control Policy to publish a list of drug
control grant programs, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. MCHENRY:
H.R. 3821. A bill to amend the Fair Credit
Reporting Act to make improvements to the
regulation of consumer reporting agencies
and protect consumers, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. GARCÍA of
Illinois, and Mr. TONKO):
H.R. 3822. A bill to amend titles 23 and 49,
United States Code, to require metropolitan
planning organizations to consider green-
house gas emissions in long-range transpor-
tation plans and transportation improve-
ment programs, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 3823. A bill to ensure that health pro-
fessions opportunity demonstration projects
train project participants to earn a recog-
nized postsecondary credential, and to clar-
ify that community colleges are eligible for
grants to conduct such a demonstration
project; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. BOST (for himself, Mr. CLAY,
Mr. SHIMKUS, and Mr. RODNEY DAVIS
of Illinois):
H.R. 3824. A bill to establish the Cahokia
Mounds Mississippian Culture National His-
torical Park in Collinsville, Illinois, Monroe,
Madison, and St. Clair Counties, Illinois, and
St. Louis City County, Missouri, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. VARGAS (for himself, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. COOK, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. TAKANO, Mrs. TORRES
of California, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. BERA, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. PETERS, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. CORREA, Mr. COX of California,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. HILL of California,
Mr. COSTA, and Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 3825. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
401 Main Street in Brawley, California, as
the ‘‘Helen Fabela Chávez Memorial Post Of-
fice Building’’; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
(for himself, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. BOST,
Mr. MEUSER, Mr. BANKS, and Mr.
BILIRAKIS):
H.R. 3826. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to prohibit the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs from transmitting certain
information to the Department of Justice for
use by the national instant criminal back-
ground check system; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself,
Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms. WILSON
of Florida, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr.
PAYNE, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
LUJÁN, Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
PORTER, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. VARGAS,
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Mr. SIRES, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. MENG, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mr. HURD of Texas, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Ms. HILL of
California, and Mr. CÁRDENAS):
H.R. 3827. A bill to promote and support
collaboration between Hispanic-serving in-
stitutions and Hispanic-serving school dis-
tricts, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. CRENSHAW (for himself, Mr.
CUELLAR, Mr. LUCAS, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas, Mr. FLORES, Mr. LAMB, and
Mr. WALBERG):
H.R. 3828. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish a program for the re-
search, development, and demonstration of
commercially viable technologies for the
capture of carbon dioxide produced during
the generation of natural gas-generated
power; to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology.
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
WITTMAN, Mr. POCAN, Mr. HUNTER,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. KING of New
York, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. BROWNLEY
of California, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. GOLDEN,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. COURT-
NEY, Mr. NORCROSS, and Mrs. LURIA):
H.R. 3829. A bill to require a certain per-
centage of natural gas and crude oil exports
be transported on United States-built and
United States-flag vessels, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. WALBERG (for himself and Mr.
COOPER):
H.R. 3830. A bill to provide taxpayers with
an improved understanding of Government
programs through the disclosure of cost, per-
formance, and areas of duplication among
them, leverage existing data to achieve a
functional Federal program inventory, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. ARMSTRONG:
H.R. 3831. A bill to repeal the Act entitled
‘‘An Act to confer jurisdiction on the State
of North Dakota over offenses committed by
or against Indians on the Devils Lake Indian
Reservation’’; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mr. KELLY
of Pennsylvania, and Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama):
H.R. 3832. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand tax-free distribu-
tions from individual retirement accounts to
include rollovers for charitable life-income
plans for charitable purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr.
MITCHELL, Mr. MOULTON, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 3833. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide for the auto-
matic recertification of income for income-
driven repayment plans, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18JY7.000 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7150 July 18, 2019
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 3834. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to provide polit-
ical advertising vouchers and payments to
defray the costs of postage for candidates in
general elections to the Senate or House of
Representatives who agree to restrictions on
the types of contributions such candidates
raise and the types of expenditures such can-
didates make, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on House Administration, and in
addition to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. DESAULNIER (for himself and
Mr. CARTER of Georgia):
H.R. 3835. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for coverage
of cancer care planning and coordination
under the Medicare program; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. ESHOO (for herself, Mr. THOMP-
SON of California, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. ROUDA, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. COX of
California, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
PANETTA, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. LEE of California, and
Mr. MCNERNEY):
H.R. 3836. A bill to amend section 332 of the
Communications Act of 1934 to include pub-
lic safety requirements in terms and condi-
tions States may require of mobile services;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 3837. A bill to establish the National
Fab Lab Network, a Federally chartered or-
ganization consisting of a national network
of local digital fabrication facilities pro-
viding universal access to advanced manu-
facturing tools for workforce development,
STEM education, developing inventions, cre-
ating businesses, producing personalized
products, mitigating risks, and other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. HAALAND (for herself, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. RUSH, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, and Mr. CARBAJAL):
H.R. 3838. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Labor to recognize employers with a com-
mitment to helping employees balance work-
place responsibilities and family obligations;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. HOULAHAN (for herself and
Mr. BALDERSON):
H.R. 3839. A bill to improve commercializa-
tion activities in the SBIR and STTR pro-
grams, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Small Business, and in addition to
the Committees on Science, Space, and
Technology, and the Judiciary, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 3840. A bill to establish a consortia of
universities to advise the Secretary of De-
fense on cybersecurity matters, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. QUIGLEY, and Mr.
HARRIS):
H.R. 3841. A bill to provide for the imposi-
tion of sanctions against 24 senior officials of
the Border Service and Federal Security
Service of Russia until the release of certain
seized Ukrainian ships and crewmembers,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. MORELLE,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. MOORE, and Mr.
BALDERSON):
H.R. 3842. A bill to amend titles XIX and
XXI of the Social Security Act to require a
State child health plan to include certain
lead screening coverage and to codify such
requirement under the Medicaid program; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. KEATING (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. WIL-
SON of South Carolina, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. ADERHOLT, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
HUDSON, Ms. MOORE, Mr. CURTIS, Mr.
SUOZZI, and Mr. MALINOWSKI):
H.R. 3843. A bill to promote international
efforts in combating corruption,
kleptocracy, and illicit finance by foreign of-
ficials and other foreign persons, including
through a new anti-corruption action fund,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. KHANNA (for himself and Mr.
POCAN):
H.R. 3844. A bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act to require all
persons exercising substantial operational
control over a concentrated animal feeding
operation to jointly obtain a permit for cer-
tain discharges, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. STIV-
ERS, Miss RICE of New York, Ms. POR-
TER, Mr. HIMES, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mr. PERLMUTTER, and
Mrs. MURPHY):
H.R. 3845. A bill to authorize a grant pro-
gram that strengthens the capacity of com-
munity development financial institutions
through alignment with national service par-
ticipants; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. LUJÁN (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. COLE, Ms. HAALAND, Ms.
TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr.
COOK, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. CASE, and
Mr. LAMALFA):
H.R. 3846. A bill to enhance protections of
Native American tangible cultural heritage,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources, and in addition to the
Committees on the Judiciary, and Foreign
Affairs, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. MCEACHIN (for himself, Mr.
WITTMAN, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. CLINE,
Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
GRIFFITH, Ms. WEXTON, and Mr. CON-
NOLLY):
H.R. 3847. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
117 West Poythress Street in Hopewell, Vir-
ginia, as the ‘‘Reverend Curtis West Harris
Post Office Building’’; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. LEE of
California, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, and Ms. TLAIB):
H.R. 3848. A bill to require the Securities
and Exchange Commission to issue rules re-
quiring private funds to publicly disclose
certain information, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in
addition to the Committees on Financial
Services, the Judiciary, and Education and
Labor, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself,
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. SOTO, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts,
and Ms. HAALAND):
H.R. 3849. A bill to address maternity care
shortages and promote optimal maternity
outcomes by expanding educational opportu-
nities for midwives, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. SARBANES:
H.R. 3850. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to exempt assist-
ance provided by political parties to the
campaigns of candidates who are affiliated
with such parties for secure information
communications technology or cybersecu-
rity products or services from the limita-
tions on the amount of coordinated expendi-
tures parties may make in connection with
the campaigns of such candidates, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on House
Administration.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, Ms. TITUS, and Mr. LONG):
H.R. 3851. A bill to extend funding for
Brand USA through fiscal year 2027, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Ms. JAYAPAL, and Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire):
H.R. 3852. A bill to provide oversight of the
border zone in which Federal agents may
conduct vehicle checkpoints and stops and
enter private land without a warrant, and to
make technical corrections; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committee on Homeland Security, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. WEXTON (for herself and Ms.
NORTON):
H.R. 3853. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to increase under the
Medicaid program the minimum monthly
personal needs allowance for institutional-
ized individuals and couples, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. MCNERNEY (for himself and
Ms. KAPTUR):
H.J. Res. 73. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States regarding the permissible
sources of funding for elections for public of-
fice and State ballot measures; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Ms. SCAN-
LON, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. SPEIER, Ms.
FRANKEL, and Mrs. LAWRENCE):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18JY7.100 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7151
July 18, 2019
H. Res. 502. A resolution congratulating
the United States Women’s National Team
for its win on July 7, 2019, of the 2019
Fédération Internationale de Football Asso-
ciation Women’s World Cup, and for becom-
ing the most successful team in inter-
national women’s soccer; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. MATSUI:
H. Res. 503. A resolution recognizing and
honoring the 50th anniversary of SEARCH,
The National Consortium for Justice Infor-
mation and Statistics, headquartered in Sac-
ramento, California; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. WATERS (for herself, Ms. LEE
of California, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. RUSH, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. COX of California, Mr. NADLER,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. COHEN, Ms. KELLY
of Illinois, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
MEEKS, Mrs. AXNE, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. GARCÍA of
Illinois, and Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington):
H. Res. 504. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of National Clinicians HIV/
AIDS Testing and Awareness Day, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Ms. MENG (for herself and Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia):
H. Res. 505. A resolution recognizing July
28, 2019, as ‘‘World Hepatitis Day’’; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Mr. CICILLINE introduced a bill (H.R.
3854) to allow the Coast Guard to issue a cer-
tificate of documentation with a coastwise
endorsement for the vessel Oliver Hazard
Perry, and for other purposes; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. UNDERWOOD:
H.R. 3819.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. ROUDA:
H.R. 3820.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. MCHENRY:
H.R. 3821.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the explicit power of Congress to
regulate commerce as enumerated in Article
I, Section 8, Clause 3. Additionally, Article I,
Section 7, Clause 2 allows for every bill
passed by the House of Representatives and
the Senate and signed by the President to be
made law, and therefore implicitly allows
Congress to amend any legislation that has
been passed by both chambers and signed
into law by the President.
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 3822.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 3823.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. BOST:
H.R. 3824.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2.
By Mr. VARGAS:
H.R. 3825.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
(1) To regulate commerce with foreign na-
tions, and among the several states, and with
the Indian tribes, as enumerated in Article 1,
Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S. Constitution;
(2) To establish post offices and post roads
as enumerated in Article 1, Section 8, Clause
7 of the U.S. Constitution; and
(3) To make all laws necessary and proper
for executing powers vested by the Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
as enumerated in Article I, Section 8, Clause
18 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee:
H.R. 3826.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, which states ‘‘[t]he Congress
shall have power to lay and collect taxes, du-
ties, imposts and excises, to pay the debts
and provide for the common defense and gen-
eral welfare of the United States; but all du-
ties, imposts and excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States’’
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas:
H.R. 3827.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Constitutional Authority—Necessary and
Proper Clause (Art. I, Sec. 8, Clause 18)
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8: POWERS OF
CONGRESS
CLAUSE 18
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. CRENSHAW:
H.R. 3828.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clauses 1, 3, & 18
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 3829.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. WALBERG:
H.R. 3830.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 9, Clause 7—No Money
shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in
Consequence of Appropriations made by Law;
and a regular Statement and Account of Re-
ceipts and Expenditures of all public Money
shall be published from time to time.
By Mr. ARMSTRONG:
H.R. 3831.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 3832.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: The Congress shall
have power to lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts and excises, to pay the debts and
provide for the common defense and general
welfare of the United States; but all duties,
imposts and excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States;
By Ms. BONAMICI:
H.R. 3833.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Section 8 of Article I of the Constitution
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 3834.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion under the General Welfare Clause.
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 3835.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 3836.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution, which gives Congress the
power ‘‘to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several states, and
with the Indian tribes.’’
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 3837.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 3838.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Ms. HOULAHAN:
H.R. 3839.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 3840.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. KAPTUR:
H.R. 3841.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3:
To regulate Commerce with foreign na-
tions.
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 3842.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8: The Congress shall
have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and
provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States; but all Duties,
Imposts and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States.
By Mr. KEATING:
H.R. 3843.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18JY7.100 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7152 July 18, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. KHANNA:
H.R. 3844.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the US Constitution.
By Mr. KILMER:
H.R. 3845.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. LUJÁN:
H.R. 3846.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendment, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. MCEACHIN:
H.R. 3847.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. POCAN:
H.R. 3848.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD:
H.R. 3849.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. SARBANES:
H.R. 3850.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion under the General Welfare Clause.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 3851.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof..
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 3852.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof..
By Ms. WEXTON:
H.R. 3853.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 3854.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.J. Res. 73.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 24: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 35: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 45: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 117: Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 335: Mr. ROONEY of Florida and Mr.
POSEY.
H.R. 397: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York and Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 479: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 510: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 535: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 555: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 565: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 617: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 647: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 734: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 864: Ms. SÁNCHEZ and Mr. COOK.
H.R. 878: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 934: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 935: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 945: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, and Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 959: Mr. COOPER, Mrs. LESKO, and Mrs.
BEATTY.
H.R. 978: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 1042: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 1045: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 1050: Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 1058: Ms. WEXTON and Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ.
H.R. 1111: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 1116: Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 1139: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 1154: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 1155: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1175: Mr. BUCSHON and Mr. JORDAN.
H.R. 1209: Mr. HASTINGS and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1220: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 1228: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 1254: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 1255: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 1379: Mr. BEYER and Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 1393: Mr. LUJÁN and Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 1394: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 1396: Mrs. MILLER, Mr. CORREA, Mr.
MULLIN, Mr. KIM, Mr. LEVIN of California,
Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. RYAN, Mr. PHILLIPS,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr. ARRINGTON,
Mr. BOST, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
KING of Iowa, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. LATTA, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mrs. ROBY, Mr. ROGERS of Ala-
bama, Mr. ROUZER, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. SIMP-
SON, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. WALDEN, Mr. WOMACK,
and Mr. CRAWFORD.
H.R. 1406: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1407: Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. WELCH, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mrs. LESKO, and Mr.
FORTENBERRY.
H.R. 1434: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 1468: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 1485: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 1511: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 1530: Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. PASCRELL,
Mr. KING of New York, and Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 1568: Mrs. DAVIS of California and Mr.
TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 1579: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Mr. CARTER of Georgia, and Mr. RUTH-
ERFORD.
H.R. 1645: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 1652: Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. MENG, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr. KILMER,
Miss RICE of New York, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 1679: Mr. GRAVES of Georgia.
H.R. 1695: Mr. WOMACK and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1709: Mr. STANTON, Mrs. MCBATH, Mr.
CROW, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. CLYBURN,
Mr. CUELLAR, and Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 1711: Mrs. HAYES, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK,
and Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 1727: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 1748: Mr. PETERS and Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 1753: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 1773: Mr. HOYER.
H.R. 1814: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana and Mr.
SERRANO.
H.R. 1817: Mr. MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 1837: Mr. TIMMONS.
H.R. 1840: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 1897: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 1959: Mr. DUNN.
H.R. 2001: Ms. BONAMICI and Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 2041: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 2096: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 2137: Mr. ROGERS of Alabama.
H.R. 2146: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2147: Mr. BERGMAN, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
SHIMKUS, Mr. REED, Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr.
WALBERG, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. BABIN, Mr. BANKS,
Mr. YOHO, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Ms. CRAIG, Mr.
MCEACHIN, and Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 2148: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 2153: Mr. BACON, Ms. WILD, Mr. HOLD-
ING, and Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 2155: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2199: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 2215: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2239: Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 2271: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2296: Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 2328: Mr. GRIFFITH and Mrs.
RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 2382: Ms. FUDGE, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
STANTON, and Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 2387: Mr. GREEN of Texas.
H.R. 2388: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 2407: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 2420: Mr. RUIZ and Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire.
H.R. 2426: Mr. ROSE of New York and Mr.
WATKINS.
H.R. 2428: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2474: Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr.
MCEACHIN, and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 2481: Mr. UPTON, Mr. GRIFFITH, and
Mr. KELLER.
H.R. 2498: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 2504: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 2517: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2571: Mr. JORDAN.
H.R. 2610: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2625: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2647: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2679: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 2692: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 2739: Mr. HURD of Texas.
H.R. 2760: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2772: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2775: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2777: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 2808: Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 2816: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 2847: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 2905: Mr. MARCHANT.
H.R. 2913: Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Ms. SLOTKIN,
and Mr. MARCHANT.
H.R. 2931: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2977: Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mrs.
TORRES of California, and Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 2992: Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 3006: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 3062: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia and
Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 3073: Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 3085: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 3086: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3104: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ and Mr.
BACON.
H.R. 3114: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr.
CORREA, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. PETERS, Ms. PORTER, and Miss RICE
of New York.
H.R. 3138: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 3239: Mr. EVANS, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. SE-
WELL of Alabama, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.041 H18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7153
July 18, 2019
BEYER, Mrs. MCBATH, and Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 3290: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 3303: Mr. PANETTA and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3306: Mr. CLINE and Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 3319: Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 3349: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 3356: Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 3362: Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 3369: Mr. LAWSON of Florida and Mr.
RUSH.
H.R. 3375: Mr. CLINE, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
COSTA, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. CHE-
NEY, Mr. BURCHETT, Mr. STEWART, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. STAUBER, and Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 3394: Ms. JUDY CHU of California and
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 3396: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 3425: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 3437: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 3451: Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Ms.
NORTON, and Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 3452: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 3463: Ms. HILL of California, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, and Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3497: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 3502: Mr. HOLDING, Mr. POSEY, Mr.
MEUSER, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. COX of
California, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mrs. MCBATH,
Mr. ALLEN, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. NORMAN, Mr.
BABIN, Mr. ABRAHAM, and Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 3503: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 3512: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3515: Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. COMER, and
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 3524: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 3549: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 3570: Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Mr. LAMB, Ms. PORTER, Ms. SLOTKIN,
Mr. COX of California, and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 3580: Mr. WATKINS, Mr. GIANFORTE,
Mr. BACON, and Mr. TIMMONS.
H.R. 3582: Mr. GRIJALVA and Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 3589: Mr. MORELLE, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. WEXTON, Mr. LIPIN-
SKI, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Mr.
FOSTER, Ms. PORTER, Mr. MEEKS, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. MOORE, Ms. JOHN-
SON of Texas, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
VAN DREW, Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms. PLASKETT,
Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Mr. STANTON, Ms. HILL of California,
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. LAR-
SEN of Washington, Mr. CURTIS, and Mr.
BRINDISI.
H.R. 3598: Mr. MOULTON, Miss RICE of New
York, and Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 3607: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3609: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 3655: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 3667: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 3670: Ms. SHERRILL and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 3691: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 3697: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 3702: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 3722: Mr. TAYLOR and Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 3739: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 3745: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan and Ms.
CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 3775: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER and Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 3776: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, and Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 3782: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3794: Mr. CASE, Ms. MATSUI, and Mr.
THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 3809: Ms. DELAURO, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr.
NADLER, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. KILMER, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. SWALWELL of California, and Mr.
CUELLAR.
H.R. 3816: Mr. GUEST and Mr. BAIRD.
H.J. Res. 72: Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
RASKIN, and Mrs. LURIA.
H. Con. Res. 27: Mr. ESTES.
H. Con. Res. 36: Ms. DELBENE.
H. Con. Res. 52: Mr. PANETTA and Mr. DOG-
GETT.
H. Res. 54: Mr. CASTRO of Texas.
H. Res. 60: Mr. GRIFFITH.
H. Res. 189: Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
STEWART, and Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H. Res. 246: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
GRAVES of Louisiana, and Mr. TIMMONS.
H. Res. 358: Ms. ESHOO.
H. Res. 374: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H. Res. 396: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H. Res. 419: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H. Res. 484: Ms. MCCOLLUM and Mr. KIND.
H. Res. 486: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H. Res. 487: Mr. COSTA, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. SIRES, and Mr. TRONE.
H. Res. 488: Ms. BASS, Mrs. BEATTY, and
Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H. Res. 493: Mr. DUNCAN and Mr.
RIGGLEMAN.
H. Res. 495: Mr. THOMPSON of California and
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H. Res. 501: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Ms.
SEWELL of Alabama, Ms. WILD, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mr. TRONE, and Mr. HORSFORD.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY7.053 H18JYPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S4923
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, JULY 18, 2019 No. 121
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
O Lord, our God, You soar on the
wings of the wind. May our lives de-
light You. As our lawmakers seek to
fulfill Your purposes, impart to them
Your wisdom. Lord, pursue and over-
take their enemies so that Your will
may be accomplished on Earth. Show
our Senators Your loving kindness, en-
abling them to serve You faithfully.
Sustain us all with Your love, for we
find our joy in You. Show mercy to the
merciful, purity to the pure, and jus-
tice to the upright.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for 1 minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA
TRADE AGREEMENT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
with the record rainfalls and the nego-
tiations of Chinese tariffs going on, our
farmers are hurting, but we can give
them some certainty by passing the
U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement on
trade.
In my home State, 86,500 Iowans in
farming depend upon agricultural ex-
ports to Canada and Mexico, adding
$10.3 billion to our State’s economy.
Manufacturing and services are also
going to have a big boom out of this
agreement being agreed to. Every third
row of Iowa soybeans are exported, and
this trade deal will ensure that these
farmers continue to have duty-free ac-
cess to our North American neighbors.
The U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement
also provides new export opportunities
for American dairy farmers, poultry,
and egg producers.
Let’s give a boost to our farmers and
all the jobs related to farming and in
cities and also give a boost to the en-
tire country, by passing the U.S.-Mex-
ico-Canada Agreement and do it very
soon.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
MCCREARY COUNTY AND DEPUTY
SHERIFF DUSTIN WATKINS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
first, this morning I would like to join
Kentuckians in McCreary County in
breathing a sigh of relief. Deputy Sher-
iff Dustin Watkins was responding to a
routine call on Tuesday evening when
he was shot and needed to be airlifted
to a hospital. Fortunately, we heard
yesterday afternoon that Deputy Wat-
kins is in stable condition. I under-
stand that last night he was able to sit
up for the first time—all good news.
With Sheriff Randy Waters, I wish to
extend sincere thanks to the doctors,
nurses, and hospital staff who are car-
ing for this brave Kentuckian and will
support his recovery. My best wishes
go out to Deputy Watkins, his family,
and his colleagues. We thank them for
their service to our Commonwealth as
we are reminded once again of the sac-
rifices they make every day to keep us
safe.
f
TREATIES AND HOUSE
LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
this week the Senate has attended to
one of this body’s unique responsibil-
ities relating to foreign affairs—the
ratification of treaties. We have rati-
fied bilateral tax agreements with four
trading partners: Spain, Switzerland,
Japan, and Luxembourg. Measures like
these bring clarity, certainty, and fair-
ness to international commerce. They
ensure U.S. citizens and businesses
have a level playing field without du-
plicative tax burdens, and they make
the United States a more inviting des-
tination for foreign investment.
These newly ratified treaties will
provide immediate and much needed
relief to employers in every corner of
our country. They will reinforce sup-
port for hundreds of thousands of jobs
including many in my home State of
Kentucky. This is a significant bipar-
tisan accomplishment.
Now, standing in stark contrast to
the Senate’s productive, bipartisan
week is what the Democratic House of
Representatives has chosen to
prioritize. We have seen plenty of par-
tisan theatrics and high drama for the
television cameras. We have seen the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:45 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.000 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4924 July 18, 2019
majority spend plenty of time attack-
ing the President and members of the
administration, but virtually nothing
in the way of bipartisan legislation to
actually make progress for the Amer-
ican people.
The problem seems to be that so
many Democrats have moved so far to
the extreme left that they literally
could not pass commonsense legisla-
tion even if they wanted to.
A case in point is the chronic dif-
ficulties and consternation that we
have seen over in the House when it
comes to the seemingly straight-
forward task of condemning anti-Semi-
tism and efforts to delegitimize the
Jewish State of Israel.
Back in March, remember, House
Democrats had their hands full dealing
with one of their freshman members
who had trotted out age-old anti-Se-
mitic tropes—dual loyalties, support
for Israel being driven by money, the
kind of language you would think the
House could have condemned pretty
easily.
But instead, after days of internal
Democratic strife, all the House leader-
ship could drum up was a watered-down
resolution that sort of—sort of—ges-
tured vaguely at the problem. All the
while, Senate-passed legislation that
would actually do something about
anti-Semitism has been languishing
over in the House without a vote.
For more than 5 months and count-
ing, the House has refused to act on S.
1, the foreign policy legislation that we
here in the Senate passed back in Feb-
ruary. This bipartisan bill included a
provision to take on the Boycott, Di-
vestment, and Sanctions movement, an
economic form of anti-Semitism that
targets Israel.
Here in the Senate, taking action
against BDS was a bipartisan goal. I
am a passionate opponent of the BDS
movement. I know my friend the
Democratic leader opposes BDS as
well, and S. 1 earned 77 votes here in
the Senate back then.
But apparently it is a bridge too far
for this Democratic House. Even a
milder resolution simply condemning
BDS—not doing anything about it, but
condemning it—has become a lightning
rod for the far left this very week.
Reports indicate that ‘‘senior pro-
gressive Democrats are urging House
leaders’’ to walk away from the resolu-
tion condemning BDS—a resolution,
not the thing that we passed, which is
much stronger. So the House will not
take action against it, and now it
seems they can’t even merely condemn
it. They can’t even condemn it. In fact,
the far left wants to defend BDS. Let
me say that again. The far left in the
House wants to defend BDS.
I guess this is where we are. Elected
members of the Democratic Party are
openly urging their leadership not to
make them vote on condemning anti-
Semitism. Let me say that again.
Elected members of the Democratic
Party are openly urging their leader-
ship not to make them vote on con-
demning anti-Semitism—a watered-
down version of what we sent them
back in February—because, for some
reason, it is just too tough a vote.
What a sad and bizarre situation we
find in the House.
I urge the Speaker of the House to do
the right thing. Don’t let these far-left
voices run the show. At long last, bring
S. 1 up for a vote—the comprehensive
legislation that sailed through the Sen-
ate with 77 votes. Bring it up for a
vote, Madam Speaker. Let them vote. I
bet we would see a pretty good out-
come and show anti-Semitism the door.
f
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
earlier this week, I spoke about the
economic pain that many Americans
felt under the last administration’s
leftwing policies and all the Trump ad-
ministration and Republicans in Con-
gress have done to turn the page.
Today we see the lowest unemploy-
ment in nearly 50 years, way more job
openings than job seekers, and an all-
American recovery that isn’t limited
to just a select few places and indus-
tries.
My home State of Kentucky has hit
and sustained our lowest unemploy-
ment rate ever recorded—ever re-
corded. Two thirds of Americans now
say they feel optimistic about where
their finances will be a year from now.
But we know the effects of bad policy
are hard to erase. So my colleagues and
I are continuing to fight for the places
that are still struggling to pick up the
pieces.
Unfortunately, my home State of
Kentucky offers a particular case
study, because nothing shows the dif-
ference between the last administra-
tion and this one more clearly than in
the case of affordable energy and the
coal industry.
For more than a century, coal has
been a reliable and low-cost energy
source that has helped fuel America.
Coalfields in both Eastern and Western
Kentucky have provided good jobs and
served as critical drivers of our econ-
omy.
Back in 2009, the industry directly
employed more than 23,000 Kentuck-
ians. It provided more than 90 percent
of our electricity. It brought billions of
dollars in revenue into our State. So
we were especially vulnerable when a
Democratic administration came to
Washington that didn’t even try to
hide its hostility toward Kentucky
coal.
Speaking in San Francisco, then-Sen-
ator Obama pledged to bankrupt any
new coal-fired plants and declared that
under his plan ‘‘electricity rates would
necessarily skyrocket.’’ His Demo-
cratic leader of the Senate said, ‘‘Coal
makes us sick.’’
So clearly, the elite disdain for fossil
fuel in places like New York City, Chi-
cago, and San Francisco was going to
become the law of the land. Sure
enough, the Obama administration de-
clared a War on Coal. It hurt Kentucky
badly. Plants closed. More than 10,000
miners were let go—10,000 unemployed
miners. And then these mass layoffs
strained local social services. Entire
communities went into a tailspin.
Unsurprisingly, many of these places
experiencing economic distress subse-
quently became ground zero in the
opioid and substance abuse crisis as
well.
I, and Republicans generally, did all
we could to fight. But when we passed
bills repealing the worst regulations,
President Obama vetoed them. When I
urged his EPA Administrator to hear
from Kentucky families, she turned me
down.
The policies had been dreamt up in
places like New York City and San
Francisco for places like New York
City and San Francisco. Places like
Kentucky? We were just the collateral
damage. So it is no surprise that all
kinds of Americans elected President
Trump and Republican majorities in
2016. And we hit the ground running.
One of the first bills we sent the
President was a bill I introduced to re-
peal the stream buffer rule, a burden-
some part of a series of regulations de-
signed to make coal prohibitively ex-
pensive to mine or to use. We halted
some of the worst regulations, like the
waters of the United States, eliminated
the so-called Clean Power Plan, and re-
placed them with policies to support
American energy dominance.
For former miners and for the indus-
try, the damage can’t be unwound
overnight. This very month, we have
seen two more major coal producers in
Kentucky move toward bankruptcy.
Clearly, even now, all is not well. That
is why my colleagues and I are focused
on lending a helping hand. When
healthcare benefits for thousands of re-
tired coal miners and their families
were at risk, I led the effort to secure
a permanent extension and protect coal
communities in States like Kentucky.
Congressman HAL ROGERS and I es-
tablished the Abandoned Mine Land
Reclamation Economic Development
Pilot Program, which aims to revive
old mine sites into economic drivers
again. That program includes every-
thing from helping dislocated miners
develop the skills they need to transi-
tion to a new career, to delivering re-
sources to strengthen our water infra-
structure, to improving the infrastruc-
ture and tourist attractions to draw
new visitors and money into Appa-
lachia.
With each program and many others,
we are working to revitalize commu-
nities and repair the damage. But
many of our Democratic colleagues are
itching to take us right back to the
bad old days. The most prominent
voices in the Democratic Party are
openly calling to restart a Big Govern-
ment assault on fossil fuels and on so
many Americans’ livelihoods.
We all remember several months ago
when many Democrats embraced an
unabashedly socialist proposal called
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:08 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.002 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4925
July 18, 2019
the Green New Deal that would have
made the Obama-era War on Coal look
like child’s play. Among all of its other
craziness, it sought to end all produc-
tion of American oil, coal, and natural
gas within a decade. How ridiculous.
How absurd.
We had a vote on it in the Senate,
and lest we think this was just some
extreme view that only the fringe sub-
scribes to, only 4 of 47 Democrats could
bring themselves to oppose the Green
New Deal in the Senate—only 4 of 47
Democrats could bring themselves to
oppose the Green New Deal in the Sen-
ate. There were 43 of 47 Democrats who
couldn’t vote against this thing. Fortu-
nately, Republicans voted it down.
But last week, not to be deterred, a
number of Democrats rolled out yet an-
other far-left environmentalist mani-
festo. This new resolution calls for—
here we go again—a managed phaseout
of the use of oil, gas, and coal to keep
fossil fuels in the ground—a managed
phaseout of the use of oil, gas, and coal
to keep fossil fuels in the ground. Of
course, this means a whole lot more in-
trusive Big Government.
The bill calls for a ‘‘massive-scale
federal mobilization of resources’’—a
‘‘massive-scale federal mobilization of
resources.’’ Just imagine what that
would entail. And get this: The new
manifesto dictates that our Nation
model ourselves after Europe, Canada,
and liberal enclaves like New York and
Los Angeles. You just can’t make this
stuff up.
The contrast is clear. Republicans
are working overtime to rebuild the
conditions for middle-class prosperity,
and we are working overtime to help
those who were hit hard in the Obama
years. But Democrats are working to
resurrect the same bad ideas that
caused much of that damage and imple-
ment them yet again, this time on
steroids. The good news is, as long as
this Republican Senate has anything to
say about it, none of these radical job-
killing manifestos have a chance of be-
coming law.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Clifton L.
Corker, of Tennessee, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Tennessee.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip.
CONSUMER PRIVACY
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, these
days, there is an online component to
almost everything that Americans do.
Were you at the beach last weekend?
You undoubtedly posted pictures on
Facebook and Instagram. You probably
used Google Maps or Waze or another
map app to find your way there. You
undoubtedly booked a hotel stay on
one of the myriad hotel booking sites,
and you transmitted your credit card
information online to pay for it. Dur-
ing your stay, you probably took ad-
vantage of the hotel’s free Wi-Fi,
whether you were uploading pictures or
watching a show on Netflix. If you had
dinner at a restaurant while you were
there, there is a good chance you used
the internet to make a reservation. If
you booked an excursion while you
were there—maybe a fishing trip or a
boat tour—chances are good you made
that reservation online as well.
I could go on, but you get the idea.
The internet and mobile internet-en-
abled devices like our phones and
watches have resulted in an explosion
of opportunity and innovation. Infor-
mation is more accessible than ever be-
fore. We can communicate more swift-
ly and easily than ever before. We can
shop without leaving our house, strike
out confidently into the unknown
without a map and still find our way
back, turn on the air conditioner or
heater with a simple voice command,
and see who is knocking on our door
while we are 600 miles away on vaca-
tion.
With the convenience and oppor-
tunity of the internet revolution comes
serious privacy concerns. Every time
we book a hotel, navigate a new town,
buy movie tickets, or buy groceries on-
line, we are putting a lot of personal
information into the hands of a lot of
different companies: banking informa-
tion, health information, information
about our location, our preferences,
our habits. All of this information is
likely used in some form or fashion by
some of the world’s most successful
internet businesses to personalize our
search results on Google or to deliver
the content that we see on Facebook or
Instagram.
As a member and former chairman of
the Senate Commerce Committee, I
have gotten an up-close look at the
issue of consumer privacy. I believe
that developing bipartisan consumer
privacy legislation needs to be a pri-
ority in Congress.
Last year, as chairman of the Com-
merce Committee, I convened hearings
into consumer data privacy and the ac-
cessing of millions of Facebook users’
personal data by the political intel-
ligence firm Cambridge Analytica. I
also led a hearing to discuss the Euro-
pean Union’s General Data Protection
Regulation and California’s new pri-
vacy-related law. I have continued to
focus on consumer privacy this year as
chairman of the Commerce Sub-
committee on Communications, Tech-
nology, Innovation, and the Internet.
A few weeks ago, I convened a hear-
ing to look at the use of persuasive
technology on internet platforms like
Facebook and YouTube. Sites like
YouTube and Facebook use algorithms
and artificial intelligence driven by
user-specific data to tailor just about
everything you see on their platforms,
from ads to the video that plays after
the YouTube video you searched for.
These algorithms can be useful. If you
searched for Paul Simon’s ‘‘Diamonds
on the Soles of Her Shoes’’ on
YouTube, you probably will not mind
hearing ‘‘Graceland’’ next. If you are
shopping for a new computer, you
might find it useful to see an ad for the
latest HP or Apple laptop.
These algorithms can also be de-
ployed in far more troubling ways. For
example, in June, the New York Times
reported that YouTube’s automated
recommendation system was found to
be automatically playing a video of
children playing in their backyard pool
to users who had watched sexually
themed content. Algorithms can also
be used to limit what news stories and
other content people are exposed to.
As we learned from a witness at the
hearing on persuasive technology, a
former Google employee named Tristan
Harris, these algorithms have the po-
tential to be used to influence the
thoughts and behaviors of literally bil-
lions of people.
For all of these reasons, I believe
that transparency needs to be an essen-
tial part of the conversation. Ameri-
cans should be clearly informed about
how their personal data is being used
and how companies influence and con-
trol what Americans see online.
Obviously, users have an obligation
to exercise personal responsibility, but
companies also need to provide greater
transparency about how content is
being filtered.
Given the ever-increasing size of our
digital footprint and the increased pri-
vacy dangers that come along with
that, the question isn’t whether we will
have Federal privacy legislation; it is
what that legislation will look like.
I believe that any final bill should be
bipartisan and should set a single na-
tional data privacy standard so that
companies and consumers don’t have to
navigate 50 different sets of rules. We
need to make consumer data privacy a
priority while also preserving the abil-
ity of companies to innovate and de-
liver the cutting-edge services we rely
on.
I also believe, as I mentioned, that
any bill should include transparency
provisions that give consumers a clear
understanding of what is being done
with their data. I believe consumers
have the option to engage on internet
platforms without being manipulated
by algorithms powered by their own
personal data.
This isn’t the first time Congress has
tackled new and emerging privacy con-
cerns. Over the last few decades, Con-
gress has acted to protect children on-
line, protect sensitive healthcare infor-
mation, and to modernize how institu-
tions use consumer data.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:08 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.003 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4926 July 18, 2019
I believe we can follow in that tradi-
tion by developing a new consumer pri-
vacy law, and that is why I am com-
mitted to working with colleagues
from both parties to develop legisla-
tion to meet the privacy challenges we
are facing today. I am confident that
we can arrive at a strong consumer pri-
vacy bill for the digital age, and I will
continue to make Americans’ privacy a
priority of mine here in Congress.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
SENATE LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
last night, we saw the President of the
United States, who has spent years ma-
ligning America, continue to malign
Americans. The President once again
whipped up a toxic brew of racism, xen-
ophobia, and nativism, with his crowd
chanting ‘‘send her back’’ about a duly
elected Member of Congress and a U.S.
citizen—one of the oldest and ugliest
racist attacks against Americans of
color.
The way the President appeals to the
worst instincts of people and what was
shouted and chanted at the rally last
night without the President’s upbraid-
ing them was despicable and eerily fa-
miliar to what happens in dictator-
ships.
We all know that the only way Presi-
dent Trump will stop this is for Repub-
licans—his own party—to demand it.
The only way President Trump will
stop is when Republicans on the other
side have the honor, the decency, and
the courage to tell him to stop. All we
hear is silence and diversions from
Leader MCCONNELL.
So, America, if you don’t like what
the President says, if it gets you upset
and makes your hairs stand on end,
say: This is not the America I know
and love. Whatever your political
views, call your Senators and tell them
to tell President Trump to stop this.
Argue the merits, argue the issues,
but stop this appeal to the worst in-
stincts—the worst instincts. And our
Republican friends are silent.
History will show this. This is a mo-
ment. There is no John McCain any-
more. When this kind of bitter racism
emerged in his townhall meeting, he
rejected it publicly when somebody
used it against then-Candidate Obama.
It went down in history as one of his
finest moments. Where are the fine mo-
ments of my colleagues? There are 53 of
them on the Republican side, and not
one has spoken out strongly enough—
not one.
They are quiet on everything else,
too—things that matter to average
Americans to help make their lives
better. Where are our Republican
friends on the substantive issues that
can help Americans of all colors and
creeds—all colors and creeds—help
Americans whether their families have
been in this country for 11 generations,
as some of my friends have been, or are
new immigrants, as some of my friends
are? In New York, we have everybody.
Here are some of the things our Re-
publican friends can do. The House has
passed legislation to improve our
healthcare system and intervene in the
lawsuit against eliminating protec-
tions for Americans with preexisting
conditions, but Leader MCCONNELL—
once again silent—sent the bill to his
legislative graveyard. The House has
passed legislation to close loopholes in
our gun background check system.
This is no longer controversial. Ninety
percent of Americans are for it—90 per-
cent. Leader MCCONNELL has sent that
bill, too, to the legislative graveyard.
Climate change, voting rights, pay-
check fairness for women—all are in
the legislative graveyard.
Where are my Republican friends on
those issues? Why aren’t they standing
up and saying that we should at least
debate them here in the Senate? Demo-
crats have had to petition for weeks to
even be allowed amendment votes on
issues of importance to the American
people.
It is a sorry state of affairs here in
the Senate. I believe it has frustrated
many of my Republican friends—I hear
it from them privately—as well as us
Democrats, because while we may not
always agree on legislative solutions to
a problem—we are not all supposed to
agree; this is not a dictatorship—we
want to debate the issues. We want to
make forward progress.
My Republican colleagues know that
they didn’t come here just to
rubberstamp an assembly line of the
President’s nominees, judicial and ex-
ecutive, and neither did we, but under
Leader MCCONNELL, legislative
progress is the lowest and often last
priority.
H.R. 1327
Madam President, for example, yes-
terday, my colleague Senator GILLI-
BRAND asked unanimous consent to re-
authorize the Victim Compensation
Fund for the brave first responders who
got sick after working on the pile after
9/11. It is as unobjectionable a piece of
legislation as you can imagine. These
are the people who rushed to the tow-
ers after 9/11. They got all kinds of
gunk in their lungs and in their gastro-
intestinal systems and later developed
cancer. Many of them are now gone,
some of them are people I became
friends with, like Ray Pfeifer and De-
tective Alvarez. And all we want to do
is what we do with our soldiers when
they are on the battlefield and get ill-
nesses and wounds. We want to help
them. That is all. Nothing more. Yet,
over the course of the last several
years, again, our Republican friends,
aided and abetted by Leader MCCON-
NELL, have either blocked this legisla-
tion or diluted it. But now it seems
there is a breakthrough.
In the House, this bill passed with I
think only 12 Republicans objecting.
Conservative Members like MARK
MEADOWS, who is head of the Freedom
Caucus, Leader MCCARTHY, and Whip
SCALISE all voted for it. Why can’t we
just bring it to the floor and vote on it
here? We should.
My colleague from Kentucky, RAND
PAUL, objected. Bring it to the floor.
Bring it to the floor. Give him an
amendment, but let’s not just have this
one lay in the legislative graveyard as
well. I am hopeful it will not because
as soon as it passes the Senate—and we
don’t want to amend it because that
will send it back to the House, and who
knows what will happen in the back-
and-forth—if we just pass the bill as is
and defeat an amendment that is not
intended to help or improve it, it will
go to the President’s desk, and he will
sign it. Even if he doesn’t, there are
veto-proof majorities in both Chambers
to overcome it.
Senator GILLIBRAND, my friend and
colleague who has done so much on
this issue, will try again today to get
this Chamber’s consent to pass the bill.
If the junior Senator from Kentucky
again blocks the bill, I strongly urge
the senior Senator from Kentucky,
Leader MCCONNELL, to put the bill on
the floor. It is unacceptable that once
again we are dealing with delays on
legislation to help our brave 9/11 first
responders, some of whom are gone,
many of whom are ill, and many more
of whom will get ill in the future from
the diseases they acquired because of
their bravery and selflessness on 9/11.
FACEAPP
Madam President, on another mat-
ter, over the past couple of days, mil-
lions of Americans have been
downloading FaceApp—a viral tool
that applies a little AI technology to a
selfie to make your face look younger
or older or add a beard. That seems
like a benign new social media fad, but
it actually may not be benign at all.
Who is the parent company of this
app? Wireless Labs. It is based in, of all
places, St. Petersburg, Russia. It also
came to light that the app not only
takes your picture but retains the
right to access all your photos, your
search history, and gives ‘‘perpetual,
irrevocable, and worldwide’’ license to
use your photo, your name, and your
likeness. This is a breathtaking level of
access—all too common in murky apps
like these—that raises very substantial
privacy concerns.
After everything we learned about
Russia’s unrepentant cyber aggression
in 2016, the nexus of facial recognition,
digital privacy, and a shadowy Russian
company based in St. Petersburg,
where so much of the Russian inter-
ference in our elections and inter-
ference with the internet emerged
from, what happened with this app
from Wireless Labs called FaceApp
should set off alarm bells for all Ameri-
cans.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:08 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.004 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4927
July 18, 2019
At the very least, we need to know
more about what the heck is going on
here. I have called for the FTC and the
FBI to investigate FaceApp to see if
private information of millions of
Americans could wind up in the wrong
hands and used for very bad purposes.
We need more than the assurances; we
need the facts. The potential for our fa-
cial data and the data from all of our
friends and families contained in our
photos to fall into the hands of some-
thing like Russian intelligence or the
Russian military is really troubling. I
strongly urge the FTC and the FBI to
get to the bottom of FaceApp.
BORDER SECURITY
Madam President, on one more issue,
over the last few months, Americans
have seen for themselves the awful con-
ditions that migrant children are en-
during at the Southern border. Fault-
less kids—many traveling alone, many
very young—are subject to inhumane
conditions, without the proper
healthcare, nutrition, hygiene, or
space. People have different views on
immigration—we know that—but no
one should want to see these kids
treated so inhumanely. All they are
doing is fleeing for a better life.
This weekend, I am leading a visit to
the border with a number of my Demo-
cratic colleagues to investigate, in-
spect, and evaluate the latest condi-
tions at these facilities. We hope—des-
perately hope—that the conditions
have improved over the last several
weeks. We will certainly report to the
American people and to the Senate on
what we find.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I rise
today to talk about an experience that
I had on Sunday. Sunday was the day,
July 14, that President Trump had
preannounced that massive deportation
and immigration raids were about to
begin. It looks like those raids maybe
didn’t start on Sunday, but the com-
munities of immigrants in Virginia and
elsewhere, who have been experiencing
tremendous fear, had that fear dra-
matically accelerated by the announce-
ment.
On Sunday, my wife and I, who live
in Richmond, went to a town called
Kilmarnock, about an hour and 10 min-
utes away from us, where my wife’s
parents are in a nursing home. They
are 95 and 93 years old. We went down
to spend the day with my in-laws and
to take my mother-in-law to church at
the local Episcopal church where she
has long been a member.
I was struck by the readings. It was
a day of fear for many immigrant com-
munities, and the readings that oc-
curred in the Episcopal church, which
are readings that are delivered in
Catholic and Presbyterian and other
churches on a set schedule, struck me
as I was thinking about the fear in
these communities.
For the Old Testament reading, nor-
mally, in most churches around the
globe, Catholics and Episcopals read
from Deuteronomy, but for some rea-
son, the pastor of this church—it was
his goodbye ceremony, and he was leav-
ing after serving for an interim—had
switched the Old Testament reading
and instead put in a reading from the
Old Testament Book of Amos, Chapter
7, verses 7 through 9.
This is what he showed me: The Lord was
standing by a wall that had been built true
to plumb, with a plumbline in his hand. And
the Lord asked me, ‘‘What do you see,
Amos?’’
‘‘A plumbline,’’ I replied.
Then the Lord said, ‘‘Look, I am setting a
plumbline among my people Israel; I will
spare them no longer.’’
A plumbline is a device used when
you are constructing something. It is
just a weight on a string, nonmag-
netized, and it will show up and down
so that you can build something that is
square and that has a solid foundation.
It is a reading about principles and
values and what is a solid foundation.
The Gospel reading that we heard in
our tiny church in Kilmarnock and
around the world was the Good Samari-
tan story. Jesus is being pestered by a
lawyer: What do I do to inherit eternal
life?
And Jesus said: You know the an-
swer. Tell me the answer.
And the lawyer does. He is smart.
Love God and love your neighbor as
yourself.
Jesus says: Fine. You know the an-
swer. Just live that way.
But the lawyer, either to trap Jesus
or because he was confused or he was
trying to figure it out, says: But who is
my neighbor?
And then Jesus tells the story of a
person beaten on the road to Jericho
and lying at the side of the road. Some
passed by pretending not to notice,
though they do notice. Some noticed
and sort of half go over to help but
don’t do anything. But one person, a
Samaritan—and in the Bible, Samari-
tans were despised minorities because
they didn’t worship like other people
did—actually is the one who actually
goes and helps.
As everyone knows, in the story he
takes care of the person who is beaten.
He takes him to an inn and pays the
innkeeper and says: I will even pay you
more. I will settle up. Make sure that
you nurse him back to health.
This Samaritan was the one who was
the neighbor. When Jesus then goes
back to the lawyer and says: Which
was the one who was the neighbor to
the person who was beaten, the lawyer
was so infected by the prejudice of his
day that he can’t even say ‘‘the Samar-
itan.’’ Again, Samaritans were despised
people, much like refugees or migrants
or migrant kids seem today to be de-
spised people. The lawyer couldn’t even
make his lips say the word ‘‘Samari-
tan.’’ Who is the neighbor to the person
who was beaten? He can’t even answer
the question—the Samaritan. But he
does know the answer, and instead he
says: The one who showed him mercy.
Those were the readings that we
heard—that the Lord will set a plumb-
line to try to determine whether the
nation—in that instance, Israel—was
behaving properly or not, and in terms
of what the plumbline is, what is the
moral standard. The Lord is encour-
aging us to be neighbors, and not just
to the people like us, not just to the
people who are our next-door neighbors
but even to people who are down on
their luck, beaten, despised, and hurt-
ing.
Sunday was also another day. It was
Woody Guthrie’s birthday. Woody
Guthrie was a great American song-
writer known for ‘‘This Land is Your
Land’’ and so many other songs that
are part of who we are as a people.
Woody Guthrie wrote a song in 1948
called ‘‘Plane Wreck at Los Gatos,’’
and the song is more commonly known
by the name ‘‘Deportee.’’ We lived this
history before.
In 1948 in California, there was an ef-
fort to deport so many people. There
are times when we desperately want
immigrants here to do the work, and
then there are phases where they get
deported.
Woody Guthrie was listening to the
radio. This is a man born on July 14,
the day that the President announced
that the deportation raids would start.
Woody Guthrie was listening to the
radio in January of 1948, and he heard
a story about a plane that was taking
deportees back to Mexico. The plane
crashed in Los Gatos Canyon, near
L.A., and the pilot and some others
were killed, and 32 deportees were
killed.
Woody Guthrie was struck that when
the story was told on the radio, they
mentioned the names of the pilot and
the copilot and the others who were
working on the plane, but as for the 32
deportees who were killed, their names
weren’t mentioned. They were ‘‘just de-
portees.’’
Here are the lyrics to the Woody
Guthrie song written based on an inci-
dent in January 1948, but our history
repeats itself.
The crops are all in and the peaches are
rott’ning,
The oranges piled in their creosote dumps;
They’re flying ‘em back to the Mexican bor-
der
To pay all their money to wade back again
Goodbye to my Juan, goodbye, Rosalita,
Adios mis amigos, Jesus y Maria;
You won’t have your names when you ride
the big airplane,
All they will call you will be ‘‘deportees’’
My father’s own father, he waded that river,
They took all the money he made in his life;
My brothers and sisters come working the
fruit trees,
And they rode the truck till they took down
and died.
Some of us are illegal, and some are not
wanted,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:08 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.006 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4928 July 18, 2019
Our work contract’s out and we have to
move on;
Six hundred miles to that Mexican border.
They chase us like outlaws, like rustlers,
like thieves.
We died in your hills, we died in your
deserts,
We died in your valleys and died on your
plains.
We died ‘neath your trees and we died in
your bushes,
Both sides of the river, we died just the
same.
The sky plane caught fire over Los Gatos
Canyon,
A fireball of lightning, and shook all our
hills,
Who are all these friends, all scattered like
dry leaves,
The radio says, ‘‘They are just deportees.’’
Is this the best way we can grow our big or-
chards?
Is this the best way we can grow our good
fruit?
To fall like dry leaves to rot on my topsoil
And be called by no name except ‘‘deport-
ees’’?
Along with several other colleagues
earlier this week, I filed a bill called
the Stop Cruelty to Migrant Children
Act. It is a bill that has 40-plus cospon-
sors. It would do a number of things. It
would set safety, health, and nutrition
standards in these facilities whose pic-
tures we are seeing—pictures that set
an embarrassing example of a nation
that should want to set a good exam-
ple.
It would set minimum standards for
food, nutrition, and healthcare. It
would guarantee that children in these
facilities would receive three meals a
day and that the meals would be of
adequate nutritional value. It would
end the practice of family separation,
unless ordered by a court, so the pre-
sumption would be that families could
not be separated. It would provide addi-
tional resources for lawyers so that
people can follow the rule of law and
present evidence and present a case for
asylum or refugee status, if there is a
case to be presented. It would allow the
restart of programs like the Family
Case Management Program, which was
a successful program that enabled peo-
ple to be placed in community settings,
not cages or jails or institutions, and
have management to make sure that
they then come to court dates on time.
The bill has a number of provisions
that I think are worthy, but the thing
that is the most important about the
bill to me and why I agreed to cospon-
sor it is that I just think it puts our
country in a position where we are set-
ting the right example, not the wrong
example. It puts our country in a posi-
tion where if the plumbline of right
and wrong is applied to us, we are on
the right side of that judgment. It puts
us in a position where as we are being
directed to be good neighbors—includ-
ing to people who are hurting, includ-
ing to people who are suffering—we
would be able to look ourselves in the
mirror and look the world in the eye
and say: The United States believes
that we are good neighbors, and we are
behaving in a neighborly way toward
people.
These issues are of massive impor-
tance to the individuals involved.
There was a story earlier this week
about a border agent inquiring of a
young girl: You are going to be sepa-
rated. Your parents are going to be sep-
arated, and you have to decide whether
you go with your mother or your fa-
ther.
Why make a child of tender years
make that choice? The young girl’s
name was Sofia. Many of us know the
Virginia author, William Styron, and
his book ‘‘Sophie’s Choice.’’ Sophie is
forced to make an existential choice
between her children in a concentra-
tion camp in Poland during World War
II. That is the choice. That is the exis-
tential choice in the heart of that
novel.
When tiny Sofia is being told: We are
separating your mother and father, and
you have to choose between them,
should a child have to do that? None of
us would tolerate that for our own fam-
ily members. None of us would tolerate
that for a member of our community.
So is it fair to do that to a child of ten-
der years because she happens to be
somebody who has come from Central
America?
These issues are of immense impor-
tance to those involved, to the Sophies,
to the father and daughter who tried to
get across a river a few weeks ago and
drowned as they were trying to do it.
They had come thousands of miles, and
they were so close. All they wanted to
do was apply for asylum legally: Can
you accept my application? We are not
trying to sneak across. We want to
apply legally and have the laws of your
country apply to us if we can justify
that we should come. Please do that.
When they reached the border, we are
taking so few applications now that
they waited and they waited and they
waited, and they eventually tried to
cross a river and were drowned in the
process—that heartbreaking picture of
them having come so far and being so
close that they could touch the bank.
They almost got to touch the bank of
this Nation they had dreamed might
offer them a better life.
Their case, had they been able to
apply, may or may not have been ac-
cepted. There is no guarantee they
would have met the standards, but all
they wanted was the opportunity to
apply to enter this greatest Nation on
Earth.
So I will just conclude and say I
hope, in the days ahead—and I know
there are discussions going on between
Members of this body and between
Members of this body and the White
House about what we might do. I just
want us to do something we can look in
the mirror and be proud of. I want us to
do something that we can use as an ex-
ample for ourselves and for others. I
want the plumbline that separates
good and bad behavior and foundations
that are morally strong versus those
that are shaky and weak to judge us
fairly. I want us to be neighborly. I
want us to be neighborly in the best
traditions of whom we have always
been.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. LANKFORD. I ask unanimous
consent that the order for the quorum
call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
DEBT CEILING
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, ac-
cording to the Treasury, since 1960,
Congress has acted 78 times to raise
the debt ceiling. Let me run that past
you again. Since 1960, we have had 78
debt ceiling increases, under Repub-
lican Presidents, Democratic Presi-
dents, Republican Congresses, and
Democratic Congresses. There has been
a steady increase over and over again
with the debt ceiling.
The debt ceiling was originally de-
signed to provide a moment of fiscal
restraint for Congress, a moment for
Congress to look at the debt and deter-
mine whether to increase debt again or
to determine how to restrain ourselves.
Going back to post-World War II, we
had an enormous debt left over after
World War II. That was the triggering
mechanism for them. Throughout the
Korean war, for instance, they didn’t
raise the debt ceiling. They found ways
to find fiscal restraint because they
had so much debt.
That doesn’t even seem to be the con-
versation anymore. Now debt ceiling
conversations are about what bill will
we get it into to make sure it passes so
we can just keep going. That moment
of determining how we can deal with
fiscal restraint seems to be gone.
Let me state just how severe this has
become. Right now, our current debt to
GDP—that is, gross national product—
our debt compared to our gross na-
tional product is at 78 percent. That is
an enormous number. That means, if
you take all of the American economy,
every single person in the entire coun-
try, group it all together, what they re-
ceive in pay, what they make, and put
it all together, it would take 78 percent
of every single person in the country to
pay off our debt for an entire year.
If we were to maintain that debt-to-
GDP ratio at 78 percent, just not get
worse than where we are at $22 trillion
right now, we asked the Congressional
Budget Office how much we would ei-
ther have to raise in taxes or cut in
spending each year to not make it
worse. The answer that came back
from the Congressional Budget Office
was $400 billion, but the hard part
about that—not that $400 billion is not
bad enough—we would have to cut or
raise in taxes $400 billion every single
year for 30 years in a row. That is not
the original $400 billion but a new $400
billion every year for 30 years in a row
just to keep us at a debt-to-GDP ratio
of 78 percent.
That is not going to happen. There is
not the will in this Congress to reduce
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:08 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.008 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4929
July 18, 2019
$400 billion this year much less do it
every single year for 30 years in a row.
So my simple push is this. We have
to get to a real conversation about
what we are going to do about our debt
and how we are going to respond to
this.
I have committed, around any kind
of debt ceiling conversation, that the
conversation should not be about just
raising it and going on; it should be
about how we are going to address our
debt. I cannot support a debt ceiling
that just raises the debt ceiling with-
out any consideration about what we
are going to do to actually pay off that
debt or how we are going to get on top
of it.
We have a broken process. We are not
dealing with debt when we talk about
debt ceilings anymore, and we are fac-
ing a September 30 deadline. There is
already an ongoing rumor and con-
versation around the hallways about
could we have another government
shutdown.
In the last 40 years, we have had 21
government shutdowns—21—under Re-
publican and Democratic Presidents
and under Republican and Democratic
Congresses—21 government shutdowns.
The one that happened earlier this year
was the longest one in history, but that
doesn’t mean it is the longest one that
will ever happen. There may be a
longer one coming. The challenge is,
how do we solve this issue about debt?
How do we deal with some of the sim-
ple processes like government shut-
downs and how do we stop those?
Government shutdowns actually
cause more spending to happen because
it costs so much to prepare for it. When
it happens, there is a greater cost, and
when restarting it, there is greater
cost again. All of that is lost money. It
is just a waste.
So Senator MAGGIE HASSAN, the
Democratic Senator from New Hamp-
shire, and I have worked together to
put a simple proposal together to stop
government shutdowns. This is not
rocket science. Most Americans can’t
leave their work and walk away, espe-
cially if they are small business own-
ers. They can’t walk away from their
jobs unless the job is done. That is just
the nature of it. So our simple idea is
this. If we get to October 1—and the
end of the fiscal year ends on Sep-
tember 30—and the work is not done on
all the appropriations bills, we would
have what is called a continuing reso-
lution kick in. The funding would con-
tinue to go the same as it did the year
before. It basically is putting every-
body on hold but is still moving. That
would protect Federal workers and
make sure Federal workers and their
families are not affected by the govern-
ment shutdown. It would protect the
taxpayers, making sure they are not
having to deal with ‘‘I can’t get a per-
mit’’ and ‘‘I can’t get an answer on the
phone from a government agency be-
cause there is a Federal shutdown.’’ So
the Federal workers and American peo-
ple would be held harmless, but Mem-
bers of Congress, our staffs, and the
staff of the White House Office of Man-
agement and Budget, in both the House
and the Senate, would all be here in
Washington, DC, with no travel.
Now that may not seem like a big
issue. You may say: So what. It would
mean we are in session every weekday,
every weekend, and cannot leave to go
back and see our families. We cannot
do our work that has to be done in the
States, and we have work to do in our
States as well. We cannot go on any
kind of codel travel. We cannot take
any other travel of any sort, and every
day we have what is called a manda-
tory quorum call in the Senate and in
the House. We are in session weekdays
and weekends continually until the
budget work is done.
I had folks say: Well, that doesn’t
seem like that big of an incentive.
I can assure you, the most precious
commodity to Members of the House
and Senate, our staff, and to members
of the Office of Management and Budg-
et is the same precious commodity
every American has. It is time—time.
If we lose the time so we can’t do all
of the other things we need to do until
we get the budget work done, we will
get the budget work done because there
are a lot of things on our schedule, but
our first priority should be the budget
work that needs to be done.
This puts us in a position to basically
do what my mom did to my brother
and me. When my brother and I had an
argument, my mom would lock the two
of us in a room and say: You guys work
this out. When you are done, you can
come out of the room, but you guys
keep talking until you settle it. Quite
frankly, my mom would be a pretty
good role model for this Congress. Lock
us in the room, keep us debating until
we solve it.
We had the longest shutdown in
American history this past time, and it
started right before Christmas. What
did the Members of Congress do? They
left. They left. They went home for
Christmas. They went away. While
Federal workers did not have their
paychecks coming in, Members of Con-
gress left town.
It is as simple and straightforward as
this: Federal workers should be held
harmless, and Members of Congress
should be kept to stay and work it out.
Senator HASSAN and I continue to
work through this. We gained wide bi-
partisan support. It went through the
first of two committees—10 to 2 as it
passed the committee. Now it has a
second committee to go through before
it comes here. We want to build bipar-
tisan support to say: We will have dis-
agreements on budget. We will have
disagreements on spending. But we
should keep debating until we solve it.
But do not loop the Federal workers
and their families into this, and cer-
tainly don’t harm the taxpayers in the
process.
We look forward to trying to get
some things resolved in this place and
to keeping the debate going until we
do.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I come
to the floor today to ask my colleagues
a simple question. There is a lawsuit
that is proceeding through the court
system right now that has succeeded
the district court level, that has had a
hearing at the appellate court level,
and may be speeding toward the Su-
preme Court. It is a lawsuit that was
brought by 20 Republican attorneys
general. It is a lawsuit that is being
supported by the Trump administra-
tion. It is a lawsuit that many of my
colleagues have gone on record saying
they support. It is a lawsuit to undo
the entirety of the Affordable Care Act,
to throw out insurance for 20 million
Americans and to end protections for
people with preexisting conditions. It
is an attempt to do through the court
system what this Congress refused to
do, which is to obliterate the Afford-
able Care Act and all the insurance it
provides for people without any plan
for what comes next.
I have served in both the House and
the Senate, and I listened for a long
time to my Republican colleagues say
that while they don’t like the Afford-
able Care Act, they certainly under-
stand that there has to be something
else, and that something else should be
just as good as the Affordable Care Act.
In fact, the President himself said that
whatever plan he supported in sub-
stitute of the Affordable Care Act
would have better insurance, cheaper
insurance, and would insure more peo-
ple.
Republicans never came up with that
plan. In fact, the replacement they
jammed through the House of Rep-
resentatives in 2017 was much worse
than the Affordable Care Act. The Con-
gressional Budget Office said that 24
million people would lose insurance be-
cause of that piece of legislation and
rates would potentially skyrocket for
people with preexisting conditions.
There has never been a replacement
for the Affordable Care Act. The only
plan from the beginning has been to re-
peal it. Now that Congress has said it
won’t repeal the Affordable Care Act—
why? because Americans do not want
the Affordable Care Act repealed with
nothing to replace it—now that Con-
gress won’t do it because the American
people don’t support the repeal of the
protections for sick people in the Af-
fordable Care Act, Republicans are try-
ing to get the courts to do it.
We are perhaps 60 days away from
the Sixth Circuit invalidating the en-
tirety of the Affordable Care Act. Like-
ly, if that is the case, the judgment
will ultimately be rendered by the Su-
preme Court. But that could come as
soon as the beginning of next year. We
could still be months away from a hu-
manitarian catastrophe in this country
in which the entirety of the Affordable
Care Act is invalidated and what to do
about it is put back before Congress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.010 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4930 July 18, 2019
It would stand to reason that if your
plan is to try to get the entire Afford-
able Care Act thrown out in Congress,
you would maybe start thinking about
what would replace it. As far as I can
tell, Republicans have no plan for what
happens if the Affordable Care Act is
overturned. As far as I can tell, my Re-
publican colleagues have spent no time
thinking about what would happen if
they actually end up catching the car
they have been chasing.
What happens if the lawsuit suc-
ceeds? What happens if the Affordable
Care Act is struck down? What comes
next? We can’t accept—and I don’t
think my Republican colleagues would
want to accept—millions of people los-
ing coverage overnight or insurance
companies being able to discriminate
against you because your child has a
history of cancer or an insurance com-
pany being able to go back to capping
the amount of insurance you get on an
annual or lifetime basis.
It is mere fantasy to think that we
can reproduce the protections in the
Affordable Care Act if we are not talk-
ing about it ahead of time.
I am coming back on the floor today,
as I have several times in the last few
months, to ask my Republican col-
leagues to either withdraw your sup-
port for this lawsuit, stop the adminis-
tration from being able to pursue it in
court, or start a serious discussion
about how you are going to protect
care for everyone who has it today—
not a handful of people who have it
today but all the people who have it
today—while this lawsuit is moving
through the system.
My Republican colleagues have been
queried as to whether they support this
lawsuit. The answers are all over the
map, which tells you once again that
nobody on the Republican side has
really thought this one through.
One Republican Senator says: I actu-
ally don’t think the courts are eventu-
ally ever going to strike it down.
Another says: I am ready for the law-
suit to succeed. I would love to go back
in and actually deal with healthcare
again.
Another one says: Do I hope the law-
suit succeeds? I do.
Another says: I can’t say I hope it
succeeds. I think the strategy from
here on that I have adopted in my own
mind is repair.
Another says: My hope and belief is
we won’t strike the law down.
The answers are all over the map.
That is fine. The Republicans can have
a varied set of opinions on whether the
lawsuit should succeed, but none of
those individuals who are quoted giv-
ing various opinions as to whether they
would like the lawsuit to succeed have
a concrete plan for what comes next.
Let’s just be honest. It is mere fan-
tasy to think that a divided Congress is
going to be able to, in an emergency,
come up with a plan to keep 20 million
people insured and keep preexisting
conditions protections for the 133 mil-
lion Americans who depend on them.
We can’t pass a budget through Con-
gress. We have trouble passing a Higher
Education Act reauthorization or the
Violence Against Women Act. How on
Earth are we going to pass a reordering
of the American healthcare system
when it is blown to bits by a Supreme
Court decision that no one is ready for?
That is why I am down on the floor
today. I am going to keep on bringing
this up because I just can’t accept this
world in which we live today in which
half of this Chamber is just sort of box-
ing their ears and closing their eyes to
this legal strategy. If it succeeds, as
many Republicans hope it does, all we
are going to be talking about here is
healthcare. Overnight, we will be con-
sumed by this topic, and we will not be
able to come up with a solution that
involves the same amount of protec-
tions that exist today.
Why repeal it? Why not continue to
work on making the system better
without holding hostage all of the
Americans who rely on it today? That
is a much better path of action. Keep
the Affordable Care Act in place. Work
together on ways that we can fix the
existing healthcare system. Don’t cre-
ate a chaotic situation with the whole-
sale repeal of the entire act, putting
lives in jeopardy.
There is no plan on behalf of the Re-
publicans as to what to do if the ACA
is overturned. I feel that we need to re-
mind the country of that over and over
again.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
REMEMBERING CORPORAL BENJAMIN KOPP
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, 10 years
ago today, CPL Benjamin Kopp’s spirit
departed from this world, but he re-
mains with us in far more than mem-
ory.
Ben was raised in Minnesota, where
his mother described him as a boy’s
boy. He played in the dirt with toy
trucks and revered his great-grand-
father, a decorated veteran from World
War II.
Then came 9/11, which changed Ben’s
life forever, just as it changed the lives
of so many Americans. Ben was only
13—little more than a boy—but on that
day of tragedy, he felt the call of duty
to his country. Moreover, he sensed a
rendezvous with destiny. Remembering
his great-grandfather, the heroic vet-
eran, Ben enlisted in the U.S. Army at
the age of 18, shipping off for basic
training at Fort Benning not long after
his high school graduation. There, he
grew into a man and an Army Ranger.
He was assigned to fight with the
Army’s famed 75th Ranger Regiment.
He served two deployments in Iraq
and then went to Afghanistan in 2009.
There, Ben and his buddies were ex-
posed to heavy combat, as Rangers
usually are. On June 10, 2009, they were
engaged in an hours-long, intense fire-
fight with Taliban insurgents in
Helmand Province. Ben was leading a
machine gun crew, providing suppres-
sive fire for a group of Rangers amid
enemy onslaught. Ben exposed himself
and was shot behind the knee right in
an artery. He was evacuated from the
battlefield and placed in an induced
coma.
Despite the surgeon’s best efforts,
Ben never recovered from the loss of
blood and cardiac arrest he had suf-
fered. Eight days later, on July 18, 2009,
at the age of only 21, at Walter Reed
Medical Center, Ben Kopp returned
home to the Lord. Yet Ben is with us
still. The heart of this Ranger beats on
even today. Let me explain.
Before deploying, Ben did a lot of pa-
perwork, as all soldiers do. On one
form, he checked the box to be an
organ donor. Where it asked which or-
gans he wished to donate, he simply
wrote ‘‘any that are needed.’’ In death,
as in life, Ben lived up to the Ranger
creed. He shouldered more than his
share of the task, ‘‘one-hundred-per-
cent and then some.’’ So just 2 days
after Ben’s heart stopped beating, it
beat anew in the chest of Judy Meikle,
an Illinois woman who waited 7 months
just to get on the organ donation list.
‘‘How can you have a better heart,’’
Judy said as she recovered. ‘‘I have the
heart of a 21-year-old Army Ranger war
hero beating in me.’’
Ultimately, scores of people came to
benefit from the sacrifice of this young
soldier in Minnesota from his very
blood and bones. Four lives were saved,
all told, because Ben gave his all, his
very body, for their sake. Ben departed
10 years ago, but his legacy lives on in
the patients whose lives he touched
and through the brave work of his
mother, Jill, who has devoted her life
to veterans’ causes. This year, she or-
ganized the second annual Freedom
Walk to the Wall and challenged Amer-
ica to walk 1 million miles in honor of
our fallen heroes.
The tragedy of Ben’s loss has touched
Jill in unexpected ways as well. She
has remained close with the Army
Rangers who served alongside Ben and
even with those who had never met
him. Just recently, two freshly minted
Rangers from Minnesota reached out to
speak with Jill. You could say that she
lost her son but gained a family of
Rangers.
In Genesis, it is written that the
Lord God created Eve in the rib of
Adam, the first man. When God
brought her to Adam, He said, ‘‘This is
now bone of my bones and flesh of my
flesh.’’ That mysterious passage takes
on new meaning when we reflect on
stories like Ben’s.
Thanks to his willing sacrifice, Ben
connected with scores of his country-
men in one of the most intimate ways
imaginable. For all time, they will re-
main bone of his bones and flesh of his
flesh. Rangers lead the way. That is
what new Rangers learn at Fort
Benning. In life and in death, CPL Ben
Kopp led the way, and his story will in-
spire us for many years to come, for,
indeed, he is with us still.
I yield the floor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:08 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.011 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4931
July 18, 2019
VOTE ON CORKER NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the question is, Will
the Senate advise and consent to the
Corker nomination?
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Michigan (Ms. STABENOW)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 55,
nays 39, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 216 Ex.]
YEAS—55
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—39
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Cortez Masto
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Stabenow
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Lynda Blan-
chard, of Alabama, to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the
Republic of Slovenia.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Blanchard nomination?
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina.
Madam President, I ask for the yeas
and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Michigan (Ms. STABENOW)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 54,
nays 40, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 217 Ex.]
YEAS—54
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—40
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Cortez Masto
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Stabenow
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motions to re-
consider are considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
actions.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Donald R.
Tapia, of Arizona, to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to Ja-
maica.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
TRADE
Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, some-
thing I want to talk about today is
something that you and I both care a
lot about, and that is farming families
and trade. For those of us who grew up
on or near farming families, we know
that there are a lot of things that are
beyond the control of families who
farm. For farming and ranching fami-
lies, the only real certainty is uncer-
tainty.
The only thing you know for sure, if
your mom or dad is a dairy farmer, like
my mom and dad were, is that you
don’t know anything for sure. You
don’t know about the weather. You
don’t know absolutely for sure that all
of your equipment is going to work ex-
actly like you need it to and at exactly
the time you need it to.
In some farming situations, you
don’t know whether the help you need
is going to be available the day you
need it. The watermelons can’t wait.
The strawberries can’t wait. The toma-
toes can’t wait. But you can’t have a
staff on all the time, ready to pick the
watermelon the 2 weeks they need to
be picked, or whatever those farmers
have to deal with.
Uncertainty is part of farming. That
is why trade agreements with other
countries are so important to Amer-
ica’s agriculture. This is a part of our
economy that not only feeds our coun-
try but goes so far toward feeding the
whole world. Trade agreements can
provide a little bit of certainty about
markets and the opportunities people
have to sell the products they are able
to grow.
In Missouri, agriculture is an $88 bil-
lion industry. It employs nearly 400,000
people in our State. Missouri farmers
and ranchers export more than $4 bil-
lion worth of products every year.
Trade deals that lower tariffs that
are paid by Missouri farming and
ranching families are a good deal now.
I could go a long way beyond this, too,
because not only does the agricultural
sector impact people who make agri-
cultural products but seeds and chemi-
cals that we need fewer and fewer of all
the time because people who make and
repair machinery get more effective all
the time. So both in the seed and
chemical area but also people in trans-
portation, people in insurance, people
who run the local coffee shop, people
whom the school district depends on
for those property taxes are all bene-
fited by a strong agricultural sector.
We make lots of other things in our
State too. We make airplanes. We
make pickup trucks. We make cars. We
make beer cans. We make all kinds of
things that are impacted by trade, but
I say to the Presiding Officer, particu-
larly when you and I are out talking in
our neighboring States with the com-
munities we deal with in agriculture,
trade is a top-of-the-line issue.
It is just an important part of the
economy of most of our States, frank-
ly. Because of our location, where we
live, infrastructure is critical. We are
also the hub for products that go all
over North America. Integrating that
infrastructure—water, rail, cars, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.013 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4932 July 18, 2019
trucks—makes a difference in how we
compete.
Canada and Mexico are our two big-
gest trading partners in, I am sure, our
State and in the country. In recent
months, Mexico has become the biggest
trading partner we have. Canada is the
next biggest trading partner we have.
These are not inconsequential relation-
ships.
When the United States signed the
North America Free Trade Agreement
25 years ago, it did a lot to open those
markets for our products and to not
only strengthen our economy but to
strengthen the neighborhood. Our ex-
ports of food and agricultural products
to Canada and Mexico quadrupled
under the NAFTA agreement. The trea-
ty also helped to strengthen ties
among our countries.
You know, a strong Mexico is actu-
ally good for us. We have these prob-
lems at the border right now that Mex-
ico is trying to help us solve. Almost
nobody is coming from Mexico; they
are coming through Mexico. And why
aren’t they coming from Mexico like
they did 25 years ago? Because the
Mexican economy is an economy that
works for people who live there. A
strong Canada is good for us. The daily
trade over that Canadian-U.S. border—
things passing back and forth—is in-
credible and has been for a long time,
but it is also much stronger than it
used to be. Keeping these connections
strong is essential.
Trade increases our economic secu-
rity, but it also increases our national
security. Living in a good neighbor-
hood is what we all want to do, and
that is the value we have seen out of
this agreement for the last 25 years.
The agreement could have been better,
and the President has made it better.
The USMCA is going to be better than
NAFTA. No NAFTA would be a bad
thing; NAFTA replaced by USMCA
would be a good thing.
It is time that we begin to build on
what we have learned in those 25 years
and move into this century with a new
agreement that works for farming fam-
ilies, for ranching families, for work-
ers, for people who make automobiles,
airplanes, and other things. This leads
to more American jobs, and it leads to
great benefit for us economically.
But, again, let me repeat, the na-
tional security impact of having two
neighbors that want to work with us.
What we just saw the President nego-
tiate with Mexico, where they are help-
ing secure that much narrower border
at the southern tip of Mexico more
than we would be able to do at the
much bigger northern border, that is
helpful. Where they are working to
help people stay there as their cases
are being heard, that is helpful to our
country. It is easier to keep people
there and have their cases heard than
let them disperse throughout the en-
tire United States.
Certainly, we hope to gain from the
new USMCA treaty, but we hope our
neighbors also benefit from that treaty
and know they will. The three coun-
tries all signed this agreement in No-
vember. Mexico has ratified it already.
The Prime Minister of Canada says
they stand ready to call their Par-
liament back into session to ratify it.
As soon as it is clear, they are going to.
Trade is essential. All three of our
countries agree on that. Democrats and
Republicans agree on that. Members of
the House and Senate agree on that.
Now what we need to agree on is how
to have a time to vote and approve this
deal. Let’s give our economy the boost
it needs. Let’s give our neighborhood
the strength we have seen develop over
the last 25 years.
We hope our friends in the House
bring this to the floor. It will be a bi-
partisan vote. It will be a comfortably
passed vote. But you have to decide to
have a vote for that to happen, and I
hope we are close to that moment.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
BROWSER ACT
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Presi-
dent, today I rise and seek my col-
leagues’ support for the BROWSER
Act, which is a bipartisan piece of leg-
islation that will protect consumers’
data privacy and offer tech companies
the freedom they need to innovate.
This is something we are hearing so
much about. How do you protect your
privacy online, or do you have privacy
online? The BROWSER Act is the bi-
partisan solution to that.
Innovation really puts the words and
the wisdom of the world at our finger-
tips. Think about it. A click of a
mouse, a touch of the screen, and ev-
erything you want to know appears
right there in front of you. Now that
we have all downloaded a myriad of
apps and we are using search engines
every single day, it is commonplace.
But what we have learned and what
people are aware of now more than ever
is that in the process of doing this,
they have given away something vi-
tally important and precious; that is,
their privacy and their information. I
call it your ‘‘virtual you’’ because it is
you, your presence, that is right there
online.
As your transactional life has grown
online—you pay your bills, you do your
shopping, you order your groceries, you
order dinner to be delivered—every
time you do that, you are giving these
apps a peek into your privacy, into
your habits, and there is really quite a
battle going on. Who owns the ‘‘virtual
you’’? Is it you or the bank or the in-
surance company or the app that is
providing that service?
Data is the bedrock of most tech
companies’ revenue streams. The high-
er the quality of that data, the more
money they are going to get for the ad
space they sell. The more money they
get for the ad space they sell, the more
profit they are going to put into their
pocket.
When you look at all these apps—
Facebook, YouTube, Instagram,
Google, Snapchat—all of these apps are
taking your information. They mine
your information, and it gets sold—
sold for those that are placing ads on
your screen.
There is a reason companies provide
convoluted, pages-long disclosure, full
disclosure and privacy policies in tiny
print so small you can’t read it. It is
the same reason that watchdogs warn
consumers that if the service is free,
you are the product. If the service is
free—take a look at these—you are the
product. You are because it is your in-
formation that they want.
Now, I will tell you this: We have
come to a season in our society where
we have a different story just about
every single day of some type of bad
behavior from one of these companies.
The current story today is about
FaceApp, and I think that if I went
around the room and asked those who
are younger if they have used any of
these face-altering apps, they would
probably say: Yeah, we downloaded
one. They are really a lot of fun to play
with.
Here is the danger: That app—these
face-altering apps and FaceApp—is not
limited to just bits of personal infor-
mation that are going to be appended
to a data set. It could be your image
used publicly—with your consent, of
course, if you agreed to the fine print
by clicking ‘‘download’’ or ‘‘get.’’ With
that, you give your privacy away.
Consumers have really grown accus-
tomed to clicking the ‘‘get’’ button.
They say: I don’t have time to read all
of this. It would take too long. I don’t
understand what it means. I just want
to use this app. It is convenient.
A quick scroll through an average
Instagram feed this morning revealed
post after post of artificially-aged
faces, all thanks to FaceApp, which
now owns those images and can do
whatever it wants with those images
because you unintentionally, when you
clicked ‘‘get,’’ gave them the permis-
sion to use them.
This is one of those things where you
have to say: Buyer beware and know
what you are getting into. Ask any-
body who downloaded that app last
night, and I bet you they have a little
bit of buyer’s remorse going on, and
they probably wish they hadn’t done it
and opened those photos to being used
by people they will never ever know.
Over the past few years, we have
watched tech companies lose control of
their own narrative, and that is for
good reason. Customers feel invaded
and are demanding a more satisfying
response to the current parade of con-
troversy—something more than just
‘‘Oh, we are going to do better in the
future.’’ It is clear that the tech com-
pany can no longer regulate itself. Big
Tech does not have the appetite for
self-regulation.
That is why I welcome my colleagues
on each side of the aisle to sign on to
the BROWSER Act. This bill really has
been years in the making. I first intro-
duced it in the House of Representa-
tives during the 115th Congress, but my
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.016 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4933
July 18, 2019
work on the issue began long before
that, as I chaired the Privacy Working
Group in the House.
What this legislation, the BROWSER
Act, would do is it would set up a Fed-
eral compliance framework that tech
companies would use as a guide. It
would require companies to secure a
clear opt-in from you, the consumer,
before collecting sensitive information
about your health, your finances, or
your Social Security numbers—things
that are important and personal to
you. They would have to get your ex-
plicit permission in order to use those.
For less sensitive information, like an
IP address or your browsing history or
your search and your purchase history,
companies would have to give cus-
tomers the opportunity to opt-out so
that they would not have the permis-
sion to share that.
Companies won’t be able to deny
service to anyone refusing to waive
their privacy, but the Federal Trade
Commission will keep the playing field
level by applying the rules equally
across the entire internet ecosystem.
To recap that, you would have opt-in
for sensitive information and opt-out
for nonsensitive information and one
set of rules, with one regulator, for the
entire internet ecosystem and a tech
platform that would not be able to
throw you off because you said: Hey, I
want to protect myself and my family.
I think it is important, too, to realize
that the BROWSER Act does not over-
regulate the industry, but what this
does is it says: Let’s have guidelines.
Let’s have some guardrails up here.
Let’s have a light-touch regulation
that is going to protect the consumer
and allow the consumer to protect
their ‘‘virtual you,’’ their presence on-
line.
Lately, what we have seen is some
blowback from some very public mis-
takes that have chased some of these
big tech companies into the arms of
the regulators, making them all too
happy to accept government-mandated
rules in lieu of internal standards. You
have heard it. You have heard some
people like Facebook saying: Oh, my
goodness. We will accept regulation
now. We want the Federal Government
more involved. What they are trying to
do is block out innovation and com-
petition and new startups because they
control the marketplace.
Google. Ninety percent of search is
done by Google.
Recently, Facebook got a $5 billion
fine from the Federal Trade Commis-
sion. I said that actually wasn’t
enough. It should have been more like
$50 billion when you look at the busi-
ness Facebook has built and the valu-
ation they have built. They are a big
advertising company. They have this
platform. They get you on that plat-
form. They build their valuation off
the number of eyeballs they capture to
that, the users they have and, remem-
ber what I said earlier, the high quality
of the data. That is money in their rev-
enue stream, and it is profit in their
pockets. Their bad behavior will not
change unless we change the way they
are going to be able to do business.
Understanding the business of Big
Tech is half the battle. I have been at
this for years, going back to my days
in Tennessee, my home State, as we
looked at film and entertainment and
music and moving from analog to dig-
ital in the economy, coming to Con-
gress, working in the House on this
issue.
I will state that the ins and outs of
this industry is not something that can
be learned in a day or something you
can be briefed on and then all of a sud-
den you are an expert in that area. If
you think you know it all—what I have
learned in tech is, the more you learn
the less you know, and you have to
keep working on it if you are going to
properly regulate the industry.
I thank my colleague Senate Judici-
ary Chairman LINDSEY GRAHAM for rec-
ognizing the need for institutional
knowledge by this body and for asking
me to lead the committee’s new tech-
nology task force. This is a bipartisan
group. We will meet regularly with
leaders in the tech industry, and we
will talk a good bit about data, pri-
vacy, competition, prioritization, cen-
sorship, and other issues that will
arise. Our first meeting is actually
going to be later today. I would encour-
age my friends in the Senate to use
this time and use this task force as a
resource and study up because these
issues are not going to go away. It is
time for us to do something on the
issues of privacy, data security, censor-
ship, and prioritization.
To my colleagues who are really very
skeptical that we can use a lighter
touch in regulating Big Tech, I want to
say this: Washington is historically
very bad at culture change. They are
very bad at it. What we do know is,
when looking at the technology that
now underpins every single industrial
sector in this country, that technology
goes through a life cycle, if you will, in
about 18 months. We know there can-
not be heavy-handed regulation. We
know we cannot regulate to a tech-
nology. We know that the guidelines
need to be put in place, and the guard-
rails need to be laid down.
We need to make certain businesses
are looking at their consumers, and
they are saying: You can trust us to be
a good steward of your information.
Consumers, citizens—Tennesseeans, in
my case—need to know I have asked
the tech companies to work to restore
the trust and confidence that is needed
by the online consumer and to move
away from having it understood by
people—understood in the negative—
that if the service is free, you are the
product.
Let’s join together, in a bipartisan
fashion, and give the American online
consumer the ability to control and to
own their virtual ‘‘you,’’ which is them
and their presence online.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNT).
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ONE SMALL STEP TO PROTECT
HUMAN HERITAGE IN SPACE ACT
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, 50 years
ago, more than 650 million men,
women, and children from nearly every
corner of the Earth gathered around
radios and televisions with wide eyes
and quickly beating hearts. They gath-
ered to witness one of the greatest tri-
umphs of ingenuity and cooperation in
human history. Scrawled across tele-
vision screens were the words never
seen before: ‘‘Live from the Moon.’’
I remember that moment vividly. I
was 10 years old, and I was in France
with my mother and my French fam-
ily, my grandma and grandpa, and we
huddled around a little black and white
TV in my grandma’s home on July 20,
1969. It was evening in France when the
landing occurred. Our eyes were glued
to the screen and we saw this grainy
video, and there was little prickly
audio broadcast of Neil Armstrong and
Buzz Aldrin as they were attempting to
do what no human had ever attempted
to do before.
Almost 2 hours after the landing, as
we held our breath and saw the land-
ing, Commander Armstrong created
the first human boot print not on plan-
et Earth. In that moment, I remember
thinking that the astronauts on the
Moon didn’t just represent America at
that moment. They also represented
my family who lived in France and
their excitement. They really rep-
resented everybody around the world.
They were representing humanity and
what is achievable when you dream
big.
I have come to the floor today to
honor the incredible achievement of
Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Mi-
chael Collins, as well as the 400,000 peo-
ple around the world who made the
Apollo 11 landing possible. Among those
were NASA’s now-famous ‘‘Hidden Fig-
ures’’—African-American women pio-
neers—including Katherine Johnson,
Mary Jackson, and Dorothy Vaughn,
who were responsible for calculating
trajectories to get Apollo astronauts to
and from the Moon.
Ultimately, this achievement was the
result of the perseverance of countless
individuals and, of course, the Amer-
ican taxpayers who, after numerous
high-profile failures, including the loss
of the very first Apollo crew, continued
to support the Apollo Program.
Over the last few months there have
been celebrations of this anniversary
around the world because the achieve-
ments of Apollo were achievements for
humanity. Here in the Senate I was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.017 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4934 July 18, 2019
proud to introduce legislation with
Senator TED CRUZ that would establish
the first of its kind of Federal protec-
tions for the Apollo landing sites. Our
One Small Step to Protect Human Her-
itage in Space Act would permanently
protect the Apollo landing sites from
intentional and unintentional disrup-
tions by future Moon missions. It
would ensure that any activities des-
tined for the Moon and licensed by the
U.S. Government would have to follow
NASA’s preservation guidelines for the
Apollo sites.
In recent years, a number of coun-
tries and private companies have an-
nounced plans to send spacecraft to the
Moon. For example, India just recently
delayed a launch of a spacecraft that is
destined for the Moon, and China has
announced plans to establish a perma-
nent presence on the Moon.
Our legislation will set an example
for other countries to protect these
sites for their historical, archae-
ological, scientific, and engineering
value and to help ensure that future
lunar activities do not disturb these
sites.
I am pleased that last week we were
able to pass the One Small Step to Pro-
tect Human Heritage in Space Act out
of the Senate Commerce Committee,
thanks to the leadership of Chairman
ROGER WICKER and Ranking Member
MARIA CANTWELL and their staffs.
Today I ask the Senate to take one
small step in passing this legislation—
a first of its kind conservation measure
to honor and preserve human heritage
in space.
Mr. President, as if in legislative ses-
sion, I ask unanimous consent that the
Senate proceed to the immediate con-
sideration of Calendar No. 152, S. 1694.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1694) to require any Federal agen-
cy that issues licenses to conduct activities
in outer space to include in the requirements
for such licenses an agreement relating to
the preservation and protection of the Apollo
11 landing site, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation, with an amendment to strike
all after the enacting clause and insert
in lieu thereof the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘One Small Step
to Protect Human Heritage in Space Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the following
findings:
(1) On July 16, 1969, the Apollo 11 spacecraft
launched from the John F. Kennedy Space Cen-
ter carrying Neil A. Armstrong, Edwin E.
‘‘Buzz’’ Aldrin, Jr., and Michael Collins.
(2) July 20, 2019, will mark the 50th anniver-
sary of the date on which the Apollo 11 space-
craft landed on the Moon and Neil Armstrong
and Buzz Aldrin became the first humans to set
foot on a celestial body off the Earth.
(3) The landing of the Apollo 11 spacecraft
and humanity’s first off-world footprints are
achievements unparalleled in history, a direct
product of the work and perseverance of the
more than 400,000 individuals who contributed
to the development of the Apollo missions on the
shoulders of centuries of science and engineer-
ing pioneers from all corners of the world.
(4) Among the thousands of individuals who
have contributed to the achievements of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration
(in this section referred to as ‘‘NASA’’) are Afri-
can-American women such as Katherine John-
son, Dorothy Vaughn, Mary Jackson, and Dr.
Christine Darden, who made critical contribu-
tions to NASA space programs. Katherine John-
son worked at NASA for 35 years and calculated
the trajectory of the Apollo 11 landing and the
trajectories for the spaceflights of astronauts
Alan Shepard and John Glenn. Katherine John-
son, together with many other individuals the
work of whom often went unacknowledged,
helped broaden the scope of space travel and
charted new frontiers for humanity’s explo-
ration of space.
(5) The landing of the Apollo 11 spacecraft
was made on behalf of all humankind, and Neil
Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin were accompanied
by messages of peace from the leaders of more
than 70 countries.
(6) The lunar landing sites of the Apollo 11
spacecraft, the robotic spacecraft that preceded
the Apollo 11 mission, and the crewed and
robotic spacecraft that followed, are of out-
standing universal value to humanity.
(7) Such landing sites—
(A) are the first archaeological sites with
human activity that are not on Earth;
(B) provide evidence of the first achievements
of humankind in the realm of space travel and
exploration; and
(C) contain artifacts and other evidence of
human exploration activities that remain a po-
tential source of cultural, historical, archae-
ological, anthropological, scientific, and engi-
neering knowledge.
(8) On July 20, 2011, NASA published the vol-
untary guidance entitled ‘‘NASA’s Rec-
ommendations to Space-Faring Entities: How to
Protect and Preserve the Historic and Scientific
Value of U.S. Government Lunar Artifacts’’.
(9) In March 2018, the Office of Science and
Technology Policy published a report entitled
‘‘Protecting & Preserving Apollo Program Lunar
Landing Sites & Artifacts’’.
(10) Space-faring entities based outside the
United States have the capacity to land on the
Moon.
(11) The licensing requirements under this Act
are applicable only to United States-based lunar
activities and therefore have limited efficacy for
protecting the Apollo 11 landing site, other simi-
lar historic sites, and lunar artifacts from dis-
turbances caused by space-faring entities based
outside the United States.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) as commercial enterprises and more coun-
tries acquire the ability to land on the Moon, it
is necessary to ensure the recognition and pro-
tection of the Apollo 11 landing site and other
historic landing sites in acknowledgment of the
human effort and innovation the sites represent;
(2) the Apollo 11 landing site, other similar
historic landing sites, lunar artifacts, and the
environment surrounding such sites and arti-
facts merit legal protection from disturbance to
prevent irremediable loss of sites and artifacts
that are of archeological, anthropological, his-
torical, scientific, and engineering significance
and value; and
SEC. 3. LICENSING REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING
PRESERVATION OF HISTORIC LUNAR
LANDING SITES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, any Fed-
eral agency that issues a license to conduct a
lunar activity shall require each applicant for
such a license—
(1) to agree to abide by the recommendations
described in subsection (b); or
(2) in the case of a lunar activity that requires
a license from more than one Federal agency, to
certify under penalty of perjury as provided in
paragraph (1) or (2), as applicable, of section
1746 of title 28, United States Code, that the ap-
plicant has submitted an application for a li-
cense for such activity to another Federal agen-
cy that satisfies paragraph (1).
(b) RECOMMENDATIONS DESCRIBED.—The rec-
ommendations described in this subsection are—
(1) ‘‘NASA’s Recommendations to Space-
Faring Entities: How to Protect and Preserve
the Historic and Scientific Value of U.S. Gov-
ernment Lunar Artifacts’’ issued by the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration on
July 20, 2011, and updated on October 28, 2011;
and
(2) any successor heritage preservation rec-
ommendations, guidelines, or principles relating
to the protection and preservation of Govern-
ment lunar artifacts issued by the National Aer-
onautics and Space Administration.
(c) EXEMPTIONS.—A Federal agency issuing a
license described in subsection (a) may, in con-
sultation with the Administrator of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, exempt
specific lunar activities of an applicant from the
historic preservation agreement or certification
under subsection (a) if such bona fide activities
are determined to have legitimate and signifi-
cant historical, archeological, anthropological,
scientific, or engineering value.
(d) AUTHORITY TO ASSESS PENALTY FEES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A Federal agency issuing a
license described in subsection (a) may assess a
penalty fee on the holder of such license for
conduct that violates one or more terms of the li-
cense relating to the agreement under subsection
(a)(1).
(2) AMOUNT.—The penalty fee amount as-
sessed under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) commensurate with the nature and extent
of the violation; and
(B) sufficient to deter future violations.
(e) LUNAR ACTIVITY DEFINED.—In this section,
the term ‘‘lunar activity’’ means an action or
endeavor in space that—
(1) is intended to be lunar in nature, includ-
ing lunar orbit, landing, and impact; or
(2) has a greater likelihood than not of becom-
ing lunar in nature, including unintentional
orbit and impact.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I fur-
ther ask unanimous consent that the
Peters’ amendment to the committee-
reported substitute amendment be con-
sidered and agreed to, and the sub-
stitute, as amended, be agreed to, and
the bill, as amended, be considered
read a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 927) was agreed
to as follows:
(Purpose: To modify the sense of Congress
with respect to collaboration with other
countries)
In section 2(b), strike paragraph (3) and in-
sert the following:
(3) the President should work with other
countries to develop best practices to ensure
the protection of historic lunar landing sites
and artifacts.
The committee-reported amendment
in the nature of a substitute, as amend-
ed, was agreed to.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. PETERS. I know of no further
debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate on the bill?
Hearing none, the question is, Shall
the bill pass?
The bill (S. 1694), as amended, was
passed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.019 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4935
July 18, 2019
S. 1694
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘One Small
Step to Protect Human Heritage in Space
Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) On July 16, 1969, the Apollo 11 space-
craft launched from the John F. Kennedy
Space Center carrying Neil A. Armstrong,
Edwin E. ‘‘Buzz’’ Aldrin, Jr., and Michael
Collins.
(2) July 20, 2019, will mark the 50th anni-
versary of the date on which the Apollo 11
spacecraft landed on the Moon and Neil Arm-
strong and Buzz Aldrin became the first hu-
mans to set foot on a celestial body off the
Earth.
(3) The landing of the Apollo 11 spacecraft
and humanity’s first off-world footprints are
achievements unparalleled in history, a di-
rect product of the work and perseverance of
the more than 400,000 individuals who con-
tributed to the development of the Apollo
missions on the shoulders of centuries of
science and engineering pioneers from all
corners of the world.
(4) Among the thousands of individuals
who have contributed to the achievements of
the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration (in this section referred to as
‘‘NASA’’) are African-American women such
as Katherine Johnson, Dorothy Vaughn,
Mary Jackson, and Dr. Christine Darden,
who made critical contributions to NASA
space programs. Katherine Johnson worked
at NASA for 35 years and calculated the tra-
jectory of the Apollo 11 landing and the tra-
jectories for the spaceflights of astronauts
Alan Shepard and John Glenn. Katherine
Johnson, together with many other individ-
uals the work of whom often went
unacknowledged, helped broaden the scope of
space travel and charted new frontiers for
humanity’s exploration of space.
(5) The landing of the Apollo 11 spacecraft
was made on behalf of all humankind, and
Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin were accom-
panied by messages of peace from the leaders
of more than 70 countries.
(6) The lunar landing sites of the Apollo 11
spacecraft, the robotic spacecraft that pre-
ceded the Apollo 11 mission, and the crewed
and robotic spacecraft that followed, are of
outstanding universal value to humanity.
(7) Such landing sites—
(A) are the first archaeological sites with
human activity that are not on Earth;
(B) provide evidence of the first achieve-
ments of humankind in the realm of space
travel and exploration; and
(C) contain artifacts and other evidence of
human exploration activities that remain a
potential source of cultural, historical, ar-
chaeological, anthropological, scientific, and
engineering knowledge.
(8) On July 20, 2011, NASA published the
voluntary guidance entitled ‘‘NASA’s Rec-
ommendations to Space-Faring Entities:
How to Protect and Preserve the Historic
and Scientific Value of U.S. Government
Lunar Artifacts’’.
(9) In March 2018, the Office of Science and
Technology Policy published a report enti-
tled ‘‘Protecting & Preserving Apollo Pro-
gram Lunar Landing Sites & Artifacts’’.
(10) Space-faring entities based outside the
United States have the capacity to land on
the Moon.
(11) The licensing requirements under this
Act are applicable only to United States-
based lunar activities and therefore have
limited efficacy for protecting the Apollo 11
landing site, other similar historic sites, and
lunar artifacts from disturbances caused by
space-faring entities based outside the
United States.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) as commercial enterprises and more
countries acquire the ability to land on the
Moon, it is necessary to ensure the recogni-
tion and protection of the Apollo 11 landing
site and other historic landing sites in ac-
knowledgment of the human effort and inno-
vation the sites represent;
(2) the Apollo 11 landing site, other similar
historic landing sites, lunar artifacts, and
the environment surrounding such sites and
artifacts merit legal protection from dis-
turbance to prevent irremediable loss of
sites and artifacts that are of archeological,
anthropological, historical, scientific, and
engineering significance and value; and
(3) the President should work with other
countries to develop best practices to ensure
the protection of historic lunar landing sites
and artifacts.
SEC. 3. LICENSING REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING
PRESERVATION OF HISTORIC LUNAR
LANDING SITES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
any Federal agency that issues a license to
conduct a lunar activity shall require each
applicant for such a license—
(1) to agree to abide by the recommenda-
tions described in subsection (b); or
(2) in the case of a lunar activity that re-
quires a license from more than one Federal
agency, to certify under penalty of perjury
as provided in paragraph (1) or (2), as appli-
cable, of section 1746 of title 28, United
States Code, that the applicant has sub-
mitted an application for a license for such
activity to another Federal agency that sat-
isfies paragraph (1).
(b) RECOMMENDATIONS DESCRIBED.—The
recommendations described in this sub-
section are—
(1) ‘‘NASA’s Recommendations to Space-
Faring Entities: How to Protect and Pre-
serve the Historic and Scientific Value of
U.S. Government Lunar Artifacts’’ issued by
the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration on July 20, 2011, and updated on Oc-
tober 28, 2011; and
(2) any successor heritage preservation rec-
ommendations, guidelines, or principles re-
lating to the protection and preservation of
Government lunar artifacts issued by the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion.
(c) EXEMPTIONS.—A Federal agency issuing
a license described in subsection (a) may, in
consultation with the Administrator of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, exempt specific lunar activities of an
applicant from the historic preservation
agreement or certification under subsection
(a) if such bona fide activities are deter-
mined to have legitimate and significant his-
torical, archeological, anthropological, sci-
entific, or engineering value.
(d) AUTHORITY TO ASSESS PENALTY FEES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A Federal agency issuing
a license described in subsection (a) may as-
sess a penalty fee on the holder of such li-
cense for conduct that violates one or more
terms of the license relating to the agree-
ment under subsection (a)(1).
(2) AMOUNT.—The penalty fee amount as-
sessed under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) commensurate with the nature and ex-
tent of the violation; and
(B) sufficient to deter future violations.
(e) LUNAR ACTIVITY DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘lunar activity’’ means an ac-
tion or endeavor in space that—
(1) is intended to be lunar in nature, in-
cluding lunar orbit, landing, and impact; or
(2) has a greater likelihood than not of be-
coming lunar in nature, including uninten-
tional orbit and impact.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I fur-
ther ask that the committee-reported
amendment to the title be agreed to
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported title amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute was
agreed to, as follows:
Amend the title so as to read: ‘‘A bill to re-
quire any Federal agency that issues licenses
to conduct lunar activities to include in the
requirements for such licenses an agreement
relating to the preservation and protection
of the Apollo 11 landing site, and for other
purposes.’’.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I want
to thank my colleague Senator CRUZ
for helping me develop and advance
this legislation.
Thanks, as well, to my colleagues on
the House Science Committee, Chair-
woman JOHNSON and Ranking Members
HORN, LUCAS, and BABIN for their lead-
ership and support in the House of Rep-
resentatives.
Fifty years ago, Neil Armstrong and
Buzz Aldrin left a plaque on the lunar
surface. On that plaque is a map of
Earth and the following words:
Here men from the planet Earth first set
foot upon the Moon. July 1969 A.D. We came
in peace for all mankind.
Our grandchildren’s grandchildren
should have an opportunity to observe
this plaque.
I thank my colleagues for taking this
small step with me to ensure that the
opportunity will remain for genera-
tions to come and that the spirit of
Apollo—of ingenuity, of cooperation,
and of peace—will inspire generations
to come.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, this week
marks an extraordinary milestone in
the history of humanity.
Fifty years ago, on July 16, 1969, the
entire world watched in awe as the
Apollo 11 mission took off from Cape
Canaveral. Four days later, on July 20,
again the entire world held its breath
as the lunar lander made its descent
and as Neil Armstrong and then Buzz
Aldrin both stepped onto the surface of
the Moon.
As Neil Armstrong famously said,
‘‘It’s one small step for man, one giant
leap for mankind.’’
On Saturday, 50 years will have
passed since man first stepped onto the
Moon. We are celebrating that as a na-
tion, and we are celebrating that
across the world—the 50 years that
have passed since. We are also looking
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4936 July 18, 2019
forward, with hope and optimism, to
the next 50 years of space exploration
and America’s continued strong leader-
ship in space.
I thank my friend Senator PETERS
for his leadership on this legislation
that we have just passed through the
Senate. It is legislation that ensures
that those artifacts, those footprints,
made by those historic pioneers for hu-
manity will not be disturbed, will not
be violated, will not be destroyed but,
rather, that they will be preserved for
future generations so that decades and
centuries from now those shrines to
the incredible imagination and the
unstoppable potential of the human
spirit will be preserved for all of his-
tory.
This is a time of partisan division on
many, many issues. Yet I am encour-
aged when it comes to space and Amer-
ica’s leadership in space that we con-
tinually see the bipartisan cooperation
of Democrats and Republicans working
hand in hand.
I also commend NASA, in particular,
for announcing the Artemis Project.
Artemis, as you know, is the twin sis-
ter to Apollo in Greek mythology, and
Artemis will be the next journey to the
Moon that the United States will be
undertaking.
I am particularly grateful that the
Administrator of NASA has committed
that when we, once again, land on the
surface of the Moon in the coming
years, among those astronauts to land
on the Moon will be the first woman
ever to set foot on the surface of the
Moon. As the father of two young
daughters, after 50 years, I say it is
about time that we land a woman on
the Moon. I am particularly proud that
it will be an American astronaut whose
boots will return to the Moon and that
we will continue to make history to-
gether.
This is a moment to celebrate Amer-
ican leadership, but this is a moment,
even more fundamentally, to celebrate
what mankind can do—the frontier
spirit of discovery and exploration. It
is a spirit that should unite us all.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the rollcall
vote scheduled for 1:45 p.m. start at
this time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Tapia nomina-
tion?
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from Michigan (Ms. STABENOW), and
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms.
WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 66,
nays 26, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 218 Ex.]
YEAS—66
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—26
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Casey
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Klobuchar
Markey
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Cortez Masto
Harris
Isakson
Moran
Sanders
Stabenow
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that it be in
order to move to proceed to nomina-
tions reported out of the Armed Serv-
ices Committee today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 374.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Mark T. Esper,
of Virginia, to be Secretary of Defense.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Mark T. Esper, of Virginia, to be
Secretary of Defense.
James M. Inhofe, John Hoeven, Mike
Rounds, Joni Ernst, Kevin Cramer, Ben
Sasse, Pat Roberts, John Boozman,
Mike Crapo, Steve Daines, John Cor-
nyn, James E. Risch, Roger F. Wicker,
Richard Burr, Thom Tillis, Roy Blunt,
Mitch McConnell.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 371.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Stephen M.
Dickson, of Georgia, to be Adminis-
trator of the Federal Aviation Admin-
istration for the term of five years.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 11:14 Jul 23, 2019 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JULY\S18JY9.REC S18JY9
ejoyner
on
DSK30MW082PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4937
July 18, 2019
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Stephen M. Dickson, of Georgia, to
be Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration for the term of five years.
James M. Inhofe, John Hoeven, Mike
Rounds, Joni Ernst, Kevin Cramer, Pat
Roberts, John Boozman, Mike Crapo,
Steve Daines, John Cornyn, James E.
Risch, Roger F. Wicker, Richard Burr,
Thom Tillis, Roy Blunt, Shelley Moore
Capito, Mitch McConnell.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 45.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Wendy Wil-
liams Berger, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Middle
District of Florida.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on nomina-
tion of Wendy Williams Berger, of Florida, to
be United States District Judge for the Mid-
dle District of Florida.
Mitch McConnell, Bill Cassidy, David
Perdue, John Thune, Roy Blunt, Thom
Tillis, Roger F. Wicker, Mike Braun,
James E. Risch, Mike Rounds, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Johnny Isakson,
John Boozman, Marco Rubio, Kevin
Cramer, Pat Roberts.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 53.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Brian C.
Buescher, of Nebraska, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of Nebraska.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Brian C. Buescher, of Nebraska, to
be United States District Judge for the Dis-
trict of Nebraska.
Mitch McConnell, Roger F. Wicker, Pat
Roberts, Chuck Grassley, John Cornyn,
Tom Cotton, David Perdue, Ron John-
son, Joni Ernst, Mike Braun, Martha
McSally, John Boozman, Richard Burr,
Lindsey Graham, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, Johnny Isakson, Thom Tillis.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum calls for the cloture
motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I ask unani-
mous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT—H.R. 1327
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, the men and
women who responded to the horrific
events of September 11, 2001, are among
the great heroes of American history.
Whether fighting the deadly flames,
rescuing people who were injured or
dying, or removing the destructive de-
bris from the 9/11 attack sites, the 9/11
volunteers and rescue workers dis-
played the courage and the sacrificial
service that has earned them universal
respect and admiration.
Tragically, their heroism came at a
cost. Their heroism, at exactly these
same dangerous sites we are describing,
earned them, in addition to great re-
spect, also health challenges in the
years since.
In 2001, in response to those chal-
lenges, Congress established the Sep-
tember 11th Victim Compensation
Fund to compensate both the survivors
of the attacks and also the residents
who lived near the site. It was author-
ized for 2 years, and it paid out about
$7 billion in benefits and then closed.
In 2011, Congress revived and ex-
panded the program to cover a larger
universe of victims and responders, and
it authorized that fund to spend $2.7
billion over 5 years.
In 2015, citing a growing need, Con-
gress reauthorized the fund for another
5 years and an additional $4.6 billion.
Of that $7.4 billion authorized since
2011, the fund has now paid out $5.2 bil-
lion.
With money getting tight, in Feb-
ruary of this year, the fund began tem-
porarily reducing the claimants’ bene-
fits until Congress reauthorized and re-
plenished it until such time as we can
make those beneficiaries whole.
I support that effort. I support it
wholeheartedly. The bill before us
today authorizes the program not for 2
years, as it was in 2001, or for 5 years,
as we did in 2011 and 2015, no, it author-
izes the program for an additional 72
years and does not specify a dollar
amount.
In Washington, this is a recipe for
trouble. As we all know, finite author-
izations are how Congress ensures that
taxpayer money actually gets to its in-
tended beneficiaries and not simply
lost in government bureaucracy some-
where. It is how we make sure this is
about protecting those who are sup-
posed to benefit rather than govern-
ment bureaucrats themselves.
Since 2011, the 9/11 victims fund has
always had finite authorizations, and,
by all accounts, it has had an excellent
record of avoiding waste and abuse.
These two things are not coincidental.
They go together, and 9/11 survivors
and first responders deserve no less
moving forward. They deserve no less
than to make sure the program created
in their honor for their benefit, in fact,
benefits them. This is why I would like
to offer a simple amendment to this
bill that would authorize $10.2 billion
in additional funding for the 9/11 vic-
tims fund over the next 10 years. That
is the amount the Congressional Budg-
et Office has estimated is necessary for
covering all valid claims between now
and 2029.
My amendment would further au-
thorize an additional $10 billion beyond
that time. My amendment would not
block or delay the bill’s consideration,
let alone its passage.
This is something we could vote on in
a matter of minutes, 15 minutes or so,
and then move on to final passage. We
could, in fact, accomplish this today
before we adjourn for the weekend.
This is, in fact, what I prefer. I think
finishing our work on this bill to pro-
tect victims and first responders is
worth 15, 20, 30 minutes of our time.
That is what I prefer.
I have had conversations with my
colleagues, including colleagues across
the aisle. In order to accommodate re-
quests from some of my colleagues, I
have agreed, with their mutual assent,
to negotiate a different arrangement—
one that would make sure we get to
final passage on this bill and that we
consider my amendment and that of
Senator PAUL’s within the next few
days.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.029 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4938 July 18, 2019
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that at a time to be determined by
the majority leader, in consultation
with the Democratic leader, on or be-
fore Wednesday, July 24, the Senate
proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar No. 153, H.R. 1327; that the only
amendments in order be Lee amend-
ment No. 928 and Paul amendment No.
929 to be offered; that there be up to 2
hours of concurrent debate equally di-
vided between the leaders or designees;
that the Senate then vote in relation
to the amendments in the order listed,
with no second-degree amendments in
order prior to the votes; that there be
2 minutes equally divided prior to each
vote; and that each amendment be sub-
ject to an affirmative 60-vote thresh-
old. I further ask that upon disposition
of the amendments, the bill be read a
third time and the Senate vote on H.R.
1327, as amended, if amended, all with
no intervening action or debate, not-
withstanding rule XXII.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from New York.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I
reserve the right to object.
I am grateful that we now have this
agreement on timing so that we can
get to the floor next week and have an
up-or-down vote on the 9/11 first re-
sponders bill and the healthcare they
desperately need.
I just want to go to the merits of
Senator LEE’s amendment because I
think there is a misunderstanding. I
understand that there is a concern
about 72 years and that my colleague
believes it is a recipe for trouble, but
the truth is, the timing is limited for
this bill because these men and women
aren’t going to survive. So many of
them are already sick and dying, and
all they care about is just being able to
provide for their families.
There is nothing about this bill that
is trying to play politics with the lives
of men. There is going to be no fraud.
There is going to be no disuse. This is
literally all that is necessary for fami-
lies to survive during these horrible
times when their loved ones are dying.
I will not support my colleague’s
amendment because it will cap the bill
needlessly, and it will mean that if
there are survivors who still need
healthcare, they will have to come
back and walk these halls again. The
gravest concern I have is that we dare
ask these brave men and women to do
this all over again. To watch someone
come to the Capitol with an oxygen
tank, in a wheelchair, unable to
breathe or talk properly because of
their cancer and their illness, is some-
thing I cannot accept.
I am grateful that we now have a
time agreement for Wednesday, and I
am grateful that we now have a chance
to get an up-or-down vote and to get
this done.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, re-
serving the right to object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I will
not object. First, I just want to thank
both my colleagues from New York and
Utah for working out this agreement
with the leader and me.
What this does is it paves the way, fi-
nally, for what we have been waiting
on for a very, very long time—an up-or-
down vote on H.R. 1327. There will be
two amendments offered. We will op-
pose them. I don’t think they have
much of a chance of winning, but there
is a right to offer them.
I want to thank my colleague from
Utah for moving forward here, as well
as, of course, my colleague from New
York for the great work. Right now, for
the first time, we can not only see the
light at the end of the tunnel, we are
getting very close to getting out of the
tunnel. I expect that by Wednesday, we
will be out of that tunnel, the bill will
head to the President’s desk, having al-
ready passed the House, he will sign it,
and our first responders can go do the
job they have been intending to do all
along, which is to take care of them-
selves, take care of their loved ones,
and take care of their brothers and sis-
ters who have these injuries or who
will get these injuries.
It has been a long, long and hard,
hard struggle for over a decade, but
now, finally—finally—it looks quite
certain that this bill will pass the Sen-
ate, go to the President’s desk, and at
long last become law, and those first
responders who made this happen more
than anybody else will not—will not—
have to come back again.
I do not object to the offer by my col-
league from Utah.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Utah.
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I am grate-
ful to the Democratic leader and to
both Senators from New York for
working with me on this and for get-
ting this, along with my amendment
and Senator PAUL’s amendment, set up
for a vote.
To be very clear—I want there to be
no ambiguity—I would be willing to
vote on this right now. There is no rea-
son we should have to delay that. I am
taking into account scheduling re-
quests that were made by other Mem-
bers of this body. As far as I am con-
cerned and, as far as I am aware, as far
as Senator PAUL is concerned, we
would be happy to vote on these imme-
diately. There is no additional reason
for delay.
This is how the Senate is supposed to
work. Each Member is supposed to
have the opportunity to bring forward
amendments to offer up improvements
to legislation, to make sure that they
happen and that they happen right.
I respectfully but strongly disagree
with my colleagues on the merits of
some of the issues we have been dis-
cussing. We will debate those more in
the coming days.
I would reiterate that it is not unrea-
sonable to suggest that a program that
takes the unprecedented step of au-
thorizing funding for something until
2092—that, coupled with language au-
thorizing the expenditure of such sums
as may be necessary, creates problems.
It is one of the reasons we opt to vote
on this amendment and one of the rea-
sons I believe in this amendment.
In any event, this is the kind of thing
that ought not to be difficult. When
any Member of any political back-
ground sees a potential weakness or de-
fect in a piece of legislation, the rules
of our body are such that we are sup-
posed to be able to offer that up and
cast an amendment. In this cir-
cumstance, I am pleased that it worked
out the way it did, and we will be able
to get votes on these amendments.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
THE ECONOMY
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, just an-
other day on Wall Street and just an-
other news story. The New York Times’
headline today was ‘‘Big Banks Are
Earning Billions of Dollars. Trump’s
Tax Cuts Are A Big Reason.’’
So Congress can continue to do tax
cuts for Wall Street. Congress can con-
tinue to weaken rules on Wall Street.
Congress has forgotten. They have this
collective amnesia about what hap-
pened 10 years ago when this country’s
economy almost imploded because of
Wall Street greed. So now Congress—
because of the tax cut and because of
continued relaxation of Wall Street fi-
nancial stability safety rules, Wall
Street is doing really well again.
However, Congress can’t pass an
overtime bill—I mean, sorry. Congress
can’t pass a minimum wage bill. The
last minimum wage increase in this
Congress was signed by President Bush
in 2007. President Obama never did it,
and President Trump continues to op-
pose a minimum wage increase.
President Trump has rolled back an
overtime rule, which in the State of In-
diana—the Presiding Officer’s State—
almost 100,000 workers were going to
get a raise because of the overtime rule
we passed a couple years ago. So peo-
ple, if they work more than 40 hours,
they ought to get paid for more than 40
hours—President Trump rolled that
back—and 130,000 workers in my State
alone would have gotten a big bump in
their wages because they were working
45, 50, or 60 hours a week.
This Congress will not pass an infra-
structure bill. Look at the conditions
of the roads in Cleveland, Toledo,
Mansfield, Findlay, Akron, Youngs-
town, Gallipolis, Chillicothe, and
Portsmouth, in my State, and all kinds
of communities in Indiana, which the
Presiding Officer represents. Congress
can always find the time and can al-
ways find the money to help the rich-
est 1 percent and help the big banks,
but we can’t turn around and do what
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.036 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4939
July 18, 2019
we ought to do on the minimum wage,
what we ought to do on the overtime
rule, and what we ought to do to ex-
pand the earned income tax credit. I do
appreciate the Presiding Officer’s in-
terest, especially in the earned income
tax credit—what he has tried to do
there. We just simply can’t find the
time to do that.
We always help the people who have
much in this society, and we just never
get around, in this Congress, to helping
the people who need a break.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). The Senator from Texas.
TEXAS VETERANS
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I am
proud of the fact that 1 out of every 10
persons who wears the uniform of the
U.S. military calls Texas home. It is no
surprise that with more than a dozen
military installations in the State,
many servicemembers choose to live in
Texas when they return to civilian life.
We have the second highest veteran
population of all of the States, with an
estimated 1.6 million veterans living in
Texas.
As you might suppose, in having the
honor of representing these 1.6 million
veterans, I talk to them quite a bit and
hear from them often. I hear about the
challenges they face when they transi-
tion back to civilian life. Whether the
challenges are the big ones or the little
ones, whether the challenges are of
navigating complicated trails of paper-
work, getting the timely healthcare
they need, or finding employment when
they return to civilian life, I am eager
to help them identify solutions.
Over the last few years, we have
made some major progress. In the last
Congress, for example, we passed the
historic VA MISSION Act, which mod-
ernized the veterans’ appeals process
and the electronic health records sys-
tem. The bill reformed GI benefits, im-
proved accountability within the VA
Administration, and provided the larg-
est funding increase in history for vet-
erans’ care and services.
We have also passed other bills to
help veterans transition from military
service. For example, our Jobs for Our
Heroes Act made it easy for veterans to
get commercial driver’s licenses. Be-
lieve it or not, it is hard for the private
sector to find the truckdrivers it needs.
After somebody has driven a large ve-
hicle in the military as part of his
daily duties, you can imagine that his
transitioning to a commercial driver’s
license would be a relatively simple
thing. Given the paperwork and the bu-
reaucracy and the challenges of one’s
applying for a commercial driver’s li-
cense, we were able to pass legislation
to facilitate that transition.
We also passed the American Law
Enforcement Heroes Act, which en-
sures that veterans get hired by local
law enforcement agencies. If you think
about that, it is a skill set that many
learn in the military, whether they
served in the military police or other-
wise. If you talk to one of your local
police departments, one of the things
the department is short on is the num-
ber of people who work for local law
enforcement. That is also true for Fed-
eral law enforcement agencies, particu-
larly for the Border Patrol. Many mili-
tary servicemembers come out of the
military with the very skills that are
needed most by the police agencies
that work to keep our communities
safe.
To improve the educational opportu-
nities that are available to these men
and women, in the last Congress, we
passed a bipartisan bill called the
Harry W. Colmery Veterans Edu-
cational Assistance Act, also known as
the Forever GI Bill. President Trump
signed it into law in August of 2017.
With a stroke of a pen, he enhanced
and expanded education benefits for
veterans, servicemembers, and their
families.
The Forever GI Bill made much need-
ed updates for veterans who face school
closures while they are enrolled. It ex-
panded work study activities. It also
created a scholarship program for stu-
dents who pursue degrees in science,
technology, engineering, and math, the
so-called STEM fields.
It established the Edith Nourse Rog-
ers STEM Scholarship, which provides
student veterans with an additional 9
months of GI bill eligibility to ensure
they have the time and the financial
assistance they need in order to com-
plete their studies in some of our most
needed fields. We later learned that
there is an issue, though, that prevents
many students from taking full advan-
tage of that program. The current law
mandates that students must be en-
rolled in a STEM program for more
than 128 credit hours, but the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs found that
there are only three States in which
the average STEM degree exceeds that
minimum. That places many students
in an unfair position of either picking
from a limited list of schools or for-
going the scholarship money, which
can provide up to $30,000 in financial
assistance. That is a Hobson’s choice
for our veterans, and it is time for Con-
gress to fix that error.
To ensure that all veterans who want
to take advantage of the Nourse schol-
arship are able to, on a bipartisan basis
with several of my colleagues, I re-
cently introduced legislation called the
Veteran STEM Scholarship Improve-
ment Act, which would lower the 128
credit hour requirement to the more
common 120 credit hour requirement.
Now, changing a number from an eight
to a zero may not seem like a big deal,
but for the veterans who have been
frustrated by this impediment that
prevents them from using the benefits
they were promised, it can be life-
changing. This would ensure that
Texas’s veterans who are interested in
pursuing STEM programs that are of-
fered in their communities are able to
do so while they receive their GI bene-
fits.
I just want to say a word about the
GI bill because it is personal to me and
my family. My dad, who was a B–17
pilot in the Army Air Corps and was
stationed at Molesworth Air Force base
in England, flew a total of 26 bombing
missions over the English Channel into
the industrial heartland of Germany to
try to end that terrible, terrible war.
Unfortunately, he was shot down and
was captured as a prisoner of war on
his 26th mission, and he served the last
4 months of World War II as a prisoner
of war. Thankfully, he survived that
experience.
To my point here, when he came
back to Corpus Christi, TX, he took ad-
vantage of the GI bill so he could con-
tinue his education. He received a 2-
year associate of arts degree from, as it
was called then, the Del Mar Commu-
nity College. He also met my mother at
about that time, and they married. Lo
and behold, he ended up deciding, I
think I want to go to dental school. So,
after he had been shot out of the sky
by German anti-aircraft guns, maybe a
nice, placid dentist’s life sounded pret-
ty good, and that is what he chose.
It was thanks to the GI bill that the
whole generation of that so-called
‘‘greatest generation’’ was able to
come back from the war and get the
tools and the education they needed in
order to contribute to our country and
help make our economy and our coun-
try as strong as we inherited it and
welcome it today.
Even for this next greatest genera-
tion of veterans who fought in Iraq and
Afghanistan and for those who still
serve today, it is important for us to
keep this opportunity of the modern GI
bill benefits when they take off the
uniform as Active-Duty servicemem-
bers and transition to civilian life.
I thank my colleagues—particularly
Senators RUBIO, CRUZ, MANCHIN, and
SINEMA—for supporting the STEM bill I
described a little earlier. The House
passed the legislation this last month,
and I hope the Senate will do the same
soon so we can get this bill to the
President’s desk for his signature.
In addition to this legislation, I am
eager to vote on the final passage of
the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020. Last month,
the Senate passed our version of the
bill with broad, bipartisan support. As
a matter of fact, only eight Senators
voted against it. It is hard to find
many things that are that bipartisan in
the Senate or in Washington, DC,
today.
In addition to investing in military
modernization and in providing the
largest pay raise in a decade for our
troops, this legislation also included
other provisions to support our vet-
erans.
A bill I introduced with Senator
BALDWIN, of Wisconsin, called the
HAVEN Act, was included as a provi-
sion of the NDAA. This bill would
shield VA and Department of Defense
disability benefits in bankruptcy pro-
ceedings in the same way Social Secu-
rity disability is exempted. Veterans
shouldn’t be penalized for receiving
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.037 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4940 July 18, 2019
disability compensation that they are
rightly due.
I hope this provision will be included
in the final version, which will follow
the conference committee on the na-
tional defense authorization bill. The
House passed its version of the NDAA
last week, and I hope the conference
committee will quickly iron out the
differences between the two bills so we
can approve this legislation.
Like all of my colleagues, I am grate-
ful for the dedicated service and sac-
rifice of millions of men and women
across our country who defend our free-
doms. I want to make sure, as we all
do, that their transitioning to civilian
life after their military service is as
smooth as possible.
By improving access to healthcare,
employment, and education, the Sen-
ate is working hard to support Amer-
ica’s veterans, and we are dem-
onstrating in a country that has an all-
volunteer military that we will keep
our commitments to our military
members while they wear the uniform
and keep our commitments to our vet-
erans when they transition to civilian
life. This is an important part of our
continuing to recruit and retain the
best and brightest to serve in the U.S.
military.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I start
this afternoon with a topic we are all
talking about—the horror that we saw
and heard last night at a rally when
there was a chant over and over
again—we have seen the footage of it—
of ‘‘send her back.’’
I condemn this—as I did earlier
today—in the strongest possible terms,
and I want to reiterate my condemna-
tion of that chant. I know that con-
demnation is widely shared on both
sides of the aisle. I hope folks in both
Chambers and both parties will con-
demn and reiterate the condemnation
of that kind of chant but also what is
underneath it. It is racist, for sure, and
it is not who we are. That is not Amer-
ica.
I am glad the President said that if it
happens again, he will try to stop it. I
wish he had done that in real time last
night, but let’s see what happens at the
next rally.
There is no excuse for any public offi-
cial to do anything other than con-
demn that kind of language. Represent-
ative OMAR is a Representative in the
Congress of the United States who
came here as a child, and for anyone to
utter those kinds of words against her
or anyone else, of course, should be
condemned.
Fortunately, I think most Americans
agree with me, and we have to be very
clear when we have that kind of senti-
ment expressed, especially when it is
repeated across the country, as we saw
last night.
I want to talk about our asylum sys-
tem, a legal asylum system that was
established in the wake of the horrors
of World War II. We as a Nation—the
United States of America—vowed after
that conflict to do better, to be better,
to serve as a refuge for those fleeing vi-
olence and persecution in their home
countries.
Today, families from Central Amer-
ica are arriving at our southern border,
hoping to avail themselves of this sys-
tem because of the violence in their
home countries. The three we have
heard so much about—Honduras, Gua-
temala, and El Salvador—rank in the
top 10 countries in the world for homi-
cide—homicide. According to a report
issued by Doctors Without Borders in
2017, Northern Triangle countries,
these three countries, are experi-
encing—and this is a direct quote from
the Doctors Without Borders report,
2017—‘‘violent displacement, persecu-
tion, sexual violence, and forced repa-
triation akin to the conditions found in
the deadliest armed conflicts in the
world today.’’ So said Doctors Without
Borders.
In the face of violence and other such
circumstances, the choice to move in
search of opportunity and safety is one
that the vast majority of families
would make, even when that journey
can further subject them to violence
and danger.
Late last month, the Nation was hor-
rified—indeed, the world was horri-
fied—by a photograph of a 2-year-old
girl and her father, her small arm
clinging to her father as they lay
facedown in a river, dead.
That is not the picture I am showing
here. We all know that picture. I don’t
need to show it again. So many Ameri-
cans, so many people around the world
remember that picture.
But the picture I put up is a picture
of that little girl and her father as they
lived, a picture of the two of them that
appeared in the Washington Post in an
article dated Thursday, June 27, 2019,
on page 3.
Here is the article that the picture
was taken from. The headline reads,
‘‘Pair who died at border were des-
perate for a better life’’—desperate for
a better life.
That is the story of so many of these
families—desperate for a better life,
free from violence or the threat of vio-
lence, free from or at least distant
from death threats, and free from pov-
erty, grinding poverty, the likes of
which so many of us have never had to
experience. That is what they are des-
perate for when they say ‘‘desperate for
a better life.’’
Rather than simply focus on this fa-
ther and his daughter and how they
died and the picture of them facedown
in a river, I wanted to make sure we
saw their faces, to celebrate their lives
but to remind us of our obligation, our
enduring obligation, to make sure that
we at least—at least—take steps to re-
duce the likelihood that we will ever
see again a horrific picture like the one
of the two of them dead in a river,
facedown.
Here is what part of the story is of
this little girl and her father. The little
girl’s name was Valeria. Quoting from
the Washington Post story:
Valeria was a cheery child. Not even 2
years old, she loved to dance, play with her
stuffed animals and brush her family mem-
bers’ hair. Her father, Oscar Alberto Mar-
tinez Ramirez, was stalwart. Nearly always
working, he sold his motorcycle and bor-
rowed money to move his family from El
Salvador to the United States. Martinez and
his wife, Tania Vanessa Avalos, wanted to
save up for a home there. They wanted safe-
ty, opportunity.
‘‘They wanted a better future for their
girl,’’ Maria Estela Avalos, Vanessa’s moth-
er, told The Washington Post.
They traveled more than 1,000 miles seek-
ing it. Once in the United States, they
planned to ask for asylum, for refuge from
the violence that drives many Central Amer-
ican migrants from their home countries
every day. But the farthest the family got
was an international bridge. . . . On Sun-
day—
This would be the Sunday before
June 27.
On Sunday, they were told that the bridge
was closed and that they should return Mon-
day. Aid workers told The Post the line to
get across the bridge was hundreds long.
Then we know what happened next to
this father and his daughter.
There was also another story in the
New York Times the day before, June
26. The headline read ‘‘Girl was Safe
but Tried to Follow Father Back.’’
I will not go through all of it, but
here is what they were facing in terms
of their own economic circumstances.
At the end of the New York Times
story it reads as follows:
Mr. Martinez quit his job at Papa Johns,
where he had earned about $350 a month. By
then, his wife had already left her job as a
cashier at a Chinese restaurant to take care
of their daughter.
The couple lived with Mr. Martinez’s moth-
er in the community of Altavista, a massive
housing complex of tiny concrete houses east
of San Salvador, according to [someone re-
ferred to earlier in the story].
Though Altavista is under the control of
gangs, the couple was not fleeing from vio-
lence, [Ms. Ramirez] told him. Rather, the
grind of surviving as a family on $10 a day
had become unmanageable.
So we have a lot of families fleeing
for reasons based on violence and death
threats and that horror, and then we
also have families fleeing because they,
in this case, had $10 a day to live on.
So these families risk danger as they
cross through—what could only be said
by way of understatement—treach-
erous terrain. They risk that danger
because the graver risk is not to make
that journey.
The administration has not sought,
in my judgment, to address the root
causes of migration, such as what we
just talked about: violence, poverty,
and corruption. Rather, the adminis-
tration has repeatedly attempted to
walk back our Nation’s solemn vow
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.039 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4941
July 18, 2019
and close the door on refugees and asy-
lum seekers.
Over the past couple of weeks, re-
ports have surfaced of children held in
squalid conditions without adequate
medical attention, sanitation, or even
food and water.
A law professor who spoke with chil-
dren at a Texas CBP facility was
quoted in the Washington Post as say-
ing, ‘‘It’s the worst conditions I have
ever witnessed in several years of doing
these inspections.’’
That is a law professor, not a casual
observer but someone who has experi-
ence and training, recognizing what is
happening in these facilities.
In May, the Department of Homeland
Security Office of Inspector General
issued a report stating that the El Paso
Del Norte Processing Center, a facility
with a maximum of 125 detainees, was
holding 900—capacity 125, holding 900
detainees.
Some migrants were held in stand-
ing-room-only conditions for days and
weeks with limited access to showers
and clean clothing. These conditions
were dangerous and posed an imme-
diate risk to both migrants and per-
sonnel.
The administration has sought to use
inhumane policies like separating fam-
ilies, just one example, as a deterrent—
as a deterrent.
They recently canceled English class-
es, recreational programs, and legal aid
for unaccompanied minors at shelters
across the country, and an attorney for
the Department of Justice argued that
the government should not be required
to give detained migrant children
toothbrushes, soap, towels, or showers.
Does that make any sense at all? Is
that consistent with our values?
The administration is seeking to
relax standards for holding children,
when, according to the American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics—also not casual ob-
servers but a set of experts on what a
child needs to survive and thrive—De-
partment of Homeland Security facili-
ties already do not meet the basic
standards for the care of children in
residential settings.
Earlier this week, the administration
issued an interim final rule that essen-
tially bars Central American migrants
from claiming asylum by making them
ineligible for asylum, including unac-
companied children who enter the
United States at the southern border
after passing through another country.
This is just the latest in many at-
tempts to restrict our asylum system
and bar those fleeing violence, persecu-
tion—and for other reasons—from exer-
cising their legal right, a legal right
that is not just grounded in United
States law but international law, the
right to petition the U.S. Government
for protection consistent with what we
did after World War II because of the
horrors we saw in World War II. This
wasn’t just some concept that was
dreamed up. It was meant to deal with
the horrors that World War II brought,
to say to the world that we are going
to make sure that if someone is fleeing
violence and persecution, they will at
least have a shot to make their case, to
have due process to make their case.
Most don’t make the case; we know
that. Most end up not being successful.
But we should let them make the case
because we are, on our best days, a na-
tion of laws. We are also, of course, a
nation of immigrants, and both of
these principles are intertwined and
undergird our values.
President Kennedy said it pretty
well:
Immigration policy should be generous; it
should be fair; it should be flexible. With
such a policy, we can turn to the world and
to our own past with clean hands and a clear
conscience.
It is entirely possible to create an
immigration system that reflects not
just President Kennedy’s vision but our
values as Americans—a system that re-
spects the rule of law, that treats all
individuals with human dignity, and
reflects our values as a Nation.
When we think of not just what our
immigration system must be about but
what our asylum system must be
about, let us think of those families
who put their lives at risk because of
what they are fleeing, who simply want
to make their case.
Let’s also remember two people
whose faces we didn’t see much of ex-
cept in this one picture—a father and a
daughter, little Valeria and her father,
Oscar Martinez Ramirez—and remem-
ber what they were trying to do. I real-
ize some will debate this: What hap-
pens when someone presents them-
selves at our border based upon pov-
erty? I understand that will be the ar-
gument against it, but we are a big
enough country and a great enough
country to be able to develop a system
to make sure that child and that father
have a shot to come here.
One of the problems we are having
now at the border is that when you tell
the world that you want to push people
away, by way of rhetoric or by way of
extreme policies at the border—inhu-
mane policies, which might be an un-
derstatement—and by telling the
world, or at least sending the message
to the world, that you want to greatly
restrict immigration, you are going to
have people choosing a different sys-
tem to try to make their case. We need
to fix both. We have a broken immigra-
tion system which this body dealt with
in 2013—68 votes in the Senate—to fix
the system and to deal with all the
tough issues. We can’t get 68 votes
around here to adjourn for lunch or to
move on to the next part of the day
sometimes. That is only a slight exag-
geration—but 68 votes.
What happened? Because there are
extreme voices in this town that told
the House of Representatives, ‘‘Don’t
even vote on it; just end it right here,’’
the best attempt in maybe decades to
secure the border, to deal with citizen-
ship, to deal with the guest worker pro-
gram, to deal with all the difficult
issues with immigration, and with 68
votes here, died in the House. It didn’t
even get a vote in the House, and this
Chamber and the House have done basi-
cally nothing since then, at least the
way I see it—nothing in terms of deal-
ing with this system, trying to fix this
broken system so you have rules and
order and certainty, but also based
upon and founded upon our values.
Some people say: You can’t do it. It
is just too hard. Congress isn’t
equipped for that.
We are the greatest country in the
world for a lot of reasons. One of them
is because of our values. Another rea-
son is when we are at our best, we
tackle tough problems. Fixing this bro-
ken immigration system is a tough
problem. Many Presidents and many
Congresses have wrestled with it, but
we got as close to getting to a fix as
anytime in recent American history
when that bill passed. The faster we
get back to something that comprehen-
sive, that bipartisan, and that ground-
ed in fact and law, the better off we
will be.
While we are doing that on immigra-
tion, we should have a conversation
about asylum—how to do it right and
how to make sure that system is work-
ing so well that it will be an example
to the world.
We have a long way to go. We have
work to do, but I think these difficult
issues are indeed a great mission—a
difficult mission, but I think they are a
mission worthy of a great country.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that following leader remarks
on Tuesday, July 23, the Senate pro-
ceed to the consideration of H.R. 1327,
as under the previous order; I further
ask that notwithstanding rule XXII, at
12 noon, the Senate proceed to execu-
tive session and, if cloture has been in-
voked on the Esper nomination, all
postcloture time be considered expired
and that if confirmed, the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table and the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion. Finally, that following the clo-
ture vote on the Dickson nomination,
the Senate resume legislative session
and consideration of H.R. 1327 with all
debate time considered expired at 2:30
p.m.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.040 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4942 July 18, 2019
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
HONORING TROY CHISUM
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, on Au-
gust 10, Fulton County Sheriff Deputy
Troy Chisum should be turning 40
years old. He should be spending the
day watching his daughters play soft-
ball, or he should be playing football
with his friends and excitedly dis-
cussing the upcoming Minnesota Vi-
kings football season.
But, sadly, he won’t be doing these
things. Deputy Chisum was killed in
the line of duty on June 25. I want to
honor him today.
Deputy Chisum was answering a call
about a domestic disturbance in Avon,
IL. He was 4 minutes closer than any
other deputy. When he arrived at the
scene, he saw the suspect on the porch.
As he moved back for safety, he was
shot in the back and killed. The sus-
pect barricaded himself in the house
for the next 19 hours before the stand-
off ended.
Deputy Chisum was the fifth law en-
forcement officer in America in an 8-
day period to be shot and killed while
on duty. Another police officer has
been shot and killed since then. Their
deaths are a heartbreaking reminder of
the dangers officers face every day.
Troy Chisum loved his community.
He always answered the call to help. He
worked as a paramedic with the Fulton
County EMA and as a firefighter with
Northern Tazewell County. He also was
a member of the West Central Illinois
Special Response Team and the Illinois
Law Enforcement Alarm System Weap-
on of Mass Destruction/Special Re-
sponse Team, Region Six. He had for-
merly worked for Lewistown Police De-
partment. He was a consummate public
servant.
His family was always his No. 1 pri-
ority. He loved any activity with his
wife Amanda and his time with his
three daughters. He helped inspire his
daughter Kyleigh to pursue a medical
career. He made his girls so proud.
Deputy Chisum’s wife Amanda, their
three daughters Kyleigh, Abigail, and
Gracie, his father, Phil Chisum, his
mother and stepfather, Debra and Mike
Wheeler and too many relatives, col-
leagues and friends to name; they were
all proud of Troy.
Deputy Chisum was one of the good
ones. His colleagues knew him as the
first one in every morning and the last
one out every night. His legacy and
sacrifice will be remembered.
VERGENNES, VERMONT’S, ROLE IN THE
APOLLO 11 MOON LANDING
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, this week
America celebrates the fiftieth anni-
versary of a monumental achievement
for our country and all of humankind,
the Apollo 11 mission that landed the
first human beings on the Moon.
Like families across America and
across the world, our family gathered
in front of the television in our living
room that Sunday night of July 20,
1969, to watch this history unfold. I was
State’s attorney then, and we lived in
a duplex in Burlington.
Our 5-year-old son Kevin asked if he
could stay up late to watch, and of
course, Marcelle and I agreed. He
stretched out on the floor in his PJs.
He had nodded off by the time the im-
ages from the Moon started to come
across, and we roused our little fellow.
We knew this was a night we would
always remember.
The next day, I went to court for an
arraignment. Then I met with police
officers about several matters, and we
all had a hard time concentrating as
we excitedly discussed what we had
seen the night before.
As Neil Armstrong so famously said,
his one small step was a giant leap for
all of humanity.
As he and other astronauts often
noted, that leap was made possible not
just by his step, but by the small steps
of thousands of men and women across
America who participated in the space
program, including some from the town
of Vergennes, VT.
Today, 50 years ago, the Apollo 11
mission was hurtling toward the moon,
but getting to the Moon is not a mat-
ter of just pointing the nose of a craft
and igniting the powerful engines.
First, the command module had to
dock with the lunar expeditionary
module, then leave Earth’s orbit, then
navigate to get into lunar orbit, and
then return. Throughout the process,
Michael Collins needed to use the
craft’s engines, known as a burn, to ad-
just the heading.
But with no option to refuel, these
burns had to be precise and effective,
and any deviation from the planned
fuel usage had to be worked into future
plans. Otherwise, there would be no re-
turn for America’s heroes. This is
where Vergennes came in.
Vermont has a long tradition of
building precision tools and machinery,
and NASA turned to Simmonds Preci-
sion of Vergennes, VT, to ensure that
the Apollo 11 crew and Mission Control
knew exactly how much fuel they had.
The fuel probes and valves had to be as
nearly perfect as possible, and they had
to perform perfectly in varying levels
of microgravity. It was an immense
technological challenge, which the en-
gineers and workers in Vergennes met.
Fifty years later, the company is
still there. Now operating under the
name Collins Aerospace, they still
make fuel probes, along with other
aerospace technology that seems to be
able to do the impossible. When you
enter the factory, along their wall of
history, the Apollo Program commands
a special place of pride. It is a reminder
of how the small steps taken by Ameri-
cans everywhere, when working to-
gether, can accomplish tremendous
leaps.
I ask unanimous consent that a re-
cent article about one of the engineers
from Vergennes, published by the Bur-
lington Free Press, be printed into the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Burlington Free Press, July 17,
2019]
VERMONT COMPANY PLAYED KEY ROLE IN
APOLLO MOON MISSION
(By Joel Banner Baird, Free Press Staff
Writer)
A FORMER ENGINEER WITH VERGENNES-BASED
SIMMONDS PRECISION DESCRIBES THE COM-
PANY’S ROLE IN THE APOLLO SPACE PROGRAM
Something clicked when Dominique St.
Pierre heard President John F. Kennedy de-
clare, in 1962, that the U.S. would land men
on the moon by the end of the decade.
‘‘It was gutsy,’’ St. Pierre, now 74, remem-
bers.
JFK’s challenge prompted St. Pierre, then
an 18–year-old in St. Albans, to hone his en-
gineering skills at Vermont Technical Col-
lege, sign on with Simmonds Precision in
Vergennes in 1965 and help design and build
a fuel system for the Apollo moon mission.
Three years later, the first-ever astronauts
to orbit the moon were measuring their
craft’s precious propellant with Vermont-
made gauges, valves and meters.
His collaboration with more than 200 em-
ployees at Simmonds yielded a tool that per-
formed flawlessly throughout the Apollo pro-
gram, St. Pierre said.
A thrilling, disruptive American decade
Simmonds, subsequently bought by Good-
rich and then United Technologies, went on
to design and build fuel sensors for Boeing
and Airbus, among other customers. St.
Pierre stayed with the company until he re-
tired in 2019.
But the fast-paced years leading up to the
successful moon landing on July 20, 1969—
and Apollo 11 crew’s safe return—remain
vivid for St. Pierre.
The space program offered a welcome, up-
lifting message for Americans shocked by
the Chicago riots of 1968, as well as the assas-
sinations of Martin Luther King, Jr. and
Robert F. Kennedy in that year, St. Pierre
said.
‘We had a schedule to meet’
Engineers at NASA kept the Simmonds
crew very busy and focused, he added: ‘‘We
worked long, long days. Come hell or high
water, we had a schedule to meet.’’
St. Pierre remembers the dust-free work-
place in Vergennes, bustling with techni-
cians in white smocks and surgical caps.
But, despite America’s global, cold-war ri-
valry with the Soviet Union that extended
into those countries’ space programs, there
was little secrecy at Simmonds—beyond the
safekeeping of papers that documented test
results, St. Pierre said.
Excitement built when NASA flew him to
Cape Kennedy (now Cape Canaveral), where
he joined hundreds of other engineers in fit-
ting together thousands of interconnected
pieces of a never-before assembled puzzle.
‘‘To this day, 50 years later,’’ St. Pierre
said, ‘‘it’s still viewed as the greatest tech-
nological achievement of mankind.’’
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.042 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4943
July 18, 2019
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, un-
fortunately I was unable to attend the
rollcall vote on the nomination of Clif-
ton L. Corker to be a judge for the
Eastern District of Tennessee. Had I
been able to attend, I would have op-
posed his nomination.
Mr. President, unfortunately I was
unable to attend the rollcall vote on
the nomination of Lynda Blanchard to
be United States Ambassador to the
Republic of Slovenia. Had I been able
to attend, I would have opposed her
nomination.
Mr. President, unfortunately I was
unable to attend the rollcall vote on
the nomination of Donald R. Tapia to
be United States Ambassador to Ja-
maica. Had I been able to attend, I
would have opposed his nomination.∑
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I had expected to be able to vote on the
confirmations of Mr. Clifton Corker to
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Tennessee, Ms. Lynda Blan-
chard to be Ambassador to the Repub-
lic of Slovenia, and Mr. Donald R.
Tapia to be Ambassador to Jamaica.
Instead, I am in Nevada for a funeral.
On the question of the confirmation
of Mr. Clifton Corker to the U.S. Dis-
trict Court for the Eastern District of
Tennessee, I would have voted no.
On the question of the confirmation
of Ms. Lynda Blanchard to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Slovenia, I
would have voted no.
On the question of the confirmation
of Mr. Donald R. Tapia to be Ambas-
sador to Jamaica, I would have voted
yes.
Thank you.∑
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
70TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE AR-
KANSAS BROADCASTERS ASSO-
CIATION
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to congratulate the Arkansas
Broadcasters Association, ABA, on its
70th anniversary and celebrate the or-
ganization’s decades of service to radio
and television broadcasters in my
State.
Established in 1949, the Arkansas
Broadcasters formed to help broadcast
organizations by educating its mem-
bers about opportunities available
through free, over-the-air broadcast op-
erations and provide technical support,
regulatory expertise, and advocacy co-
ordination. The trade association’s
support and the services associated
with it have no doubt been a tremen-
dous asset to broadcasters across the
State. Today, the ABA highlights its
mission to help members in ‘‘Broad-
casting Naturally,’’ which aptly distills
the organization’s mantra in simple,
clever terms.
Arkansas’ radio and television broad-
cast outlets provide vital information
and quality programming to commu-
nities across our State. They educate,
inform, entertain, and communicate
with Arkansans in a variety of ways.
When we turn on our televisions or ra-
dios and perhaps just as much these
days by opening our smartphones and
tablets or powering on our computers,
we have come to expect the content we
are looking for will be readily available
and accessible.
We are able to find what we are look-
ing for on TV or radio or their tech-
nology-enabled apps and online plat-
forms because of the hard work that
broadcasters do to ensure their product
is meeting the demands and desires of
consumers. I believe these broadcasters
will be the first people to tell you that
the Arkansas Broadcasters Association
has played an integral role in their
ability to provide that service, adapt to
changing technology, and better under-
stand the market they operate in.
It has been a pleasure to work along-
side the ABA on legislative efforts that
help the organization and its members
continue to do the job they want to do
as well as they can. I have been a sup-
porter of legislation the broadcasters
have advocated for, including the Local
Radio Freedom Act, and I was espe-
cially honored when the group named
me its Arkansan of the Year in 2017 for
my work to support the association
and its members.
Congratulations to the Arkansas
Broadcasters Association and all of its
members on reaching the tremendous
milestone of seven decades working on
behalf of their industry. I applaud
them and am confident the ABA will
enjoy many more years of success on
behalf of the Natural State’s television
and radio broadcasters.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MIRIAM HALEY
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the distinct honor of rec-
ognizing Miriam Haley of Silver Bow
County for her contribution to the
Butte veteran community.
Mrs. Haley, a quilter for over two
decades, recently chaired a patriotic
quilt show during Butte’s Miners’
Union Day celebration. The goal of this
show was to create quilts for veterans
moving into the newly built Southwest
Montana Regional Veterans Home.
Mrs. Haley ensured these quilts were
designed to serve the Butte veterans in
their day-to-day needs, whether they
be resting or sitting with visitors.
Originally, Mrs. Haley had hoped to
collect 65 quilts for the veterans, but
the show collected double that number.
The 130 quilts spread out in proud dis-
play for the show acted as a tangible
expression of Montana’s ability to go
above and beyond for its veteran com-
munity.
I wish to congratulate Mrs. Haley on
her quilt show’s success. Her actions
reflect the deep devotion to patriotism
ingrained in all Montanans.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO COLONEL DOUGLAS B.
GUTTORMSEN
∑ Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, today,
I would like to recognize COL Douglas
B. Guttormsen on the occasion of his
retirement from the Kansas City Dis-
trict Commander for the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers. He has diligently
served in this role for 3 years.
After earning degrees from the U.S.
Military Academy at West Point, the
University of Missouri at Rolla, the
National Defense University, and the
U.S. Army Command and General Staff
College, Colonel Guttormsen went on
to lead engineering battalions across
the United States and around the
world. In addition to these assign-
ments, he served in combat operations
in Iraq and the Republic of Korea.
As commander of the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers Kansas City Dis-
trict, Colonel Guttormsen has overseen
many military and civil works projects
throughout the district. From direct-
ing construction projects at the re-
gion’s military installations to ensur-
ing the levees and dams are struc-
turally sound, Colonel Guttormsen has
demonstrated able and consistent lead-
ership.
Although his resume boasts many ac-
complishments, Colonel Guttormsen’s
work leading the emergency operations
center, which plays a vital role in re-
sponding to natural disasters whenever
and wherever they may occur, is most
impressive.
This spring, when facing extensive
rainfall and severe flooding, he and the
entire Kansas City District staff
worked around the clock to respond to
levee breaches and assist affected com-
munities. Colonel Guttormsen also par-
ticipated in the Missouri River Flood
Forum that Congressman STEVE WAT-
KINS and I hosted in May, where we saw
the extensive flooding at the 4-State
Lookout Point in Kansas and then
spoke alongside the Department of Ag-
riculture and answered questions from
community members.
Colonel Guttormsen is a true profes-
sional and has exhibited remarkable
leadership during his time as the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers Kansas City
District commander. I trust my fellow
members will join me in congratu-
lating him and wishing him well in the
days to come.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 12:25 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following joint resolutions, without
amendment:
S.J. Res. 36. Joint resolution providing for
congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.051 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4944 July 18, 2019
Italian Republic of certain defense articles
and services.
S.J. Res. 37. Joint resolution providing for
congressional disapproval of the proposed ex-
port to the United Arab Emirates, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, and the Republic of France of
certain defense articles and services.
S.J. Res. 38. Joint resolution providing for
congressional disapproval of the proposed ex-
port to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland of certain defense articles and
services.
The message also announced that the
House has passed the following bills, in
which it requests the concurrence of
the Senate:
H.R. 736. An act to require the Director of
the Government Publishing Office to estab-
lish and maintain an online portal accessible
to the public that allows the public to obtain
electronic copies of all congressionally man-
dated reports in one place, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 748. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax
on high cost employer-sponsored health cov-
erage.
H.R. 1250. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 11158 Highway 146 North in Hardin, Texas,
as the ‘‘Lucas Lowe Memorial Post Office’’.
H.R. 1526. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 200 Israel Road Southeast in Tumwater,
Washington, as the ‘‘Eva G. Hewitt Post Of-
fice’’.
H.R. 1844. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 66 Grove Court in Elgin, Illinois, as the
‘‘Corporal Alex Martinez Memorial Post Of-
fice Building’’.
H.R. 1847. An act to require congressional
notification for certain changes in status of
inspectors general, and for other purposes.
H.R. 2325. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 100 Calle Alondra in San Juan, Puerto
Rico, as the ‘‘65th Infantry Regiment Post
Office Building’’.
H.R. 3305. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 2509 George Mason Drive in Virginia
Beach, Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan Keith Cox
Post Office Building’’.
H.R. 3494. An act to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal years 2018, 2019, and 2020 for
intelligence and intelligence-related activi-
ties of the United States Government, the
Community Management Account, and the
Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and
Disability System, and for other purposes.
At 1:52 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 582. An act to provide for increases in
the Federal minimum wage, and for other
purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 1250. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 11158 Highway 146 North in Hardin, Texas,
as the ‘‘Lucas Lowe Post Office’’; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
H.R. 1526. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 200 Israel Road Southeast in Tumwater,
Washington, as the ‘‘Eva G. Hewitt Post Of-
fice’’; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 1844. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 66 Grove Court in Elgin, Illinois, as the
‘‘Corporal Alex Martinez Memorial Post Of-
fice Building’’; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 1847. An act to require congressional
notification for certain changes in status of
inspectors general, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 2325. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 100 Calle Alondra in San Juan, Puerto
Rico, as the ‘‘65th Infantry Regiment Post
Office Building’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
H.R. 3305. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 2509 George Mason Drive in Virginia
Beach, Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan Keith Cox
Post Office Building’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
H.R. 3494. An act to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal years 2018, 2019, and 2020 for
intelligence and intelligence-related activi-
ties of the United States Government, the
Community Management Account, and the
Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and
Disability System, and for other purposes; to
the Select Committee on Intelligence.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 736. An act to require the Director of
the Government Publishing Office to estab-
lish and maintain an online portal accessible
to the public that allows the public to obtain
electronic copies of all congressionally man-
dated reports in one place, and for other pur-
poses.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bills were read the first
time:
H.R. 582. An act to provide for increases in
the Federal minimum wage, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 748. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax
on high cost employer-sponsored health cov-
erage.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2023. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulations Management Division,
Rural Development, Department of Agri-
culture, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Single Family
Housing Direct and Guaranteed Loan Pro-
grams’’ (RIN0575–AD10) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on July 17,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–2024. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulations Management Division,
Rural Development, Department of Agri-
culture, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Streamlining Elec-
tric Program Procedures’’ (RIN0572–AC40) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 17, 2019; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2025. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to Congress on
Distribution of Department of Defense Fiscal
Year 2018 Purchases From Foreign Entities’’;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2026. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a report
on the approved retirement of Vice Admiral
Raquel C. Bono, United States Navy, and her
advancement to the grade of vice admiral on
the retired list; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–2027. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel, General Law, Ethics,
and Regulation, Department of the Treasury,
transmitting, pursuant to law, three (3) re-
ports relative to vacancies in the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on July 17,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–2028. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Revisions to Prohibi-
tions and Restrictions on Proprietary Trad-
ing and Certain Interests In, and Relation-
ships With, Hedge Funds and Private Equity
Funds’’ (RIN3235–AM43) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on July
16, 2019; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2029. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Imple-
mentation Plans; Colorado; Revisions to
Regulation Number 4, New Wood Stoves and
the Use of Certain Woodburning Appliances
During High Pollution Days’’ (FRL No. 9995–
93–Region 8) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 16, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2030. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Indian Country: Air Quality Planning
and Management; Federal Implementation
Plan for the Kalispel Indian Community of
the Kalispel Reservation, Washington; Re-
designation to a PSD Class I Area’’ (FRL No.
9996–67–Region 10) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 16, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–2031. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Massachusetts: Final Approval of
State Underground Storage Tank Program
Revisions, Codification, and Incorporation
by Reference’’ (FRL No. 9996–56–Region 1) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 16, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–2032. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Oregon: Final Approval of State Un-
derground Storage Tank Program Revisions,
Codification, and Incorporation by Ref-
erence’’ (FRL No. 9996–69–Region 10) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on July 16, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:01 Oct 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JULY\S18JY9.REC S18JY9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4945
July 18, 2019
EC–2033. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel, General Law, Ethics,
and Regulation, Department of the Treasury,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to a vacancy in the position of Under
Secretary (International Affairs), Depart-
ment of the Treasury, received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on July 17,
2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–2034. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Textiles and Apparel,
International Trade Administration, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Imports
of Certain Worsted Wool Fabric: Implemen-
tation of Tariff Rate Quota Established
Under Title V of the Trade and Development
Act of 2000: Removal of Regulations’’
(RIN0625–AB13) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 17, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–2035. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Revision
of Requirements for Long Term Care Facili-
ties: Arbitration Agreements’’ (RIN0938–
AT18) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on July 17, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–2036. A communication from the Assist-
ant Administrator, Bureau for Legislative
and Public Affairs, U.S. Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID), transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Re-
port to Congress on Global Health Innova-
tions for Fiscal Year 2018’’; to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
EC–2037. A communication from the Acting
Executive Secretary, U.S. Agency for Inter-
national Development, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a report relative to seven (7) va-
cancies in the agency, received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on July 16,
2019; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–2038. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0048 - 2019–0060); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–2039. A communication from the Asso-
ciate General Counsel for General Law, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, two (2) reports relative
to a vacancy in the position of Under Sec-
retary for Management, Department of
Homeland Security, received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 17, 2019;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–2040. A communication from the Acting
Director, Office of Personnel Management,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report enti-
tled ‘‘Report to Congress on the Physicians’
Comparability Allowance Program’’; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–2041. A communication from the Acting
Director, Office of Personnel Management,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report enti-
tled ‘‘Notification and Federal Employee
Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act Pub-
lic Law 107–174: Annual Report to Congress
Fiscal Year 2018’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–2042. A communication from the Acting
Director, Office of Personnel Management,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Office of
Inspector General’s Semiannual Report and
the Management Response for the period of
October 1, 2018 through March 31, 2019; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–2043. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the Office of Commu-
nity Oriented Policing Services (COPS) An-
nual Report to Congress on the Rafael
Ramos and Wenjian Lu National Blue Alert
Act of 2015; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
EC–2044. A communication from the Asso-
ciate General Counsel for General Law, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, two (2) reports relative
to a vacancy in the position of Assistant
Secretary/Director, Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement (ICE), Department of
Homeland Security, received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 17, 2019;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–2045. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director of the Office of Policy, Execu-
tive Office for Immigration Review, Depart-
ment of Justice, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Board of
Immigration Appeals: Affirmance Without
Opinion, Referral for Panel Review, and Pub-
lication of Decisions as Precedents’’
(RIN1125–AA58) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 16, 2019; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–2046. A communication from the Acting
Deputy Director, Executive Office for Immi-
gration Review, Department of Justice,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Asylum Eligibility and Pro-
cedural Modifications’’ (RIN1125–AA91) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 16, 2019; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
EC–2047. A communication from the Acting
Deputy Assistant Administrator for Regu-
latory Programs, National Marine Fisheries
Service, Department of Commerce, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Atlantic Deep-Sea Red Crab Fishery;
2019 Atlantic Deep-Sea Red Crab Specifica-
tions’’ (RIN0648–XE900) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on July 17,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2048. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Golden Tilefish Fishery; 2019 Speci-
fications’’ (RIN0648–XG417) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
17, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2049. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Prohibit Directed Fishing for
American Fisheries Act Program and Crab
Rationalization Program Groundfish
Sideboard Limits in the BSAI and GOA’’
(RIN0648–BH88) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 17, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2050. A communication from the Acting
Deputy Assistant Administrator for Regu-
latory Programs, National Marine Fisheries
Service, Department of Commerce, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of
Mexico, and South Atlantic; Permit Renewal
Applications’’ (RIN0648–BH43) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
17, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2051. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘International Fisheries; Pacific Tuna Fish-
eries; Fishing Restrictions for Fish Aggre-
gating Devices in the Eastern Pacific Ocean’’
(RIN0648–BI37) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 17, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2052. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Taking and Importing Marine Mammals;
Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to the
U.S. Navy Training and Testing Activities in
the Atlantic Fleet Training and Testing
Study Area’’ (RIN0648–BH06) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
17, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2053. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Taking and Importing Marine Mammals;
Taking Marine Mammals Incidental to the
U.S. Navy Training and Testing Activities in
the Hawaii-Southern California Training and
Testing Study Area’’ (RIN0648–BH29) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 17, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–118. A joint resolution adopted by the
Legislature of the State of New Jersey urg-
ing the United States Congress to enact the
Military Hunger Prevention Act; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 73
Whereas, The Supplemental Nutrition As-
sistance Program (SNAP), formerly known
as the Food Stamp Program, provides assist-
ance to eligible low-income individuals and
families to buy healthy, nutritious food at a
network of participating stores and farmer’s
markets, and is the country’s most impor-
tant anti-hunger program; and
Whereas, The federal government pays for
the cost of SNAP benefits and the program’s
eligibility rules are primarily set at the fed-
eral level, while the costs of administering
the program are shared between the federal
government and the states; and
Whereas, In a typical month in 2017, the
SNAP program helped more than 40 million
low-income Americans afford a nutritionally
adequate diet; and
Whereas, Most recipients of SNAP who are
able to work are working while receiving
benefits, which demonstrates the need of
many working families, including those with
a member in the armed forces, for assistance,
particularly during economic downturns; and
Whereas, In 2015, more than $80 million in
SNAP benefits were used to buy food at mili-
tary commissaries; and many military in-
stallations have food pantries or food banks
that provide food to military families who
are in need; and
Whereas, According to the U.S. Census Bu-
reau’s American Community Survey, two
percent of active duty military families, or
approximately 23,000 families, received
SNAP benefits from 2009 to 2012, and six per-
cent of respondents of the Blue Star Family
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.015 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4946 July 18, 2019
Lifestyle Survey reported using emergency
food relief in 2017; and
Whereas, Military families that do not re-
side on a military base or installation re-
ceive a Basic Housing Allowance (BAH),
which is meant to offset the cost of civilian
housing for those who do not reside in gov-
ernment-provided housing, and the rate of
the BAH depends on location, pay grade, and
number of dependents of the service member;
and
Whereas, Although the BAH is intended to
offset the cost of civilian housing for service-
men and women who do not live on a mili-
tary base, the amount of the BAH is cur-
rently considered as income for purposes of
determining eligibility for SNAP, and cer-
tain other benefits, pursuant to federal law;
and
Whereas, The ‘‘Military Hunger Prevention
Act,’’ 1 øcurrently¿ previously 1 pending in
Congress as H.R. 1078 and S. 2488, would
amend federal law to exclude the BAH when
determining eligibility for certain federal
benefits, including SNAP; and
Whereas, Among the many economic chal-
lenges faced by members of the military are:
relatively low pay compared to non-military
occupations; infrequent and insufficient pay
raises; frequent transfers or deployments,
particularly when the transfer is to a region
of the country with a comparatively high
cost of living; and the difficulty of spouses to
find well-paying, long-term employment due
to those transfers and deployments; and
Whereas, In order that members of the
armed services and their families, who make
considerable personal sacrifices to protect
and serve the United States, have sufficient
and nutritious food on their tables, it is fit-
ting and proper that the law be amended to
exclude the BHA from income for purposes of
determining eligibility for SNAP and other
federal programs; now, therefore, be it
Resolved, by the Senate and General Assembly
of the State of New Jersey:
1. The Legislature and Governor of New
Jersey respectfully urge the Congress of the
United States to 1 introduce and 1 enact the
‘‘Military Hunger Prevention Act,’’
1 øcurrently pending in both houses of Con-
gress.¿ 1 so that those members of the armed
forces who make considerable sacrifices in
order to serve our country, yet face hunger
or require assistance, are able to benefit
from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program and other benefits, notwithstanding
their receipt of a Basic Housing Allowance.
2. Copies of this resolution, as filed with
the Secretary of State, shall be transmitted
by the Clerk of the General Assembly or the
Secretary of the Senate to the Majority and
Minority Leaders of the United States Sen-
ate, the Speaker and Minority Leader of the
United States House of Representatives, and
every member of Congress elected from this
State.
1 3. This joint resolution shall take effect im-
mediately.1
POM–119. A resolution adopted by the
House of Representatives of the State of Illi-
nois urging the United States Congress to
enact legislation making United States pol-
icy not to start a nuclear war and to prohibit
the funding of further development and pro-
duction of additional nuclear weapons; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
HOUSE RESOLUTION NO. 61
Whereas, The use of even a small number
of nuclear weapons could have catastrophic
human, environmental, health, and eco-
nomic consequences globally; and
Whereas, Approximately 14,000 nuclear
weapons still exist in the world and pose an
intolerable risk to humanity; and
Whereas, The United States has over 6,000
nuclear weapons, which combined are more
than 100 times more powerful than all the
weapons used during World War II; and
Whereas, The United States is currently
planning to spend nearly $2 trillion over the
next 30 years rebuilding its entire nuclear
weapons arsenal; this is a gross misuse of
funds that could instead be devoted to im-
proving security, health, and education; and
Whereas, The United States maintains
nearly 1,000 nuclear weapons on high alert so
they are ready for launch within minutes of
a presidential decision to do so, making
them vulnerable to accidents, unauthorized
use, cyber attacks, and miscalculations,
thereby increasing the risk of nuclear use;
and
Whereas, The United States currently re-
serves the right to use nuclear weapons in
response to non-nuclear attacks by Russia,
China, or North Korea, nations that could re-
spond by using their own nuclear weapons,
resulting in a nuclear war that could have
devastating consequences; and
Whereas, The sole purpose of U.S. nuclear
weapons should be to deter a nuclear attack
on the United States, its forces, and its al-
lies; there is no reason for the United States
to ever use nuclear weapons first; and
Whereas, The U.S. President has sole au-
thority to order a nuclear attack without
any consultation or input; leaving the deci-
sion to one individual increases the chance
of a nuclear weapon being used; and
Whereas, A policy renouncing the first use
of nuclear weapons would severely constrain
the ability of the President to order a nu-
clear attack, allowing attacks only in re-
sponse to a nuclear attack; and
Whereas, Americans and all people on the
planet should have the right to live a life
free from the threat of nuclear weapons; and
Whereas, The United States should imme-
diately change its policies, as well as ac-
tively pursue verifiable agreements with
other nuclear-armed nations to reduce the
number of nuclear weapons and eliminate
them from the planet; therefore, be it
Resolved, by the House of Representatives of
the One Hundred First General Assembly of the
State of Illinois, that, as an important first
step, we call on the President of the United
States to make it the policy of the U.S. that
it will not start a nuclear war and therefore
will not use nuclear weapons first, and we
call on the United States Congress to pass
legislation supporting this policy; and be it
further
Resolved, That we call on Congress to not
fund the development and production of ad-
ditional U.S. nuclear weapons that can
produce a relatively small nuclear explosion,
making them suitable for rogue nuclear war-
fighting and potentially lowering the thresh-
old to using nuclear weapons first; and be it
further
Resolved, That suitable copies of this reso-
lution be delivered to the President of the
United States, the Vice President of the
United States, the U.S. Senate Majority
Leader, the U.S. Senate Minority Leader, the
U.S. Speaker of the House, the U.S. House of
Representatives Minority Leader, and all
members of the Illinois Congressional Dele-
gation.
POM–120. A resolution adopted by the
House of Representatives of the Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania urging the United
States Congress to reauthorize and fully
fund the September 11th Victim Compensa-
tion Fund; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
HOUSE RESOLUTION NO. 343
Whereas, the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund was created in 2001 to com-
pensate individuals for illnesses and deaths
due to exposure to toxins at the September
11th attack sites; and
Whereas, the fund was reauthorized in 2011
and then again in 2015, allowing individuals
to submit claims until December 18, 2020; and
Whereas, the World Trade Center Health
Program was essentially established to diag-
nose and treat medical issues of September
11th responders and victims; and
Whereas, the $7.3 billion fund has already
paid out approximately $5 billion to 21,000
claimants and still has approximately 19,000
additional claims; and
Whereas, insufficient money exists to pay
current and projected claims at the same
levels under current procedures, and claim-
ants that are unpaid will see a drastic cut in
payments; and
Whereas, more than 90,000 Americans, in-
cluding approximately 1,500 residents of this
Commonwealth, struggle with illnesses re-
lated to the September 11th attacks as of
2018; and
Whereas, the fund should be reuthorized
and fully funded through 2090, which will
make it last until the 2090 expiration date of
the World Trade Center Health Program;
Now, therefore be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
urge the Congress of the United States to re-
authorize and fully fund the September 11th
Victim Compensation Fund; and be it further
Resolved, That copies of this resolution be
transmitted to the President of the United
States, the presiding officers of each house of
Congress and to each member of Congress
from Pennsylvania.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. LEE, from the Joint Economic
Committee:
Special Report entitled ‘‘The 2019 Joint
Economic Report’’ (Rept. No. 116–58).
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute:
S. 727. A bill to combat international ex-
tremism by addressing global fragility and
violence and stabilizing conflict-affected
areas, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. ROUNDS for Mr. INHOFE for the
Committee on Armed Services.
*Mark T. Esper, of Virginia, to be Sec-
retary of Defense.
*Army nomination of Gen. Mark A. Milley,
to be General.
Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. Mary F.
O’Brien, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Lt. Gen. Bryan P.
Fenton, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Ronald J.
Place, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Col. Robert T.
Wooldridge II, to be Brigadier General.
Marine Corps nomination of Maj. Gen.
David G. Bellon, to be Lieutenant General.
Mr. ROUNDS for Mr. INHOFE. Mr.
President, for the Committee on Armed
Services I report favorably the fol-
lowing nomination lists which were
printed in the RECORDs on the dates in-
dicated, and ask unanimous consent, to
save the expense of reprinting on the
Executive Calendar that these nomina-
tions lie at the Secretary’s desk for the
information of Senators.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.019 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4947
July 18, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Mark C. Alderman and ending with Denean
V. E. Zozo, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on April 29, 2019.
Air Force nomination of Robert K. Rankin,
Jr., to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Air Force nomination of Judy A. Rattan,
to be Colonel.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Gaylan A. Gray and ending with Jordan H.
Lindeke, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on June 18, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Hans Eric Anker and ending with Brian
Douglas Zullo, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on June 18, 2019.
Air Force nomination of John W. Poulter,
to be Colonel.
Air Force nomination of Thomas D.
Ausherman, to be Colonel.
Air Force nominations beginning with Ed-
ward J. Brennan and ending with Kenneth A.
Stremmel, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 8, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Lauren A. Baker and ending with Jesse W.
Johnson, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 8, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with Jon-
athan D. Barnes and ending with Jeremiah
P. Sexton, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 8, 2019.
Army nomination of Larry D. Crowder, to
be Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with Jason
B. Bariatti and ending with Mark A. Patter-
son, which nominations were received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on June 18, 2019.
Army nomination of Roger M. Lewis, to be
Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with Thelma
D. Cummings and ending with Kyungkun
Lee, which nominations were received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on June 18, 2019.
Army nomination of Joshua S. Anderson,
to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Joseph P. Blakeney,
to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Patrick D. Clary, to
be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Marie P. Corpuz, to be
Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Ernest M. Dorema, to
be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Simone M. Edwards,
to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Luciano G. Mizerani,
to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Rochelle S. Pressley,
to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Howard G. Rice, to be
Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Virginia L. Egli, to be
Colonel.
Army nomination of Darren K. Purcell, to
be Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with Joseph
R. Adams and ending with Liang Zhou,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 8, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Ryan H.
Allred and ending with Anna Yoo, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record on
July 8, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Keith J.
Andrews and ending with Jeffrey T.
Whorton, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 8, 2019.
Marine Corps nomination of Timothy K.
Gallagher, Jr., to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Marine Corps nomination of Kyle A.
Ugone, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Marine Corps nomination of Sean M. Wil-
liams, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Marine Corps nomination of Christopher D.
McLin, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Navy nomination of Christopher M. John-
son, to be Commander.
Navy nomination of Benny P. Volkmann,
to be Commander.
Navy nomination of Eric A. Polonsky, to
be Commander.
Navy nominations beginning with Vincent
L. Ackerman and ending with James L. Zim-
merman, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 8, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Ricardo
M. Abakah and ending with Yu Zheng, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record on
July 8, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Alex-
ander Aldana and ending with Robert J.
Wishmeyer, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on July 8, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Timothy
G. Boyle and ending with Delicia G. Zimmer-
man, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 8, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Aaron T.
Allison and ending with Kristin B. White-
house, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 8, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Ryan B.
Bareng and ending with Timothy A. Spring-
er, which nominations were received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 8, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Kevin L.
Albert and ending with James H. Young,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 8, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Arturo
Alvarado, Jr. and ending with Elizabeth M.
Zuloaga, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 8, 2019.
By Mr. GRAHAM for the Committee on the
Judiciary.
Douglas Russell Cole, of Ohio, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Ohio.
Matthew Walden McFarland, of Ohio, to be
United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of Ohio.
Kea Whetzal Riggs, of New Mexico, to be
United States District Judge for the District
of New Mexico.
Robert Anthony Molloy, of the Virgin Is-
lands, to be Judge for the District Court of
the Virgin Islands for a term of ten years.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, and Mr. ROBERTS):
S. 2156. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for S corpora-
tion reform, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CASEY:
S. 2157. A bill to amend title XI of the So-
cial Security Act to expand the use of global
payments to hospitals in rural areas; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mr.
GARDNER):
S. 2158. A bill to improve certain programs
of the Department of Health and Human
Services with respect to heritable disorders;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 2159. A bill to repeal the Act entitled
‘‘An Act to confer jurisdiction on the State
of North Dakota over offenses committed by
or against Indians on the Devils Lake Indian
Reservation’’; to the Committee on Indian
Affairs.
By Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina (for
himself and Mr. MENENDEZ):
S. 2160. A bill to require carbon monoxide
alarms in certain Federally assisted housing,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. JOHN-
SON, and Mr. LEE):
S. 2161. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to provide for recip-
rocal marketing approval of certain drugs,
biological products, and devices that are au-
thorized to be lawfully marketed abroad, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. JOHNSON:
S. 2162. A bill to require the Commissioner
of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to
annually hire at least 600 new Border Patrol
agents, to report quarterly to Congress on
the status of the Border Patrol workforce,
and to conduct a comprehensive staffing
analysis; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Ms. HAR-
RIS, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 2163. A bill to establish the Commission
on the Social Status of Black Men and Boys,
to study and make recommendations to ad-
dress social problems affecting Black men
and boys, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
BOOZMAN):
S. 2164. A bill to amend the Water Re-
sources Research Act of 1984 to reauthorize
grants for and require applied water supply
research regarding the water resources re-
search and technology institutes established
under that Act; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
DAINES, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. MCSALLY,
Mr. UDALL, and Mr. LANKFORD):
S. 2165. A bill to enhance protections of Na-
tive American tangible cultural heritage,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Indian Affairs.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. CASSIDY, Ms. COLLINS, and
Ms. CANTWELL):
S. 2166. A bill to designate Regional Ocean
Partnerships of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. WICKER:
S. 2167. A bill to require a certain percent-
age of natural gas and crude oil exports be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.025 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4948 July 18, 2019
transported on United States-built and
United States-flag vessels, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself and Mr.
UDALL):
S. 2168. A bill to establish a student loan
forgiveness plan for certain borrowers who
are employed at a qualified farm or ranch; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr.
PETERS, and Ms. SINEMA):
S. 2169. A bill to amend section 3116 of title
5, United States Code, to clarify the applica-
bility of the appointment limitations for stu-
dents appointed under the expedited hiring
authority for post-secondary students; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Mr. WICKER:
S. 2170. A bill to amend the Biggert-Waters
Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 to make
reforms to flood mapping programs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. WICKER:
S. 2171. A bill to amend the Bunning-Bereu-
ter-Blumenauer Flood Insurance Reform Act
of 2004 to require insurance agents who sell
flood insurance policies under the National
Flood Insurance Program to take certain
continuing education courses, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. WICKER:
S. 2172. A bill to amend the National Flood
Insurance Act of 1968 to provide relief from
surcharges to small businesses and nonprofit
organizations; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself,
Ms. SINEMA, and Mr. YOUNG):
S. 2173. A bill to amend title 14, United
States Code, to enhance the land-based un-
manned aircraft system program of the
Coast Guard, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. TILLIS, and Mr. UDALL):
S. 2174. A bill to expand the grants author-
ized under Jennifer’s Law and Kristen’s Act
to include processing of unidentified re-
mains, resolving missing persons cases, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mr.
PAUL):
S. 2175. A bill to address recommendations
made to Congress by the Government Ac-
countability Office and detailed in the an-
nual duplication report, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. 2176. A bill to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to designate Haiti for
temporary protected status; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Ms.
HASSAN, Ms. SINEMA, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
JOHNSON, Mr. ENZI, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
CORNYN, and Mr. TESTER):
S. 2177. A bill to provide taxpayers with an
improved understanding of Government pro-
grams through the disclosure of cost, per-
formance, and areas of duplication among
them, leverage existing data to achieve a
functional Federal program inventory, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
CORNYN):
S. 2178. A bill to impose requirements in
certain actions for patent infringement, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
CRAMER, and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 2179. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to provide social service
agencies with the resources to provide serv-
ices to meet the urgent needs of Holocaust
survivors to age in place with dignity, com-
fort, security, and quality of life; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. LEAHY (for himself and Mrs.
MURRAY):
S. 2180. A bill to provide oversight of the
border zone in which Federal agents may
conduct vehicle checkpoints and stops and
enter private land without a warrant, and to
make technical corrections; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2181. A bill to require the disclosure of
information relating to cyberattacks on air-
craft systems and maintenance and ground
support systems for aircraft, to identify and
address cybersecurity vulnerabilities to the
United States commercial aviation system,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2182. A bill to protect consumers from
security and privacy threats to their motor
vehicles, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Ms. HASSAN,
and Mr. LANKFORD):
S. 2183. A bill to require the Comptroller
General of the United States to analyze cer-
tain legislation in order to prevent duplica-
tion of and overlap with existing Federal
programs, offices, and initiatives; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. REED,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. BALD-
WIN, and Ms. SMITH):
S. 2184. A bill to amend the Truth in Lend-
ing Act and the Higher Education Act of 1965
to require certain creditors to obtain certifi-
cations from institutions of higher edu-
cation, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. BROWN, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. SCHATZ, and Mr. BENNET):
S. 2185. A bill to provide labor standards
for certain energy jobs, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 2186. A bill to require entities to provide
consumers with the opportunity to prohibit
the entity from collecting or using certain
data concerning the consumer and to request
deletion of such data; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
CASSIDY, Mr. SCHUMER, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. REED, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
BOOKER, Ms. WARREN, and Mr. VAN
HOLLEN):
S. 2187. A bill to reauthorize the National
Flood Insurance Program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. HAWLEY (for himself and Mr.
COONS):
S. 2188. A bill to amend the Small Business
Investment Act of 1958 to improve the li-
cense application process for small business
investment companies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself and Mr.
ROUNDS):
S. 2189. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to waive the guarantee fee for veterans
and spouses of veterans for the Export Work-
ing Capital, International Trade, and Export
Express programs; to the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Ms. HIRONO:
S. 2190. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to ensure that the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands is eligible for cer-
tain Small Business Administration pro-
grams, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entrepreneur-
ship.
By Ms. HIRONO:
S. 2191. A bill to establish the Native
American Outreach Program of the Small
Business Administration, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, and Mr. MENENDEZ):
S. 2192. A bill to amend the National Flood
Insurance Act of 1968 to allow the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency to provide capitalization
grants to States to establish revolving funds
to provide funding assistance to reduce flood
risks, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Mr. PETERS:
S. 2193. A bill to require the Administrator
of General Services to issue guidance to clar-
ify that Federal agencies may pay by charge
card for the charging of Federal electric
motor vehicles, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself
and Mr. YOUNG):
S. Res. 278. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate regarding Turkey’s pur-
chase of the S–400 air and missile defense
system from the Russian Federation and its
membership in NATO, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr.
CRUZ):
S. Res. 279. A resolution calling for the des-
ignation of Antifa as a domestic terrorist or-
ganization; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 133, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively,
to the United States merchant mari-
ners of World War II, in recognition of
their dedicated and vital service during
World War II.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 178, a bill to condemn
gross human rights violations of ethnic
Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and call-
ing for an end to arbitrary detention,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.026 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4949
July 18, 2019
torture, and harassment of these com-
munities inside and outside China.
S. 285
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 285, a bill to require U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
to take into custody certain aliens who
have been charged in the United States
with a crime that resulted in the death
or serious bodily injury of another per-
son, and for other purposes.
S. 286
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 286, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to provide
for the coverage of marriage and fam-
ily therapist services and mental
health counselor services under part B
of the Medicare program, and for other
purposes.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
362, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of
alcoholic beverages.
S. 373
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY) and the Senator from
Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY) were added
as cosponsors of S. 373, a bill to provide
for the retention and service of
transgender individuals in the Armed
Forces.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mr. MANCHIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 433, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to im-
prove home health payment reforms
under the Medicare program.
S. 546
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 546, a bill to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund of 2001 through fiscal
year 2090, and for other purposes.
S. 638
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 638, a bill to require the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency to designate per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances as haz-
ardous substances under the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980,
and for other purposes.
S. 639
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
639, a bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in com-
memoration of the centennial of the
establishment of the Tomb of the Un-
known Soldier.
S. 640
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
640, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to require phar-
macy-negotiated price concessions to
be included in negotiated prices at the
point-of-sale under part D of the Medi-
care program, and for other purposes.
S. 952
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 952, a bill to provide that
the Federal Communications Commis-
sion may not prevent a State or Fed-
eral correctional facility from utilizing
jamming equipment, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1081
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1081, a bill to amend title 54,
United States Code, to provide perma-
nent, dedicated funding for the Land
and Water Conservation Fund, and for
other purposes.
S. 1116
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Ms. DUCKWORTH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1116, a bill to require pro-
viders of broadband internet access
service and edge services to clearly and
conspicuously notify users of the pri-
vacy policies of those providers, to give
users opt-in or opt-out approval rights
with respect to the use of, disclosure
of, and access to user information col-
lected by those providers based on the
level of sensitivity of the information,
and for other purposes.
S. 1188
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1188, a bill to promote United States-
Mongolia trade by authorizing duty-
free treatment for certain imports
from Mongolia, and for other purposes.
S. 1273
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
names of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN), the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CORNYN), the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CRUZ), the Senator from
Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the
Senator from New Mexico (Mr. HEIN-
RICH) were added as cosponsors of S.
1273, a bill to amend title 17, United
States Code, to establish an alternative
dispute resolution program for copy-
right small claims, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1340
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1340, a bill to authorize activities
to combat the Ebola outbreak in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, and
for other purposes.
S. 1403
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. CARDIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1403, a bill to amend the
Child Care Access Means Parents in
School Program under the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965.
S. 1437
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) and the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1437, a bill to amend title
XI of the Social Security Act to re-
quire that direct-to-consumer adver-
tisements for prescription drugs and bi-
ological products include truthful and
non-misleading pricing information.
S. 1447
At the request of Mr. BENNET, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1447, a bill to allow the financing
by United States persons of sales of ag-
ricultural commodities to Cuba.
S. 1539
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1539, a bill to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to provide funding to
secure nonprofit facilities from ter-
rorist attacks, and for other purposes.
S. 1541
At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL,
the names of the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. PORTMAN) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1541, a bill to increase
the minimum age for sale of tobacco
products to 21.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the Senator
from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1590, a bill to
amend the State Department Basic Au-
thorities Act of 1956 to authorize re-
wards for thwarting wildlife trafficking
linked to transnational organized
crime, and for other purposes.
S. 1641
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1641, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to ex-
clude from gross income interest re-
ceived on certain loans secured by agri-
cultural real property.
S. 1728
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1728, a bill to require the
United States Postal Service to sell the
Alzheimer’s semipostal stamp for 6 ad-
ditional years.
S. 1764
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Ten-
nessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as
a cosponsor of S. 1764, a bill to amend
the Communications Act of 1934 to re-
quire the Federal Communications
Commission to ensure just and reason-
able charges for telephone and ad-
vanced communications services in the
correctional and detention facilities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.029 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4950 July 18, 2019
S. 1792
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1792, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Labor to maintain a publicly
available list of all employers that re-
locate a call center or contract call
center work overseas, to make such
companies ineligible for Federal grants
or guaranteed loans, and to require dis-
closure of the physical location of busi-
ness agents engaging in customer serv-
ice communications, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1850
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1850, a bill to direct the
Federal Trade Commission to prescribe
rules to protect consumers from unfair
and deceptive acts and practices in
connection with primary and sec-
ondary ticket sales, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1956
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1956, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal
the qualified contract exception to the
extended low-income housing commit-
ment rules for purposes of the low-in-
come housing credit, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1963
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1963, a bill to require the purchase of
domestically made flags of the United
States of America for use by the Fed-
eral Government.
S. 2028
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2028, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to pro-
vide for new markets tax credit invest-
ments in the Rural Jobs Zone.
S. 2054
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2054, a bill to posthumously award
the Congressional Gold Medal, collec-
tively, to Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods,
J. Christopher Stevens, and Sean
Smith, in recognition of their contribu-
tions to the Nation.
S. 2062
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) and the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2062, a bill to prohibit
the use of funds for the 2026 World Cup
unless the United States Soccer Fed-
eration provides equitable pay to the
members of the United States Women’s
National Team and the United States
Men’s National Team.
S. 2066
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2066, a bill to review United
States Saudi Arabia Policy, and for
other purposes.
S. 2075
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2075, a bill to amend the Secu-
rities Exchange Act of 1934 to require
issuers to disclose certain activities re-
lating to climate change, and for other
purposes.
S. 2083
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2083, a bill to amend chapter 2205
of title 36, United States Code, to en-
sure pay equity for amateur athletes,
and for other purposes.
S. 2097
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from New Jer-
sey (Mr. BOOKER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2097, a bill to amend sec-
tion 287 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to limit immigration en-
forcement actions at sensitive loca-
tions, to clarify the powers of immigra-
tion officers at such locations, and for
other purposes.
S. 2102
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2102, a bill to provide
funding for programs and activities
under the SUPPORT for Patients and
Communities Act.
S. 2121
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2121, a bill to amend the Animal
Welfare Act to restrict the use of ex-
otic and wild animals in traveling per-
formances.
S. 2140
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2140, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the rules
relating to inverted corporations.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY) and the Senator from Wyo-
ming (Mr. ENZI) were added as cospon-
sors of S. Res. 252, a resolution desig-
nating September 2019 as National De-
mocracy Month as a time to reflect on
the contributions of the system of gov-
ernment of the United States to a more
free and stable world.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, and Mr. ROBERTS):
S. 2156. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for S
corporation reform, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
Mr. THUNE Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2156
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCE.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘S Corporation Modernization Act of
2019’’.
(b) AMENDMENT OF 1986 CODE.—Except as
otherwise expressly provided, whenever in
this Act an amendment or repeal is ex-
pressed in terms of an amendment to, or re-
peal of, a section or other provision, the ref-
erence shall be considered to be made to a
section or other provision of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986.
SEC. 2. MODIFICATIONS TO S CORPORATION PAS-
SIVE INVESTMENT INCOME RULES.
(a) INCREASED PERCENTAGE LIMIT.—Section
1375(a)(2) is amended by striking ‘‘25 per-
cent’’ and inserting ‘‘60 percent’’.
(b) REPEAL OF EXCESSIVE PASSIVE INCOME
AS A TERMINATION EVENT.—Section 1362(d) is
amended by striking paragraph (3).
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 1375(b) is amended by striking
paragraphs (3) and (4) and inserting the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(3) PASSIVE INVESTMENT INCOME DE-
FINED.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided in this paragraph, the term ‘passive in-
vestment income’ means gross receipts de-
rived from royalties, rents, dividends, inter-
est, and annuities.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION FOR INTEREST ON NOTES
FROM SALES OF INVENTORY.—The term ‘pas-
sive investment income’ shall not include in-
terest on any obligation acquired in the ordi-
nary course of the corporation’s trade or
business from its sale of property described
in section 1221(a)(1).
‘‘(C) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN LENDING OR FI-
NANCE COMPANIES.—If the S corporation
meets the requirements of section 542(c)(6)
for the taxable year, the term ‘passive in-
vestment income’ shall not include gross re-
ceipts for the taxable year which are derived
directly from the active and regular conduct
of a lending or finance business (as defined in
section 542(d)(1)).
‘‘(D) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN DIVIDENDS.—If
an S corporation holds stock in a C corpora-
tion meeting the requirements of section
1504(a)(2), the term ‘passive investment in-
come’ shall not include dividends from such
C corporation to the extent such dividends
are attributable to the earnings and profits
of such C corporation derived from the active
conduct of a trade or business.
‘‘(E) EXCEPTION FOR BANKS, ETC.—In the
case of a bank (as defined in section 581) or
a depository institution holding company (as
defined in section 3(w)(1) of the Federal De-
posit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(w)(1))),
the term ‘passive investment income’ shall
not include—
‘‘(i) interest income earned by such bank
or company, or
‘‘(ii) dividends on assets required to be held
by such bank or company, including stock in
the Federal Reserve Bank, the Federal Home
Loan Bank, or the Federal Agricultural
Mortgage Bank or participation certificates
issued by a Federal Intermediate Credit
Bank.
‘‘(F) GROSS RECEIPTS FROM THE SALES OF
CERTAIN ASSETS.—For purposes of this para-
graph—
‘‘(i) CAPITAL ASSETS OTHER THAN STOCK AND
SECURITIES.—In the case of dispositions of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.031 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4951
July 18, 2019
capital assets (other than stock and securi-
ties), gross receipts from such dispositions
shall be taken into account only to the ex-
tent of capital gain net income therefrom.
‘‘(ii) STOCK AND SECURITIES.—In the case of
sales or exchanges of stock or securities,
gross receipts shall be taken into account
only to the extent of the gain therefrom.
‘‘(G) COORDINATION WITH SECTION 1374.—The
amount of passive investment income shall
be determined by not taking into account
any recognized built-in gain or loss of the S
corporation for any taxable year in the rec-
ognition period. Terms used in the preceding
sentence shall have the same respective
meanings as when used in section 1374.’’.
(2)(A) Section 26(b)(2)(J) is amended by
striking ‘‘25 percent’’ and inserting ‘‘60 per-
cent’’.
(B) Section 1375(b)(1)(A)(i) is amended by
striking ‘‘25 percent’’ and inserting ‘‘60 per-
cent’’.
(C) The heading for section 1375 is amended
by striking ‘‘25 PERCENT’’ and inserting ‘‘60
PERCENT’’.
(D) The item relating to section 1375 in the
table of sections for part III of subchapter S
of chapter 1 is amended by striking ‘‘25 per-
cent’’ and inserting ‘‘60 percent’’.
(3) Section 1042(c)(4)(A)(i) is amended by
striking ‘‘section 1362(d)(3)(C)’’ and inserting
‘‘section 1375(b)(3)’’.
(4) Section 1362(f)(1)(B) is amended by
striking ‘‘paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection
(d)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection (d)(2)’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 3. EXPANSION OF S CORPORATION ELIGI-
BLE SHAREHOLDERS TO INCLUDE
IRAS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1361(c)(2)(A)(vi) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(vi) A trust which constitutes an indi-
vidual retirement account under section
408(a), including one designated as a Roth
IRA under section 408A.’’.
(b) SALE OF STOCK IN IRA RELATING TO S
CORPORATION ELECTION EXEMPT FROM PRO-
HIBITED TRANSACTION RULES.—Section
4975(d)(16) is amended—
(1) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B)
and by redesignating subparagraphs (C), (D),
(E), and (F) as subparagraphs (A), (B), (C),
and (D), respectively, and
(2) by striking ‘‘such bank or company’’ in
subparagraph (A) (as so redesignated) and in-
serting ‘‘the issuer of such stock’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on
January 1, 2020.
SEC. 4. TREATMENT OF S CORPORATION BUILT-
IN GAIN AMOUNT UPON DEATH OF
SHAREHOLDER.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Part II of subchapter S of
chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘SEC. 1369. AMORTIZATION OF BUILT-IN GAIN
AMOUNT UPON DEATH OF SHARE-
HOLDER.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A person holding stock
in an electing S corporation the basis of
which is determined under section 1014(a)
(hereafter in this section referred to as the
‘shareholder’) shall be allowed a deduction
with respect to the S corporation built-in
gain amount. The amount of such deduction
for any taxable year shall be determined by
amortizing the S corporation built-in gain
amount over the 15-year period beginning
with the month which includes the applica-
ble valuation date.
‘‘(b) S CORPORATION BUILT-IN GAIN
AMOUNT.—For purposes of this section, the
term ‘S corporation built-in gain amount’
means the lesser of—
‘‘(1) the excess (if any) of—
‘‘(A) the basis of the stock referred to in
subsection (a) as determined under section
1014(a), over
‘‘(B) the adjusted basis of such stock im-
mediately before the death of the decedent,
or
‘‘(2) the pro rata share (determined as of
the applicable valuation date) of—
‘‘(A) the aggregate fair market value of all
property held by the S corporation which is
of a character subject to depreciation or am-
ortization, over
‘‘(B) the aggregate adjusted basis of all
such property held by the S corporation as of
such date.
‘‘(c) ELECTING S CORPORATION.—For pur-
poses of this section, the term ‘electing S
corporation’ means, with respect to any
shareholder, any S corporation which elects
the application of this section with respect
to such shareholder at such time and in such
form and manner as the Secretary may pre-
scribe.
‘‘(d) APPLICABLE VALUATION DATE.—For
purposes of this section, the term ‘applicable
valuation date’ means—
‘‘(1) in the case of a decedent with respect
to which the executor of the decedent’s es-
tate elects the application of section 2032,
the date 6 months after the decedent’s death,
and
‘‘(2) in the case of any other decedent, the
date of the decedent’s death.
‘‘(e) ACCELERATED DEDUCTION IN CASE OF
DISPOSITION OF S CORPORATION PROPERTY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the electing S corpora-
tion disposes of any property which was
taken into account under subsection (b)(2),
then the deduction allowed under subsection
(a) with respect to any stock, for the taxable
year of the shareholder in which or with
which the taxable year of the S corporation
which includes the date of such disposition
ends, shall (except as otherwise provided in
this section) not be less than the lesser of—
‘‘(A) the pro rata share of the gain recog-
nized on such disposition, or
‘‘(B) the amount determined under sub-
section (b)(2) by only taking into account
such property.
‘‘(2) OVERALL ALLOWANCE NOT INCREASED.—
No deduction shall be allowed under sub-
section (a) with respect to any stock for any
taxable year to the extent that such deduc-
tion (when added to the deductions so al-
lowed for all prior taxable years) exceeds the
S corporation built-in gain amount with re-
spect to such stock.
‘‘(f) RECHARACTERIZATION OF GAINS AS OR-
DINARY INCOME TO EXTENT OF DEDUCTION.—
If—
‘‘(1) stock of an S corporation with respect
to which a deduction was allowed under this
section, or
‘‘(2) property which was taken into ac-
count under subsection (b)(2) with respect to
such stock,
is disposed of at a gain (determined without
regard to whether or not such gain is recog-
nized and reduced by any amount of gain
which is treated as ordinary income under
any other provision of this subtitle), the
amount of such gain (or the shareholder’s
pro rata share of such gain in the case of
property described in paragraph (2)) shall be
treated as gain which is ordinary income
(and shall be recognized notwithstanding any
other provision of this subtitle) to the extent
of the excess of the aggregate deductions al-
lowable under this section with respect to
such stock for the taxable year of such dis-
position and all prior taxable years over the
amounts taken into account under this sub-
section for all prior taxable years.
‘‘(g) TERMINATION OF AMORTIZATION.—No
deduction shall be allowed under subsection
(a) with respect to any stock in an electing
S corporation with respect to any period be-
ginning after the earlier of—
‘‘(1) the date on which the corporation’s
election under section 1362 terminates, or
‘‘(2) the date on which the shareholder
transfers such stock to any other person.
‘‘(h) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN TRANSFERS.—
‘‘(1) DISTRIBUTIONS FROM ESTATES OR
TRUSTS.—Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this section, in the case of a distribu-
tion of stock from an estate or trust to a
beneficiary, the beneficiary (and not the es-
tate or trust) shall be treated as the share-
holder to which this section applies with re-
spect to periods after such distribution.
‘‘(2) CERTAIN TRANSFERS INVOLVING
SPOUSES.—Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this section, in the case of a transfer
described in section 1041, the transferee (and
not the transferor) shall be treated as the
shareholder to which this section applies
with respect to periods after such transfer.
‘‘(i) TREATMENT OF INCOME IN RESPECT OF
THE DECEDENT.—
‘‘(1) ADJUSTMENT TO BUILT-IN GAIN OF PROP-
ERTY HELD BY S CORPORATION.—For purposes
of subsection (b)(2), the fair market value of
any property taken into account under sub-
paragraph (A) thereof shall be decreased by
any amount of income in respect of the dece-
dent with respect to such property to which
section 691 applies. For purposes of sub-
section (e)(1)(A), the gain recognized on the
disposition of such property shall be reduced
by such amount.
‘‘(2) ADJUSTMENT TO BASIS OF S CORPORA-
TION STOCK.—For adjustment to basis of S
corporation stock, see section 1367(b)(4)(B).
‘‘(j) REPORTING.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided by the Secretary, for purposes of sec-
tion 6037, the amounts determined under sub-
sections (b)(2), (e)(1), and (f)(2) shall be treat-
ed as items of the corporation and the pro
rata share determined under such subsection
shall be furnished to the shareholder under
section 6037(b).’’.
(b) ADJUSTMENT TO BASIS OF STOCK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1367(a)(2) is
amended by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of sub-
paragraph (D), by striking the period at the
end of subparagraph (E) and inserting ‘‘,
and’’, and by inserting after subparagraph
(E) the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(F) the amount of the shareholder’s de-
duction allowable under section 1369.’’.
(2) ADJUSTMENT NOT TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN
DETERMINING TREATMENT OF DISTRIBUTIONS.—
Section 1368 is amended—
(A) in subsection (d)(1), by inserting
‘‘(other than subsection (a)(2)(F) thereof)’’
after ‘‘section 1367’’, and
(B) in subsection (e)(1)(A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘this title and the phrase’’
and inserting ‘‘this title, the phrase’’, and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, and no adjustment shall
be made under section 1367(a)(2)(F)’’ after
‘‘section 1367(a)(2)’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for part II of subchapter S of chap-
ter 1 is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Sec. 1369. Amortization of built-in gain
amount upon death of share-
holder.’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to decedents dying after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, in taxable years ending
after such date.
SEC. 5. REVOCATIONS OF S CORPORATION ELEC-
TIONS.
(a) REVOCATIONS.—Paragraph (1) of section
1362(d) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘subparagraph (D)’’ in sub-
paragraph (C) and inserting ‘‘subparagraphs
(D) and (E)’’, and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(E) AUTHORITY TO TREAT LATE REVOCA-
TIONS AS TIMELY.—If—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.033 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4952 July 18, 2019
‘‘(i) a revocation under subparagraph (A) is
made for any taxable year after the date pre-
scribed by this paragraph for making such
revocation for such taxable year or no such
revocation is made for any taxable year, and
‘‘(ii) the Secretary determines that there
was reasonable cause for the failure to time-
ly make such revocation,
the Secretary may treat such a revocation as
timely made for such taxable year.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to revoca-
tions after December 31, 2019.
By Mr. LEAHY (for himself and
Mrs. MURRAY):
S. 2180. A bill to provide oversight of
the border zone in which Federal
agents may conduct vehicle check-
points and stops and enter private land
without a warrant, and to make tech-
nical corrections; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, ‘‘Show
me your papers.’’ Those are words that
you should never hear once inside the
United States. Unless a government
agent has a legitimate reason to stop
and search you—a reasonable suspicion
or probable cause—Americans should
not be subject to questioning and de-
tention for merely going about their
daily lives. This is a fundamental tenet
of the Fourth Amendment. Yet Cus-
toms and Border Protection (CBP) op-
erations are effectively immune from
the Fourth Amendment within a broad-
ly defined ‘‘border zone.’’
And this so-called border zone need
not be near the border at all: Seventy-
year-old regulations define it as up to
100 miles from any border, land or sea.
According to the CBP, southern
Vermont is in the border zone, as is the
entire State of Florida, and even Rich-
mond, Virginia. In fact two-thirds of
the entire U.S. population is in the bor-
der zone.
In Vermont, under the Trump admin-
istration, the border zone has resulted
in highway checkpoints and bus
boardings. In May, Customs and Border
Protection (CBP) agents set up the
first highway checkpoint in a decade.
The checkpoint was set up miles from
the Canadian border in South Hero,
Vermont. It was in operation for hours.
We do not know how many hundreds of
cars were stopped, but we do know that
it did not lead to a single arrest or sei-
zure. Last month, the CBP established
a second checkpoint in the same loca-
tion. This time nearly 900 cars were
stopped, and only one individual was
detained—for a visa overstay. Border
Patrol agents have also boarded Am-
trak trains in White River Junction
and boarded a Greyhound bus at the
Burlington airport, demanding to know
whether passengers were citizens.
Today, I am joining with Senator
MURRAY in reintroducing the Border
Zone Reasonableness Restoration Act
of 2019. Our legislation would establish
critical privacy protections by reduc-
ing the unjustifiably large border zone
from 100 miles to 25 miles.
I find it difficult to believe that these
checkpoints are an effective use of law
enforcement resources. Border Patrol
stations in Vermont are already
stretched thin, And just last month the
Senate passed a bipartisan $4.6 billion
emergency supplemental appropria-
tions bill to address the humanitarian
crisis on the southern border. The De-
partment of Homeland Security’s lim-
ited resources should be focused on im-
proving conditions of detention and
providing food, appropriate shelter, and
medical care to families fleeing vio-
lence and dire poverty, not conducting
pointless vehicle checkpoints miles
from the northern border in Vermont.
The Border Zone Reasonableness Res-
toration Act is based on an amendment
that Senator MURRAY and I success-
fully attached to comprehensive immi-
gration reform legislation in 2013. The
100 mile ‘‘border zone’’—and the simi-
lar 25 mile zone where many types of
warrantless property searches are per-
mitted—predates this current adminis-
tration, but the actions of this admin-
istration have shown just how much we
need it. That bill passed the Senate
with a bipartisan vote of 68 to 32.
Americans’ right to privacy does not
end simply because you are within 100
miles from our land and sea borders. I
hope all members of Congress will join
us and support this commonsense legis-
lation to ensure that every person in
this country receives the constitu-
tional protections to which they are
entitled.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
REED, Mr. BROWN, Mr. CARDIN,
Ms. BALDWIN, and Ms. SMITH):
S. 2184. A bill to amend the Truth in
Lending Act and the Higher Education
Act of 1965 to require certain creditors
to obtain certifications from institu-
tions of higher education, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2184
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Know Before
You Owe Private Education Loan Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO THE TRUTH IN LEND-
ING ACT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 128(e) of the
Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1638(e)) is
amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(3) INSTITUTIONAL CERTIFICATION RE-
QUIRED.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), before a creditor may
issue any funds with respect to an extension
of credit described in this subsection, the
creditor shall obtain from the relevant insti-
tution of higher education where such loan is
to be used for a student, such institution’s
certification of—
‘‘(i) the enrollment status of the student;
‘‘(ii) the student’s cost of attendance at
the institution as determined by the institu-
tion under part F of title IV of the Higher
Education Act of 1965; and
‘‘(iii) the difference between—
‘‘(I) such cost of attendance; and
‘‘(II) the student’s estimated financial as-
sistance, including such assistance received
under title IV of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.) and other finan-
cial assistance known to the institution, as
applicable.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraph (A), a creditor may issue funds
with respect to an extension of credit de-
scribed in this subsection without obtaining
from the relevant institution of higher edu-
cation such institution’s certification if such
institution fails to provide within 15 business
days of the creditor’s request for such cer-
tification—
‘‘(i) notification of the institution’s refusal
to certify the request; or
‘‘(ii) notification that the institution has
received the request for certification and
will need additional time to comply with the
certification request.
‘‘(C) LOANS DISBURSED WITHOUT CERTIFI-
CATION.—If a creditor issues funds without
obtaining a certification, as described in sub-
paragraph (B), such creditor shall report the
issuance of such funds in a manner deter-
mined by the Director of the Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection Bureau.’’;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (9), (10),
and (11) as paragraphs (10), (11), and (12), re-
spectively; and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (8) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(9) PROVISION OF INFORMATION.—
‘‘(A) PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO STU-
DENTS.—
‘‘(i) LOAN STATEMENT.—A creditor that
issues any funds with respect to an extension
of credit described in this subsection shall
send loan statements, where such loan is to
be used for a student, to borrowers of such
funds not less than once every 3 months dur-
ing the time that such student is enrolled at
an institution of higher education.
‘‘(ii) CONTENTS OF LOAN STATEMENT.—Each
statement described in clause (i) shall—
‘‘(I) report the borrower’s total remaining
debt to the creditor, including accrued but
unpaid interest and capitalized interest;
‘‘(II) report any debt increases since the
last statement; and
‘‘(III) list the current interest rate for each
loan.
‘‘(B) NOTIFICATION OF LOANS DISBURSED
WITHOUT CERTIFICATION.—On or before the
date a creditor issues any funds with respect
to an extension of credit described in this
subsection, the creditor shall notify the rel-
evant institution of higher education, in
writing, of the amount of the extension of
credit and the student on whose behalf credit
is extended. The form of such written notifi-
cation shall be subject to the regulations of
the Bureau.
‘‘(C) ANNUAL REPORT.—A creditor that
issues funds with respect to an extension of
credit described in this subsection shall pre-
pare and submit an annual report to the Bu-
reau containing the required information
about private student loans to be determined
by the Director of the Bureau, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Education.’’.
(b) DEFINITION OF PRIVATE EDUCATION
LOAN.—Section 140(a)(8)(A) of the Truth in
Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1650(a)(8)(A)) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause
(iii);
(2) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘and’’ after the
semicolon; and
(3) by adding after clause (i) the following:
‘‘(ii) is not made, insured, or guaranteed
under title VII or title VIII of the Public
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.033 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4953
July 18, 2019
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 292 et seq. and
296 et seq.); and’’.
(c) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 365 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Director of the Consumer Financial Protec-
tion Bureau shall issue regulations in final
form to implement paragraphs (3) and (9) of
section 128(e) of the Truth in Lending Act (15
U.S.C. 1638(e)), as amended by subsection (a).
Such regulations shall become effective not
later than 6 months after their date of
issuance.
SEC. 3. AMENDMENT TO THE HIGHER EDU-
CATION ACT OF 1965.
(a) AMENDMENT TO THE HIGHER EDUCATION
ACT OF 1965.—Section 487(a) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094(a)) is
amended by striking paragraph (28) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(28)(A) Upon the request of a private edu-
cational lender, acting in connection with an
application initiated by a borrower for a pri-
vate education loan in accordance with sec-
tion 128(e)(3) of the Truth in Lending Act,
the institution shall within 15 days of receipt
of the request—
‘‘(i) provide certification to such private
educational lender—
‘‘(I) that the student who initiated the ap-
plication for the private education loan, or
on whose behalf the application was initi-
ated, is enrolled or is scheduled to enroll at
the institution;
‘‘(II) of such student’s cost of attendance
at the institution as determined under part
F of this title; and
‘‘(III) of the difference between—
‘‘(aa) the cost of attendance at the institu-
tion; and
‘‘(bb) the student’s estimated financial as-
sistance received under this title and other
assistance known to the institution, as ap-
plicable;
‘‘(ii) notify the creditor that the institu-
tion has received the request for certifi-
cation and will need additional time to com-
ply with the certification request; or
‘‘(iii) provide notice to the private edu-
cational lender of the institution’s refusal to
certify the private education loan pursuant
to subparagraph (D).
‘‘(B) With respect to a certification request
described in subparagraph (A), and prior to
providing such certification under subpara-
graph (A)(i) or providing notice of the refusal
to provide certification under subparagraph
(A)(iii), the institution shall—
‘‘(i) determine whether the student who
initiated the application for the private edu-
cation loan, or on whose behalf the applica-
tion was initiated, has applied for and ex-
hausted the Federal financial assistance
available to such student under this title and
inform the student accordingly; and
‘‘(ii) provide the borrower whose loan ap-
plication has prompted the certification re-
quest by a private educational lender, as de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(i), with the fol-
lowing information and disclosures:
‘‘(I) The amount of additional Federal stu-
dent assistance for which the borrower is eli-
gible and the advantages of Federal loans
under this title, including disclosure of the
fixed interest rates, deferments, flexible re-
payment options, loan forgiveness programs,
and additional protections, and the higher
student loan limits for dependent students
whose parents are not eligible for a Federal
Direct PLUS Loan.
‘‘(II) The borrower’s ability to select a pri-
vate educational lender of the borrower’s
choice.
‘‘(III) The impact of a proposed private
education loan on the borrower’s potential
eligibility for other financial assistance, in-
cluding Federal financial assistance under
this title.
‘‘(IV) The borrower’s right to accept or re-
ject a private education loan within the 30-
day period following a private educational
lender’s approval of a borrower’s application
and about a borrower’s 3-day right to cancel
period.
‘‘(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the
terms ‘private educational lender’ and ‘pri-
vate education loan’ have the meanings
given such terms in section 140 of the Truth
in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1650).’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the effective date of the regulations de-
scribed in section 2(c).
(c) PREFERRED LENDER ARRANGEMENT.—
Section 151(8)(A)(ii) of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1019(8)(A)(ii)) is amend-
ed by inserting ‘‘certifying,’’ after ‘‘pro-
moting,’’.
SEC. 4. REPORT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 24 months
after the issuance of regulations under sec-
tion 2(c), the Director of the Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection Bureau and the Secretary
of Education shall jointly submit to Con-
gress a report on the compliance of—
(1) private educational lenders with section
128(e)(3) of the Truth in Lending Act (15
U.S.C. 1638(e)(3)), as amended by section 2;
and
(2) institutions of higher education with
section 487(a)(28) of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094(a)(28)), as amended
by section 3.
(b) CONTENTS.—The contents of the report
described in subsection (a) shall include in-
formation about the degree to which specific
institutions utilize certifications in effec-
tively—
(1) encouraging the exhaustion of Federal
student loan eligibility by borrowers prior to
taking on private education loan debt; and
(2) lowering private education loan debt by
borrowers.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr.
KENNEDY, and Mr. MENENDEZ):
S. 2192. A bill to amend the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 to allow
the Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to
provide capitalization grants to States
to establish revolving funds to provide
funding assistance to reduce flood
risks, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I am
reintroducing the State Flood Mitiga-
tion Revolving Fund Act of 2019 along
with Senators KENNEDY and MENENDEZ.
The purpose of our bill is to reduce
flood risk and the costs associated with
flooding by establishing a State revolv-
ing loan program to fund mitigation
projects for property owners and com-
munities that participate in the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Program. By
funding projects that reduce risk, such
as home elevations, flood proofing, ac-
quisitions, and environmental restora-
tion, the bill also provides an avenue to
help middle-income and low-income
property owners reduce their flood in-
surance premiums. It is a proposal that
has been endorsed by over 200 local and
national organizations, including the
Pew Charitable Trusts, Association of
State Floodplain Managers, National
Association of Mutual Insurance Com-
panies, the Property Casualty Insur-
ance Association of America, the Na-
ture Conservancy, the Union of Con-
cerned Scientists, the U.S. Resiliency
Council, and others.
Flooding is the most costly hazard
facing American property owners. With
increasing frequency we see news sto-
ries of catastrophic flooding in commu-
nities across the Nation. According to
the Pew Charitable Trusts, seven out of
ten Presidential Disaster Declarations
in the last ten years have involved
flooding, and data from the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion show that there were 27 flooding
disasters or hurricanes in the last dec-
ade that each caused more than $1 bil-
lion in damage.
But the increase in major flooding
disasters has also been accompanied by
increases in nuisance, urban, and high
tide flooding events, which don’t trig-
ger the full complement of Federal dis-
aster assistance but are devastating to
every homeowner and community that
is affected.
Experts agree that the best way to
reduce the cost of flooding is to engage
in proactive, not reactive, flood miti-
gation. The National Institute of
Building Sciences’ 2018 Natural Hazard
Mitigation Saves study found that
every Federal dollar spent on up-front
mitigation provides $6 in national ben-
efits, and investments in flood mitiga-
tion yield $7 in benefits per dollar
spent. This is the kind of saving the
State Flood Mitigation Revolving Fund
Act seeks to promote and leverage.
Modeled on the successful Clean
Water and Drinking Water State Re-
volving Funds, this bill creates a
straightforward and easily accessible
program through which States can
offer low-interest loans to property
owners and communities who want to
mitigate their flood risk. By creating a
revolving fund, the bill will allow
States to design and more efficiently
implement their own flood mitigation
strategies provided that such strate-
gies help achieve Federal objectives
such as reducing disaster payments.
Within this construct, the bill gives
States the flexibility to undertake
flood mitigation projects expedi-
tiously. The bill requires States to pro-
vide matching funds and gives them
the ability to further leverage Federal
dollars, as many already do under the
drinking water and clean water SRF
programs.
Additionally, the bill ensures mitiga-
tion assistance is focused on where the
flood risk is greatest and where people
are most vulnerable. The bill requires
states to prioritize mitigation assist-
ance for low-income homeowners and
geographic areas, pre-FIRM buildings,
and severe repetitive loss and repet-
itive loss buildings. Finally, it gives
states the option of providing addi-
tional subsidization for low-income
property-owners and communities that
simply do not have the wherewithal to
assume additional debt.
Mr. President, as we talk about ap-
propriate investments in infrastruc-
ture, mitigation is one place where we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.036 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4954 July 18, 2019
should be investing. I invite the rest of
our colleagues to join me, Senator
KENNEDY, and Senator MENENDEZ in
supporting this bipartisan legislation.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 278—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE REGARDING TURKEY’S
PURCHASE OF THE S–400 AIR
AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM
FROM THE RUSSIAN FEDERA-
TION AND ITS MEMBERSHIP IN
NATO, AND FOR OTHER PUR-
POSES
Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself
and Mr. YOUNG) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions:
S. RES. 278
Whereas the United States and the Repub-
lic of Turkey have been North Atlantic Trea-
ty Organization (NATO) allies since 1952;
Whereas NATO exists for democratic na-
tion states to band together to ‘‘safeguard
the freedom, common heritage and civiliza-
tion of their peoples, founded on the prin-
ciples of democracy, individual liberty and
the rule of law’’;
Whereas NATO Member States ‘‘seek to
promote stability and well-being in the
North Atlantic area’’;
Whereas the primary threat posed by the
Soviet Union that precipitated the formation
of NATO continues today, and recent actions
by the Government of the Russian Federa-
tion have reaffirmed the importance of this
alliance to the security of the Member
States;
Whereas the Government of the Russian
Federation has threatened the peace and se-
curity of the North Atlantic area, invading
and occupying the territory of its non-NATO
neighbors and menacing NATO Member
States since 2008;
Whereas the Government of the Russian
Federation has interfered and attempted to
wreak havoc in the election processes of
NATO Member States and continues to do
so;
Whereas the Government of the Russian
Federation has maintained and strengthened
its ties with the repressive and corrupt re-
gime of Nicolás Maduro in Venezuela in an
effort to prop him up in his illegitimate hold
over the state;
Whereas the Government of the Russian
Federation is strengthening its ties with the
Government of Cuba, including a recent port
call in Havana with its most powerful war-
ship;
Whereas the government of President
Recep Tayyip Erdoğan has taken the Repub-
lic of Turkey down a path of
authoritarianism and human rights abuses,
aligns itself with radical Islamic terror
groups, and agitates against regional allies
of the United States, such as Israel;
Whereas the Government of the Republic
of Turkey has cooperated with the Govern-
ments of the Russian Federation and Iran
against the strategic interests of the NATO
Member States, continues to occupy north-
ern Cyprus, and continues to unjustly detain
United States citizens;
Whereas the Government of the Republic
of Turkey has supported the Maduro regime
with illegal financial transactions;
Whereas the Government of the Republic
of Turkey has acquired the S-400 air and mis-
sile defense system from the Russian Federa-
tion, which constitutes a direct and dire
threat to the security interests of the United
States and NATO; and
Whereas the foregoing demonstrates that
the Republic of Turkey is consistently con-
tradicting the standards and purposes of the
NATO treaty: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) declares that the Republic of Turkey’s
receipt of the Russian S-400 air and missile
defense system is a significant transaction
within the meaning of section 231 of the
Countering America’s Adversaries Through
Sanctions Act (CAATSA) of 2017 (22 U.S.C.
9525);
(2) calls for full implementation of sanc-
tions under CAATSA;
(3) calls upon the President to consult with
NATO Member States, pursuant to Article 4
of the North Atlantic Treaty, signed at
Washington April 4, 1949, based upon threats
to the political independence and security of
the Parties by the Russian actions described
in the preamble; and
(4) calls upon the President, during such
consultation with NATO Member States, to
review the Treaty with regard to the factors
‘‘affecting peace and security in the North
Atlantic area’’ described in the preamble,
and to consider the continued inclusion of
the Republic of Turkey in NATO.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 279—CALL-
ING FOR THE DESIGNATION OF
ANTIFA AS A DOMESTIC TER-
RORIST ORGANIZATION
Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr.
CRUZ) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 279
Whereas members of Antifa, because they
believe that free speech is equivalent to vio-
lence, have used threats of violence in the
pursuit of suppressing opposing political
ideologies;
Whereas Antifa represents opposition to
the democratic ideals of peaceful assembly
and free speech for all;
Whereas members of Antifa have phys-
ically assaulted journalists and other indi-
viduals during protests and riots in Berke-
ley, California;
Whereas in February of 2018, journalist
Andy Ngo was intimidated and threatened
with violence by protestors affiliated with
Antifa;
Whereas on June 29, 2019, while covering
demonstrations in Portland, Oregon, jour-
nalist Andy Ngo was physically attacked by
protestors affiliated with Antifa;
Whereas employees of the U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement (referred to
in this preamble as ‘‘ICE’’) were subjected to
doxxing and violent threats after their social
media profiles, phone numbers, and home ad-
dresses were posted on the Internet by left
wing activists;
Whereas according to the Wall Street Jour-
nal, an ICE officer was followed by left wing
activists and ‘‘confronted when he went to
pick up his daughter from summer camp’’,
and another ‘‘had his name and photo plas-
tered on flyers outside his home accusing
him of being part of the ‘Gestapo’ ’’;
Whereas the ICE office in southwest Port-
land, Oregon, was shut down for days due to
threats and occupation by Antifa members;
Whereas Rose City Antifa, an Antifa group
founded in 2007 in Portland, Oregon, explic-
itly rejects the authority of law enforcement
officers in the United States, and Federal,
State, and local governments, to protect free
speech and stop acts of violence;
Whereas Rose City Antifa rejects the civil
treatment of individuals the group labels as
fascists, stating: ‘‘We can’t just argue
against them; we have to prevent them from
organizing by any means necessary.’’; and
Whereas there is no place for violence in
the discourse between people in the United
States, or in any civil society, because the
United States is a place where there is a di-
versity of ideas and opinions: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) calls for the groups and organizations
across the country who act under the banner
of Antifa to be designated as domestic ter-
rorist organizations;
(2) unequivocally condemns the violent ac-
tions of Antifa groups as unacceptable acts
for anyone in the United States;
(3) expresses the need for the peaceful com-
munication of varied ideas in the United
States;
(4) urges any group or organizations in the
United States to voice its opinions without
using violence or threatening the health,
safety, or well-being of any other persons,
groups, or law enforcement officers in the
United States; and
(5) calls upon the Federal Government to
redouble its efforts, using all available and
appropriate tools, to combat the spread of all
forms of domestic terrorism, including White
supremacist terrorism.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 927. Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
CRUZ) proposed an amendment to the bill S.
1694, to require any Federal agency that
issues licenses to conduct lunar activities to
include in the requirements for such licenses
an agreement relating to the preservation
and protection of the Apollo 11 landing site,
and for other purposes.
SA 928. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill
H.R. 1327, to extend authorization for the
September 11th Victim Compensation Fund
of 2001 through fiscal year 2092, and for other
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 929. Mr. PAUL submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 1327, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 927. Mr. PETERS (for himself and
Mr. CRUZ) proposed an amendment to
the bill S. 1694, to require any Federal
agency that issues licenses to conduct
lunar activities to include in the re-
quirements for such licenses an agree-
ment relating to the preservation and
protection of the Apollo 11 landing site,
and for other purposes; as follows:
In section 2(b), strike paragraph (3) and in-
sert the following:
(3) the President should work with other
countries to develop best practices to ensure
the protection of historic lunar landing sites
and artifacts.
SA 928. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 1327, to extend au-
thorization for the September 11th Vic-
tim Compensation Fund of 2001
through fiscal year 2092, and for other
purposes; which was ordered to lie on
the table; as follows:
Strike paragraph (1) of section 2(a) and in-
sert the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.038 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4955
July 18, 2019
(1) in subsection (c), by striking
‘‘$4,600,000,000’’ and all that follows through
‘‘expended’’ and inserting ‘‘$10,180,000,000 for
the period of fiscal years 2019 through 2029,
and $10,000,000,000 for the period of fiscal
years 2030 through 2092, to remain available
until expended’’; and
SA 929. Mr. PAUL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 1327, to extend au-
thorization for the September 11th Vic-
tim Compensation Fund of 2001
through fiscal year 2092, and for other
purposes; which was ordered to lie on
the table; as follows:
SEC. 5. SEQUESTRATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the terms ‘‘direct spending’’ and ‘‘se-
questration’’ have the meanings given such
terms in section 250(c) of the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
(2 U.S.C. 900(c)); and
(2) the term ‘‘nonexempt direct spending’’
means all direct spending except—
(A) direct spending for benefits payable
under the old-age, survivors, and disability
insurance program established under title II
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et
seq.);
(B) direct spending for the Medicare pro-
gram under title XVIII of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.);
(C) direct spending for net interest (all of
major functional category 900);
(D) direct spending for any program admin-
istered by the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs;
(E) direct spending for Special Benefits for
Certain World War II Veterans (28–0401–0–1–
701); and
(F) direct spending for the child nutrition
program (as defined in section 25(b) of the
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch
Act (42 U.S.C. 1769f(b)).
(b) SEQUESTRATION ORDERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—For fiscal year 2020, as
soon as is practicable after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, and on the dates the Office
of Management and Budget issues its seques-
tration preview reports for each of fiscal
years 2021 through 2025, pursuant to section
254(c) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 904(c)),
the President shall order a sequestration, ef-
fective upon issuance, that reduces all non-
exempt direct spending by the uniform per-
centage necessary to reduce the total
amount of nonexempt direct spending for
such fiscal year by $2,036,000,000.
(2) IMPLEMENTATION.—When implementing
the sequestration of nonexempt direct spend-
ing under paragraph (1), the Office of Man-
agement and Budget—
(A) shall follow the procedures specified in
section 6 of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go
Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 935) and the special rules
specified in section 256 of the Balanced Budg-
et and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
(2 U.S.C. 906); and
(B) shall not follow the exemptions speci-
fied in section 255 of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2
U.S.C. 905).
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I have 6
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND
FORESTRY
The Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Thursday, July 18, 2019, at 10.30
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, July 18,
2019, at 9:30 a m., to conduct a hearing
pending military nominations.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Thursday, July 18, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, July 18,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
the following nominations: Douglas
Russell Cole, and Matthew Walden
McFarland, both to be a United States
District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Ohio, Robert Anthony Molloy,
to be Judge for the District Court of
the Virgin Islands, and Kea Whetzal
Riggs, to be United States District
Judge for the District of New Mexico.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Thursday,
July 18, 2019, at 2 p.m., to conduct a
hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON WATER AND POWER
The Subcommittee on Water and
Power of the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Thursday, July 18, 2019, at 10:30
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Tristan
Brown, a member of my staff, be grant-
ed temporary floor privileges.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 582 AND H.R. 748
Mr. MCCONNELL. I understand there
are two bills at the desk, and I ask for
their first reading en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the titles of the bills for
the first time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 582) to provide for increases in
the Federal minimum wage, and for other
purposes.
A bill (H.R. 748) to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on
high cost employer-sponsored health cov-
erage.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I now ask for a
second reading, and I object to my own
request, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The bills will receive their second
reading on the next legislative day.
f
CELEBRATING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE ‘‘APOLLO 11’’
MOON LANDING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation be discharged from fur-
ther consideration and the Senate now
proceed to S. Con. Res. 19.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 19)
celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Apol-
lo 11 Moon landing.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the concurrent resolution
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed
to, and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (S. Con.
Res. 19) was agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The concurrent resolution, with its
preamble, is printed in the RECORD of
June 5, 2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY, JULY 22,
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 3 p.m., Monday, July 22;
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate proceed to executive
session and resume consideration of
the Esper nomination; finally, notwith-
standing the provisions of rule XXII,
the cloture motions filed during to-
day’s session of the Senate ripen at 5:30
p.m. on Monday, July 22.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY,
JULY 22, 2019, AT 3 P.M.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY6.045 S18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4956 July 18, 2019
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 5:09 p.m., adjourned until Monday,
July 22, 2019, at 3 p.m.
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate July 18, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
CLIFTON L. CORKER, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF TENNESSEE.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LYNDA BLANCHARD, OF ALABAMA, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF
SLOVENIA.
DONALD R. TAPIA, OF ARIZONA, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO JAMAICA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G18JY6.043 S18JYPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E941
July 18, 2019
HONORING LOU MONEYMAKER
HON. SUSAN W. BROOKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor Lou Moneymaker on the
occasion of his retirement as President and
Chief Executive Officer of Bosma Enterprises.
Throughout his impressive career, Lou proved
to be an innovative leader in the Indianapolis
nonprofit community. Over the past 17 years,
Lou served as the President and CEO of
Bosma Enterprises, working tirelessly to im-
prove the quality of life of blind and visually
impaired Hoosiers. The people of Indiana’s
Fifth Congressional District are forever grateful
for Lou’s dedication to transforming lives in In-
diana.
A lifelong Hoosier, Lou graduated from
George Washington High School in Indianap-
olis before joining the U.S. Army in 1967. After
completing his service in the Army in 1973,
Lou attended Indiana University where he
earned a bachelor’s degree in education. Fol-
lowing that, Lou earned a master’s degree in
school administration from Butler University.
Lou transitioned these achievements into an
extraordinary 32-year career with the Indiana
School for the Blind and Visually Impaired
(ISBVI), one of the largest PreK-12 schools for
visually impaired students in the country.
ISBVI has earned an excellent national reputa-
tion for its commitment to the Indianapolis
community, in part, because of Lou’s strong
leadership and charisma. As a track and field
and wrestling coach, Lou inspired many stu-
dents to succeed. This coaching, combined
with his work as the Dean of Students at
ISBVI, helped the institution gain national rec-
ognition for its innovative educational opportu-
nities.
After leaving the ISBVI and joining Bosma
Enterprises in 2001, Lou immediately set
about driving the nonprofit to a new level of
exceptional growth and success. Under his
guidance as President and CEO, Bosma’s rev-
enues grew from two million dollars to over
seventy million dollars per year. This growth
allowed Bosma Enterprises to expand its train-
ing and employment facilities to serve nearly
800 blind or visually impaired individuals per
year, helping to drive down the nearly 70 per-
cent unemployment rate among such individ-
uals. Bosma Enterprises employs more than
100 blind and visually impaired Hoosiers, mak-
ing them the largest such employer in the
state.
Today, Bosma offers programs to help
those living with blindness and visual impair-
ment maintain a positive lifestyle, especially by
giving them tools to live independently.
Through their new Center for Visionary Solu-
tions for the Blind, Bosma provides programs
to help people of all ages succeed in higher
education and find work. Their innovative
BosmaForce program utilizes modern edu-
cation tools to give students around the coun-
try access to high skilled job training, in par-
ticular, computer and technical jobs. Bosma’s
Orientation and Mobility Trail gives visually im-
paired individuals an opportunity to practice
navigation in a real-world environment on a
variety of surfaces and around many types of
obstacles. Together, programs of this type
serve to benefit many of the 160,000 Hoosiers
who are blind or visually impaired. These pro-
grams would not have been able to reach
such a level of success without Lou’s guid-
ance and the commitment of Bosma’s team of
more than 220 employees, along with hun-
dreds of volunteers, to fulfill his plan for the fu-
ture.
Lou’s passion for helping Indiana’s visually
impaired community extends far beyond his
role at Bosma. A leading founder of the United
States Association of Blind Athletes (USABA),
Lou helped to transform the lives of many ath-
letes all around the world. His involvement
with both Ability Indiana and the Association
for the Employment of People who are Blind
demonstrates his commitment to the mission
to empower visually impaired athletes. Addi-
tionally, his work on the 1996 Paralympic Or-
ganizing Committee helped to expand the
reach of Paralympic organizations throughout
the United States.
On behalf of Indiana’s Fifth Congressional
District, I congratulate Lou on his extraordinary
career of leadership and service. I extend my
gratitude for all the contributions he has made
to our community. While I know Lou will be
missed at Bosma Enterprises, I wish the very
best to him and his family as he enjoys a well-
deserved retirement.
f
CHANGE OVER THE YEARS
HON. SUSAN A. DAVIS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Madam Speaker,
I’m very ‘‘animated’’ to announce that this year
is the 50th anniversary of San Diego Comic-
Con.
This event began with a heavy focus on
independent artists and cultivating a commu-
nity of folks with similar interests—comics.
Comic-Con has always been about sup-
porting creative communities and celebrating
what makes us special.
Today, Comic-Con has grown to include in-
dustry legends, independent artists, TV stars,
and movie studios—but it never stopped being
about fans coming together to share their in-
terests.
This new era has expanded the levels of in-
terest to a wider audience and brought in
more fans of current media.
In an industry that was once dismissed and
disparaged as not serious art, celebrating in-
clusion is an important staple of our commu-
nity.
I am excited for the next 50 years of panels,
whether in the traditional comic book or celeb-
rity style, to flourish in Comic-Con of San
Diego.
f
THANKING GLENDA GUNDERMANN
FOR HER 35 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO SUGAR LAND
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Glenda Gundermann for her
35 years of service to our community.
Gundermann has been an important leader
within our Sugar Land community over the
past three and a half decades. Glenda has
worked with five mayors and city managers,
managing the annexations of Sugar Creek,
First Colony and numerous other cities. Her
work has encouraged more participation in
local government and has led to Sugar Land
being named one of our nation’s top cities for
transparency and engagement. During Trop-
ical Storm Allison, she was instrumental in de-
livering emergency resources to those im-
pacted.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Glenda Gundermann. Her service to this
country will be remembered, and we wish her
all the best in her future endeavors.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DEBRA A. HAALAND
OF NEW MEXICO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Ms. HAALAND. Madam Speaker, on July
17, I was inadvertently not recorded for Roll
Call vote 493. I had intended to vote ‘‘Aye.’’
As a cosponsor of the bill, H.R. 748, the Mid-
dle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of
2019, I strongly support this important legisla-
tion that will help reduce the cost of healthcare
for the over 181 million Americans who de-
pend on employer-sponsored health insur-
ance. To avoid the 40 percent excise tax,
many employers have been making changes
in plan design that are driving up deductibles
and out-of-pocket costs, yet one in five em-
ployers are expected to hit the taxable thresh-
old in 2022. As a result, this tax is placing a
disproportionate burden on working families,
which was not the intent of Congress when it
enacted the Affordable Care Act, and I in-
tended to vote ‘‘Aye’’ on this legislation to re-
peal it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:14 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY8.001 E18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E942 July 18, 2019
IN HONOR OF SERGEANT FRED-
ERICK JOHN HORNE, II FOR HIS
DISTINGUISHED SERVICE
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Sergeant Frederick John
Horne, II for his dedicated service. His com-
mitment to country and community is worthy of
commendation.
Sergeant Horne entered the Armed Forces
on September 7, 1967 and was stationed at
Fort Knox in Kentucky. He served in Vietnam
where he was wounded in combat twice and
received two Purple Hearts. Sergeant Horne
was honorably discharged for his dedicated
service on September 1, 1973. He returned to
Michigan after a year at Valley Forge Hospital
in Pennsylvania and worked for General Mo-
tors until his eventual retirement. Today we
celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of Sergeant
Horne receiving his Purple Heart for his sac-
rifice. He has shown tremendous bravery and
selflessness throughout his decorated service.
Sergeant Horne has shown a tremendous
love for his country and community. His years
as a member of the United States Military ex-
emplify the selflessness of public service and
stand as a testament to duty, honor, and
country. We thank Sergeant Horne for his
commitment to protecting the American peo-
ple. His service underscores the significant
price of freedom, and the dedication and sac-
rifice of our servicemembers in the Armed
Forces and their families.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Sergeant Frederick John
Horne, II for his exemplary service. He has ef-
fectively served Michigan and our nation
through his selflessness and leadership.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF FIRE
CHIEF ROBERT B. ELWELL, JR.
OF POMONA
HON. NORMA J. TORRES
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the life of Robert B.
Elwell, Jr. of the City of Pomona, and his tire-
less dedication to serving the Inland Empire
community.
Robert Elwell graduated from the Crafton
Hills College Paramedic Program and pro-
ceeded to work as a paramedic for a local am-
bulance company. He was then hired by the
Ontario Fire Department in October 1985,
where he worked for over 34 years in a variety
of assignments including Fire Captain and
Battalion Chief. In this role, he also helped de-
velop the department’s active shooter re-
sponse program and assisted several South-
ern California cities with creating similar pro-
grams.
Former Chief Elwell graduated from several
fire service state and federal programs and
was both a state certified Fire Officer and
Chief Officer. He also served on a number of
fire service committees and advisory boards
that focused on leadership, mentoring and,
training. In April 2016, he was promoted to
Fire Chief, a position he held until his retire-
ment in December 2018.
Chief Elwell was a dedicated husband, loyal
friend, and patriotic public servant. He enjoyed
RV’ing with his wife Anne, off-roading, rec-
reational shooting, and spending time with his
close friends. He will be fondly remembered
by his loved ones, friends, colleagues, and ex-
tended fire family.
For his remarkable accomplishments, it is
my honor to recognize Chief Robert B. Elwell,
Jr. today. His decades of commitment and
contributions to the city he loved are worthy of
admiration, and his memory will live on
through the countless lives he has impacted.
May he rest in peace.
f
WALNUT BEND ELEMENTARY OD-
YSSEY OF THE MIND TEAM WINS
WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate the Walnut Bend Elementary
School Odyssey of the Mind team for placing
first in their division at the world finals.
Nearly 800 teams ranging from elementary
to college levels from across the United States
and the world participated in the problem-solv-
ing competition at Michigan State University in
May. The Walnut Bend team has made it to
the finals several times, but this year they fi-
nally took first place, defeating a team from
China to win. Their months of hard work cer-
tainly paid off.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to the Walnut Bend Elementary School Odys-
sey of the Mind team for placing first in the
world finals. We look forward to seeing them
win again next year.
f
RECOGNIZING THE MARQUETTE
COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, It is my
honor to recognize the Marquette County De-
partment of Veterans Affairs Committee
(MCDVAC) for its service to Veterans and
their families. Through its tireless work, excep-
tional leadership, and steadfast devotion to its
community, the MCDVAC has become an in-
dispensable part of the Upper Peninsula of
Michigan.
The Marquette County Veterans Affairs
Committee consists of five Veteran volunteers
appointed by the Marquette County Board of
Commissioners to four-year terms. They work
to provide the Veterans of Marquette County
with the benefits and services they have
earned through their service, including burial
benefits, emergency financial relief, and dis-
ability compensation. They work with pro-
grams like the Disabled American Veterans
Transportation Network, which provides trans-
portation from the Jacobetti Home for Vet-
erans and other areas in the county to the
Oscar G Johnson VA Medical Center in Iron
Mountain. The organization also aids in the
administration of the Soldier Sailor Relief
Fund, which provides financial help for Vet-
erans who are unable to provide for the basic
necessities of life without causing hardship,
and works to help Veterans and their families
in applying for a broad range of benefits pro-
vided by the U.S. Department of Veterans Af-
fairs. Day after day, the Marquette County
Veterans Affairs Committee continues to set a
positive example of what can be achieved
when the people of a community work to-
gether for the common good.
Madam Speaker, It’s my honor to recognize
the Marquette County Veteran s Affairs Com-
mittee for decades of success. and service to
the Veterans of the Upper Peninsula.
Michiganders can take great pride in knowing
the First District is home to such dedicated
citizens. On behalf of my constituents, I wish
them all the best in their future endeavors.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF CHRIST
CATHEDRAL
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate the Diocese of Orange Christ
Cathedral on the completion of its renovations.
The Christ Cathedral, formerly known as the
‘‘Crystal Cathedral,’’ has been a recognizable
architectural marvel landmark in Garden
Grove since 1955. The 34-acre land has been
a beacon to the community and continues to
be a space for community members to prac-
tice their faith.
In 1955, protestant mega-church leader Dr.
Robert Schuller began preaching at the Or-
ange Drive-in Theater. By 1975, his congrega-
tion outgrew the first church and Dr. Schuller
began searching for architects to build a cre-
ative and beautiful space for worship. He
worked with Philip Johnson and John Burgee
to create a plan for an all glass church. In
2012, the campus and its buildings were sold
to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Orange and
have since become the new spiritual center of
the division.
Starting in 2015, the campus began major
renovations including extensive restorations to
the grounds and buildings. These renovations
included the restoration of 11,000 glass
panes, the construction of scaffolding inside
the cathedral, and the design of sacred art.
Construction workers involved in the project
logged over 100,000 hours of work without a
single accident. The renovations are now com-
plete, and today the refurbished cathedral is
ready to serve as a spiritual home to Orange
County’s more than 1.3 million Catholics, and
the local community at-large through services
and programs available to everyone including
weddings, conferences, concerts, and family-
friendly events.
It is my distinct honor to ask my colleagues
to join me in honoring the new building design
of the Christ Cathedral.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:14 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY8.005 E18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E943
July 18, 2019
RIDGEVIEW CHARTER MIDDLE
SCHOOL COMMENDATION HON-
ORING PRINCIPAL OPIE
BLACKWELL
HON. LUCY McBATH
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mrs. MCBATH. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor my constituent and Ridgeview Char-
ter Middle School Principal Opie Blackwell. A
good principal knows that his or her students
need a robust support system along with a
strong education to guarantee success in the
classroom and in life. This philosophy is the
basis upon which Mr. Blackwell has structured
his school.
Principal Blackwell demonstrates excep-
tional dedication to ensuring that the students
at Ridgeview Charter Middle School receive
the quality education that they deserve. He is
actively involved in the daily life at Ridgeview,
takes time to chaperone school trips, and is
committed to the wellbeing of the faculty.
Principal Blackwell also takes pride in rec-
ognizing outstanding members of the school’s
staff. A few weeks before the last day of the
school year, Mr. Blackwell took to social
media to document an impromptu jump rope
competition that took place during a 6th grade
Chinese class. The class had ventured outside
to practice their Chinese when the students
and teachers began to see who could jump
rope the longest. The students won, as Mr.
Blackwell proudly noted, but he also gave the
teachers their due credit. This friendly com-
petition is one of many examples of how hard
Mr. Blackwell and his colleagues work to give
their students a positive and engaging learning
environment.
This year, that hard work was recognized by
the National Forum to Accelerate Middle-
Grades Reform as a Georgia Lighthouse
School to Watch. The National Forum is a
prestigious organization of educators, re-
searchers, and officers committed to pro-
moting academic excellence for young stu-
dents.
In 1999, the National Forum selected four
middle schools from across the country as the
first Schools to Watch. Since then, the pro-
gram has expanded to 18 states and honored
465 schools. Ridgeview Charter Middle is one
of nine schools in Georgia recognized as a
School to Watch. The National Forum strives
to make every middle-grade school one that is
academically excellent, socially equitable, and
responsive to the developmental needs and
interests of middle schoolers. It has developed
tools to help schools meet their criteria to ex-
pand their program across the country.
Ridgeview Charter Middle School’s policies
for the classroom and overall school culture
soar above and beyond the Forum’s stand-
ards. When the National Forum staff spent
time at Ridgeview, they saw that almost every
student was actively engaged in the classroom
and teachers were using a wide variety of
learning strategies to assist their students.
As National Forum staff spoke to students,
it was evident that Ridgeview students feel
that they can be heard by their teachers and
administrators when an issue arises. As a re-
sult, students are encouraged to give their
input and help make changes to improve the
school.
The student-first culture is evident at
Ridgeview Charter Middle School. Student
work is clearly displayed in the hallways, and
the faculty and staff are familiar faces at music
concerts and the annual musical. Mr.
Blackwell recorded the finale of this year’s mu-
sical, Alice in Wonderland, and posted it to so-
cial media with encouraging words about the
performance and the work done by students,
faculty, and parents.
In addition to the environment created by
teachers and staff, school administrators have
worked to ensure that the school is one that
is clean and comfortable. Music is played in
the hallways during class change to create a
calming and pleasant atmosphere. Inspira-
tional messages painted on the walls add a
culture of positivity, and those messages con-
vey the high expectations the school has for
students.
Ridgeview Charter Middle School stands out
as a success story in public education. In his
principal’s message on the school’s website,
Principal Blackwell made his formal title
‘‘Proud Principal’’. With such an exceptional
review by the National Forum, he and the en-
tire Ridgeview Charter Middle School family
certainly should feel proud of the school, its
faculty and staff, and most of all, the out-
standing student body.
f
CHRISTINA VARGAS RECEIVES
THE CHANCELLOR’S EXCEL-
LENCE AWARD
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Christina Vargas for receiving
the Chancellor’s Excellence Award from Texas
State Technical College in Fort Bend County.
A Rosenberg native, Christina has been at
TSTC for two years and currently serves as
the Assistant Director of Enrollment Manage-
ment. The Chancellor’s Excellence Award is
given to employees who are recommended by
their peers and exhibit TSTC’s core values of
Excellence, Accountability, Service and Integ-
rity. Christina was one of only 35 recipients
from across the state to earn this award.
Through her time at TSTC, Christina has
helped and inspired her coworkers and stu-
dents alike.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Christina Vargas on receiving the
Chancellor’s Excellence Award. I thank her for
her dedication to our students.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF RICHMOND
BELL, RECIPIENT OF THE
FRENCH LEGION OF HONOR
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of Richmond Bell as he is
awarded the French Legion of Honor, 75
years after bravely serving in the United
States Army at the Battle of Normandy.
At only 18 years old, Mr. Bell enlisted in the
29th Infantry in 1943. After many members of
his regiment lost their lives on D-Day, Mr. Bell,
along with 14 other soldiers, were sent to
France in an essential support effort of the re-
maining American Troops.
While serving on the frontlines each day for
more than six weeks, Mr. Bell fought with
courage and dedication to his country. He
continuously risked his life for the war effort
and the safety of his fellow soldiers.
In December of 1945, Mr. Bell returned to
his hometown of Wellfleet, Massachusetts,
honorably discharged with three Purple
Hearts. A lifetime resident of the town, Mr. Bell
is a beloved and respected member of the
Wellfleet community. He is the son of the town
doctor and a former paperboy for the Cape
Cod Standard. Mr. Bell, now ‘‘semi-retired,’’
lives with his wife Gail. He has 5 children, four
step-children and 26 grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor Rich-
mond Bell for his dedication to his country. I
ask that my colleagues join me in thanking
him for his immense bravery and valiant ef-
forts through a critical time in our nation’s his-
tory.
f
INTRODUCTION OF SAILORS ACT
HON. MARCY KAPTUR
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I rise with
my fellow co-chairs of the bipartisan Congres-
sional Ukraine Caucus to introduce the SAIL-
ORS ACT, or the ‘‘Stopping Aggressive Incur-
sions on Liberty by Ordering Russian Sanc-
tions Act.’’
This bill would direct the Administration to
sanction 24 senior officers of the Russian Fed-
eral Security Service and its border patrol until
it releases all 24 Ukrainian sailors and the
three vessels it illegally seized in the Kerch
Strait on November 25, 2018.
On that day, an unprovoked Russia bra-
zenly fired upon and took hostage 24 Ukrain-
ians sailors in international waters. The sailors
now languish in Russian prisons in Moscow
under dire conditions.
Tragically, this is just the latest in a series
of dangerous and malicious steps Russia has
taken to undermine Ukraine’s democratic
progress and the international rules-based
order.
Since illegally invading Crimea in 2014,
Russia now seeks to tighten the noose around
Ukrainian coastal waters including building a
barrier in the Kerch Strait to starve Ukraine of
vital naval commerce.
To date, Russia’s illegal war in Eastern
Ukraine has led to the death of over 10,000
innocents and the displacement of millions.
The international community must not stand
idly by as Russia increases its aggression in
Europe and its efforts to undermine democ-
racies globally—including in the United States.
The United States and the free world must
continue to raise the costs of Russian aggres-
sion to protect those at the edge of liberty.
This bill sends a message to the Ukrainian
sailors and their families that the American
people have not forgotten their immense sac-
rifice and heroic struggle to protect their na-
tion’s democratic future. We call on Russia to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:14 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18JY8.010 E18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E944 July 18, 2019
immediately release the Ukrainian sailors and
safely return them back to Ukraine.
I urge my colleagues to join in this important
effort and call for the bill’s swift passage.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ANDY BIGGS
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. BIGGS. Madam Speaker, I took care of
family business and was in transit back to
D.C. when the vote occurred.
Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 482.
f
HONORING THE STEPHEN F. AUS-
TIN UNIVERSITY WOMEN’S
BOWLING TEAM 2019 NCAA DIVI-
SION 1 NATIONAL COLLEGIATE
WOMEN’S BOWLING CHAMPIONS
HON. LOUIE GOHMERT
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, it is a
great honor to celebrate with my fellow east
Texans the outstanding accomplishment of the
Stephen F. Austin University bowling team on
winning the NCAA National Collegiate Wom-
en’s Bowling Championship this year.
Entering the NCAA tournament ranked sixth,
the Ladyjacks demonstrated their hard work
and determination to oust teams from Sam
Houston State University, McKendree Univer-
sity, and University of Maryland Eastern Shore
before facing off with the No. 1-ranked team,
Vanderbilt University, in the final.
The final began looking like it would end in
the Vanderbilt Commodores’ favor. The
Ladyjacks lost the first game but quickly re-
covered to win the second game and tie the
match. They did not let the initial setback dis-
courage their performance. Instead, it pushed
them to play with more determination and skill.
They went on to win each consecutive game,
finishing the match with a 4–1 victory over
Vanderbilt. These Ladyjacks demonstrated in-
credible focus and skill to clinch the National
Championship.
It is an esteemed honor to pay tribute to the
members of the 2019 NCAA Division 1 Wom-
en’s Bowling National Champions: Paige
Beeney, Dakotah Hazlewood, Amber
Whitcomb, Megan Eaglehouse, Sarah Gill, Da-
kota Faichnie, Sarah Voiers, Annie Leihardt,
Carlene Beyer, Head Coach Amber Lemke,
Athletic Director Ryan lvey, Loree McCary,
Steven Lemke, Luke Bolanos, Ben Bibby,
Mackenzie Wenger, Kira Rubin, and Kara Car-
penter.
This is not just a feat for the bowling team
but for the entire university. It is the second
national championship in the school’s history
as a NCAA Division I contender. Furthermore,
both national championships were clinched
within the past four years. This speaks highly
of the hard work and dedication of the men
and women and the excellent coaching staff at
Stephen F. Austin University.
It is with great pride that I join with all of
east Texas in congratulating the Ladyjacks
bowling team on their NCAA Division I Na-
tional Championship. May God continue to
bless these consummate first class competi-
tors, along with their families, friends and
neighbors in east Texas. This outstanding ac-
complishment is now preserved in the RECORD
which will endure as long as there is a United
States of America.
f
CELEBRATING THE 70TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF CECIL’S DELICATESSEN
HON. BETTY McCOLLUM
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the 70th anniversary of
Cecil’s Delicatessen in Saint Paul, Minnesota.
On July 1, 1949, Cecil and Faye Glickman
opened the doors for the first time to hungry
Saint Paul customers. Seven decades later,
Cecil’s is a landmark destination for Highland
Park neighbors and international visitors alike.
In the early days, Cecil and Faye Glickman
were among a large number of Saint Paul
Jewish families operating restaurants and deli-
catessens. Today, Cecil’s remains as the only
traditional deli in the city. This long record of
success is due to its loyal customers’ love of
Cecil’s made-from-scratch dishes, baked
goods and high-quality imported products
served up each day by friendly, hardworking
and dedicated staff.
Family has always been the key ingredient
to success for four generations. In 1980, Cecil
and Faye’s daughter Sheila and her husband
David Leventhal bought the deli from her par-
ents when they decided to retire. Sheila still
takes orders and David balances the books. In
addition, Sheila and David’s children and even
grandchildren work around the deli, alongside
many other longtime employees. Governors,
movie stars and regular folks young and old
have been served delicious Jewish delicacies
and family creations by the Glickmans and
Leventhals. In fact, there used to be a saying
in Highland Park that a baby’s first three
words were mama, papa, and Cecil’s.
Walking through the front door at Cecil’s
transports customers back to an earlier time.
With its black and white parquet floors, diner
style red chairs, and deli counter piled high
with corned beef, potato salad, and a plethora
of delicacies, Cecil’s serves up delicious food
with a perfect-sized side of nostalgia. While
the menu has expanded to more than 150
items, one thing that has remained the same
is the attention to detail, great food and serv-
ice.
All of these ingredients come together to
make Cecil’s one of Saint Paul’s most beloved
places to relax and get a bite to eat with
friends and neighbors. Madam Speaker,
please join me in celebrating the 70th anniver-
sary of Cecil’s Delicatessen.
f
RECOGNIZING BIG RIVER
CHAUTAUQUA
HON. JASON SMITH
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor Big River Chautauqua,
celebrating its 25th year in Bonne Terre, Mis-
souri. It’s the longest-running privately-funded
Chautauqua west of the Mississippi River.
Named for Chautauqua Lake where the first
event was held in New York in the mid-1920’s,
the Big River Chautauqua has been des-
ignated by the Missouri Humanities Council as
an outstanding example of interactive learning.
It’s held in a big white tent outside city hall
and since 1995, Chautauqua has brought to-
gether hundreds of people to see history come
to life each night. Scholar-Actors have told
tales of the Founding Fathers; great authors
and showmen; and heroes, heroines and out-
laws of the Old West. Appreciative audiences
have seen Civil War generals and Anything-
But-Civil Politicians who told their life stories in
the first person.
Founded by Joe Layden and Sherry
Greminger, the entire event is organized,
planned and led by volunteers. That includes
the Chautauqua Singers who set each char-
acter in their time of life by singing the songs
of the era they lived. And all the entertainment
is free.
Community Spirit is the foundation of Chau-
tauqua and the secret to its success. It is my
great pleasure to celebrate the Big River
Chautauqua of Bonne Terre, Missouri today
before the United States House of Represent-
atives.
f
CELEBRATING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF PETOSKEY PLASTICS
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it is my
honor to recognize the 50th anniversary of
Petoskey Plastics. Through its trusted service,
innovation, and commitment to environmental
sustainability and community investment,
Petoskey Plastics has become an indispen-
sable part of Northern Michigan.
Petoskey Plastics, Inc. was founded in
1969, initially composed of five employees and
a single machine converting film into plastic
bags. Over the following 50 years, it would
grow to become the successful local institution
it is today. With more than 400 associates,
500,000 square feet of manufacturing space,
and 47 countries served, Petoskey Plastics is
a prime example of the entrepreneurial spirit
found in the state of Michigan.
The company first began its recycling pro-
gram in 1978, and it has not stopped thinking
green since. Its innovative Closed Loop pro-
gram allows partnering companies to reduce
their carbon footprint and avoid needless plas-
tic waste, resulting in more than 30 million
pounds of plastic film recycled annually. Each
year its associates participate in regular Toys
for Tots drives, donate to the Women’s Re-
source Center of Northern Michigan, and take
part in multiple other charity events and fund-
raisers. Day after day, Petoskey Plastics con-
tinues to set a positive example of what can
be achieved when the people of a company
work together for the common good.
Madam Speaker, It’s my honor to congratu-
late Petoskey Plastics and its associates for
50 years of success, service, and community
investment. Michiganders can take great pride
in knowing the First District is home to such
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:14 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18JY8.013 E18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E945
July 18, 2019
dedicated citizens. On behalf of my constitu-
ents, I wish Petoskey Plastics all the best in
its future endeavors.
f
CONGRATULATING CAPTAIN ANDY
FEINBERG ON HIS RETIREMENT
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Captain Andy Feinberg on his
distinguished retirement from the U.S. Navy.
Captain Feinberg recently completed 30
years of honorable service to the U.S. Navy.
Throughout his military career, he has earned
many awards and held many titles, too many
to list here, but here are a few that set him
apart. Captain Feinberg was awarded a De-
fense Superior Service Medal, Meritorious
Service Medals (4 awards), the Navy and Ma-
rine Corps Commendation Medal (4 awards),
the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement
Medal, and various unit awards. His life-long
service to our great nation has helped keep
America safe and free, and we thank him.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, I again want to thank
Captain Andy Feinberg for his dedicated serv-
ice to our great country. This former Navy pilot
and all of America wish him fair winds and fol-
lowing seas in his retirement. Not for self but
country (Non Sibi Sed Patriae).
f
COMMEMORATING THE ONE HUN-
DRED SEVENTY-FIFTH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE ALLEGANY COUN-
TY FAIR
HON. TOM REED
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
commemorate the one hundred seventy-fifth
anniversary of the Allegany County Fair.
We are proud of our farmers in Allegany
County and the hard work they do. The Alle-
gany County Fair is a celebration of that hard
work and an opportunity for friends and neigh-
bors to come together to join in the festivities.
The very first Allegany County Fair was held
on October 4, 1844. In its humble beginnings,
the first exhibits were limited to livestock,
crops, canned goods, and sewing crafts. Until
1855 all exhibits were displayed under one
tent. Over time, the fair has grown at a steady
rate, acquiring land and building facilities for
the fairgrounds. Not even a natural disaster
could stand in the way of the fair’s success. In
the late 1880’s a cyclone destroyed and dam-
aged multiple fairground buildings, but the fair
continued on, re-constructing what was broken
and adding new amenities to the growing at-
traction. As the Fair has grown in size, it has
also grown in popularity, making it a vital part
of our communities and their economies.
Every year the Allegany County Fair is dedi-
cated to someone who goes above and be-
yond to ensure the success of the fair. This
year the fair is recognizing all the volunteers,
past and present, who have made the fair a
success. Many volunteers involved with the
fair use their vacation days to make sure the
fair is ready each year. That is why the one
hundred seventy-fifth Allegany County Fair is
dedicated to ‘‘the face in the mirror’’.
One hundred and seventy-five years of
community tradition is certainly a cause for
celebration. I congratulate the Allegany County
Fair on this impressive milestone and look for-
ward to many more fairs in the years to come.
Given the above, I ask that this Legislative
Body pause in its deliberations and join me to
celebrate the one hundred seventy-fifth anni-
versary of the Allegany County Fair.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE OF BILLY
JACKSON THAMES, JR.
HON. TRENT KELLY
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate the life of Billy Jack-
son Thames, Jr., who passed away on Friday,
July 12th at the age of 66.
Jack, a lifelong resident of Newton, Mis-
sissippi, served six years in the National
Guard Unit of Newton. He attended The Uni-
versity of Mississippi and later acquired his
law degree from the Mississippi College of
Law. Jack returned to Newton to open a pri-
vate law practice and later served as Assistant
District Attorney until his retirement in 2017.
Jack and his wife, Wanda, attended Newton
United Methodist Church.
Left to cherish his memory is his wife,
Wanda Thames of Newton; his sons—Amos,
Zachary, Samuel, and Benjamin; his brother
Kirk Thames; and his grandchildren Knox
Thames and Harper Thames, as well as many
more extended family members.
Jack’s life was one of service, grace, love
for his family, and community. He will be
greatly missed by all whom he encountered.
f
HONORING STAFF SERGEANT
PAUL EUGENE CALKIN
HON. ERIC A. ‘‘RICK’’ CRAWFORD
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. CRAWFORD. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to mourn the passing of Staff Sergeant
Paul Eugene Calkin, a World War Two Army
Air Corps veteran who passed away on June
12 at the age of 95.
Staff Sergeant Calkin flew with the 349th
Bomb Squadron, 100th Bomb Group, 8th Air
Force, and the 15th Air Force during the war,
based at airfields in Italy and the United King-
dom. He fought in bombardments at Po Val-
ley, the Rhineland, Apennines, and the Battle
of the Bulge.
He was never hesitant to share the lessons
he learned fighting for freedom with younger
generations, even sharing how he was shot
down during a visit with students from Valley
View Junior High. After his plane ditched in
the English Channel in February, Calkin wait-
ed in the freezing water for 40 minutes before
he was rescued.
In his time in the Army, Calkin was awarded
the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal
with four oak leaf clusters, the Good Conduct
Medal, the European African Middle Eastern
Campaign Medal with four bronze battle stars,
the World War II Victory Medal, the American
Campaign Medal, the American Defense
Medal, and the RAF Gold Fish Medal. In
2000, the Department of Defense awarded
Calkin the Purple Heart for injuries he sus-
tained in combat half a century earlier, and in
2013 the French Republic awarded him the
French Legion of Honor for his role in liber-
ating France from tyranny.
I invite Congress to join me in extending
condolences to Paul Eugene Calkin’s family
and recognizing his service to the United
States and the world.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF WILLIE
STROUD
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize Willie Stroud, Jr. Willie, a
96-year old World War II Veteran, plans to at-
tend his Webb, Rowell, Fielder and Lockhart
Family Reunion at the end of July. He was
born in Auburn, Alabama, in 1922 to Will
Stroud Sr. and Ida Mae Rowell Stroud. Willie
was inducted in the U.S. Army in 1943 and
served until 1946. While in the 25th Infantry,
he was a truck driver and Rifle Specialist. He
received the American Theater Service and
the World War II Victory Medals. With an hon-
orable discharge, Willie, his siblings and his
Mother migrated to Roseville, Michigan, and
settled there after the Army.
Willie worked as a truck driver for Roadway,
making deliveries of freight throughout the
United States and later worked in a steel mill
in Detroit, Michigan. Later in life, he decided to
become a business owner, buying a truck to
become the beloved ‘‘Vegetable Man’’ in the
blue truck on the east side of Detroit. He also
owned and operated several fish markets on
the eastside of Detroit and even has a secret
batter for frying fish.
Willie married several times and was
blessed with several children: Arabelle (de-
ceased), Rodger (deceased), Roscoe, Lany,
Brenda (deceased) and Deborah Stroud. He
currently resides with his daughter in South-
field, Michigan. He enjoys church, traveling,
shopping, spending time with family during his
yearly birthday bash and attending the Family
Reunions over the years.
Willie plans to attend the family picnic and
banquet at the Loachapoka Enrichment Cen-
ter, and church service at Mt Pelia Missionary
Baptist Church in Camp Hill, Alabama. The
Webb, Rowell, Fielder and Lockhart Family
will also attend the Civil Rights Museum in
Montgomery during the reunion at the end of
the month.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing the life of Willie Stroud, Jr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:14 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY8.018 E18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E946 July 18, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. NORMA J. TORRES
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam Speak-
er, on July 12, 2019, my vote for Roll Call
462, Turner of Ohio Part B Amendment No.
386, was recorded incorrectly. I intended to
vote NO on Roll Call No. 462, but I was re-
corded as voting AYE.
f
RECOGNIZING THE ONTONAGON
COUNTY VETERANS ASSOCIATION
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it is my
honor to recognize the Ontonagon County
Veterans Association (OCVA) for over sixteen
years of service to Veterans and their families.
Through their dedicated service, exceptional
leadership, and steadfast devotion to its com-
munity, the OCVA has become an indispen-
sable part of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.
First formed in 2003, the OCVA represents
all eight VFWs and American Legions in
Ontonagon County. The organization was first
brought together to provide full military honors
at all military burials in the county—an en-
deavor that requires significant coordination
and participation from local Veterans. Today,
the OCVA Honor Guard leads dozens of bur-
ials for Ontonagon Veterans each year. The
group also schedules and operates the DAV
Van, taking Veterans from throughout the
county to the VA Facility in Iron Mountain.
This work is made even more difficult by the
extreme geographic size and low population
density of Ontonagon County. Despite these
challenges, the OCVA consistently rises to the
challenge in service of our local Veterans.
In addition to their regular work, efforts from
the OCVA were critical in returning LS2 Lowell
Valley, a sailor on the USS Oklahoma killed
during the attacks on Pearl Harbor, home for
final burial in 2018. Its members are also high-
ly involved in community activities, churches,
government, and local businesses. Day after
day, the OCVA continues to set a positive ex-
ample of what can be achieved when the peo-
ple of a community work together for the com-
mon good.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to recognize
the Ontonagon County Veterans Association
for decades of success and service to the Vet-
erans of the Upper Peninsula. Michiganders
can take great pride in knowing the First Dis-
trict is home to such dedicated citizens. On
behalf of my constituents, I wish the OCVA all
the best in its future endeavors.
f
IN HONOR OF MR. HARRY WATKIN
HON. DAVID ROUZER
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. ROUZER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize and honor the life of the late Mr.
Harry Watkins of Wrightsville Beach, North
Carolina, who passed away late last year at
the age of 72.
Harry Watkins got his start in architecture
after studying at North Carolina State Univer-
sity. After a 40-year-long career, Harry has left
a lasting imprint on Wrightsville Beach, Bald
Head Island, Figure 8 Island and many other
surrounding communities where he designed
many of the homes that still stand there today.
He always held a special place in his heart for
Bald Head Island.
Harry also helped to grow Wrightsville
Beach true to his vision: ‘‘The architect must
understand the community, the environment,
and especially the characteristics of the spe-
cific site,’’ Harry said of his design philosophy.
He described his idea of what a good home
can be as ‘‘a joy when things were going well,
and a comfort when they were not.’’
Harry left a legacy of architectural vision
and excellence that is visible in each and
every community he touched. He is survived
by his wife Vicki, his daughter Brooke, and an
entire community of friends, neighbors and cli-
ents who are forever grateful for his love and
influence in their life.
Madam Speaker, Harry Watkins was a great
American who has left an enduring and excep-
tional legacy for which we are all proud.
f
RECOGNIZING MICHAEL LANE
HARVEY ON HIS ELECTION AS
VICE PRESIDENT OF THE 2019 IL-
LINOIS FUTURE FARMERS OF
AMERICA
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize Michael Lane Harvey on his election
as vice president of the 2019 Illinois FFA.
Mr. Lane’s background should serve him
well in his new position. He served the past
few years as his school’s FFA representative
and more recently as president of Illinois FFA
Section 23. In that post, he served the farming
interests of thirteen area schools as a state of-
ficer. After being voted in by over 400 dele-
gates and over 5,000 members from across Il-
linois at the 91st Illinois FFA State Convention
held in Springfield, Mr. Lane will be taking on
even greater responsibilities as he represents
over 20,000 FFA members and advisors.
Madam Speaker, I congratulate Michael
Lane Harvey on his election as vice president
of the 2019 Illinois FFA. I have always en-
joyed working with our agricultural leaders, es-
pecially those in the blue jacket. I would like
to extend my well wishes to Mr. Lane, the en-
tire State Officer Team, and all members of
the Illinois FFA.
f
CELEBRATING THE 100TH ANNI-
VERSARY SAINT PAUL’S STER-
LING CLUB
HON. BETTY McCOLLUM
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the centennial anniversary of
Saint Paul’s Sterling Club, the oldest African
American men’s club in the nation. Founded at
a time when racism and segregation were the
norm, and African Americans could not access
the same accommodations as white commu-
nity members, the Sterling Club provided a
strong community to allow neighbors to come
together and to host and celebrate visiting Af-
rican American dignitaries.
On a bright and cold New Year’s Day in
1918, men from Saint Paul’s Rondo neighbor-
hood chartered a bus to spread the word of a
new club created for African Americans. The
Sterling Club, and later the Women’s Auxiliary,
would quickly become a cornerstone of the so-
cial and civic strength of Saint Paul’s African
American community. During its first hundred
years, the Sterling club has hosted countless
events, balls and social gatherings. Above all,
the organization’s principal purpose was ‘‘the
proper entertainment of persons of note who
may visit.’’
Officially incorporated on August 28, 1919,
the Sterling Club was not a social club in the
same vein as others, which typically only ca-
tered to community elites and the professional
class. Among its ranks one could find, law-
yers, architects, government employees and
decorated war veterans. Officers and mem-
bers also included railroad workers, janitors,
meat packers, elevator operators and postal
workers. Then as now, the egalitarian ethos
speaks to the community-building and orga-
nizing principles of the Sterling Club.
In 1900s Saint Paul, African American com-
munity members were eager to hear from
leaders speaking about overcoming the adver-
sity and racism that was commonplace
throughout our nation. To address this desire,
the Sterling Club began hosting notable and
national leaders including Booker T. Wash-
ington, William Monroe Trotter and W.E.B. Du
Bois. The club remains actively focused on
civic engagement and has hosted forums for
generations of candidates seeking elected of-
fice in Saint Paul. The development of the
Sterling Club Charitable Fund has also con-
tributed greatly to the community, sponsoring
student scholarships and honoring volunteers
who give back to our community.
Despite being a men’s group, the longevity
and success of the club would not have been
possible without the women of the Auxiliary.
Spouses of club members long played a sig-
nificant role in fundraising, planning and orga-
nizing. Without shrewd and savvy women of
the Auxiliary scraping together enough fund-
ing, the club likely would not have been able
to survive past the Great Depression and
World War II to flourish in the post-war years.
The Sterling Club has always relied on the
collective experience and abilities of members
to organize, resist, thrive and give back to the
community. Founded in a time and place
where the color of your skin could mean the
difference between a comfortable life or a life
at the margins, the Sterling Club stands tall as
an example of how a community coming to-
gether can claim the American Dream in the
face of adversity of prejudice and discrimina-
tion and forge a new and better future for ev-
eryone. Madam Speaker please join me in
celebrating 100 years of Saint Paul Sterling
Club.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:14 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18JY8.024 E18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E947
July 18, 2019
ERIKA STROUD NAMED TEXAS’S
BEST TRAINER
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Sugar Land Public Safety Dis-
patcher Erika Stroud for being named Texas’s
best trainer by the Texas Association of Public
Safety Communications Officials and the
Texas National Emergency Number Associa-
tion.
As a public safety dispatcher, Erika’s quick
decisions can make the difference between
life and death in emergency situations. When
training Sugar Land’s public safety dispatchers
and answering emergency calls, Erika holds
herself and her team to the highest standards
and ensures that recruits are ready to help
folks in need no matter the time, day or night.
She is also a member of the Critical Incident
Stress Management Team, which ensures that
our dedicated first responders have accesses
to critical mental health resources.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Erika Stroud for this award. I thank her for
her commitment to keeping our Sugar Land
community safe.
f
CELEBRATION OF THE FORTIETH
ANNIVERSARY OF HABITAT FOR
HUMANITY OF KANSAS CITY
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the Fortieth Anniversary of
Habitat for Humanity of Kansas City. As a
leader in nonprofit homebuilding, Habitat for
Humanity is dedicated to ensuring suitable
and affordable housing for all. Since its cre-
ation, Habitat for Humanity of Kansas City has
improved hundreds of lives in six counties of
the Greater Kansas City area and the Fifth
Congressional District of Missouri. Wholly de-
voted to establishing stability and security in
the community via improved housing, Habitat
for Humanity of Kansas City provides tools to
build self-reliance and lightens the burdens
many homeowners face. Through these pro-
grams, they create opportunities for families to
invest in their future and thrive.
John and Mary Pritchard founded Habitat for
Humanity of Kansas City in March of 1979,
now the seventh oldest branch of Habitat for
Humanity International. In their first year, the
Pritchards, with the aid of board members,
local churches, and community groups, pur-
chased seven properties which they turned
into homes. The Middlebrooks, Habitat’s first
homeowners, moved to the corner of Linwood
and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and
were able to pay zero-percent interest on their
mortgage for twenty years. The hard work of
volunteers, families, and community members
have allowed Habitat of Kansas City to con-
tinue building, renovating, and renewing over
700 homes in their forty years in the area.
Building off their success in constructing
homes, Habitat for Humanity of Kansas City
created ReStore, a retail store which sells do-
nated home furnishings and construction ma-
terial to families trying to renovate their homes
at an affordable price. Additionally, they built
their House of Abraham in 2003, an interfaith
endeavor between the Christian, Jewish, and
Muslim communities in the Greater Kansas
City area. It seeks to promote understanding
between faiths by having adherents work to-
gether to build and restore homes. Habitat for
Humanity of Kansas City also established the
HOPE financial literacy program which assists
Habitat homeowners with long-term credit and
budgeting.
Habitat for Humanity of Kansas City is just
one branch of an international organization,
which aids people across all 50 states and 70
countries. Habitat International was founded in
1976 and has helped more than 22 million
people due to their core belief that housing
should be accessible to all. Habitat for Hu-
manity constructs and restores homes, and
then counsels families on investments and fi-
nances to help them keep their homes. When
a family can afford a safe and stable home,
they can then invest in other needs such as
health care or the education of their children.
Habitat for Humanity creates a ripple effect
throughout communities, not only providing a
safe shelter, but also a prosperous and strong
future for families. They are champions for
one of the core values of our country—oppor-
tunity for all, regardless of income or back-
ground.
Madam Speaker, please join me, Missouri’s
Fifth Congressional District, and those around
the nation in honoring the Fortieth Anniversary
of Habitat for Humanity of Kansas City. Their
commitment to bettering the community
through building and restoring houses for fami-
lies in the region is admirable and worthy of
our recognition.
f
CELEBRATING THE 100TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF FIRST BAPTIST
CHURCH OF HULL, TEXAS
HON. BRIAN BABIN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the 100th Anniversary of the First
Baptist Church of Hull located in east Liberty
County, Texas.
On July 19, 2019, a group of dedicated
Christians met in a home for the purpose of
organizing the First Baptist Church of Hull,
Texas. On July 24 of the same year, Mr. S.E.
Beavers donated two lots of land for a church
site. Mr. Beavers was later elected as a Trust-
ee of the church and his widow was the last
surviving of the fourteen charter members.
The original church building was built from
lumber salvaged from the neighboring aban-
doned sawmill community of Budconner.
On January 4, 1956, the church voted to
construct the present auditorium, which was
completed in 1957 and dedicated on August
31, 1958. The original frame of the church
building was used for several Sunday school
classrooms until the current education building
was completed on December 13, 1969. In
January of 2012, First Baptist voted to build a
Family Life Center.
Over the years, the church’s resiliency has
been tested through several natural disasters:
the flood of 1994, Hurricane Ike in 2008, and
Hurricane Harvey in 2017 each caused con-
siderable damage to First Baptist’s property.
Hurricane Harvey inundated it with several
feet of water, wiped out nearby Hull-Daisetta
Elementary School, and caused considerable
damage to much of the surrounding commu-
nity.
During the aftermath of Harvey, the dam-
aged Family Life Center at First Baptist served
as a distribution center for supplies and pro-
vided meals for first responders, disaster relief
crews, and local residents. Each time the
church was damaged, church members, aided
by groups like the Texas Baptist Men’s (TBM)
Builders, have rebuilt. To date, the parsonage
has been restored and work on the sanctuary
and education building is ongoing.
In addition to being on the receiving end of
mission efforts following natural disasters, indi-
viduals and groups from First Baptist Church,
Hull have been missionaries at home and
abroad. The church has made several trips to
bring the Gospel to the people of Mexico,
Guatemala, and Honduras. They have also
aided in many construction mission projects,
conducted numerous Vacation Bible Schools
for children and young adults residing in the
surrounding community, and have been active
at the East Texas Baptist Encampment in
Newton, Texas.
Throughout the past century, the First Bap-
tist Church of Hull has had twenty-seven pas-
tors. Although most have been ‘‘full-time,’’
some have been bi-vocational. On October 19,
1919, Rev. R.L. Nash was called to be the
first pastor on a part-time basis. The first full-
time Pastor, Rev. R.W. Lindsay, began serv-
ing First Baptist on September 26, 1920. The
first deacons were elected on May 29, 1921.
The church is actively seeking a pastor at this
time.
On July 20, 2019, my brothers and sisters
in Christ at the First Baptist Church of Hull will
celebrate 100 years of delivering God’s word
to the people of Hull, Daisetta, and the sur-
rounding communities. The Lord has used this
historic church as an amazing witness for a
century, and I am privileged to have such a
place of worship in my district.
f
COMMEMORATING THE ONE HUN-
DREDTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
WAVERLY ROTARY CLUB
HON. TOM REED
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
commemorate the one hundredth anniversary
of the Waverly Rotary Club.
In 1919, the Waverly Rotary Club was es-
tablished under the sponsorship of the club in
Elmira, New York. As they elected their first
President, Hart Seeley, this newly founded
branch of Rotary International made a commit-
ment to service in their community.
The Rotary International motto is ‘‘Service
Above Self,’’ and Waverly Rotary has em-
bodied that principle over one hundred years
of supporting community service projects. The
Waverly Rotary Club is a proud sponsor of a
strong Student Exchange Program that was
established in 1951. For decades they have
fostered positive international relationships for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:14 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18JY8.029 E18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E948 July 18, 2019
young people in the community. Waverly Ro-
tary was also one of the first in New York
State to adopt a highway when the program
began in the 1990’s. Their beautification pro-
gram has ensured the maintenance of Exit 61
and provided welcome signs to greet those
entering the Town of Waverly.
Waverly Rotary has helped to ensure that
the spirit of service is alive and well in the city
of Waverly. Rotarians are active volunteers
and serve as leaders in the community.
One hundred years of service in the com-
munity is certainly a cause for celebration. I
congratulate the Waverly Rotary Club on this
impressive milestone and look forward to their
continued success in the years to come.
Given the above, I ask that this Legislative
Body pause in its deliberations and join me to
celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of
the Waverly Rotary Club.
f
HONORING NATIONAL FRAGILE X
AWARENESS DAY
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
recognition of National Fragile X Awareness
Day, happening on Monday, July 22. As the
Co-Chair of the Fragile X Caucus with Con-
gressman CHRIS SMITH, I would like to take a
moment to raise awareness about this condi-
tion, which affects an estimated 100,000
Americans.
Fragile X is a genetic-disorder caused by
mutations in the gene known as FMR1. These
genetic changes can result in behavioral, de-
velopmental, cognitive, reproductive and po-
tentially fatal neurodegenerative conditions.
Over 1,000,000 Americans have a variation of
the Fragile X mutation, meaning they either
have, or at risk, of developing one of the con-
ditions associated with Fragile X. This means
that each Member of this House, on average,
represents 230 constituents living with Fragile
X syndrome.
This past March, I led a bipartisan appro-
priations letter with Congressman CHRIS SMITH
urging the NIH to continue investment in Frag-
ile X research and maintaining federal support
for the Fragile X awareness and research pro-
grams at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, where they fund the FORWARD
project, which collects and provides Fragile X
data across the lifespan and generations to
help improve research towards treatments and
a cure. A group of 16 bipartisan Members
joined us in this effort.
On National Fragile X Awareness Day, I
urge all my colleagues to take time to learn
the impact of this disease and how we can
pass legislation that improves the lives of
Americans living with Fragile X.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR.
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. SENSENBRENNER. Madam Speaker,
due to previously scheduled travel, I was
physically absent from the House of Rep-
resentatives on June 27, 2019. On that day, I
missed 5 recorded votes.
On Roll Call No. 426 on the Adoption of H.
Res. 466, had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 427 on the Republican Mo-
tion to Recommit, had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
On Roll Call No. 428 on the Passage of
H.R. 2722, had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 429 on Concurring to the
Senate Amendment to H.R. 3401, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
On Roll Call No. 430 on the Approval of the
Speaker’s Journal, had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘Yea.’’
HONORING ZECHARIAH
CARTLEDGE
HON. RODNEY DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor a truly special
hero for our country, Zechariah Cartledge, a
10-year-old boy from Florida, who has decided
he will run a mile for each time a law enforce-
ment officer is killed in the line of duty.
Earlier this year, Zechariah went to New
York City to run the ‘‘Tunnel to Towers 5K’’
with police officers, firefighters and military
personnel to honor our nation’s heroes. He
has continued to raise money for police offi-
cers and military personnel with every single
mile he has run.
This weekend, Zechariah will be in Spring-
field, Illinois to participate in a 1-Mile Honorary
Run for all Illinois Law Enforcement Officers
Killed in the Line of Duty that is being put on
by The Peacekeepers, a local organization
who have raised an impressive amount of
money for our military members and police of-
ficers.
This year, in Springfield, Zechariah will be
helping The Peacekeepers honor fallen Illinois
State Police Trooper Brian McMillen and Petty
Officer 2nd Class Logan Palmer. Zechariah is
a wonderful hero who is an example of what
we all should strive to be: men and women
with appreciation and respect for our first re-
sponders.
Thank you, Zechariah for everything you
have done to honor our heroes. The money
you have raised will go a long way for families
of our fallen. God bless you and the work you
have done.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:14 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18JY8.032 E18JYPT1
D871
Thursday, July 18, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S4923–S4956
Measures Introduced: Thirty-eight bills and two
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
2156–2193, and S. Res. 278–279. Pages S4947–48
Measures Reported:
Special Report entitled ‘‘The 2019 Joint Economic
Report’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–58)
S. 727, to combat international extremism by ad-
dressing global fragility and violence and stabilizing
conflict-affected areas, with an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute. Page S4946
Measures Passed:
One Small Step to Protect Human Heritage in
Space Act: Senate passed S. 1694, to require any
Federal agency that issues licenses to conduct lunar
activities to include in the requirements for such li-
censes an agreement relating to the preservation and
protection of the Apollo 11 landing site, after agree-
ing to the committee amendment in the nature of
a substitute, the committee-reported title amend-
ment, and the following amendment proposed there-
to: Pages S4933–36
Peters/Cruz Amendment No. 927, to modify the
sense of Congress with respect to collaboration with
other countries. Page S4934
50th Anniversary of the Apollo 11 Moon Land-
ing: Committee on Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation was discharged from further consideration
of S. Con. Res. 19, celebrating the 50th anniversary
of the Apollo 11 Moon landing, and the resolution
was then agreed to. Page S4955
Never Forget the Heroes: James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez Permanent Authoriza-
tion of the September 11th Victim Compensa-
tion Fund Act—Agreement: A unanimous-con-
sent-time agreement was reached providing that at a
time to be determined by the Majority Leader, in
consultation with the Democratic Leader, on or be-
fore Wednesday, July 24, 2019, Senate begin consid-
eration of H.R. 1327, to extend authorization for the
September 11th Victim Compensation Fund of 2001
through fiscal year 2092, and that the only amend-
ments in order be Lee Amendment No. 928, and
Paul Amendment No. 929, to be offered, and that
there be up to two hours of concurrent debate equal-
ly divided between the two Leaders, or designees,
and Senate then vote on or in relation to the amend-
ments in the order listed, with no second-degree
amendments in order prior to the votes, and that
there be two minutes equally divided prior to each
vote, and that each amendment be subject to an af-
firmative 60 vote threshold; and that upon disposi-
tion of the amendments, Senate vote on passage of
the bill, as amended, if amended, all with no inter-
vening action or debate and notwithstanding Rule
XXII. Pages S4937–38
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that following Leader remarks on Tuesday,
July 23, 2019, Senate begin consideration of the bill,
as under the previous order; that notwithstanding
Rule XXII, at 12 noon, if cloture is invoked on the
nomination of Mark T. Esper, of Virginia, to be Sec-
retary of Defense, all post-cloture time be considered
expired; and that following the vote on the motion
to invoke cloture on the nomination of Stephen M.
Dickson, of Georgia, to be Administrator of the Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, Senate continue con-
sideration of the bill with all debate time considered
expired at 2:30 p.m. Page S4941
Esper Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Mark T. Esper, of Vir-
ginia, to be Secretary of Defense. Page S4936
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Thursday, July 18, 2019, a vote on
cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m., on Monday, July 22,
2019. Page S4936
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to nomi-
nations reported out of the Committee on Armed
Services on Thursday, July 18, 2019. Page S4936
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S4936
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:51 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JY9.REC D18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D872
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S4936
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday,
July 22, 2019, Senate resume consideration of the
nomination; and that notwithstanding the provisions
of Rule XXII, the motions to invoke cloture filed on
Thursday, July 18, 2019, ripen at 5:30 p.m., on
Monday, July 22, 2019. Page S4955
Dickson Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Stephen M. Dickson,
of Georgia, to be Administrator of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration. Page S4936
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Mark T. Esper, of Virginia, to
be Secretary of Defense. Pages S4936–37
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S4936
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S4936
Berger Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Wendy Williams
Berger, of Florida, to be United States District
Judge for the Middle District of Florida. Page S4937
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Stephen M. Dickson, of Geor-
gia, to be Administrator of the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration. Page S4937
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S4937
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S4937
Buescher Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of Brian C.
Buescher, of Nebraska, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Nebraska. Page S4937
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Wendy Williams Berger, of
Florida, to be United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Florida. Page S4937
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S4937
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S4937
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 55 yeas to 39 nays (Vote No. EX. 216), Clif-
ton L. Corker, of Tennessee, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee.
Pages S4925–31
By 54 yeas to 40 nays (Vote No. EX. 217), Lynda
Blanchard, of Alabama, to be Ambassador to the Re-
public of Slovenia. Page S4931
By 66 yeas to 26 nays (Vote No. EX. 218), Don-
ald R. Tapia, of Arizona, to be Ambassador to Ja-
maica. Pages S4931–33, S4936
Messages from the House: Pages S4943–44
Measures Referred: Page S4944
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S4944
Measures Read the First Time: Page S4944
Executive Communications: Pages S4944–45
Petitions and Memorials: Pages S4945–46
Executive Reports of Committees: Pages S4946–47
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S4848–50
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S4950–54
Additional Statements: Page S4943
Amendments Submitted: Pages S4954–55
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S4955
Privileges of the Floor: Page S4955
Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today.
(Total—218) Pages S4331, S4936
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 5:09 p.m., until 3 p.m. on Monday, July
22, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks of
the Majority Leader in today’s Record on page
S4955.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
2018 FARM BILL
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine agricultural
research and 2018 farm bill implementation, after
receiving testimony from Scott Hutchins, Deputy
Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Edu-
cation, and Economics.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:51 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JY9.REC D18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D873
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Armed Services: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the nomination of Mark T. Esper, of
Virginia, to be Secretary of Defense, and 1,231
nominations in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Ma-
rine Corps.
EXPORT CONTROL REFORM
IMPLEMENTATION
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine export
control reform implementation, focusing on outside
perspectives, including S. 1060, to deter foreign in-
terference in United States election, after receiving
testimony from Eric L. Hirschhorn, former Under
Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security;
Nova J. Daly, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury for Investment Security; and Ben
Buchanan, Georgetown University Center for Secu-
rity and Emerging Technology, Washington, D.C.
WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTURE
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Sub-
committee on Water and Power concluded a hearing
to examine opportunities to increase water storage
and conservation through rehabilitation and develop-
ment of water supply infrastructure, including S.
1570, to provide flexibility to allow greater aquifer
recharge, S. 1932, to support water infrastructure in
Reclamation States, and S. 2044, to amend the Om-
nibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 to es-
tablish an Aging Infrastructure Account, to amend
the Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978 to pro-
vide additional funds under that Act, to establish a
review of flood control rule curves pilot project
within the Bureau of Reclamation, after receiving
testimony from Brenda Burman, Commissioner, Bu-
reau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior;
Wesley Hipke, Idaho Managed Recharge Program
Manager, Boise, on behalf of the Idaho Water Re-
source Board; Wade Noble, Welton-Mohawk Irriga-
tion and Drainage District, Yuma, Arizona; Marshall
P. Brown, Aurora Water, Aurora, Colorado, on be-
half of WateReuse; and Melinda Kassen, Theodore
Roosevelt Conservation Partnership, Boulder, Colo-
rado.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the following business items:
S. 1273, to amend title 17, United States Code,
to establish an alternative dispute resolution program
for copyright small claims;
S. 1883, to improve the prohibitions on money
laundering, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute; and
The nominations of Douglas Russell Cole, and
Matthew Walden McFarland, both to be a United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
Ohio, Robert Anthony Molloy, to be Judge for the
District Court of the Virgin Islands, and Kea
Whetzal Riggs, to be United States District Judge
for the District of New Mexico.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:51 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JY9.REC D18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D874
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 35 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 3819–3853; 1 private bill, H.R.
3854; and 5 resolutions, H.J. Res. 73; and H. Res.
502–505, were introduced. Pages H7149–51
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H7152–53
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 2943, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to make all fact sheets of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in English and Spanish, with
amendments (H. Rept. 116–158);
H.R. 397, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to create a Pension Rehabilitation Trust Fund,
to establish a Pension Rehabilitation Administration
within the Department of the Treasury to make
loans to multiemployer defined benefit plans, and for
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–159, Part 1);
H.R. 3298, to increase entitlement funding for
child care, with amendments (H. Rept. 116–160);
and
H.R. 3299, to permit legally married same-sex
couples to amend their filing status for income tax
returns outside the statute of limitations, to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to clarify that all
provisions shall apply to legally married same-sex
couples in the same manner as other married cou-
ples, and for other purposes, with an amendment (H.
Rept. 116–161). Page H7149
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Malinowski to act as
Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H7093
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H7093, H7128
Raise the Wage Act: The House passed H.R. 582,
to provide for increases in the Federal minimum
wage, by a recorded vote of 231 ayes to 199 noes,
Roll No. 496. Pages H7095–7128
Rejected the Meuser motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on Education and Labor with in-
structions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of
210 ayes to 218 noes, Roll No. 495. Pages H7126–28
Pursuant to the Rule, the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by the Committee
on Education and Labor now printed in the bill,
modified by the amendment printed in part A of H.
Rept. 116–155, shall be considered as adopted.
Page H7095
Agreed to:
O’Halleran amendment (No. 1 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–155) that requires the Government
Accountability Office, in consultation with specified
experts, to submit a report to Congress on the eco-
nomic and employment impacts (nationally, region-
ally, and locally) of the four minimum wage in-
creases in the bill (standard, tipped minimum,
youth, and 14(C)) with the report to be prepared
after the second wage increase and before the third
wage increase; requires Congress to assess the report’s
findings and to take any appropriate legislative ac-
tion, including action to delay or otherwise modify
the next scheduled wage increases (by a recorded
vote of 248 ayes to 181 noes, Roll No. 494).
Page H7123
H. Res. 492, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 582) was agreed to yesterday, July
17th.
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow, July 19th, and further when
the House adjourns on that day, it adjourn to meet
at 12 noon on Tuesday, July 23rd for Morning Hour
debate. Page H7134
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three recorded votes devel-
oped during the proceedings of today and appear on
pages H7125–26, H7127, and H7128. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 2:55 p.m.
Committee Meetings
COUNTERFEITS AND CLUTTERING:
EMERGING THREATS TO THE INTEGRITY
OF THE TRADEMARK SYSTEM AND THE
IMPACT ON AMERICAN CONSUMERS AND
BUSINESSES
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Courts,
Intellectual Property, and the Internet held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Counterfeits and Cluttering: Emerging
Threats to the Integrity of the Trademark System
and the Impact on American Consumers and Busi-
nesses’’. Testimony was heard from Mary Boney
Denison, Commissioner for Trademarks, U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office; and public witnesses.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURE
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on
Water, Oceans, and Wildlife held a hearing on H.R.
2245, the ‘‘CECIL Act’’. Testimony was heard from
Chairman Grijalva; and public witnesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:51 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JY9.REC D18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D875
LEGISLATIVE MEASURES
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands held a hear-
ing on H.R. 401, the ‘‘Lowell Observatory Convey-
ance Act’’; H.R. 1492, the ‘‘Yucca House National
Monument Boundary Revision Act’’; H.R. 1572, the
‘‘Botanical Sciences and Native Plant Materials Re-
search, Restoration, and Promotion Act’’; and H.R.
2819, the ‘‘Gold Star Families National Monument
Extension Act’’. Testimony was heard from Rep-
resentatives Tipton, Kim, and Quigley; William
Shaddox, Chief, Land Resources Division, National
Park Service, Department of the Interior; Frank
Beum, Acting Associated Deputy Chief, National
Forest System, U.S. Forest Service, Department of
Agriculture; and public witnesses.
HEARING WITH ACTING SECRETARY OF
HOMELAND SECURITY KEVIN K.
MCALEENAN
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Hearing with Acting Sec-
retary of Homeland Security Kevin K. McAleenan’’.
Testimony was heard from Kevin K. McAleenan,
Acting Secretary, Department of Homeland Security.
Joint Meetings
A UNIFIED FUTURE
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Com-
mission received a briefing to examine truth, rec-
onciliation, and healing toward a unified future from
Gail C. Christopher, Ntianu Center, Forest Heights,
Maryland, on behalf of the Trust for America’s
Health; Stuart Eizenstat, Imperfect Justice: Looted As-
sets, Slave Labor, and Diane Orentlicher, American
University, both of Washington, D.C.; Don Ceder,
City of Amsterdam Municipal Councilor, Amster-
dam, the Netherlands; and Tracy Tansia Bibo,
former City Councilor, Liedekerke, Belgium.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
JULY 19, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:51 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18JY9.REC D18JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D876 July 18, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, July 22
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of the nomination of Mark T. Esper, of Virginia, to be
Secretary of Defense, and vote on the motion to invoke
cloture thereon at 5:30 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9:30 a.m., Friday, July 19
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 9:30 a.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Babin, Brian, Tex., E947
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E942, E944, E946
Biggs, Andy, Ariz., E944
Brooks, Susan W., Ind., E941
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E947
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E942
Crawford, Eric A. ‘‘Rick’’, Ark., E945
Davis, Rodney, Ill., E948
Davis, Susan A., Calif., E941
Dingell, Debbie, Mich., E942
Engel, Eliot L., N.Y., E948
Gohmert, Louie, Tex., E944
Haaland, Debra A., N.M., E941
Kaptur, Marcy, Ohio, E943
Keating, William R., Mass., E943
Kelly, Trent, Miss., E945
McBath, Lucy, Ga., E943
McCollum, Betty, Minn., E944, E946
Olson, Pete, Tex., E941, E942, E943, E945, E947
Reed, Tom, N.Y., E945, E947
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E945
Rouzer, David, N.C., E946
Sensenbrenner, F. James, Jr., Wisc., E948
Shimkus, John, Ill., E946
Smith, Jason, Mo., E944
Torres, Norma J., Calif., E942, E946
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:51 Jul 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D18JY9.REC D18JYPT1
