Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6303
Vol. 166 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 No. 178—Part II
Senate
(Legislative day of Monday, October 19, 2020)
The Senate met at 12 noon, on the ex-
piration of the recess, and was called to
order by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Great God and Father, Your anger
lasts only for a moment, but Your
favor lasts a lifetime. Lord, open our
eyes to see the wonders of Your grace
and the majesty of Your love for people
everywhere. Keep our lawmakers from
being blind to the work You are doing
in our world. Bring healing to the sick
and liberation to the oppressed.
Lord, You have watched over this
land we love from generation to gen-
eration, in prosperity and adversity, in
peace and war. Today, keep our Sen-
ators so dedicated that they will do
justly, love mercy, and walk humbly
with You.
We pray in Your Holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The Senate resumed consideration of
the nomination of Michael Jay New-
man, of Ohio, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of
Ohio.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for 1
minute as in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO DAN GABLE
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, fel-
low Iowan Dan Gable is one of the
greatest athletes and coaches in Amer-
ican history. President Trump has se-
lected Dan to receive the Presidential
Medal of Freedom—the highest civilian
honor. I sent a letter to the White
House after hearing about grassroots
support in Iowa for this award.
Dan Gable is a household name for
every Iowa sports fan. As a wrestler at
Iowa State University, Dan won two
collegiate championships—a world
championship and an Olympic Gold
Medal. His overall high school and col-
lege records are 181 victories, 1 defeat.
That one defeat came in the finals of
the NCAA tournament of his senior
year. In his coaching career at the Uni-
versity of Iowa, he led to 15 national
team championships out of the 21 years
that he coached.
As a coach at the University of Iowa,
Dan developed All Americans, national
champions, Big Ten champions, and
Olympians. Dan is the paragon of the
American dream in his achieving suc-
cess through community, courage, hard
work, and determination.
I congratulate Dan on this out-
standing achievement.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
PAYCHECK PROTECTION PROGRAM
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, ‘‘It
would have been really hard for us to
get through without it.’’ That was the
coowner of Apollo Pizza, which has a
handful of locations throughout Ken-
tucky.
‘‘It touches my heart just knowing
that I can bring folks back and gain-
fully employ people who need to
work.’’ That was a restaurateur in Fay-
etteville, NC.
‘‘It’s pennies from heaven as far as
our business is concerned.’’ That was
one small business owner in Highlands
Ranch, CO.
‘‘It just made sense to us that if
we’re going to be able to get money
from the government . . . spend it on
our employees.’’ That is from a fourth-
generation owner of a bagel shop in
Ferndale, MI.
Those are just four of the millions
and millions of hard-working Ameri-
cans who have had an economic lifeline
to help them endure this crisis year.
That lifeline is the Paycheck Protec-
tion Program, the PPP.
About 7 months ago, our Nation’s top
medical experts recommended we do
something without precedent—shutter
whole sectors of the economy to pro-
tect Americans from the pandemic.
Congress needed a historic plan to help
workers, and our colleagues Senator
Rubio and Senator Collins stepped for-
ward. They realized we could not sim-
ply let Main Street go under. We could
not simply tell millions and millions
more workers to forget about their jobs
and join the unemployment lines. We
couldn’t just let every storefront ex-
cept the biggest corporate retailers
turn into permanent pandemic ghost
towns. We had to give small businesses
and their workers a fighting chance.
The senior Senators from Maine and
Florida found the solution. They lit-
erally invented the PPP. It would fund
emergency loans to employers, and
those loans would be forgivable so long
as the money would be used to keep
paying their people. As far as emer-
gency government rescues go, their
idea was actually a bold, free-enter-
prise policy. Don’t just sign everyone
up for welfare; fight to save jobs. Keep
workers connected to their jobs and
their paychecks.
As we wrote the CARES Act, Sen-
ators Rubio and Collins got together
with Senator CARDIN and put the fin-
ishing touches on the program. Soon,
the PPP had become law without a sin-
gle dissenting vote in either Chamber.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.000 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6304 October 20, 2020
The program proved so popular that it
quickly committed all its funding. So,
in April, we refilled it with more
money. That was unanimous in the
Senate as well. Then, in June, we
tweaked the program on the fly to help
small businesses even more. Once
again, it was unanimous—no objection
from any Republican or any Democrat
here in the Senate. This program has
had the most bipartisan pedigree pos-
sible, and those bipartisan beginnings
have led to a major policy success
story.
For millions of Americans from coast
to coast, the PPP has made all the dif-
ference in the world. It has kept pay-
checks coming into their mailboxes
and bank accounts where there other-
wise would have been pink slips. Every
State, every town, every city knows
the difference it has made.
So where are we today?
That historic first draw of the PPP
has wound down; the program has
closed to new applications; many firms
have run through their funds, but,
clearly, our economic recovery remains
a work in progress. For many workers,
business has not come roaring back to
normal, and it won’t until the health
situation allows it.
Fortunately, Senator RUBIO and Sen-
ator COLLINS have stepped up again.
Our colleagues have legislation that
will refund and reopen the PPP. It will
establish a whole second round for the
hardest hit small businesses that need
help the most, and thanks to the ef-
forts of several colleagues, the legisla-
tion will also streamline the program
and strengthen oversight.
I would submit that, even for a Con-
gress this divided, even in the year
2020, reopening the PPP really ought to
be a no-brainer. There is bipartisan
agreement that American workers still
need help, and there is already bipar-
tisan infrastructure in place to provide
that help, but there is a problem. The
PPP has been taken hostage. Just like
the funding for safe schools, more fund-
ing for testing, more funding for vac-
cines, more funding for Federal unem-
ployment benefits, and commonsense
legal protections that charities and
university presidents have been plead-
ing for, the PPP has been taken hos-
tage by Speaker PELOSI and Leader
SCHUMER.
The Democratic leaders have spent
months holding out for a long, far-left
wish list of non-COVID-related prior-
ities and obstructing any additional
aid until they get it. All or nothing—
that has been their position. Either
Democrats get every unrelated policy
they want or American families get
nothing. So, for months, they have
blocked bipartisan aid at every single
turn. The Democratic leader even tried
last night to adjourn the Senate so we
could do nothing at all for 3 weeks—
nothing at all for 3 weeks. That is how
urgent he thinks it is to help working
people. He wanted to go home for 3
weeks.
Because President Trump will not
just cave to the entire Democratic Par-
ty’s platform—for example, the Presi-
dent won’t simply hand out endless
sums of cash to chronically mis-
managed State and city governments
out of proportion to COVID needs—
Speaker PELOSI has seen to it that
working families have gotten nothing
rather than something.
So, look, every Senator in this body
knows this is not how people act if
they actually want an outcome. Amer-
ican families, working families, have
waited months and months for Speaker
PELOSI to end her ‘‘Marie Antoinette’’
act and let Congress find common
ground. There is no reason this second
round of the Paycheck Protection Pro-
gram should wait another single day.
So we are going to vote on this legisla-
tion today—one clear vote on one clear
program that all in this Chamber say
they want to pass.
Well, I will let you in on a secret.
There is something Senators do when
we want something to pass. Here is
what we do when we want something to
pass: We vote for it. It is no counter-
argument to complain that the PPP
legislation does not also contain 100
other things. The entire point is to
agree where we can and make law
while we keep arguing over all the rest.
If my Democratic colleagues oppose
the job-saving PPP, they should come
to the floor and say why they oppose it.
Otherwise, this afternoon should bring
another unanimous vote.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
CORONAVIRUS
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President,
COVID–19 has changed just about every
aspect of American life—every aspect.
The bottom line is very simple: The
way Americans work, the way we send
our kids to school, and the way we run
our businesses have all changed.
COVID has derailed the economy.
Millions of Americans have missed
the rent, missed the mortgage, applied
for unemployment, been forced to skip
meals. American poverty is beginning
to increase more dramatically. More
than 8 million have gotten sick. More
than 220,000 have died.
The response here in Congress to a
pandemic that affects our country in a
way we haven’t seen in decades should
be to comprehensively provide relief.
Our mission is not to pick out one or
two industries and say ‘‘maybe later’’
to the rest. We can’t privilege a small
issue here or there and ask everyone
else to wait. Our mission is to deliver
big for a country and a people who are
suffering direly. Our mission is to meet
the needs of the country and leave no
one—and leave no one—behind.
But Leader MCCONNELL and the Re-
publican majority have failed to grasp
the gravity of this situation from the
beginning. They put the Senate on
pause for more than 5 months, while
cases went up and the death toll
mounted. When the time came for
them to pull together in August, they
couldn’t even get Republican Senators
to agree on one. Eight months into this
long and brutal crisis, the Republican
leader is filled with stunts and playing
the smallest of small ball, when so
many are hurting.
Today, the Republican majority will
try to force a stunt—not even a real
vote on a bill—but it leaves almost the
entire country out of the picture. They
are holding the vote over a backdrop of
a dire increase in cases. The majority
of States are seeing spikes right now.
Half of all States have had their high-
est single day ever in total cases in the
last month.
Experts say we have hard months
ahead of us. It is possible the worst is
yet to come—a second wave. We must
act now to provide relief to the whole
country, and our Republican leader and
the Republican Senate are up to a
stunt and not even negotiating or put-
ting a bill on the floor, and the Amer-
ican people know it. They know who is
to blame. They blame President Trump
and the Republican majority. We know
that.
We know, when it comes to COVID,
that the blame correctly falls on the
shoulders of Leader MCCONNELL and all
his Republican Senators, who are
afraid to do anything, who are divided.
Anytime Mr. Mnuchin gets on the
phone with them, they say: Don’t do
anything. We are too divided.
Everyone knows that.
We must provide real relief. That is
what Democrats want to do. But in the
Republican proposal today, there is no
funding—zero funding—for testing or
tracing, the best way to stop this
COVID menace.
And in the Republican bill tomorrow,
the funding for testing and the plan for
testing is so completely inadequate
that it is laughable, especially given
the recent spike in cases.
In the Republican proposal today,
there is nothing for American families,
schools, daycare, or food assistance.
They are left behind—all of them.
Renters, homeowners, folks struggling
to keep a roof over their heads—they
are left behind. Americans who have
lost their job through no fault of their
own and need unemployment insur-
ance—they are left behind in these Re-
publican proposals.
State and local governments that are
being forced to slash critical public
service in the middle of a recession—
they, too, are all left behind.
Even on the issue of small business,
the issue on which this bill is focused,
it lacks specific funding for res-
taurants, for independent theaters and
venues, for local newspapers, TV, radio
stations, critical-need hospitals, mi-
nority-owned businesses, and all of our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:34 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.027 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6305
October 20, 2020
nonprofits. In each of those areas in
which the Republican bill is deficient,
so many are left behind.
We have bipartisan support for pro-
grams that are not even being consid-
ered here today. And why is that? Why
is MCCONNELL doing stunts? The truth
is, because the leader can’t pass any-
thing on the floor, he is resorting to a
series of political stunts. That is all.
Everyone knows it.
The Republican leader himself admit-
ted that as many as 20 Republican Sen-
ators don’t want to vote for ‘‘a dime
more’’—‘‘a dime more,’’ his quote—of
relief for the American people—so out
of touch, so callous, so cruel.
So what we have here is a series of
show stunt votes designed to fail be-
cause the Republicans want them to
fail. It is not going to get the job done
for the American people. They can’t
even put a real bill on the floor. The
only bills that they can pass are filled
with poison pills that they know no
Democrat will support in the House or
Senate.
That was the only way they could get
them to vote even for this meager
amount in tomorrow’s bill—by telling
the big corporations: No liability for
you if you egregiously hurt a worker
who has COVID; by telling wealthy
parents: You can pay for private school
education with a complete tax break—
free, free, but public schools get left
out, middle class people get left out,
poor people get left out. Wealthy peo-
ple who send their kids to private
schools—that is it—while they refuse
to give money to the public schools
that need the money.
If Leader MCCONNELL were serious,
you know what he would be doing. He
would be negotiating. He wouldn’t be
saying: I can’t negotiate; my caucus is
divided. He would be leading instead of
following the 20 hard-right, cruel, cal-
lous thoughts of those who don’t want
to spend any money because their
wealthy paymasters don’t want to pay
taxes: Let people suffer. I don’t want to
pay taxes. Let people suffer. I don’t
want government to do anything—
when we all know the only real hope
here is for a strong, active, and bold
government-led program. The private
sector can’t fight COVID alone. The
private sector can’t get us out of this
deep recession alone. We know that,
but not the hard-right Republicans.
They are stuck in their narrow ideolog-
ical prison.
So instead of stunts, Senators will
actually have a chance today to vote
on a real comprehensive bill to address
the current state of the country. For
months, Democrats have been pushing
for the Heroes Act, a second install-
ment of the kind of comprehensive
COVID relief we passed in the first bill
that brought so much to people, helped
them stay in their homes, brought pan-
demic unemployment insurance, helped
our hospitals, helped our local govern-
ments, helped do some testing—testing
money, by the way, and tracing money,
which the Trump administration
hasn’t even distributed to the States.
This bill passed the House over 3
months ago, and since then, Democrats
have modified the bill to move closer
to our Republican counterparts. Still,
Leader MCCONNELL refuses to even
bring it up for a vote in the Senate. So
today Democrats will move to have the
Senate take a vote on the Heroes Act,
a comprehensive bill that does so
much, that doesn’t leave all the people
behind that this proposal does. We will
see where every Republican Senator
stands on real COVID relief—not a
stunt, a fake that leaves people out.
Unlike the partisan, emaciated Re-
publican COVID relief bill, the Heroes
Act will not leave large portions of the
country behind. It will not include poi-
son pills like sweeping corporate im-
munity provisions that Leader MCCON-
NELL has insisted on in every version of
Republican legislation. It will deliver
actual relief to American workers,
American families, American States
and localities and Tribes. It provides
assistance for food, rent, and housing;
real funding for testing and tracing;
unemployment insurance and aid to
small businesses of all kinds, not just a
few.
This morning, a poll conducted by
the New York Times and Siena Re-
search showed that 72 percent of Amer-
icans, including a clear majority of
Independents and Republicans, support
another $2 trillion stimulus package.
In other words, 72 percent support the
Democratic plan to provide COVID re-
lief. Even President Trump has told
our Republican Senate colleagues to
‘‘go big or go home.’’
If my Republican colleagues were lis-
tening to the American people, they
would not be playing these partisan
games around small-bore, stunt-driven
COVID bills. They would be working
with Democrats on something that ab-
solutely meets people’s needs. Instead,
the Republican leader is wasting the
American people’s time on a vote he
knows will fail, and he doesn’t even
seem to mind.
NOMINATION OF AMY CONEY BARRETT
Mr. President, on SCOTUS, yester-
day, on a 4-to-4 split ruling, the Su-
preme Court declined to hear a case
that could have prevented the State of
Pennsylvania from counting all the
votes in the November election. It was
an important decision for democracy
but also a reminder of what is truly at
stake in a Supreme Court vacancy left
by Justice Ginsburg. One more vote
provided by a hard-right, Trump-nomi-
nated Justice could be the difference
between voting rights and voting sup-
pression.
Over the past several years, closely
divided decisions of the Supreme Court
have meant the difference between
having the ability to marry the person
you love or not; the ability to have
your right to vote protected or not; the
ability to make personal choices about
your own healthcare or not.
The American people should know
exactly what is at stake in the nomina-
tion of Judge Barrett to the Supreme
Court—nothing less than their funda-
mental rights as Americans. So, frank-
ly, it was an insult to the intelligence
of the American people for Judge Bar-
rett to spend the entire Judiciary Com-
mittee hearing dodging every single
question of substance, including ques-
tions as to whether voter intimidation
is illegal or whether the President
could unilaterally delay the election—
to not be able to answer whether the
President could unilaterally delay the
election? Whoa.
Just think about what it means for a
sitting judge to refuse to answer a
question about voter intimidation—
voting, the wellspring of our democ-
racy—because she thinks it is too con-
troversial. Think about what it means
for a sitting judge to refuse to answer
a question about the peaceful transfer
of power—the bedrock of our democ-
racy—because it might upset her pa-
tron, President Trump. It is absurd. No
one is buying it.
Every election season, Republicans
promise to nominate judges who will
tear down our healthcare and roll back
the clock on women’s rights. The far
right promises to deliver judges who
will dismantle the environmental regu-
lations that keep our air and water
clean and protect our planet from run-
away global warming. President Trump
has made the same promises out loud
many times. But as soon as someone is
nominated to be a Justice, all of a sud-
den that person becomes a legal vacu-
um, a cipher, totally devoid of ideas,
views, or opinions, even on the ques-
tions of basic legal, uncontroversial
fact.
The truth is, Judge Barrett does
have, unfortunately, hard-right views
and opinions on these issues. Her views
are so far away from the American peo-
ple that none of them could pass in this
Senate—even though it is controlled by
Republicans—and certainly not in the
House.
She has harshly criticized decisions
to uphold the Affordable Care Act. She
has been closely affiliated with organi-
zations that advocate for the elimi-
nation of a woman’s right to choose.
She has drafted judicial opinions on
the issue of gun safety that put her far
to the right of even Justice Scalia.
That is why, in the hearings last
week, the president for the Lawyers’
Committee for Civil Rights Under Law
said: ‘‘Judge Barrett’s views are far
outside the mainstream.’’ That is why
yesterday the plaintiffs in the deci-
sions that resulted in marriage equal-
ity—Obergefell and Hodges—said they
oppose Judge Barrett for the Supreme
Court because she will endanger those
hard-won rights.
So the idea that Judge Barrett is
some sort of neutral arbiter who will
only interpret the law as it is written
is just not believable. She will make
hugely impactful decisions that will
alter the fabric of American society,
starting with what will be one of her
very first cases—a lawsuit pushed by
President Trump and Republicans to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.028 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6306 October 20, 2020
rip away healthcare from millions of
Americans.
God save us.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic whip.
CORONAVIRUS
Mr. DURBIN. ‘‘Idiots.’’ ‘‘Idiots.’’
That is what the President called Dr.
Anthony Fauci and the public health
experts in the Federal Government.
The President said:
People are tired of COVID. I have the big-
gest rallies I’ve ever had. And we have
COVID. People are saying: ‘‘Whatever. Just
leave us alone.’’ They’re tired of it.
Then he added:
People are tired of hearing Fauci and these
idiots, all these idiots who got it wrong.
Those are the words of the President
of the United States, Donald Trump, in
the midst of the worst pandemic Amer-
ica has seen in over a century—220,000
dead and counting.
What lies ahead with this COVID epi-
demic, which the President is so tired
of hearing about? What have the so-
called ‘‘idiots’’ told us about the future
of COVID–19? Here is what they have
told us: More than 70,450 new
coronavirus cases were reported in the
United States on Friday, the highest
figure since July 24, according to the
New York Times database. More than
900 new deaths were recorded, and over
the past week, there have been an aver-
age of 56,615 cases per day—an increase
of 30 percent from the average 2 weeks
earlier.
Is this a political commentary, these
facts? No. These are the numbers and
statistics of reality—a reality which
President Trump refuses to acknowl-
edge.
How are we doing when it comes to
the COVID–19 pandemic compared to
the world? Well, we have five times the
infection rate of the nation of Ger-
many. What is going on here? The
great United States of America has five
times the infection rate of Germany?
Well, let’s get across the ocean. Let’s
bring it to this side of the Atlantic.
How are we doing in comparison to the
nations here? Well, let’s compare the
United States to Canada. The COVID
death rate in the United States is 21⁄2
times the death rate in Canada.
What does Justin Trudeau know
about this epidemic that Donald
Trump did not? He knew that it took
leadership to deal with it. He knew
that we had to step up as a nation and
gather together all the people of this
country in common purpose to beat
back this virus, and he failed to do it—
President Trump failed to do that. He
said to the Governors ‘‘You are on your
own. Go out and find protective equip-
ment. Find ventilators. See what you
can do on the open market’’ instead of
using the power of the Presidency and
the leadership of the Presidency to
help make certain that every American
had access to what they needed to stay
safe.
How did he do in setting standards
for dealing with this deadly virus?
First, he denied it was deadly. He ar-
gued it was going to go away. When it
gets warm outside, it will go away. It
is a hoax. You remember those state-
ments. And do you remember that in-
credible press conference where the
President went off on some tangent
about disinfectant and Lysol? It was
sickening to think that the leader of
the free world would do that.
How about the example set by the
President. To this day, to get this
President to wear a mask is a rare oc-
currence. And there he was, just days
after being helicoptered out to Walter
Reed Hospital, returning to the White
House, making his triumphant balcony
scene, standing before the American
people and ripping off his mask just to
tell them how tough he was, how lucky
he was. He was really telling the Amer-
ican people: Don’t take this mask busi-
ness seriously. He can say the words,
but he just mouths them. The fact that
you can see his mouth is an indication
that he doesn’t believe it. And here we
are.
Fortunately, in the early stages of
this pandemic, this Congress rose to
the occasion. It was March 26. We
called it the CARES Act. It was indeed
a comprehensive effort to deal with the
coronavirus, a comprehensive ap-
proach. We imagined all the possibili-
ties, we saw the economy sinking
under our feet, and we came together
with a vote of 96 to nothing here in the
U.S. Senate—a bipartisan vote of 96 to
nothing—for a bill that we wrote to-
gether, Democrats and Republicans sit-
ting together.
It was an amazing day, and I am glad
we did it, but there was one clear
shortcoming. We assumed when we
passed the CARES Act that, come the
end of July and first part of August,
this crisis would be behind us. It isn’t.
At the end of July, for example, the
Federal supplement of unemployment
insurance ran out for millions of Amer-
icans. In the first part of August, the
loans to small businesses dried up as
well.
What has happened since? Well, on
the other side of the Rotunda, in the
House of Representatives, Speaker
NANCY PELOSI, 5 months ago—5 months
ago—passed her Heroes Act. It was $3
trillion—comparable to the first effort.
She sent it to the Republican leader of
the Senate, Senator MITCH MCCONNELL
of Kentucky, for him to do his part. It
is a bicameral legislature. His part
would require coming up with an alter-
native and taking that to conference.
Did he do that? No. He refused to ac-
knowledge it and mocked day after day
after day the efforts of Speaker PELOSI,
questioning whether they were enough
or sincere or too political, on and on
and on. Did he pass his own measure?
No.
Then negotiations started between
the President, his White House rep-
resentatives, Speaker PELOSI, and
Leader SCHUMER. They invited Senator
MCCONNELL, head of the Republicans in
the Senate, and KEVIN MCCARTHY, head
of the Republicans in the House, to join
in this bipartisan negotiation. MCCON-
NELL and MCCARTHY declined. They
would not even sit in the chairs during
negotiations. In Senator MCCONNELL’s
case, he simply came to the floor on a
daily basis to mock every effort to re-
spond to this COVID–19.
Well, this is not a news bulletin, but
we are 2 weeks away from the election,
and guess what we are going to do on
the floor of the Senate today. We are
going to entertain a new idea by Sen-
ator MCCONNELL of how to cope with
the COVID–19 pandemic. It turns out
that it is a scant list of his priorities.
Not surprisingly, the first priority is
an issue he has called his redline on the
floor over and over again—to give im-
munity from liability to businesses
that fail to take the necessary steps to
protect their employees and their cus-
tomers from the spread of this deadly
virus. That is his first priority. He has
said that. Even before the first issue
was raised as to what would be in-
cluded in this, the first thing that Sen-
ator MCCONNELL insisted on was pro-
tecting these businesses.
How do the American people feel
about that? Well, they are pretty clear.
They believe if you put that immunity
in place, that many businesses won’t
do what they need to do to protect
their employees and customers. They
worry that this gets them off the hook
instead of putting the responsibility
clearly on their shoulders.
The good news is the overwhelming
majority of businesses that I know are
really trying to do the right thing. The
bad news is they are not sure what that
is. They hear about CDC guidelines
that are ignored and mocked by the
President, and they hear about the pos-
sibility of other standards that will be
used.
We have had hearings before the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee when a Texas
businessman with a string of conven-
ience stores, I think, came to us and in
good faith said: I don’t know where to
turn for a standard of care. What am I
supposed to do if I want to protect ev-
eryone coming into my store—employ-
ees and customers alike?
I thought his statement was genuine.
I really believed him, and I still do. But
it is no excuse for what we have failed
to do here. We have failed to come up
with a national standard to protect
people from the spread of this virus.
Instead, Senator MCCONNELL comes
to the floor and says: If you can find
any standard by any level of govern-
ment, it is good enough. You are off
the hook. That is no way to lead in the
midst of a deadly pandemic.
It is not the only issue. There are
many others. Take a look at what is
missing in Senator MCCONNELL’s pro-
posal. There is no new funding when it
comes to State and local governments.
Remember the phrase ‘‘defund the po-
lice’’? You heard it from the rightwing
about the leftwing of American politics
wanting to defund the police. Well,
Senator MCCONNELL’s action will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.029 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6307
October 20, 2020
defund police at State and local levels
because these units of government
won’t have the resources to hire the
policemen they need, the law enforce-
ment officials they need, nor the fire-
fighters, nor the teachers, nor the
healthcare workers. But that is pri-
ority one for Senator MCCONNELL: no
help—no help for State and local gov-
ernments for fear that you might actu-
ally send money to a Democratic
mayor or a Democratic Governor.
Spare me. That fire is not looking for
party registration; it is looking for
kindling to light the fire of infection.
Now, on housing, well, how does the
McConnell proposal deal with housing?
No funding—no funding for housing or
rental assistance.
Now, on the stimulus checks—$1,200
stimulus checks. I listened to talk
radio back in Chicago, and people are
wondering: Is it possible we are going
to see a $1,200 check? Well, you won’t
see it in Senator MCCONNELL’s pro-
posal. There are no direct stimulus
payments.
How about unemployment benefits?
The Federal unemployment benefits
that expired on July 31 were $600 a
week over the State amount, whatever
it might be. Some people may have
made more in the process than they did
at work, but most were struggling to
get by. If Members of the Senate had
not been in touch with real America in
a while, they may think that folks
with these checks were binging on
Netflix and eating chocolate-covered
cherries night and day. That is not the
case that I saw back in Illinois. People
who had lost their jobs, even at the
time they received these unemploy-
ment checks, were still struggling to
pay for the mortgage, pay for the rent,
pay for the car, keep up with the credit
card bills, and put food on the table.
So what does Senator MCCONNELL
propose that we do? He proposes we cut
in half that amount—to $300 a week. I
guess back in Kentucky it is a little bit
different world, at least the way he
sees it, but where I live, that means a
pretty dramatic cut in survival pay—
survival pay—for people who have lost
their jobs.
On the healthcare side, this is the
one that troubles me the most.
Couldn’t we all agree that we don’t test
enough for the COVID–19 virus in
America? There are about 1 million
people tested a day. Public health offi-
cials say: Well, you need at least 4 mil-
lion. Others say: But if you truly want
to reopen the economy and reopen the
schools, you need 14 million a day. So
you would guess that anything we pass
would really zero in on testing to find
out those who are positive, to do the
contact tracing to warn those who may
have been exposed, and to try to con-
tain the virus.
So let’s take a look at what Senator
MCCONNELL thinks about the priority
of testing. There is $16 billion for test-
ing. How much did the Democrats—
NANCY PELOSI—propose? She proposed
$75 billion. And let me add that the
McConnell bill provides no funding for
hospitals or healthcare clinics and no
dedicated funding for nursing homes,
where we know the populations are so
vulnerable. When it comes to the re-
ality of what we are facing in this
COVID–19 pandemic, the McConnell
bill, which is coming before us this
afternoon, is deficient in testing at a
time when we are facing so many infec-
tions.
On nutrition, the McConnell bill says
that there will be no SNAP benefit in-
creases or funding for food banks and,
on education, provides $105 billion for
education stabilization funds. Two-
thirds of the K–12 funds will be held
until schools provide a reopening plan
and, of course, the voucher program.
On postal assistance, the McConnell
proposal alters the language in the
original legislation to change the bor-
rowing authority. The Postal Service is
doing its best, and I thank the men and
women who are engaged in it. We
should do more than thank them. We
ought to fund them and give them a
helping hand.
So what it boils down to is this: If
this is a real pandemic, if we want to
believe the public health experts—
whom the President has called ‘‘id-
iots,’’ like Dr. Anthony Fauci, who has
been my friend for 20 years—if we want
to believe the public health experts, we
need to address this in a serious man-
ner as we did last March in passing the
CARES Act. This is not a time for peo-
ple to cover their backsides politically.
It is a time to remember that the
American people need our help more
than ever. A halfhearted and half-in-
spired effort to do this will not answer
the call.
We need to stand as a nation on a bi-
partisan basis. How does it start? It
starts when Democrats and Repub-
licans sit at the same table, which has
not happened. It starts when we
agree—both parties agree—on what the
priorities must be, and it starts when
we stop the speeches and start with
real action to pass legislation like the
CARES Act, which passed 96 to nothing
on this floor. It is time to take this
deadly virus and epidemic seriously.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
RECESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate recess until 2:15 p.m. today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 12:07 p.m., recessed until 2:15 p.m.
and reassembled when called to order
by the Presiding Officer (Mrs. CAP-
ITO).
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
NOMINATION OF AMY CONEY BARRETT
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, last
week, the Judiciary Committee held
its hearing on Judge Amy Coney
Barrett’s nomination, and it was easy
to see why Judge Barrett is held in
such high regard by her colleagues,
students, and peers and why the Amer-
ican Bar Association gave her its high-
est rating of ‘‘well qualified.’’
We knew long before the hearing that
Judge Barrett possesses an extraor-
dinary intelligence and a comprehen-
sive command of the law. But over 3
days of testimony, Americans got to
see her qualifications for themselves,
and they saw why she has been de-
scribed as ‘‘a jurist of formidable intel-
lect,’’ a ‘‘brilliant and conscientious
lawyer,’’ and ‘‘a staggering academic
mind.’’ Even the Democratic ranking
member on the committee, the senior
Senator from California, couldn’t hide
the fact that she was impressed.
Most importantly, however, Ameri-
cans saw that Judge Barrett under-
stands the proper role of a judge in our
system of government. As Judge Bar-
rett made clear, she understands that
the job of a judge is to interpret the
law, not to make the law; to call balls
and strikes, not to rewrite the rules of
the game; or, as Judge Barrett said to
the Democrat whip at the hearing last
week: ‘‘I apply the law. I follow the
law. You make policy.’’
Judge Barrett has made it clear that
when cases come before her on the Su-
preme Court, she will consider the
facts, the law, and the Constitution,
and nothing else—not her personal be-
liefs, not her political opinions, just
the law and the Constitution. That is
the kind of Justice that all of us—Dem-
ocrat or Republican, liberal or conserv-
ative—should want.
I could spend hours highlighting all
the extraordinary tributes to Judge
Barrett that have poured in since her
nomination, from lawyers and scholars
of every background and political per-
suasion, but I don’t want to tie up the
Senate floor. So I will just mention one
piece of testimony that struck me in
particular.
As I mentioned, the American Bar
Association released its rating of Judge
Barrett last week, a rating that the
Democratic leader, by the way, has
called the ‘‘gold standard’’—the ‘‘gold
standard’’—by which judicial can-
didates are judged. Well, the ABA gave
Judge Barrett its highest possible rat-
ing—‘‘well qualified.’’ And the chair-
man of the American Bar Association’s
Standing Committee on the Federal
Judiciary, the ABA committee that
issues these ratings, testified before
the Judiciary Committee during Judge
Barrett’s hearing. I would like to read
from the testimony that he submitted
to the committee.
Lawyers and judges uniformly praised the
nominee’s integrity. Most remarkably, in
interviews with individuals in the legal pro-
fession and the community who know Judge
Barrett, whether for a few years or decades,
not one person uttered a negative word
about her character. Accordingly, the Stand-
ing Committee was not required to consider
any negative criticisms of Judge Barrett.
His testimony went on:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.031 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6308 October 20, 2020
All of the experienced, dedicated, and
knowledgeable sitting judges, legal scholars,
and lawyers who have worked with or
against Judge Barrett had high praise for her
intellect and ability to communicate clearly
and effectively. . . . Given the breadth, di-
versity, and strength of the positive feed-
back we received from judges and lawyers of
all political persuasions and from so many
parts of the profession, the Standing Com-
mittee would have been hard-pressed to
come to any conclusion other than that
Judge Barrett has demonstrated professional
competence that is exceptional.
We are fortunate to have a nominee
like Judge Barrett, and I look forward
to confirming her to the Supreme
Court in the very near future.
CORONAVIRUS
Madam President, in addition to con-
sidering Judge Barrett’s nomination
this week, the Senate will once again
be taking up coronavirus relief legisla-
tion.
We tried this in September, of course,
but Senate Democrats filibustered our
relief bill. But we are going to try
again because we believe there are pri-
orities that need to be met—priorities
that everyone should be able to agree
on. They are things like helping the
hardest hit small businesses, getting
schools the resources they need to safe-
ly reopen and safely operate, and pro-
viding additional healthcare resources
to fight the virus.
Democrats, of course, have spent a
lot of time talking about how we need
to pass additional coronavirus relief,
but despite being given every oppor-
tunity to come forward with a realistic
compromise bill, they have continued
to insist on bloated legislation that
would not only spend taxpayer dollars
on noncoronavirus-related measures
but would not have a chance of becom-
ing law.
It is very difficult for me to under-
stand Democrats’ thinking—that is, if
they really want to get more COVID
relief to Americans and don’t just want
to use this as a political issue.
I realize that Democrats would like
to pass exactly the bill they want, but
their liberal wish list simply wouldn’t
make it through Congress. Democrats
could, however, get something through
Congress.
Republicans have made it clear from
the beginning that we are willing to
compromise with Democrats if they
will just come to the table with a rea-
sonable offer, but Democrats have so
far decided that they would rather see
Americans get no relief—zero relief—
than compromise with Republicans.
That is really difficult to understand,
unless, as I said, Democrats aren’t real-
ly interested in getting more COVID
relief to Americans.
The Democrats’ position makes a lot
more sense if they are just trying to
exploit this crisis for political gain.
But Republicans are going to try
again this week. The bill that we are
bringing up would address some of the
Nation’s most important coronavirus
priorities—priorities, I would add, that
are bipartisan priorities. I hope that
some Democrats will join us to get ad-
ditional relief to the American people.
The Democrat leadership may be
holding coronavirus relief hostage, but
rank-and-file Democrats don’t have to.
They don’t have to have their all-or-
nothing wish list. They can come to a
reasonable compromise and give much
needed resources to the American peo-
ple. Instead, what they are saying is
zero relief—no relief—is better than
compromising with Republicans. Un-
fortunately, that is an unfortunate po-
sition for them to be in and a very un-
fortunate position for the American
people.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
rise this afternoon in support of the
amendment that Senator RUBIO and I
have introduced to extend and
strengthen the Paycheck Protection
Program. It would allow our Nation’s
hardest hit small businesses to get a
second forgivable PPP loan that they
so desperately need. Our amendment
would make available $258 billion for
new PPP forgivable loans.
Madam President, as I know you are
aware from your experience in West
Virginia, the Paycheck Protection Pro-
gram has been hugely successful. In the
State of Maine, three out of four of our
small businesses have received forgiv-
able loans totaling $2.9 billion. To put
that in context, that is equal to ap-
proximately half of the entire State
budget. Most important of all, those
loans have helped to sustain the jobs of
more than 250,000 Mainers.
Nationwide, the PPP has been a crit-
ical lifeline for more than 5 million
small employers, helping to sustain up-
ward of 50 million American jobs.
As the Washington Post wrote in
June following a dramatically better
than expected jobs report: ‘‘Give some
credit to the government relief efforts,
especially the Paycheck Protection
Program, for bringing back jobs.’’
This program has provided one-time
loans sufficient to support 8 weeks of
payroll plus a limited amount to help
cover certain overhead expenses, which
were completely forgivable as long as
borrowers retained and paid their em-
ployees. Our purpose was to help small
businesses save jobs and pay their
workers, keeping that all-important
employer-employee relationship intact
so that, when businesses could reopen
and Americans could go back to work,
it could happen quickly when the pan-
demic subsided.
When Chairman RUBIO and I, to-
gether with Senators BEN CARDIN and
JEANNE SHAHEEN, put the PPP together
at the onset of the national emergency,
none of us could have envisioned that
the pandemic would be so persistent,
that here in October it would still be
forcing shutdowns and mitigation
measures that many months later.
Yet, the cruel fact is that the virus is
still spreading, and many of the steps
taken to fight it, while necessary to
protect public health, threaten cata-
strophic damage to many small busi-
nesses and their employees who have
been sustained by the PPP loan funds,
but they are still unable to return to
normal operations.
According to the NFIB, our Nation’s
largest advocacy group for small busi-
ness, 84 percent of its small business
members exhausted their PPP loan
funds by mid-August. Many fear that
they will have to lay off their employ-
ees—the last thing they want to do—or
even cease operations altogether if
more support is not forthcoming soon.
In a key letter in support of our
amendment circulated today, the NFIB
also said that its most recent survey
shows that 49 percent of its members
anticipate needing some sort of addi-
tional financial support in the next 12
months.
Let me give you an example. I re-
cently learned of a T-shirt printing
shop in Maine that received a PPP
loan. It provided a lifeline to get this
business through the past several
months, but with many youth sports
leagues and school activities still sus-
pended, this business and its employees
need more help to sustain them until
springtime, when they hope to once
again be printing T-shirts for little
league teams and other sporting
events.
The impact of the pandemic has been
critically acute for our hotels, our res-
taurants, our B&Bs, and our seasonal
businesses that rely on a strong sum-
mer to pay their bills throughout the
year. A State like mine, which is so de-
pendent on tourism, has been particu-
larly hard-hit since many of our tour-
ism-based businesses lost the first part
of the summer.
A recent survey by the American
Hotel and Lodging Association showed
that, if we do not act and act soon to
provide additional assistance, 74 per-
cent of our Nation’s hotels will be
forced to lay off more workers, and
two-thirds could even be forced to close
their doors entirely.
The same is true in my State of
Maine. An article published last month
in the Bangor Daily News reports that
the State could stand to lose two-
thirds of hotels and direct lodging jobs
if Congress doesn’t approve more aid
soon.
Our restaurants are also struggling.
While tourists finally started to return
to Maine in August, this summer sea-
son has understandably been one of the
slowest on record for my State. With
the warm weather gone and outdoor
dining no longer feasible, many of our
restaurants can accommodate only
about half as many customers as they
used to be able to accommodate and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.032 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6309
October 20, 2020
still comply with the CDC guidelines.
They fear that they may not be able to
make it through the winter without
further help.
A few days ago, I received an email
from a couple who owns an award-win-
ning restaurant in Portland, ME. This
couple told me that they would have
closed without the PPP loan but that
they haven’t taken a paycheck since
March and simply cannot make it
through the winter without a second
round.
They put it as follows:
[We] love that PPP enabled us to keep in
contact with our staff, even when they were
not able to work in the beginning [due to the
State restrictions]. Furthermore, it helped
us to be able to hire them back so that we
could reopen immediately. [But] at this
point, we are staying open only to support
our employees. The new PPP would give us
the needed funds to limp through winter,
while still keeping our staff employed and
our customers safe.
I am sure that many other Members
of the Senate are seeing the same in
their States, and that is why it is so
important that we renew once again
this very successful program.
As you know, we went through the
first $359 billion in just 13 days. That is
what the demand was like. Then we
passed additional legislation to replen-
ish the program with $320 billion, but
we only extended the date to August 8
for applicants for the program. We need
to reopen it up to those who didn’t
apply the first time and now find them-
selves in need and to allow the hardest
hit businesses to receive a second PPP
loan.
We also need to do this to help our
nonprofits that are also struggling to
survive, and that is why we simply
must put aside any partisan politics.
This program was the product of bipar-
tisan negotiations that went on day
after day, night after night, and we
came together.
Let me describe the key points in
this proposal. First, the amendment
would allow those small employers
that have seen their revenues decline
by 35 percent or more in the first, sec-
ond, or third quarter of this year com-
pared to the same quarter last year to
receive an additional Paycheck Protec-
tion Program loan.
Second, because we want to target
this additional assistance to the busi-
nesses that need it most, we generally
limit eligibility to entities that have
300 or fewer employees, rather than 500.
Third, we expand the list of forgiv-
able PPP expenses in some very com-
monsense ways. We allow forgiveness
for the supplier costs and investments
in facility modifications and personal
protective equipment for the business
to operate safely for its employees and
its customers. Examples would be
those plexiglass guards—the shields we
are seeing everywhere—masks for em-
ployees, of course, and patio insula-
tions and related outdoor furnishings.
This is especially important to res-
taurants facing dining restrictions and
those struggling to get the high-qual-
ity food supply needed to operate be-
cause they have fallen behind in their
bills.
Fourth, we extend PPP to small
501(c)(6) organizations that are not lob-
bying organizations and that have 150
or fewer employees, such as local
chambers of commerce, economic de-
velopment organizations, and tourism
offices. They are doing a great job rep-
resenting their members through this
crisis.
Fifth, we would allow forgivable loan
funds to be spent through December 31
and clarify that borrowers can apply
for loan forgiveness at the time of their
choosing after 8 weeks from the loan
origination.
Sixth, we greatly simplify the loan
forgiveness process for smaller bor-
rowers. Those who make a good-faith
effort to comply with the program’s re-
quirements would be able to use a one-
page, simplified loan forgiveness form
if they borrowed no more than $150,000.
We also make the loan forgiveness
process less complex for borrowers of
loans between $150,000 and $2 million.
Seventh, we provide the SBA with $50
million in additional audit funding to
ensure that it has the resources nec-
essary to protect the program against
fraud. Regrettably, there are always
going to be those who attempt to ex-
ploit a program, and that is why we
want to beef up the audit capacity.
Finally, our amendment includes a
series of set-asides to ensure that
smaller borrowers and underserved
communities get the help they need.
These set-asides include money for bor-
rowers with 10 or fewer employees; $10
billion for community financial insti-
tutions, such as small community
banks and credit unions; and $10 mil-
lion for the Minority Business Develop-
ment Agency. In addition, the amend-
ment directs the SBA to issue guidance
addressing barriers to accessing capital
for minority, underserved, veteran, and
women-owned businesses.
The Paycheck Protection Program is
the result of a bipartisan commitment
to support our small businesses, our
nonprofits, and their employees during
this pandemic. It has been a tremen-
dous success, but many small busi-
nesses and nonprofits simply require
more help now in order to survive,
given the length and persistence of this
pandemic.
This amendment provides that help.
It is supported by the National Federa-
tion of Independent Business, the Na-
tional Restaurant Association, the
American Hotel and Lodging Associa-
tion, the International Franchise Asso-
ciation, and HospitalityMaine.
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent to have printed in the RECORD
the letters of support for our amend-
ment at the conclusion of my remarks.
Madam President, I urge our col-
leagues to support this amendment, to
do so now, even if you disagree on
other issues that may be taken up.
Surely, we can come together and ex-
tend this bipartisan, highly successful
program to secure the jobs of small
businesses and also to ensure that
these small businesses stay afloat. We
want to make sure that small busi-
nesses, which employed the majority of
people in this country, are able to keep
their employees employed.
We can continue to work to find com-
mon ground—and I am involved in
those efforts—on other policies to help
support the health and safety of Ameri-
cans and the safe, responsible opening
of our communities. We need more re-
sources for tests and vaccine develop-
ment; for aid to municipalities and
schools; for assistance to our
lobstermen, our fishermen, our farm-
ers, our loggers, and to our aviation
and motor coach industries. We need
more assistance for childcare and for
the U.S. Postal Service.
Now is the time to move forward on
this bill, on this proposal, to extend
and strengthen the PPP before we lose
more small businesses, before their em-
ployees are forced out of their jobs. So
let’s act today. It is past time to put
aside partisan bickering to provide this
much needed relief for the American
people.
I urge all of our colleagues to join us
in support of this important action to
renew and strengthen the PPP
program.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION,
October 20, 2020.
Hon. MARCO RUBIO,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR COLLINS AND SENATOR
RUBIO: The National Restaurant Association
writes to you in support of the recently-filed
amendment, ‘‘Continuing the Paycheck Pro-
tection Program,’’ scheduled for a vote
today.
As you know all too well, the restaurant
industry has been uniquely hard-hit by the
COVID–19 pandemic. Our industry has lost
more jobs and more revenue than any other.
Over the past 7 months, nearly one in six res-
taurants (representing roughly 100,000 estab-
lishments) have closed, and more than 2 mil-
lion restaurant employees are still without a
job today as a result of furloughs and clo-
sures. The restaurant industry is on track to
lose a staggering $240 billion in revenue by
the end of this year.
Since March, the National Restaurant As-
sociation has called for a comprehensive,
restaurant-specific response from Congress
to assist the nation’s second-largest private-
sector employer. We continue to call for this,
but a comprehensive agreement seems un-
likely before the elections, and restaurants
are in danger of being left behind.
If Congress cannot approve comprehensive
support this year, a second round of funding
for the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP)
will at least provide transitional support for
restaurants as we approach the winter
months. We appreciate your leadership in de-
veloping the PPP, in providing more flexi-
bility in its use, and for your calls to ensure
that Congress does not leave Washington
without providing something for the short-
term survival of restaurants.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:34 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.033 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6310 October 20, 2020
On behalf of our membership, our state res-
taurant association partners, and our work-
force, we urge the Congress to at a minimum
pass a second round of PPP for implementa-
tion this year.
Sincerely,
SEAN KENNEDY,
Executive Vice President, Public Affairs.
NFIB,
October 20, 2020.
DEAR SENATOR: On behalf of NFIB, the na-
tion’s leading small business advocacy orga-
nization. I write in strong support of the
Continuing the Paycheck Protection Pro-
gram Act offered by Senators Marco Rubio
and Susan Collins. This amendment would
provide necessary and targeted financial as-
sistance to small businesses for the purposes
of keeping workers employed and keeping
their doors open during the ongoing public
health crisis. A vote to advance the Con-
tinuing the Paycheck Protection Program
Act amendment will be considered an NFIB
Key Vote for the 116th Congress.
The Paycheck Protection Program (PPP)
has been a vital financial assistance tool to
over 5 million small businesses, helping
these businesses maintain employees and as-
sisting with expenses such as rent, utilities,
and mortgage interest. Unfortunately. the
negative economic consequences of COVID–
19 on small businesses have lasted longer
than Congress anticipated when the
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Secu-
rity (CARES) Act was enacted in late March.
The amendment provides more than $250
billion in funds to allow for second PPP
loans for small businesses if they dem-
onstrate 35% quarterly revenue loss this
year: NFIB supports allowing a small busi-
ness to receive a second PPP loan. The op-
portunity for second PPP loans would sig-
nificantly help small businesses who con-
tinue to be negatively impacted by economic
disruptions of COVID–19.
Additionally. the amendment expands the
definition of PPP expenses to include certain
operational expenditures, property damage
costs, certain supplier costs, and worker pro-
tection expenditures, as well as allows small
business borrowers to select a flexible cov-
ered period to utilize their PPP loan funds.
NFIB supports expanding eligible expenses
to help small businesses cover essential re-
opening and operational expenses and pro-
viding flexibility regarding timing of PPP
expenditures.
The amendment also simplifies the PPP
loan forgiveness process, allowing small
businesses who received a loan of $150,000 or
less to attest to a good faith effort to comply
with PPP loan requirements and obtain for-
giveness. NFIB supports providing a more ef-
ficient way to demonstrate compliance and
receive forgiveness as the vast majority of
small business owners have exhausted their
PPP funds and are preparing to apply for for-
giveness.
Economic conditions are putting signifi-
cant stress on the financial health of many
small business owners struggling to balance
lower sales with fixed expenses, and longer-
term sustainability. More than one-in-five
(21%) small business owners report that they
will have to close their doors if current eco-
nomic conditions do not improve over the
next six months. With the realization that
lower than average sales are likely for
months to come, many small business own-
ers urgently need additional financial assist-
ance. According to NFIB’s most recent sur-
vey, 49% of small business owners who re-
ceived PPP loan and/or an Economic Injury
Disaster Loan (EIDL) anticipate needing ad-
ditional financial support in the next 12
months.
There is bipartisan agreement to provide a
targeted second round of PPP loans to small
businesses. NFIB urges Congress to set aside
disagreements on other policies and pass leg-
islation to help small business owners imme-
diately.
NFIB strongly supports the Continuing the
Paycheck Protection Program Act amend-
ment and a vote to advance the legislation
will be considered an NFIB Key Vote for the
116th Congress.
Sincerely,
KEVIN KUHLMAN,
Vice President, Federal Government
Relations, NFIB.
HOSPITALITY MAINE.
Senator SUSAN COLLINS,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR COLLINS: I am writing this
letter in support of another round of PPP.
My understanding is that there are those
that feel funding restaurants through the
RESTAURANTS Act should be the only hos-
pitality funding provided in a Federal stim-
ulus bill. As an association that represents
both small lodging and restaurant businesses
in the State of Maine, I can assure you that
both have been hit equally as hard. In the
State of Maine, one could argue that with
the very stringent reopening guidelines and
embargoes on certain states to come here,
that our small lodging properties may have
been hit harder. In a state where the average
size lodging business is 14 rooms, we are not
talking big business. We are speaking of
mom and pop inns and bed and breakfasts
that will have a difficult time surviving the
winter.
We are not opposed to the RESTAURANTS
Act, quite the contrary, we support it whole-
heartedly, along with a reasonable form of
assistance to the many other business sec-
tors both inside and outside of the hospi-
tality space. In Maine there are
windjammers, attractions, museums, music
venues and yes small inns and hotels that
could also use some help. Let’s make sure we
don’t leave them behind.
Sincerely,
GREG DUGAL,
Director of Government Affairs.
AMERICAN HOTEL & LODGING
ASSOCIATION,
October 20, 2020.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. CHUCK SCHUMER,
Democratic Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR LEADER MCCONNELL AND LEADER
SCHUMER: On behalf of the American Hotel &
Lodging Association (AHLA), the sole na-
tional association representing all segments
of the U.S. lodging industry, including iconic
global brands, hotel owners and franchisees,
lodging real estate investment trusts
(REITs), hotel management companies, inde-
pendent properties, bed and breakfasts, state
hotel associations, and industry suppliers, I
write in strong support of the Continuing the
Paycheck Protection Program Act (S. 4773)
introduced by Senators Susan Collins (R–
ME) and Marco Rubio (R–FL). This impor-
tant legislation would enable hotels and
other small businesses access to a second
draw of the historic and bipartisan Paycheck
Protection Program, giving them a financial
lifeline to keep their employees on the pay-
roll and doors open.
The hotel industry continues to be deci-
mated by the COVID–19 pandemic. According
to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the
leisure and hospitality space has lost 4.1 mil-
lion jobs since February and the accommoda-
tions sector has an unemployment rate of
34.5% compared to the national average of
8.4%. The human toll on our employees and
our workforce is devastating. The economic
impact to our industry is equally as dra-
matic, estimated to be nine times greater
than the September 11th terrorist attacks.
According to Oxford Economics. the industry
is expected to lose more than fifty percent of
its total revenue in 2020.
In a recent survey of hotel employers.
AHLA found that 74% of hoteliers reported
they would be forced into further layoffs
without additional government support, such
a second PPP draw. Nearly half of hotel own-
ers reported that they are in danger of fore-
closure due to the pandemic. The hotel in-
dustry desperately needs additional relief to
survive this crisis.
On behalf of the more than 33,000 small
business hotels and the millions of associates
they employ, I urge you to support this leg-
islation and to allow the many thousands of
hotel owners across the country access to
this program. Without immediate relief from
Congress, hotel businesses and the jobs they
provide will be lost permanently. Thank you
for your consideration of this critical mat-
ter.
Sincerely,
BRIAN CRAWFORD,
Executive Vice President, Government Affairs.
Ms. COLLINS. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President,
first, I would like to commend my col-
league, the Senator from Maine, for her
absolute, unquestioned leadership in
this issue of paycheck protection. She
knows, in Maine, as I do in Wyoming,
the importance of small businesses to
our communities, to our Main Streets,
to the vitality of our economies, and
she has led the fight from the begin-
ning of coronavirus to make sure our
businesses would remain viable; that
they would have opportunities to keep
people on the payroll; that they can
continue to contribute to their commu-
nities.
She was the one who brought up this
idea in the first place, shepherded it all
the way through Congress as part of
the CARES Act, and continues in that
leadership role today.
I come here today on the floor to
first commend my colleague from
Maine and also to talk about the ongo-
ing fight against coronavirus and the
plan forward, guided by data and doc-
tors, to put the disease behind us and
let all of these small businesses that
the Senator from Maine has been work-
ing to allow to continue to strive and
to thrive.
Those in the fight against the virus—
and I talk to you as a doctor now—con-
tinue to hold our respect and our admi-
ration. They are doing remarkable
work in community hospitals and clin-
ics all around the country. And across
the country, as a result of the PPP pro-
gram, our Main Streets are getting a
little busier; our economy is gaining
strength; kids are going back to school;
and even some football is being played.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:34 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.050 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6311
October 20, 2020
Most importantly, we are learning
more about this disease and how we
can successfully treat COVID–19. What
doctors and clinicians and researchers
and scientists have been able to accom-
plish in such a relatively short period
of time is nothing short of remarkable.
These men and women are fighting a
battle every day in the labs and the
hospitals around the world; they are
racing against time; and they are sav-
ing lives. They are our heroes today at
work all across our Nation.
An effective vaccine will allow every-
one to get back to work and to school.
It will also be the protection our most
vulnerable Americans desperately
need: our seniors, patients with pre-
existing conditions, anyone confined to
a nursing home.
Congress has already directed $10 bil-
lion for vaccine development. I, for
one, and other Members of the Repub-
lican conference believe that we should
be doing more. A month ago, the Sen-
ate tried to begin debate on our plan to
finish the fight against coronavirus.
The bill we brought to the floor of the
Senate would get people back to work
safely, would get kids back to school
safely, and would put the disease be-
hind us. Instead, Democrats, on this
very floor—on this very floor—blocked
the focused, targeted bill.
Now, this week, Democrats once
again are blocking another vote on re-
lief for coronavirus—relief that is need-
ed all around the country; relief that I
hear about in Wyoming and, Madam
President, you do in West Virginia; re-
lief that our constituents talked to us
about as we travel our States.
So why are the Democrats blocking
this legislation? Well, it must be some-
thing significant to make them block
giving aid to the American people when
the people need it most urgently. Well,
maybe this is why: Maybe the Repub-
lican bill doesn’t include millions of
dollars in tax breaks for rich people in
New York and California. The Demo-
cratic House-passed bill includes those
things. Now, the Republican bill
doesn’t give taxpayer money to people
who are in the country illegally, but
the Democratic House-passed bill does
do that.
The Republican bill doesn’t bail out
States that were mismanaged way be-
fore anyone had ever heard of the
coronavirus. Well, the Democratic
House-passed bill does that as well.
The Republican bill doesn’t include
money for marijuana banking, but the
House-passed bill does all of these
things.
It is hard to believe these are the rea-
sons the Democrats are preventing
coronavirus relief from reaching the
President’s desk, but just look at the
differences in the priorities.
The Democrats are refusing money
for Americans until Congress funds
their laundry list of unrelated liberal
items for their favored liberal special
interest groups. Now, I hope the real
reason this coronavirus relief bill is
being blocked isn’t because of an up-
coming election. I mean, I sincerely
hope that Americans aren’t being used
to score political points or to damage
political opponents. Surely, that can’t
be the reason. It would be unthinkable.
The Speaker and Senator SCHUMER
need to set aside all of their political
demands and focus on the people in
need. They need to set aside the waste-
ful spending that is unrelated to this
battle in order to save lives and set
aside their opposition to more money
for a lifesaving vaccine. Now is the
time to make an agreement that would
actually benefit Americans today.
There is an urgency. We need to act,
and we should act now.
To paraphrase Winston Churchill,
this virus can do its worst, but we will
do our best.
We are doing our best. We are doing
our best to get through this together,
to get a safe and effective vaccine, and
to get our economy and lives back on
track. It is time to pass targeted relief.
This is the path forward for America.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The clerk will call the
roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, once
again, the Republican leadership is cir-
cumventing and abusing the rules of
the U.S. Senate. In this Congress, this
has happened over and over and over
again—denying debate on the Senate
floor, where we have the opportunity
to offer amendments and have a de-
bate, which the Senate is very famous
historically for engaging in. I can give
you numerous examples.
There is Justice in Policing. After all
of the problems that we have seen
around our country, there has been no
opportunity on the floor of the Senate
to consider legislation, to offer amend-
ments, and have debate.
As for the environmental challenges
that our Nation and world face, there
has been no debate on the floor of the
U.S. Senate.
As for gun safety, we have heard
from students and communities of all
of the tragedies that have occurred
during this Congress, but there has
been no debate on the floor of the U.S.
Senate, where we would have an oppor-
tunity to offer amendments and have a
full debate.
As for immigration reform, it is
something that has been talked about
a great deal, but there has been no real
action taken on the floor of the U.S.
Senate during this Congress.
With election reform, once again,
there has been no debate on the floor of
the U.S. Senate and no opportunity to
offer amendments.
We are not doing what the American
people expect us to do, and I can name
many, many, many more examples. At
last count, somewhere around 400 bills
have come over to us from the House of
Representatives—many bipartisan—
that have not been considered by the
U.S. Senate.
Then, of course, the Republican lead-
ership changes the rules when it suits
itself in order to do what it wants to
do, particularly with judicial confirma-
tions. We are seeing that right now in
the attempt to fill Justice Ginsburg’s
vacancy. They are changing the rules.
The rules that apply to the Democrats
don’t apply to the Republicans. They
do whatever they want to do. That is
not what we should be doing. Now we
see the Republican leadership circum-
venting and abusing the rules of the
U.S. Senate as it relates to our respon-
sibility with COVID–19.
Everyone knows, including the Re-
publican leader, that we are not going
to enact the bill that is currently be-
fore the Senate without the amend-
ments being offered by the majority
leader. Why are we taking up these
issues? There is one simple answer: po-
litical cover votes. That is the only
reason for it, but there is a con-
sequence to this. It makes it more dif-
ficult for us to get relief to those who
need it. Whether it be small businesses
or whether it be our schools or whether
it be our State and local governments
or whether it be those who are unem-
ployed or whether it be American fami-
lies, it makes it more difficult because,
as we are taking up these issues, Sec-
retary Mnuchin, on behalf of the
Trump administration, and Speaker
PELOSI are negotiating, from which we
hope there will be a comprehensive
package to deal with COVID–19.
I must tell you that Secretary
Mnuchin has a very difficult challenge.
First, he has to represent the President
of the United States, who changes his
mind every few minutes on whether he
wants a package or doesn’t want a
package, which makes it very difficult
for Secretary Mnuchin to negotiate
with Speaker PELOSI. Then he has to
deal with the Republicans in the U.S.
Senate. We will be voting tomorrow, I
understand, on a proposal from the Re-
publicans that will be less than one-
third of the amount of money that
President Trump has authorized in ne-
gotiations, pulling us further apart and
making it more difficult for us to reach
an agreement to help the people of this
country.
Since mid-May and again several
months ago, the House did its work. It
sent over to us a comprehensive bill to
deal with the next phase of COVID–19.
There have been no efforts—none what-
soever—by the Republican leader to
bring that legislation to the floor of
the U.S. Senate so that we can have an
open and full debate with amendments
as to what to do. That bill has been
here since mid-May, and we can’t find
the time to have that type of debate.
So what is Leader MCCONNELL sug-
gesting? You will have to follow this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.036 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6312 October 20, 2020
because I know, if it were not so seri-
ous, the public would find it somewhat
amusing.
First, he wants to withdraw the
amendment that was championed by
the Republicans that deals with pre-
existing conditions. I must tell you
that we all on our side of the aisle said
that this was just another political
cover vote. Now Leader MCCONNELL is
making that prediction very clear by
withdrawing it and offering it again
later as an effort to block the Demo-
crats from being able to offer a clean
vote on an amendment. We are going to
make it a clean vote anyway, but that
is his motivation. He is withdrawing
the amendment that deals with pre-
existing conditions so that it will no
longer be a part of the bill.
Then he is going to offer an amend-
ment to the underlying message, S. 178,
which is legislation that deals with
sanctions against China. You heard me
right. This is a message on legislation
that deals with sanctions against
China. It already includes the under-
lying amendment that Leader MCCON-
NELL is offering—the amendment that
we are voting on in a few minutes.
Then he is going to file a motion to
table, which means he will want to kill
the amendment. Then he is going to
vote against his own motion. I hope
you all can follow that.
Here is the irony or hypocrisy of all
of this: If the motion to table carries,
the provisions that are in the amend-
ment are still in the underlying bill. In
other words, it has no effect whatso-
ever because it is already in the bill. So
this is a vote for one purpose only—to
give political cover. The American peo-
ple understand that, and they under-
stand that this is strictly about deal-
ing with a partisan, political type of
trickery, and we should have no part of
that.
Let’s talk about the process that we
have used. There will be no chance in
this legislation of helping businesses
with the passage of a comprehensive
bill under the approach taken by the
Republican leader. Now, there is a
model we could follow. It has worked
before, and it can work again. Look at
the CARES Act. We had partisan dif-
ferences, and we bridged those partisan
differences. We worked together and
put the American people’s interests
first. As a result, we passed the CARES
Act with a proud 97-to-0 vote in the
U.S. Senate and provided desperately
needed help in dealing with the COVID–
19 pandemic itself, in dealing with the
health professionals and the public
health people, and for testing and for
vaccine development. We provided
money for State and local govern-
ments, and we provided money for busi-
nesses and taxpayers. We also dealt
with unemployment insurance. We did
all of that.
When we passed that bill in March,
we thought this pandemic would be be-
hind us by now and that we wouldn’t
still be in the first wave and be increas-
ing the numbers of people infected with
COVID–19. We need more help, not less
help, so we need a second round.
I am frustrated in regard to the pro-
visions affecting small business. I say
that because Senator RUBIO, the Re-
publican chair of the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship,
and I, as ranking Democrat of that
committee, were proud to work to-
gether and put the interest of our
country first and develop the tools that
were included in the CARES Act, which
included, yes, the Paycheck Protection
Program, the PPP. It also included
EIDL loans and grants.
It also included loan forgiveness in
an effort to help small businesses. It
was truly a bipartisan working effort.
We were, I think, the first of the dif-
ferent provisions that were included in
the CARES Act that were basically
worked out in a bipartisan manner.
But that is not the process the major-
ity leader is following today. The pro-
posal he is making is not a bipartisan
proposal that has been worked on by
Senator RUBIO and me. We haven’t
come together. We could easily resolve
our differences; I have no doubt about
it. If we get the parameters on how
much money we have, and give us a few
minutes to negotiate, we will come to
an agreement, as we have done in the
past. I have every confidence in the
world that we will do it. But this proc-
ess doesn’t further that aim—a process
that cannot lead to help for our small
businesses.
Let’s talk about what our small busi-
nesses need.
First, they need comprehensive help.
Similar to what we did in the CARES
Act, they need a second major influx of
help. They need help for State and
local government. Why? Because the
stability of the services provided by
State and local government is criti-
cally important for the climate in
which small businesses need to operate
to get back to some degree of nor-
malcy.
They need help for our schools be-
cause our schools need to reopen as
fully as they can safely, whether it is
virtual or in classroom or hybrid, and
they don’t have the resources to do it.
Our economy will not get back on
track unless parents are confident
about the educational opportunities of
their children and can fully participate
in our economy knowing their children
are safe. Small businesses need that
type of support.
They need help for the people who
are unemployed. That $600 a week went
directly to helping small businesses by
providing customers that use small
businesses.
We have 12 million Americans who
are uninsured today. We didn’t antici-
pate that in March when we passed the
CARES Act, that we would still have
those numbers.
We need a comprehensive approach,
and, yes, we need to get COVID–19
under control. We need confidence
among Americans that it is OK to go
out and shop and use services and par-
ticipate fully in our economy. But
until they are confident they can do
that safely, the economy will not re-
bound the way it needs to. So small
businesses need a comprehensive ap-
proach.
Food services are still doing very
poorly, and now we are entering into
the cold months, when it is more dif-
ficult to eat outdoors. It means res-
taurants are going to need more help,
not less.
The hospitality industry is still very
much impacted by COVID–19. We know
that there are no large gatherings or
events. The travel and tourism indus-
try has taken a hit. I saw that during
COVID–19, during the summer months,
down on the beaches when the normal
crowds were not there. We will see it
again this winter in the western part of
our State, as we see fewer people are
traveling to Deep Creek Lake.
We all recognize that we need to give
attention to these types of conditions
to get consumers back, that this econ-
omy is OK, to help small business.
Now, the House has acted not once
but twice, and Senator MCCONNELL in-
stead brings up a bill one-third the
offer the President—less than one-third
of the offer the President has already
put on the table and probably about a
quarter—less than a quarter of what
the Democrats have passed in their
most recent bill.
So Senator MCCONNELL is going to
first file an amendment that would
provide a second round of the Paycheck
Protection Program. I agree we should
have a second round of the Paycheck
Protection Program. We need a second
round—that is nothing new. We have
had hearings in our committee where
Secretary Mnuchin acknowledged that,
the Democrats acknowledged it, and
the Republicans acknowledged it.
I filed legislation in June with Sen-
ator SHAHEEN on a second round of
PPP—in June. It is now October, and
we haven’t brought that bill to the
floor so we could reconcile differences
if we were going to bring it up on its
own, if it is not going to be part of a
comprehensive package. But what
Leader MCCONNELL is saying is we are
going to bring it up on our own, but it
doesn’t take into consideration the les-
sons we learned from the Paycheck
Protection Program, the first round.
What did we learn? We learned that
underbanked, underserved commu-
nities were not treated fairly; that
they didn’t have the relationship with
the banks that allow them to get the
money in a timely way, get as large of
a loan as the more established small
businesses were able to get; that the
lenders were more likely to do business
with those who had existing relations,
with the larger loans; and that we
needed to empower the mission lenders
who go into underserved communities
and we needed to concentrate on the
smaller and the smallest of the small
businesses. If you look at what is being
brought forward today, the legislation
does not adequately provide for the un-
derserved community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.038 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6313
October 20, 2020
We also learned from the first round
of help in the CARES Act about the
importance of the Economic Injury
Disaster Loan Program, the EIDL Pro-
gram. Now, you see, the EIDL Program
provides loans, and those loans are
critically important because that is
working capital. That is not just pay-
roll; it is working capital. Small busi-
nesses need long-term, low-interest
EIDL loans that are able to be paid
over a long period of time and to get a
break in the first year or two where
they don’t even have to make pay-
ments.
They needed the EIDL loans, but we
also created an EIDL grant program.
Now, I must tell you something. Many
small businesses—particularly the
smaller of the small businesses—are re-
luctant to take out any more loans.
They don’t know how they are going to
pay them off. They need grants. They
need grants. We provided originally $10
billion and then another $10 billion. We
provided $20 billion, but that is gone.
We need to replenish that money for
the grant program. The amendment
the leader is bringing up doesn’t pro-
vide any help for that grant program.
In addition, we need to think more
strategically about grants under the
EIDL Program, and there is a way of
doing that. I will come back to that in
a minute. It is not in the leader’s
amendment.
We need to do something about the
arbitrary cap that the administration
placed on the EIDL loans. They placed
a $150,000 cap. The law says $2 million.
They compromised the effectiveness of
this.
Now, here is the good news. We have
bipartisan support for these changes.
Senator ROSEN and Senator CORNYN
have filed legislation that would allow
us to move forward with the EIDL Pro-
gram, but it is not in the amendment
being offered by the majority leader.
There are so many other programs in
the small business field that are impor-
tant. There is the loan forgiveness pro-
gram—Senator COONS worked on that—
that forgives loans for 6 months under
the 504 and the 7(a) programs. We can
reduce the cost of small business loans.
We can approve microloans. I could
mention so many other areas where we
could provide help.
We know we have specific industries
that need special attention, such as the
restaurant industry, such as local
newspapers, such as nonprofits that
weren’t covered under the first PPP
program. Those are not covered under
Leader MCCONNELL’s amendment.
Here is the tragedy: There is no op-
portunity under this process for us to
correct errors in Senator MCCONNELL’s
amendment. No chance to amend.
Never had a chance to amend. Never
went through the committee. And, by
the way, is on a bill unrelated to this
relief and has no chance of passage.
That is not what we should be doing.
We have other options. We could bring
the revised House Heroes bill to the
floor of the U.S. Senate. It is a com-
prehensive approach. It has been com-
promised. We could open it to amend-
ment. We could debate it and pass it
and provide comprehensive relief. It in-
cludes all of the small business provi-
sions that I mentioned earlier. They
are included in the House-passed bill.
They passed a couple weeks ago.
If Leader MCCONNELL is just deter-
mined to bring a small business bill to
the floor, then I have filed such legisla-
tion today with many of my col-
leagues—a bill that works with issues
of concern to small businesses, which is
very much bipartisan. It includes not
only the second round of PPP but also
includes important help for the under-
banked communities and mission lend-
ers. It provides real help for the small-
er of the small businesses. It increases
the EIDL Program—similar to the
Rosen-Cornyn bill but also adds a new
opportunity for grants under the EIDL
Program. It strengthens programs in
areas for the hospitality industry, for
our local newspapers, for our non-
profits. It provides help in many of the
small business existing programs, such
as the loan forgiveness program. The
cost of small business loans are re-
duced. Microloans are improved.
We could bring up that legislation,
and then we have a bill that really
deals with small business that can be
debated, amended. We can have amend-
ments and vote on it. But at least we
have a comprehensive bill that has a
chance of being enacted. Why do I say
it has a chance of being enacted? Be-
cause the House has already acted on
this. It is included in their package. We
don’t have to try to conference this.
Look, we should have passed this
months ago, but we all know elections
are coming up in 2 weeks. We have to
act if we are going to act. Here is a bill
we can act on now and get done be-
cause we know the House has already
voted on a similar package.
We know small businesses need help.
They are in desperate need of help. Our
economy needs help. Americans need
the Senate to stop playing procedural
political games and to be serious about
taking up legislation that can deal
with their needs.
I am ready at any time to sit down
with my Republican colleagues and
work out such legislation, but the way
the majority leader is going about this
is just wrong, and it should not be sup-
ported by any of us.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Florida.
Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, I don’t
know of any topic that is more sup-
ported around here than the helping of
small businesses. I think the biggest
evidence of that is that I would venture
to guess almost every Member of this
body has at some point gone back
home and bragged about what we were
able to achieve together in a bipartisan
way.
And to remind everybody, this pro-
gram has never existed before. It was
put together in a bipartisan way with
the ranking member, the Senator from
Maryland you just heard from. We
worked on it—I think it was 6 or 7
days. And it wasn’t a perfect program.
Like anything new, this big, that fast,
it had some hiccups, and we worked in
a bipartisan way with the administra-
tion to implement it.
I will say this without any reserva-
tion: It was by far the single most ef-
fective piece of that CARES package,
and there isn’t a day that goes by when
I am back in Florida or, frankly, any-
where in the country that I don’t hear
about it. I don’t know anyone who
hasn’t. One of the most common
themes when we go places is a small
business owner who says PPP was a
lifesaver, and then they ask: Is there
more on the way, because we are still
struggling?
That it is a lifesaver is without ques-
tion. I mean, I look at Florida. Over
430,000 of these PPP loans—which, real-
ly, in most cases are going to end up
being grants—were made. That is $32
billion of relief into our economy. The
ranking member’s home State—87,000. I
looked at some other States just quick-
ly on the way over here. Iowa, 61,000. In
North Carolina, 129,000 of these were
made. Michigan, 128,000. Arizona,
85,000. In Colorado, 109,000 of these were
made. Montana, 23,000. The State of
Maine, where Senator COLLINS was a
key part of all this, 28,000. Georgia,
neighboring Florida, 174,000. I could go
on and on.
Another thing we should be really
proud about as far as PPP is that two-
thirds of the loans—the grants—were
under $50,000, which tells you about the
size of these businesses. In fact, 70 per-
cent—70 percent—of these were made
to businesses that had 10 employees or
fewer. By far, it was the most effective
thing we did.
You can look at the jobs figures. I
have this chart up here just to show it.
PPP and small business employment—
you look at the precipitous dropoff in
March, and then once PPP began to get
disbursed, you see those numbers, and
as the disbursal goes up, the chart goes
up.
Now, are they perfect? No. Will we
want it back up here? Of course. Are
there businesses that didn’t make it?
Sadly, yes. But there are people work-
ing right now. There are small busi-
nesses that were going to be wiped off
the face of this country’s economy that
are open to this day because of what we
were able to do. But it expired, mean-
ing that you could only get it once.
There was a date where it cut off. The
ranking member wisely moved and we
all agreed and we were able to extend it
by another month to help people apply,
but now you can’t go back.
So what do you do? You are a busi-
ness or restaurant, for example, and
you used PPP once and have expended
that money over 24 weeks, and now you
are in the same boat or potentially in
the same place you were back in March
and April. The money is gone, the cus-
tomers aren’t back yet, and you are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.039 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6314 October 20, 2020
about to close and people are about to
get laid off. So we need to do a second
round.
There are a lot of other things we can
do for small business—I agree with
that wholeheartedly—but this is one
that I think we have to do because
there is tremendous agreement. The
reason it is not happening is because,
No. 1, some people think of it as lever-
age. Everyone likes PPP, so let’s hold
out on it. Let’s not do it until it is part
of a broader package of things unre-
lated to small business because it is so
popular. It is the carrot that will bring
everybody toward supporting the
broader deal.
That may have made sense back in
May or June, but not now, not in Octo-
ber, not since we have long since ex-
pended the moneys that these compa-
nies received, and now they are facing
the same situation they were back in
March and early April. Now we have to
do what we can.
I don’t think we can fall—unfortu-
nately, we have, but it is not very
smart to fall into this habit of saying
that if we can’t do everything, we
shouldn’t do anything. That is just
across the board. There are a lot of
other areas that we need to provide
COVID relief in—I agree with that—but
we are not going to do it in 6 days. We
should have done it a long time ago. It
didn’t come to that. But this is one
piece I think we can all agree on. Even
if they are small businesses—and I only
caught the tail end of what he was say-
ing. The ranking member points to a
lot of other things we could do to help
small business. I agree with that.
There are things beyond PPP that
would help them. The fundamental
challenge we have here is that we have
a limited amount of time to get this
thing done, and I appreciate the idea
that the House already passed it. But
the thing is, that is not something that
is going to become law. That is the re-
ality. Just like there are things we
want on this side that are not going to
become law, because to pass a law right
now in Washington requires passage in
a Senate with a Republican majority,
but there are not 60 Republicans, so we
need Democratic votes. We need this
body to pass it, and we need a Demo-
cratically controlled House to pass it
and a Republican President to sign it.
That is just basic math in terms of
what it takes. That is just the basic
outline of what it takes to turn what-
ever it is we are talking about here
into a law to actually help people.
If you want to help people, we have
to figure out something that at least 60
people in the Senate and a majority in
the House will agree on and that the
President will sign. The one thing I
know for sure that could get that, if we
just had a straight up-or-down vote on
it, is the notion of extending a second
round of PPP assistance to a targeted
number of small businesses. That is it.
Now, is that everything I want to do?
No. I want us to do more. By the way,
if we can figure something more to do
in the meantime, that would be great,
but this must happen. There is no way
of explaining to people: Hold on a sec-
ond. Everybody agrees that we need to
do more just to extend PPP.
Well, why haven’t you done it?
Then you have to explain: Well, be-
cause there were nine other things we
wanted to do for small business, but be-
cause we couldn’t agree on those, we
didn’t do the one we agreed on; or,
there was a bunch of things non-small-
business related that we wanted to get
done, and because those didn’t happen,
we are holding up the whole thing.
People don’t understand it. That
doesn’t make sense in the real world to
anybody.
The bottom line is this: We have a
basic formula here that, if we put aside
those considerations, could get support
and could pass pretty quickly. The
other issues are still going to be there,
and we should do them, too, but we
shouldn’t hold this up in order to do
that.
That is what we are going to have a
chance to do here in a few minutes. If
we don’t, if we don’t, then we will have
to explain—all of us—to people why it
is that this is being held up. If you tell
them it is because people want lever-
age for more stuff, they are not going
to understand that. It is very simple.
For anyone watching now or for any-
one who watches this later, it is a sim-
ple concept. We have before us right
now the ability to help—to the tune of
close to $250 billion—millions of small
business workers across this country
and their employers, to keep them on
payroll, to stay open for a few more
months while we get through this pan-
demic. We have a chance to do it
through a model that we know works,
a model that was recently used. We
just re-up that for a second round to a
targeted number of small businesses,
under a certain number of employees,
facing certain revenue constraints. We
even open it up to some additional not-
for-profits. We have a chance to do
that. We have all these other things
that we should do as well, and we
should do those, too, but we shouldn’t
wait for those things to do this thing,
to help right now.
This is not theoretical. Right now, at
this very moment, there are thousands
upon thousands of small businesses
that are holding on, on a week-by-week
basis. Whether or not they can survive
isn’t up to them. It is up to whether
the local government allows them to
open and at what capacity. It is up to
whether their customers have the fi-
nancial wherewithal to go back and
visit or spend.
The businesses we are talking about
are restaurants, absolutely; live
venues, absolutely; and all those other
places that have been hurt in hospi-
tality, without a doubt. But other busi-
nesses are being hurt too. I know a dry-
cleaner in South Florida who is being
hurt. You might ask, why? They are al-
lowed to open. Well, because when peo-
ple stopped working and going to cer-
tain places, they spent less money on
drycleaning. Now a place that had
eight employees now has six, and of the
six, four are only part time. They will
have an opportunity, if they get PPP,
to keep that workforce employed full
time, and it would matter to those
families.
We can do this. Doing this doesn’t
mean we don’t do anything else. Those
other issues still have to be addressed.
But let’s at least do this. It isn’t every-
thing, but it is a lot, and it is some-
thing, and it will matter, and there is
no reason not to do it. It will in no way
keep us from doing the other things
that need to be done.
Again, just because we are not going
to do everything in one shot should not
mean that we don’t do something. We
have a chance to do something, and it
is meaningful, and it is a model that
we know works, and it is a model we
have all supported in the past, and it is
one that I hope that in the next few
minutes some people will change their
minds on and support now because to
not do something is inexplicable. It
would make no sense.
There are real people in the real
world who are just trying to hold on
and can’t figure out why it is we are
here and we can’t do something to help
them at their hour of greatest need.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, I
rise today to speak on behalf of people
and small businesses in Michigan that
are being left behind on this Repub-
lican bill. As my friend from Florida
has said, we can do something. The
Senate Democratic leader is going to
be offering us an opportunity to vote
on something comprehensive that has
been passed by the House that doesn’t
leave small businesses, families,
healthcare providers, and the need for
testing and tracing behind.
When I think about who is being left
behind in this bill, I think of the single
mom of two boys who is seeing her
hours cut, and her paycheck has
shrunk, and she is left behind by what
we are being asked to vote on right
now. There is no need for that. She
doesn’t know how she is going to keep
the lights on. The weather is getting
cold.
The 83-year-old retiree who is strug-
gling to afford food and who goes to
bed hungry night after night is being
left behind on what we are being asked
to vote on. That doesn’t have to hap-
pen. We have an alternative that has
passed the House that we can vote on
and get this done today.
The owner of a small restaurant is
being left behind. He has been able to
stay open by offering takeout, but he is
just barely—just barely—holding on,
wanting specific help that is available
through legislation introduced in the
Senate, that is bipartisan, that is not
in this bill. He is being left behind.
We are talking about the families
who thought 2020 would be the year
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.041 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6315
October 20, 2020
they would finally get ahead, and then
COVID hit, and now they are at risk of
being evicted and losing their homes
that brought their children stability
for the first time.
There are the Michigan families who
have lost loved ones—more than 7,000
grandmas and grandpas and moms and
dads, sons and daughters, brothers and
sisters, cousins, neighbors, and friends.
People in Michigan aren’t talking
about a stimulus bill; they want a sur-
vival package because it is survival for
them right now. Instead, Republicans
have introduced a bill that leaves our
urgent health care needs, our families,
and far too many businesses behind.
This Republican proposal leaves be-
hind the most important thing we need
to do right now to get the pandemic
under control. President Trump has
said that we will wake up one day and
COVID–19 will have miraculously gone
away. Oh, wouldn’t that be great. But
we are tired of waiting and getting up
every day and being faced with the
threat of COVID–19.
If we want people to send their kids
to school, reopen their businesses, get
back to work, be able to go shopping at
their small businesses, to be able to eat
at their restaurants, then we need to
make sure things are safe. Right now,
it is not safe.
COVID–19 cases and hospitalizations
and deaths are spiking all across the
country. The White House is still re-
sisting a national testing strategy, as
if it is some kind of giveaway to Demo-
crats instead of public health 101.
Meanwhile, millions of people have
lost their jobs, which means they have
also lost their health insurance, which
he doesn’t want to address, and our
healthcare system is under strain. Our
hospitals and our nursing homes are
still struggling to get enough personal
protective equipment for their employ-
ees, for families who want to visit, and
for patients. Our healthcare profes-
sionals are exhausted, stressed, and at
severe risk of burnout. Healthcare
needs are left behind in this bill, and so
are the needs of our families.
Right now, the unemployment rate
in Michigan is 8.5 percent—higher than
the national average. Since March 15,
2.3 million Michigan residents have re-
lied on unemployment. The extra $600 a
week provided in the CARES Act was a
lifeline for these Michigan families,
and it needs to be extended so they can
have a roof over their heads and pay
their bills and survive. A survey last
month by the U.S. Census Bureau
found that 25 percent of Michigan resi-
dents thought they would be evicted or
lose their home to foreclosure in the
next 2 months.
We need to act now—now. We have an
opportunity. The Senate Democratic
leader will give us the opportunity to
vote on that bill and act now. Without
additional unemployment aid and rent-
al assistance, where will these families
go in January when the CDC eviction
moratorium expires and they are
months behind in rent?
This legislation also leaves our chil-
dren behind. The Republican bills have
not provided adequate funding to re-
open our schools safely, and millions of
parents, including my own daughter
and her family and my own son and his
family, are juggling, trying to make
sure that kids can work online, trying
to make sure they are getting the edu-
cation they need. It is hard.
The money that has been provided in
the bill, unfortunately, in the under-
lying bill—there is some, but it comes
with strings attached. Schools must
physically reopen in order to receive
their fair share of funding. So if your
school district has decided that COVID
cases have gone up and it is not safe for
the children to go back to school—they
are still paying the teachers, they are
operating remotely, and they have all
the costs of operating remotely, but if
they are not physically there, as Presi-
dent Trump insists on, physically there
regardless of the health risk, they
would not get the help they need for
our children to be educated—quite a
change for a political party that likes
to talk about local control.
But there is one exception. If your
child is going to a private school, you
get a great big tax credit if you send
your child to a private school rather
than a public school, like the vast ma-
jority of children in our country.
Brecken is a 5-year-old kindergarten
student in the De Tour area public
schools in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula.
She has access to high-speed internet
in only one way, and that is if her par-
ents disconnect every other electronic
device in their house while she is doing
her studies. And the connection isn’t
great. Brecken and other students in
rural areas deserve the same internet
connectivity that their city friends
enjoy, but the Republicans leave them
behind.
Democrats have proposed a $4 billion
E-rate funding increase to ensure chil-
dren are able to go to school remotely.
We don’t want Brecken or any child
left behind in this COVID–19 crisis.
We can’t talk about schools without
talking about healthy food and nutri-
tion. They go hand in hand. The aver-
age person getting help right now—
food assistance—receives $127 a month,
which is $1.40 per meal. About 40 per-
cent of our families who are getting
even that have gotten absolutely no in-
creased help whatsoever. And we know
in the food lines, people who have do-
nated to the food banks all their lives
are now sitting in their car for hours
sometimes, waiting to go through the
food line themselves. Our families need
help. Our families are hungry. We can
fix that if we pass the bill that the
House sent to us.
Finally, this legislation isn’t just
about leaving critical healthcare needs
and testing needs behind, leaving our
children and leaving our families be-
hind. It leaves far too many businesses
behind. Over the past few months, I
have met with so many Michigan busi-
ness owners, mostly over Zoom—res-
taurants, gyms, entertainment venues,
craft jewelry, theaters that have been
revitalizing Michigan downtowns. One
of the things I love is that not just in
big cities but in small towns across
Michigan, you will go downtown, and
there is now a craft brewery, and then
they have rebuilt and revitalized a his-
toric theater, and they are rebuilding
the downtown. They have been hit so
hard by what has happened with
COVID–19. They deserve specific help
that they are not getting in this legis-
lation.
All small businesses are not getting
the help—the kind of help—that they
need. We don’t want to leave any small
business behind, including our minor-
ity-owned small businesses in under-
served communities and nonprofits. We
fought successfully, as Democrats, to
add $30 billion in dedicated funding for
those who are underbanked or receiv-
ing their financial support in other
nontraditional ways. That is not in
here either.
So we need an approach for this pan-
demic and the economic catastrophe it
has unleashed across the country. We
need an approach that is serious and is
bold—neither of which is what we are
about to vote on with this PPP vote—
for testing and healthcare, for keeping
our children safe so they can get back
to school, for our families and all of
our businesses.
We know that so many have been hit
in ways that are different than others,
so we need to address all of our small
businesses. This is no time to leave any
of them behind, and the Republican ini-
tiative in front of us does just that.
People deserve better.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, I do want to say that we are here
at a time when the Republican Party is
jamming yet another nominee through
bizarre procedural practices onto the
Supreme Court.
We have examined in the Judiciary
Committee some of the ways in which
the funding for that operation flows
from big anonymous donors who use
the Federalist Society as a conduit to
buy a seat at the table where our Su-
preme Court Justices are selected, and
then, with contributions as big as $17
million, pays for campaign ads for the
nominee who has been selected and
then sends an entire flotilla of front
groups in an orchestrated chorus to go
and argue together before the Supreme
Court as if they were different.
What I want to say today is that we
have been looking at this captured
court problem for a while, and we are
releasing this ‘‘What’s at Stake’’ re-
port on what it means for climate and
the environment because who is behind
the scheme to capture the court are
primarily the big polluters who want
protection from courts that will be
friendly to their interests.
I will speak more about this and
about why they are willing to spend
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.042 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6316 October 20, 2020
what the Washington Post has cal-
culated as $250 million in dark money
to affect this court-capture operation.
What is the payback for them?
I am here for this episode of my
‘‘Time to Wake Up’’ series, which has
an interesting overlay with what is
happening in the Senate because we are
considering the nomination of Judge
Barrett to go on the Supreme Court.
Her nomination completes a series of
three nominations to the Supreme
Court consecutively, each of which has
been distinguished by extremely un-
usual procedural maneuvering and even
rule-breaking within the Senate and
the Judiciary Committee to get those
nominations pushed through. So we
have been looking for some time at
what the motivation is behind all of
that pressure and what the explanation
is for all of those bizarre procedural
anomalies that we see over and over
and over again.
As I described in the Judiciary hear-
ing, what we see is an operation that
has brought big, anonymous special in-
terests to the table, where Justices are
selected by virtue of their writing big
checks. The vehicle for this has been
the Federalist Society, which has a
fine role on college campuses as a con-
servative discussion and student group
and which has a relatively fine role in
Washington as a think tank—as fine as
think tanks are. Yet it also has this ad-
ditional role of taking money from big
special interests, not disclosing who
they are, and giving them a seat at the
table when the Federalist Society is se-
lecting Justices, and that is wrong.
There is just no doubt about that being
wrong.
Then, once the Justices are selected,
guess what. Ad campaigns get launched
in support of them, and checks get
written as big as $17 million to support
the ad campaigns. Again, the donors
are anonymous. It is very weird. Then,
finally, they get on the Court, and
these little flotillas of amici curiae—
friends of the court, people who file
briefs—come into the Court by the
dozen. They don’t disclose it in their
briefs, but if you dig back a little bit,
you will find that many of them have
common funding and that the amicus
curiae performance before the Court is
an orchestrated performance—again,
anonymously funded.
So what brings that to today is that
Senator MERKLEY has led our effort
with this report: ‘‘What’s at Stake: Cli-
mate and the Environment. How Cap-
tured Courts Rig the System for Cor-
porate Polluters.’’
I want to express my appreciation to
Senator MERKLEY for his hard work on
this report and to his staff for its re-
port. He has been joined by me, TOM
UDALL, DEBBIE STABENOW, ED MARKEY,
DICK BLUMENTHAL, SHERROD BROWN,
BRIAN SCHATZ, and MARTIN HEINRICH.
We are proud of this work. This is one
of seven follow-on reports to our origi-
nal Captured Courts report.
One of the things that I pointed out
when I was discussing this in the Judi-
ciary Committee was that the Wash-
ington Post’s investigation into this
scheme, which was a fairly robust in-
vestigation; I have to give it good
marks—tallied up the amount of anon-
ymous money that it could connect to
the network of groups that is per-
forming this scheme at $250 million.
This $250 million is a lot of money. A
quarter of a billion dollars is a lot of
money. I have people say: No. No. It
couldn’t possibly be true that they
have spent $250 million on this effort to
capture the Court. Who spends that
kind of money?
So I want to walk through an exam-
ple of how this money gets paid back
after it is spent, and I will use just one
example, one case.
Back in the Obama administration,
in order to deal with climate change,
the Environmental Protection Agency
created a Clean Power Plan to allow
different States to set targets for
themselves and try to meet those emis-
sions reductions targets. That was
challenged in court.
The case went to the Supreme Court,
where 5 to 4, with what I call the Rob-
erts Five—no Democrat but the Repub-
lican appointees who are actively en-
gaged in this process—did something
very unusual. They granted what is
called an interlocutory stay. Interlocu-
tory stays are virtually unheard of. In
fact, I believe this was actually the
first.
So objecting States—primarily
States with fossil fuel industries—went
to the DC Circuit Court of Appeals.
They objected to this and asked for a
stay, and the DC Circuit said: No. You
can appeal the rule, but go through the
ordinary process. We are not going to
stay it.
They then went running up to the
Supreme Court, where the five Repub-
lican appointees granted the stay.
Again, I don’t think that had ever hap-
pened before, an interlocutory stay.
So let’s do a little bit of math about
just that one decision. Let’s start with
the International Monetary Fund,
which is not a green organization by
anybody’s likes, I don’t think, but it is
pretty good at financial analysis, and
it has come up with a number. In the
United States alone—just in the United
States—the fossil fuel industry enjoys
an annual subsidy of $600 billion with a
‘‘b.’’ That is the IMF’s calculation. It
is actually a little bit north of that,
but I have rounded it to 600 for these
purposes, primarily because the indus-
try gets away with not paying for what
economists call its negative
externalities. They get to pollute for
free, and, basically, that is a violation
of every rule of market economics.
I do not care how conservative the
economist is that you go to. The con-
servative heroes of economics from the
Chicago school have said: Yes, when it
is pollution, it should be charged to the
polluter and should be baked into the
price of the product; otherwise, the
market is failing, and you have a sub-
sidy.
So a $600 billion subsidy every year,
and the Clean Power Plan case was in
2016. It was in February of 2016. It is
now October of 2020, so more than 4
years have passed. But, again, let me
just round it down, and let’s say that it
has been 4 years. Four years at $600 bil-
lion a year is $2.4 trillion—$2.4 trillion.
Let’s assume that the Clean Power
Plan, had it been implemented, would
have reduced the $600 billion annual
subsidy. Let’s be really, really, really,
really conservative, and let’s assume
that the effect the Clean Power Plan
would have had on the fossil fuel indus-
try would have been to reduce that by
1 percent—just 1 percent. So over those
4 years, that $2.4 trillion would have
been reduced to one one-hundredth of
that. One one-hundredth of $2.4 trillion
is $24 billion. Now, I think the Clean
Power Plan would have had a lot more
of an effect on this calculation, as com-
panies had to clean up their act, than 1
percent, but I am taking a really low
number just to make the point.
Six hundred billion is a little bit low,
4 years is a little bit low, and 1 percent
is probably very low, but when you put
it together, the mathematics gets you
to $24 billion that the industry saved
by being able to go to this court and
have it do the unusual thing—the un-
precedented thing—of putting a stay on
the Environmental Protection Agency.
So if you are comparing—remember
where we started on this was how
shocking it was that somebody might
spend $250 million in dark money to
produce a court that would do unprece-
dented things like stay the regulation?
Well, you do $250 million into $24 bil-
lion, it is a 100-to-1 return on your in-
vestment. Put in a penny, get back dol-
lar. Put in a dollar, get back 100 bucks.
Put in $250 million, get back $24 bil-
lion.
That is assuming this is the only
case in which this mattered. As I have
pointed out from this desk over and
over again, we are now up to 80 cases in
which, on a 5-to-4 basis, with a partisan
makeup to the 5-to-4 and with a big Re-
publican donor interest at stake, the
court has ruled for the big Republican
donor interest 80 times. The score is 80
to 0, to be clear. So this is just one of
those 80—a big one, mind you. A big
one. These are big bucks that are in-
volved but just 1 of those 80.
So don’t be surprised when the Wash-
ington Post reports that big, big, big
corporate interests are willing to put
$250 million into a scheme to pack the
courts with judges who will make the
‘‘right’’ decision for the big corporate
interests—not once, not twice, not 10
times, but 80 times—because just that
one decision alone paid back the whole
$250 million 99 times more. That is
what we are up against, and that is
why I am so determined to get to the
bottom of what is going on, because ev-
erybody going into that Supreme Court
has a right to an honest decision. Ev-
erybody has a right to a court that is
deciding cases on their true merits and
not because of ‘‘conservative activists’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:34 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.051 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6317
October 20, 2020
behind-the-scenes campaign to remake
the nation’s courts in a way that
makes people who give $250 million in
dark money the big winners.’’
Madam President, at this point, I
yield to my wonderful colleague Sen-
ator MERKLEY, and thank him for his
leadership on the ‘‘What’s at Stake:
Climate and the Environment’’ report
that we are speaking about today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President,
what is at stake with our climate and
the environment? Our planet. Our plan-
et is on fire, literally. Historic
wildfires are leaving our forests and
rural communities in ashes. Oceans are
growing hotter and more acidic, dev-
astating sea life from the shellfish of
Oregon to the coral reefs of the Great
Barrier Reef.
There is so much damage, not just to
the natural world but to our tourists
and fishing industries, to our forest in-
dustry, and to our farming industry,
the pillars of our rural economy both
in America and around the world. More
frequent and more devastating storms
damaging crops, flooding cities, de-
stroying coastal communities—the cli-
mate crisis is a clear and present dan-
ger. We are barreling headfirst at full
speed toward catastrophic, irreversible
climate chaos, and these special inter-
ests that my colleague just spoke
about and which we expose in this re-
port are using every tool at their dis-
posal, especially the courts, not to stop
the damage but to accelerate the car-
nage.
It shouldn’t be too surprising that
they should turn to these strategies.
They can’t turn to the citizens of the
United States because protecting our
world is popular among the American
people. They favor clean air. They
favor clean water. They think our gov-
ernment has a responsibility to protect
that air and water and land, and, more
broadly, to protect our planet.
In fact, 70 percent of Americans say
government is not doing enough to re-
duce the effects of climate chaos, and
they are so right. That is why the fossil
fuel companies know that they can’t
win outright based on their argu-
ments—or certainly not based on their
ideas. No one says ‘‘I want more lead in
my water’’ or ‘‘I want more climate-
damaging carbon dioxide or methane in
the air.’’
So what do you do if you can’t win
fairly? You rig the outcome. You fund
bogus research. You spend huge sums
with media to publicize that bogus re-
search. You increase your influence
through a vast, large legal team. You
build a powerful lobbying team on Cap-
itol Hill and every State capital across
this Nation. You handpick candidates,
and you fund their campaigns. You
seek to take over control of an entire
political party.
But Members of Congress come and
go, and even when the deck is stacked,
there is that possibility of a grassroots
uprising of American people to over-
turn your carefully laid plans to con-
trol the American Government. So
what do you do? Strategy No. 7, per-
haps the most powerful strategy of
all—you bias the courts. Once you get
someone on the Federal bench, they
are there for life. They can’t be tossed
out by a vote of the people, and they
wield immense influence over the laws
and regulations, certainly over our en-
vironmental laws and regulations. If
you control the courts, especially the
Supreme Court—even if you lose the
White House, even if you lose the
House and Senate, even if you lose all
three at once—you have immense
power over the laws of our land.
Our Constitution was framed to build
a government of, by, and for this peo-
ple. But with control of the courts, the
privileged few—the fossil fuel barons—
have created, instead, government by
and for the powerful. That is why we
saw such a committed effort by our
colleagues on this side of the aisle to
block President Obama from filling
hundreds of open seats on the Federal
bench. That is why we saw the theft of
the Supreme Court seat for the first
time in U.S. history 5 years ago. That
is why the present majority leader is
obsessed with ramming through more
than 200 overwhelmingly White male,
life-tenured judges, most of whom
weren’t chosen for their qualifications
but for their rightwing ideology. And it
is why 86 percent of Trump’s nominees
to the Supreme Court and the appellate
courts are members of the Federalist
Society.
The Federalist Society, created in
the 1980s—as described in the book,
‘‘The Lie That Binds’’—implemented
an anti-Democratic policy agenda and
political philosophy through a court
system impervious to the will of the
voters. It started one weekend with 200
conservative students and professors at
Yale Law School, including Antonin
Scalia, and it grew into the present-
day shadowy behemoth promoting law-
yers into prominent positions and star-
ring far-right judges at every level of
the bench to further corporate con-
trol—the powerful and privileged few
over the will of the people.
How are they funded? Untold mil-
lions from polluters and other cor-
porate interests that benefit from
judges who strike down environmental
laws and related regulations enacted
and pursued by the people.
The Federalist Society is now, under
Donald Trump, in charge of judicial
nominations. He asked them to give
him a list of whom he should nominate,
and so it goes. The Federalist Society
put Neil Gorsuch on that list, and
President Trump nominated him. Jus-
tice Gorsuch, who said in the Chevron
doctrine, a landmark decision that is
the basis of 4 years of administrative
and mariner law, which gives courts
deference to administrative agencies
and reasonable interpretations of stat-
utes—ruled it should be overturned.
The Federalist Society put Brett
Kavanaugh on that list, and President
Trump nominated him. Whenever the
DC Circuit Court ruled to hold a cor-
porate polluter accountable,
Kavanaugh could be counted on to be
in opposition of holding that corpora-
tion accountable. Observers call him a
conservative critic of sweeping envi-
ronmental regulations and a disaster
for the environment.
The Federalist Society put Amy Bar-
rett on that list, and Trump dutifully
nominated her. Amy Coney Barrett re-
fused to answer whether climate
change is real during her confirmation
hearing. Her record is clear. In one case
she ruled that a park preservation
group couldn’t sue to block a construc-
tion project in Chicago’s Jackson Park.
She signed an opinion that reversed the
lower court decision that protected
wetlands from being developed under
the Clean Water Act.
Earthjustice, an environmental non-
profit, remarked that her decision sig-
naled Barrett’s willingness to interpret
environmental laws of the Clean Water
Act narrowly in favor of industry in-
terests—a perfect fit with the goal of
the Federalist Society.
The Federalist Society plays the
tune, and their nominees dance the
dance—the dance for government by
and for the powerful and the dance that
tramples on government by and for the
people.
If President Trump loses reelection
and if Republicans lose the Senate ma-
jority, still, there is this court with
this decision against the environment,
against the worker, against civil rights
time and time again, and a court that
will work to stymie every effort to
save our planet.
There is a whole list of similar re-
lated positions in the lower courts with
similar outcomes—corporate welfare
over environmental stewardship, one
judge after another after another. They
are the examples of the pro-corpora-
tion, anti-environmental rulings and
Trump-appointed jurists that we
feared. They are the kinds of chal-
lenges that are going to stand in our
way if we fight to undo the damage
that this administration and its cabal
of extreme rightwing allies have un-
leashed on our democracy and on our
planet. So now we have the responsi-
bility to act.
The report that Senator WHITEHOUSE
and I are releasing today—and I ap-
plaud him for working so hard to de-
velop this whole set of Captured Courts
reports to understand the power behind
the shift from government by and for
the people to government by and for
the powerful, because if you have read
the Constitution, if you believe in ‘‘We
the People,’’ you believe in the spirit of
a government that draws its very es-
sence from the people of the United
States, not from the cabal of extremely
wealthy, extraordinarily White, signifi-
cantly privileged, enormously powerful
individuals trying to be puppet masters
and destroy that vision that we so
cherish.
That is why we must expose it. That
is why we must fight it. That is why we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.051 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6318 October 20, 2020
must reclaim—for the future of every
child in America, certainly for the fu-
ture of our environment here in the
United States, certainly for the health
of the planet, we must reclaim that vi-
sion of government of, by, and for the
people.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Go ahead, Sen-
ator. I just wanted to see if we are
going into the vote now, and, if so,
whatever procedural steps you needed
to take us into the vote, but I yield to
the Senator from Maine.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
PAYCHECK PROTECTION PROGRAM
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President,
shortly, we will be voting on whether
or not to extend the Paycheck Protec-
tion Program, which has been hugely
successful in helping our small busi-
nesses keep their employees.
In Maine, three out of four small
businesses have received $2.3 billion in
forgivable loans. Most important, these
loans have helped to sustain 250,000
jobs in the State of Maine and 50 mil-
lion jobs nationwide.
A bipartisan group of us—Senator
RUBIO, Senator CARDIN, Senator SHA-
HEEN, and I—put this bipartisan pro-
gram together in March. We added
funding in April, and we extended it in
June until August 8.
The pandemic, unfortunately, is still
forcing shutdowns and mitigation
measures months later. Many of the
small businesses that were sustained
by their PPP loans are still unable to
return to normal operations.
Without more assistance, without
being eligible for a second PPP loan,
many of the hardest hit small busi-
nesses, including our restaurants, our
gift shops, our hotels, and our B&Bs,
will be forced to close their doors, and,
worse yet, lay off their workers. That
is why it is so important that we reach
bipartisan agreement quickly to pro-
vide further assistance to small busi-
nesses and nonprofits that have been
kept alive by their first PPP loan, that
have been able to retain and pay their
employees but now are still struggling
to survive due to this persistent pan-
demic.
The amendment that we are about to
vote on would provide approximately
$258 billion in funding to allow eligi-
bility for a second PPP loan for the
hardest hit small businesses and non-
profits, while also expanding and im-
proving the program in some common-
sense ways.
This is all about keeping Americans
employed. This amendment is endorsed
by the NFIB, the National Restaurant
Association, the American Hotel and
Lodging Association, the International
Franchise Association,
HospitalityMaine, the United Fresh
Produce Association, the National
Fisheries Institute, and the Inter-
national Foodservice Distributors As-
sociation.
I urge my colleagues to join us in
supporting this important step to
renew and strengthen the PPP program
to save our small businesses and their
employees’ jobs.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
PROTECT ACT—Motion to Proceed
The Senate proceeded to consider the
motion to proceed to Calendar No. 554,
S. 4675, a bill to amend the Health In-
surance Portability and Accountability
Act.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I withdraw the motion to proceed to
Calendar No. 554, S. 4675.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator has that right.
The motion is withdrawn.
f
UIGHUR INTERVENTION AND
GLOBAL HUMANITARIAN UNI-
FIED RESPONSE ACT OF 2019
The Senate proceeded to consider the
House message to accompany S. 178, a
bill to condemn gross human rights
violations of ethnic Turkic Muslims in
Xinjiang, and calling for an end to ar-
bitrary detention, torture, and harass-
ment of these communities inside and
outside China.
Pending:
McConnell motion to concur in the amend-
ment of the House of Representatives to the
bill, with McConnell Amendment No. 2652, in
the nature of a substitute.
McConnell Amendment No. 2680 (to
Amendment No. 2652), to improve the small
business programs.
MOTION TO TABLE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to table amendment No. 2680
and ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Kentucky (Mr. PAUL).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS)
and the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 40,
nays 57, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 203 Leg.]
YEAS—40
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NAYS—57
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Loeffler
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Wicker
Young
NOT VOTING—3
Harris Paul Sinema
The motion was rejected.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
PROTECT ACT—Motion to Proceed
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to Calendar No. 554, S.
4675.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 554, S.
4675, a bill to amend the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I want
to take a moment to explain to the
American people what is happening
here on the floor of the Senate. After
putting the Senate on pause for over 5
long months, while businesses closed,
millions lost their jobs, and hundreds
of thousands of Americans died, Leader
MCCONNELL is now using this week to
hold show votes on coronavirus relief.
The vote we just had was not even a
real vote. Leader MCCONNELL moved to
table the bill, then voted against ta-
bling it. It was a stunt, plain and sim-
ple. It goes to show how unserious the
Republican process is here on the floor
of the Senate. Democrats, by their
vote, called it for what it is.
The truth is Leader MCCONNELL is
doing these stunts on the floor because
there is a hard-right faction in the Re-
publican caucus that doesn’t want to
pass any bill—any other round of relief.
The Republican leader admitted that
as many as 20 Republican Senators
don’t want to vote for anything. One
Republican Senator voted not to vote
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.043 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6319
October 20, 2020
for ‘‘another dime.’’ Every time the Re-
publican White House asks the Repub-
lican Senators about a larger and need-
ed COVID relief package, the Repub-
lican Senators say: Don’t do anything.
We are too divided.
As if we needed any more proof this
week that the votes this week are not
serious, it was just reported in the
Washington Post that Leader MCCON-
NELL warned the White House against
making a deal on a COVID relief bill
before the election. Let me repeat that.
According to a report in the Wash-
ington Post, the Republican leader
warned the White House against mak-
ing a deal on another stimulus bill be-
fore the election.
Maybe it is because he knows his
caucus wouldn’t support it. Maybe it is
because he doesn’t want anything to
interfere with his true priority—rush-
ing a Supreme Court Justice onto the
bench mere days before a Presidential
election. Maybe it is both. Whatever
the reason, it is abundantly clear that
what the Republican leader is offering
this week is a stunt—designed to look
real but designed to fail.
He told the White House he doesn’t
actually want a deal before the elec-
tion. Now, if my Republican col-
leagues—those of the mind to help the
American people, not those who believe
we have spent too much already—want
to do something real, we are going to
give them a chance on the floor right
now. I will be making a motion to
move the Senate into a posture by
which we could all vote on the Heroes
Act that passed the House. If the Sen-
ate were to pass it, it would head right
to the President’s desk. The Democrats
have already modified the bill to make
it more palatable to our Republican
colleagues by coming down over $1 tril-
lion.
So, if you are a Republican who
wants to adequately fund our schools,
our hospitals, and our medical centers,
vote with the Democrats on the next
motion. If you are a Republican who
wants to adequately fund testing and
tracing and devote the resources our
country needs to prevent a second wave
of the virus, you should vote with the
Democrats on the next motion. If you
are a Republican who wants to assist
all small businesses, including our
hardest hit industries and underserved
communities, newspapers, restaurants,
minority-owned businesses, and inde-
pendent music venues and theaters,
you can vote with us on the next mo-
tion. If you are a Republican who
wants to employ a lifeline to the unem-
ployed, to feed the hungry, to assist
renters and homeowners, and to stave
off drastic cuts to State and local serv-
ices, you should vote with us—with the
Democrats—on the next motion.
The country is crying out for real,
substantial, comprehensive relief. The
Heroes Act provides it. It includes all
of the urgent and necessary measures
that the Republicans have left out of
their proposals. If my Republican col-
leagues are serious—really serious—
about providing relief to the American
people, then, vote to allow the Senate
to consider the Heroes Act.
VOTE ON MOTION TO TABLE
Mr. President, I move to table the
McConnell motion to proceed to Cal-
endar No. 554, S. 4675, and I ask for the
yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Kentucky (Mr. PAUL).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS)
and the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 45,
nays 52, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 204 Leg.]
YEAS—45
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NAYS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Loeffler
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NOT VOTING—3
Harris Paul Sinema
The motion was rejected.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Motion to
Proceed
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 866.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on the motion.
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Kentucky (Mr. PAUL).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS),
the Senator from Alabama (Mr. JONES),
the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs.
SHAHEEN), and the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. Sinema) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 52,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 205 Leg.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Loeffler
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—43
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—5
Harris
Jones
Paul
Shaheen
Sinema
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Michael Jay Newman, of
Ohio, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of
Ohio.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.045 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6320 October 20, 2020
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Michael Jay Newman, of Ohio, to
be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Ohio.
Mitch McConnell, Chuck Grassley, John
Boozman, Lindsey Graham, Mike
Crapo, Marsha Blackburn, Tim Scott,
Roy Blunt, Mike Rounds, Pat Roberts,
John Cornyn, John Thune, Todd
Young, Lamar Alexander, John
Hoeven, Thom Tillis, Cindy Hyde-
Smith.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
MOTION TO ADJOURN
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
because of this illicit process, this rush
to judgment, and the worst nomination
proceeding of the Supreme Court in
American history that has so defiled
the Senate, I move to adjourn and to
then convene for pro forma sessions
only, with no business being conducted,
at 12 noon on the following dates and
that, following each pro forma session,
the Senate adjourn until the next pro
forma session: Friday, October 23;
Tuesday, October 27; Friday, October
30; Tuesday, November 3; and Friday,
November 6; further, that if there is an
agreement on legislation in relation to
the COVID pandemic, the Senate may
convene under the authority of S. Res.
296 of the 108th Congress; finally, that
when the Senate adjourns on Friday,
November 6, it convene at 4:30 p.m.,
Monday, November 9, and that fol-
lowing the prayer and pledge, the
morning hour be deemed expired, the
Journal of proceedings be approved to
date, the time for the two leaders be
reserved for their use later in the day,
and morning business be closed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. That mo-
tion would require consent and is not
in order.
MOTION TO TABLE
Mr. SCHUMER. I appeal the ruling of
the Chair, and I move to table the ap-
peal.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on the motion to table the
appeal.
Mr. SCHUMER. I ask for the yeas
and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Kentucky (Mr. PAUL).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS),
the Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs.
SHAHEEN), the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA), and the Senator from
Michigan (Ms. STABENOW) are nec-
essarily absent.
The result was announced—yeas 52,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 206 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Loeffler
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—43
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—5
Harris
Paul
Shaheen
Sinema
Stabenow
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mo-
tion to table was agreed to, and the de-
cision of the Chair stands.
The Senator from Oklahoma.
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent to be recognized for
such time as I shall consume.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, in
July, the Senate passed the fiscal year
2021 National Defense Authorization
Act, with 86 Senators from both sides
of the aisle voting in support of it.
I am glad that we had such a strong
vote because I believe—and I have al-
ways believed—it is the most impor-
tant vote, most important bill that we
do all year. The NDAA, as we call it—
that stands for National Defense Au-
thorization Act—is how Congress pro-
vides the policy and resources for our
national defense for the ensuing year,
and it always passes by a bipartisan
bill. And it has now for 60 years in a
row. Well, not quite 60. It is 59 years. It
will be 60 when this bill is concluded.
There is not much we do around here
anymore on a bipartisan basis for this
long, but the NDAA is special. Here is
why: Because each and every American
benefits from the bill—each family,
each community in each State. Okla-
homa is no exception to this rule. What
makes Oklahoma special is this. Just
as much as this bill takes care of Okla-
homa, Oklahoma takes care of the
country by the very nature of those
things, those functions that we per-
form each year, militarily.
As chairman of the Senate Armed
Services Committee, I have already
been down here a lot talking about the
NDAA and how this bill protects all
Americans, how it cares for our mili-
tary families, and how it gives our
military the resources needed to defend
this Nation.
Confession is good for the soul. I have
to admit, as chairman, I made certain
that the NDAA did the maximum ben-
efit possible for Oklahoma. I want to
talk a little bit about what the NDAA
does for Oklahoma and how what we do
in Oklahoma makes the rest of the
country more secure—because it does.
Oklahoma is home to some of the De-
partment of Defense’s most valuable
installations and assets, and it has
been this way for the better part of a
century. It is also the epicenter of pub-
lic-private collaboration, where indus-
try partners and universities and oth-
ers work in close coordination with our
military.
The defense programs based in Okla-
homa protect our military advantage,
making sure that we stay ahead—or, I
should say, even better and more accu-
rately now, get ahead of our competi-
tors, especially China and Russia. I
think we all understand now China and
Russia are the greatest threat facing
this Nation. We allowed them to—I
don’t say this critically of the previous
administration, but during the pre-
vious administration, a lot of our mili-
tary actually suffered some 25 percent,
in terms of appropriations, during the
last 5 years. That would have been
from fiscal year 2000 to fiscal year 2015,
and so we, in some areas, are not ahead
of China and Russia.
I have been around for a long time. I
am a lot older than some of the other
people in here, and I remember the ad-
ministrations since World War II. I al-
ways prided ourselves in that we had
the very best of everything. We learned
the hard way in World War II that that
would be necessary.
Oklahomans know the importance of
these programs that we have in Okla-
homa, not just to our economy but to
our national security. Not all Ameri-
cans may know, so here are a few ex-
amples. When our planes fly long dis-
tances, sometimes they need to refuel,
of course, and this can be in midair.
Right now, the KC–135 has been the re-
fueler of choice now for 60 years. It has
done a great job. It is one that has
lasted and has worked hard since 1956.
I remember back during the last ad-
ministration—the Obama administra-
tion—I am a conservative Republican,
and I wasn’t real fond of the previous
administration, but there is one person
I really liked, and that was Deborah
Lee James. She was the Secretary of
the Air Force in the previous adminis-
tration. She and I worked hard with
the idea that we were going to have to
do something about the KC–135; it had
been around 60 years.
I remember, I said, when we were at
Altus Air Force Base—that was where
we were going to be delivering—that is
the first KC–46 to replace the 135. And
I remember saying that 60 years ago
two wonderful things happened: No. 1,
my wife Kay and I got married. And
No. 2, the first KC–135 was delivered to
Altus Air Force Base. Where is the KC–
135 training and the maintenance base?
It is in Oklahoma.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.048 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6321
October 20, 2020
It is time to update that aircraft.
The KC–46 is the next-generation tank-
er, and Oklahoma is going to play a
key role in this aircraft as well, thanks
to the NDAA. All training for this new
aircraft is conducted at Altus Air
Force Base, in Altus, OK; and all depot
maintenance will be performed at Tin-
ker Air Force Base, in Oklahoma City;
the same as the KC–135 maintenance
has taken place for the last 60 years.
We will also conduct depot mainte-
nance on the B–21 bomber at Tinker.
The B–21, which is still in the develop-
ment phase, is going to be vital to our
Air Force. It will be a critical part of
our deterrence posture: a strong mili-
tary that lets our enemies know that
they can’t escape us.
This is cutting-edge technology, de-
signed to replace a few types of bomber
aircraft that have lived in Oklahoma
for the last half century.
What this year’s NDAA means is the
Air Force will be guaranteeing Tin-
ker’s workload for the next 50 years
and beyond. You know, I have talked a
lot on the floor about the NDAA and
about a lot of issues, not always just
military but primarily. But I have
never really talked much about what
we in Oklahoma do and the great con-
tribution we make. That is kind of
what I am doing right now. The third
kind of aircraft we have in Oklahoma
are the planes that help our Air Force
pilots become the best in the world. We
are talking about our training aircraft.
Many of the pilots in our Air Force
conduct their pilot training at Vance
Air Force Base, using aircraft like the
T–38. T–38—that plane has been around
since 1962, and it is still being used
right now as a trainer, but it has out-
lived its usefulness in terms of training
for modern aircraft. We can have all
the modern aircraft in the world, but if
we are training with vehicles that are
50, 60 years old, it doesn’t train them as
well as they should be trained. We have
had the T–38 around for that long pe-
riod of time.
The T–7 is going to be that newest
aircraft. In this year’s NDAA—the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act—we
ensure that we continue to progress on
developing this new aircraft. That is
the T–7. It will be flying in the skies
over Oklahoma for at least probably
the next six decades.
Right here, Oklahoma is home to air-
craft that support three critical prongs
of our national defense, making sure
that we have the skills and the equip-
ment and the reach needed to deter and
defeat our adversaries for the foresee-
able future. But the Air Force is not
the only service with a large footprint
in Oklahoma. The Army is also a rich
part of our military heritage, and
Oklahoma’s military installations help
support the Army’s No. 1 moderniza-
tion priority, which is long-range pre-
cision fires. That is the No. 1 priority
of the U.S. Army right now.
These are munitions that will be able
to reach across hundreds, if not thou-
sands, of miles and strike targets. They
can be used on land; they can be used
in the skies; and they can be used at
sea and beyond. Unfortunately, this is
an area where we have already fallen
behind our competitors like China and
Russia, but Oklahoma is going to help
us catch up.
The Paladin Integrated Management
System—it is called PIM—is a critical
piece of this Army modernization ef-
fort, and it is based at Fort Sill, at our
very own Fires Center of Excellence. It
is assembled in Elgin, OK.
This is really important, especially
when you know the history. We have
been working to build a modern artil-
lery system for decades. First, starting
back in 1994, we were then working to
build the Crusader. The Crusader was
going to be our artillery system. That
was going to be the best one around.
We worked, and we invested money in
it. The Crusader was going to be our
new, modern system that would set us
up above Russia and China. This was in
1994.
We spent $2 billion on the Crusader.
What happened to it? It was nixed, pre-
maturely, in 2002 because it was over
budget, and we thought the needs of
warfare were changing. I never did be-
lieve that. I think that Crusader was a
good vehicle and was what we needed
for the next decades to come. But it
was gone. And then some of the same
mistakes were repeated in the Army’s
Future Combat Systems.
The Future Combat Systems—called
the FCS—was cut in 2009, but it wasn’t
$2 billion that we had spent on that be-
fore we cut it, it was $20 billion. We ac-
tually used $22 billion for an artillery
system, and we still didn’t have one.
Billions and billions were wasted. That
is how China and Russia got ahead of
us—but not for long because we are
catching up.
There are more than just DOD pro-
grams based in Oklahoma. Our count-
less industry partners work there as
well and help us make sure our forces
are on the cutting edge of innovation.
The XQ–58A Valkyrie is an unmanned
aerial system that does not need a run-
way to take off. It will accompany the
next-generation aircraft, like the
world-class F–35 on its missions. It will
perform an escort function. It is one
that takes off vertically, and it is one
without a pilot.
This is one of the Air Force’s top pri-
orities. It is what they call a Vanguard
Program. It is what the future of air
superiority looks like, and it is assem-
bled in—you guessed it—Oklahoma.
That is just one example of the amaz-
ing technologies we are building across
the State, but it is not just our mili-
tary installations and industries sup-
porting America’s national defense. In
Oklahoma, we work well together
across the State—military, industry,
and even educational universities.
In Lawton, just outside of Fort Sill,
we have something called FISTA,
where we try to get all of these stake-
holders together in one building. It is a
private sector. I have to say this about
the private sector in Oklahoma. We
have gone through five different efforts
to change our military. And in each
one of the five—these are called BRAC
rounds. A BRAC round is the Base Re-
alignment and Closure Commission—
they meet and evaluate all of the mili-
tary installations in the country, in
America, and evaluate which ones
should be expanded and which ones
should be done away with and which
ones should be reduced. I would say, in
the State of Oklahoma, we have five
major military installations, and we
are the only State that has increased
with each one of the five BRAC rounds
since 1987.
You might say that is political influ-
ence. It is not. It is community sup-
port. That is what we have always
done. For example, even in our univer-
sities, the University of Oklahoma is
working on research that will accel-
erate the work of the Long-Range Pre-
cision Fires Air Missile Defense Cross-
Functional Team at Fort Sill—top
modernization priorities for the Army.
The FISTA is just one piece of this re-
search and innovation done in Okla-
homa. It is really happening all around
the State. Oklahoma State University
is also conducting critical research on
drones, unmanned systems, where our
military has growing needs. We are
leaders in Oklahoma. This will support
operations where traditional methods
are not sufficient for takeoffs and land-
ings and ensure our military can pene-
trate any environment. We have made
sure that we have committed funding
especially for this kind of research, and
Oklahoma State University is the per-
fect candidate because of the successful
work it has already done on these sys-
tems. We are ahead of others.
Also, Tulsa University has been des-
ignated by the National Security Agen-
cy as a cyber center of academic excel-
lence. This year, in the NDAA that we
will be passing, which is probably going
to be in the later part of November, it
directs the Army Corps of Engineers to
form a partnership with an academic
institution like Tulsa University to
conduct critical cyber research that
will support our national security. TU
has a track record of success. It is cer-
tainly a go-to for just this type of re-
search, and I anticipate that this is ex-
actly what is going to happen.
Our universities really are second to
none in terms of this research, and
their hard work and ingenuity are
going to help us catch up to China and
Russia and ensure our military superi-
ority will be there for years to come.
With the massive amount of work
lined up for the State of Oklahoma, I
knew our bill had to help communities
across the State provide the number of
workers that will be needed. One provi-
sion we included to address this allows
for the appointment of recently retired
members of the armed services—armed
services members who have retired—to
assume DOD positions at certain pay
grades without their having to wait the
requisite lengths of time. This ensures
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.058 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6322 October 20, 2020
more people will stay in Oklahoma.
Skilled workers won’t need to leave the
State to find work. These are the peo-
ple who know the programs best. It is
what they have spent their careers
doing, and they are going to be able to
continue working on them even after
they have transitioned out of Active
Duty.
This is all in this Defense authoriza-
tion bill that we have under consider-
ation today that we are going to pass.
Our work ethic is just one of the trade-
marks of the Oklahomans I am lucky
to represent.
Another is what we call the Okla-
homa standard. Oklahomans know how
important it is to care for and support
each other, especially our military
families. Our military families don’t
have it easy. The nature of the job
means frequent moves around the
country and around the world. This
means they make a lot of sacrifices.
We can’t ask military spouses to sac-
rifice as well. So what we have done is,
actually, what we started in last year’s
Defense authorization bill. At that
time, we put in a program to help
spouses and families circumvent some
of the time they waste but that they
have to have when they move into new
occupations. We have now done the
same thing, but this was in last year’s
bill.
One way we did it was by extending
the DOD program to reimburse spouses
for the costs of new professional li-
censes and credentials. This year, we
have improved on that. We have made
it easier to transfer those licenses
across State lines, but you can’t do
that until after this bill has passed. We
know that, when we improve family
readiness, we improve overall military
readiness.
I have to say that there are a lot of
people around here who don’t think we
need as strong a military as we need.
They talk about it, and I have heard
the statement. I have heard it a hun-
dred times. They say we spend more on
our military than China and Russia do
put together. Well, there is a reason for
that. In our military, we look after the
troops, after the individuals. You know
about the housing problems that we
have had, and we have spent a lot of
money to correct that problem. We are
doing this at the current time. We also
have schools for the kids of our troops
and educational facilities. Now, in Rus-
sia and China—Communist countries—
they give them guns and say: Go out
and shoot people. That is it.
The last thing I want to point out
about this year’s NDAA is also the
readiness issue. This year, we made
sure that we would not have a BRAC
round. I mentioned a minute ago that a
BRAC round is a Base Realignment and
Closure Commission, and we are not
going to have one. Now is not the time
to reduce our military footprint any
further, not when we face so many
threats around the world and not when
we have worked so hard with President
Trump to rebuild and repair our readi-
ness. It is easy to see how these provi-
sions we fought so hard to include in
this bill will help Oklahomans and,
really, all Americans.
That is why I think the NDAA is the
most important bill of the year, not
only for Oklahoma but for the rest of
the Nation as well. Serving as chair-
man of the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices and representing Oklahomans are
the two things I am most proud of. I
am proud that we can do right by our
Armed Forces and Oklahomans with
this year’s NDAA.
The next step is to make this bill
law, and the next step is going to take
place when our colleagues from the
House have a conference report. I think
most people know that, with a bill like
this, the Senate passes a bill, and the
House passes a bill. Then there is a
conference report, and they have to get
together and have a conference. It is
not going to be easy because there are
a lot of differences to iron out.
For those who want to know when it
is going to happen, as for the con-
ference report, the House is not going
to appoint its conferees until Novem-
ber 16, so it is going to be a while. It
doesn’t matter. The deadline is actu-
ally December 31, and that will happen.
It has happened for 60 years in a row,
and it is going to happen this time. No
matter what, we are going to get it
done. We have for the last 59 years, and
we are going to do it again.
I was talking to people at Tinker Air
Force Base today, and they were talk-
ing about the things that they are
needing to do. Tinker Air Force Base
has turned into probably—I believe it
is—the largest military complex in the
country. People are doing incredible
work there. I was talking to the whole
team, and those on the team were talk-
ing about what they are preparing for
in the next year. I can assure you it is
all going to be good and that Oklahoma
is going to fare well. We are going to
fare well in our equipment and in our
training. I am proud of Oklahoma’s
contribution to the safety of America,
and we are doing a good job in Okla-
homa.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. BAR-
RASSO). The Senator from Rhode Is-
land.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
had the chance to hear Chairman
INHOFE’s remarks. I speak for many of
us when I offer my appreciation for his
chairmanship of the Armed Services
Committee, for his commitment to our
troops, and, in my case, particularly,
for the great way he works with my
senior Senator, JACK REED, who is the
ranking member on that committee, in
order to get all of this work done.
While he may have bragging rights
over airbases in Oklahoma, Rhode Is-
land has bragging rights on submarine
construction, and it is very important
to us. So I offer my appreciation to the
chairman for all of his support for the
submarine program that has meant so
much to our Nation’s security and to
Rhode Island.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Pennsylvania.
NOMINATION OF AMY CONEY BARRETT
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I want to
start tonight by just making a few re-
marks regarding what is ahead of us in
the next few days, and that is the de-
bate about a Supreme Court Justice. I
won’t be able to cover everything to-
night that I want to cover, but I will
just make some preliminary comments
about healthcare, which has been the
driving debate in this nomination or at
least the issue that has dominated the
debate so far.
We made, in my judgment, great
progress in 2010, when the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act was
passed. Some refer to that statute as
ObamaCare, which isn’t really the
name of the statute and doesn’t ade-
quately describe what it is about. The
patient protection part of the act—or
the name of the statute—is the part
that I think involves most Americans,
all the coverages that are provided, all
the protections, I should say, that are
provided. One example of that, of
course, is the protection for preexisting
conditions. The state of the law prior
to that was if an insurance company
did not want to cover someone because
of a preexisting condition, they had the
authority to do that or they could
cover the person but charge them
more. That is no longer permitted, and
in a State like Pennsylvania, that
number—the number of people who are
protected by that provision of the law
because they have a preexisting condi-
tion—that number is 5.5 million people.
Nationally, it is as high as 135 million.
So we know what is at stake in the de-
bate, and it just so happens in this con-
text that it is part of the debate about
the Supreme Court nominee, Judge
Barrett.
I have a threshold, initial concern
that is even before we get to the debate
about the Affordable Care Act and
what might happen to it by virtue of
the lawsuit filed that is now before the
Court with an argument date of No-
vember 10. I think that is the primary
reason for the rush of her nomination—
so that she can be a member of the
Court for that argument on November
10 and make that decision, which I
think is highly likely to be a decision
against upholding the constitu-
tionality of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act.
The threshold concern I have,
though, is just the way this process has
unfolded, not just more recently but
over time. The President, when he was
a candidate, said he would choose from
a list that was developed basically by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.060 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6323
October 20, 2020
two groups: the Federalist Society and
the Heritage Foundation. They came
up with a list, and that is the list he
said he would choose from. That list
was expanded when he became Presi-
dent.
Judge Barrett was on that list, Jus-
tice Kavanaugh, Justice Gorsuch—you
can see the pattern there. I don’t want
a Supreme Court that is chosen by
those two groups, but, so far, that is
what the President has decided to do.
In this case, the rush is, I think, for
that basic reason, that the majority
party here and Republicans in the
House and a Republican President want
this statute struck down. They want to
have that majority, a six-to-three ma-
jority, to do that.
But I guess, as much as I can talk, as
we all do, about some of the policy—
and I will—and the numbers, I think
the most compelling parts of this de-
bate are the stories that come from
people across Pennsylvania and across
the country who have come to us. I
met some of these families about 10
years ago when we were debating the
act then. I met them again when we
were trying to stop the repeal in 2017
and 2018, and now we are getting to-
gether again because of this new and, I
think, mortal threat to the law.
I will just mention two for tonight—
Erin and Shannon. Erin, I know better;
I have met her over the years—Erin
Gabriel. She has been very public about
the fight that she is waging on behalf
of her three children with disabilities:
Collin, Bridget, and Abby. I have heard
a good bit about each of them and
maybe the most about Abby.
Erin is from Beaver County, PA,
right on the Ohio border, just north of
Pittsburgh, and she is very concerned
about what happens to her children be-
cause of their disabilities. Of course,
under the old law—the old way of ap-
proaching these issues—a child with a
disability could be denied coverage be-
cause of a preexisting condition, and,
also, a corresponding or related con-
cern is the threat to Medicaid itself, es-
pecially in budget debates here over
time, and Medicaid expansion.
Erin Gabriel is one of the people who
has made very clear to us the adverse
impact on the life of her children that
could result if the statute is over-
turned and declared unconstitutional.
A second person who has brought her
story to our attention is Shannon
Striner. Shannon is a mom to two
daughters: Haley and Sienna. Haley is
actually a second grader now, and Si-
enna is a young girl with Down syn-
drome. Obviously, Sienna is a child
who is going to need a lot of care, and
we have to make sure that our
healthcare system is there to meet the
needs of those families.
We are going to be talking more
about these challenges that these fami-
lies face, but for the life of me, I will
never be able to understand—if I lived
1,000 years, I will never be able to un-
derstand why we would ever go back-
ward on healthcare. Why would we go
back to a time when a child or an adult
who has a preexisting condition would
be denied coverage? Why would we go
back and erase by virtue of, in this
case, what would be a judicial fiat all
the progress that has been made be-
cause of the Affordable Care Act?
So many more people have the secu-
rity of healthcare. In my home State,
it is 1 million people who gained cov-
erage. The number now nationally is
about 23 million. That number keeps
going up. Most of them are getting
their healthcare through the expansion
of Medicaid. The number on that keeps
growing.
Part of the reason it is growing is be-
cause people lost their insurance as a
result of the adverse impact of COVID–
19—people losing their jobs and turning
to programs like Medicaid for cov-
erage. So that number keeps going up.
In the State of Pennsylvania, just by
way of example, the latest number is
840,781 Pennsylvanians who have bene-
fited from Medicaid expansion. The
benefit of it is one of the reasons you
have States that are not controlled by
Democrats that are voting to expand
coverage. So that number keeps going
up.
I want to make sure that we take
every step necessary to protect cov-
erage, not just to uphold a statute and
to, frankly, grow the number of people
with healthcare but to remember the
impact it has on people’s lives and en-
sure that the people who gain coverage
don’t lose it.
We have a State—as the Presiding Of-
ficer knows because of his family’s
roots—we have a State of a few big cit-
ies, but mostly it is a State of a lot of
small towns. We have 48 rural counties
out of 67, and in those small towns or
rural communities, we have a lot of
people who have gained coverage be-
cause of the expansion of Medicaid.
As I said, you can see the number:
840,000 out of about 1 million who
gained coverage—gained coverage
through Medicaid expansion, so that is
a big number. And even in a small
county like Cameron County, one of
our smallest—it might be the smallest
county in population—there are 350
people in that county who got Medicaid
expansion. I want to make sure all 350
or more can benefit from Medicaid ex-
pansion.
Big cities like Philadelphia have big-
ger numbers, obviously. When I look at
my home county, Lackawanna County,
and look at the next county next to it,
the largest population county in the
region, Luzerne County, these are huge
numbers of people who have gained
coverage on Medicaid expansion. In
Lackawanna, it is more than 17,180 peo-
ple and more than 26,000 in Luzerne
County. Now, that is not accounting
for the folks who got coverage because
of the exchanges that were set up. So
the balance of those folks in Pennsyl-
vania who got coverage, between 840
and 1 million, got their coverage be-
cause of the exchanges that were set up
by the Affordable Care Act.
One last point before I move to a sec-
ond topic: Here are some of the benefits
of Medicaid expansion that don’t get a
lot of attention but should warrant at-
tention. I will just give you one exam-
ple in 1 year from one State.
In 2019, in Pennsylvania, over 135,000
people were able to receive treatment
for substance use disorder because they
were covered through Medicaid expan-
sion. Now, most people may not think
of that longer category or that long
phrase, ‘‘substance use disorder,’’ but a
subcategory to that and one of the
largest parts of that challenge for
many families and many communities
is the opioid crisis. So that means tens
of thousands of Pennsylvanians were
getting covered by Medicaid expansion
and treatment therefrom just at the
time the opioid crisis was on the rise
and causing death and devastation to
so many families and so many commu-
nities. So that is one benefit to the
program that doesn’t get a lot of atten-
tion.
We know that on the larger question
of the Affordable Care Act itself, be-
yond Medicaid expansion and the ex-
changes, is the so-called prescription
drug doughnut hole, that coverage gap
where the older Pennsylvanian, at
some point in the availability of pre-
scription medications, has to pay for a
while before they get into a cata-
strophic category where the Federal
Government and the Medicare Program
can pick up the cost. But in that cov-
erage gap—and ‘‘doughnut hole’’ is a
very benign way of describing a very
burdensome problem for a lot of sen-
iors—if that were to go away, if the Af-
fordable Care Act were declared uncon-
stitutional and that doughnut hole
coverage or the filling of the gap, so to
speak, were not there the next year or
the year after or 5 years or 10 years
from now, that could adversely impact
hundreds of thousands of Pennsylva-
nians. By one estimate, more than
293,000 people on Medicare would be
forced to pay more for their prescrip-
tion drugs.
So that is a lot on the line when it
comes to the Affordable Care Act, and
that is why this nomination is of such
great consequence for one big issue. I
think the Affordable Care Act Supreme
Court decision will be the most signifi-
cant decision that this Court will de-
cide maybe for 25 years because of the
scope of the impact.
Even someone who is not threatened
directly by the loss of coverage, the
loss of protection for a preexisting con-
dition, or even someone who can buy
because of their wealth or their cir-
cumstances—that person will also be
affected because premiums will likely
skyrocket. So there are very few, if
any, Americans not affected by this
lawsuit that will utterly destroy the
Affordable Care Act.
RUSSIA
Mr. President, I want to move to an-
other urgent issue, and this arose again
just the other night. This is a matter
of significant foreign policy that I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.063 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6324 October 20, 2020
know Members on both sides are con-
cerned about: President Trump’s con-
tinued affinity for Vladimir Putin,
most recently evidenced by his silence
regarding the recent poisoning of Rus-
sian opposition leader Alexei Navalny,
who gave an interview on CBS’s ‘‘60
Minutes’’ that aired just 2 nights ago,
October 18, this past Sunday. Navalny
was poisoned and nearly killed by a
highly lethal chemical weapon nerve
agent, Novichok, in August of this year
and is currently recovering in Berlin
under close security protection.
In the interview on ‘‘60 Minutes,’’
Navalny directly alleged that Vladimir
Putin was behind the poisoning. I am
quoting him now. When asked a ques-
tion, ‘‘Do you think Vladimir Putin
was responsible?’’ Navalny said, ‘‘I
don’t think. I am sure he is respon-
sible.’’
While German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and French President Macron
have called for answers from Putin and
led the European Union in imposing
sanctions on Russian officials over the
use of chemical weapons in violation of
international law, President Trump’s
silence is, to use an old expression,
deafening.
In a ‘‘60 Minutes’’ interview, Mr.
Navalny goes on to describe that nerve
agent, Novichok, is impossible to ac-
quire. Only someone in Putin’s position
would be able to deploy it. As the world
knows, Mr. Putin is not afraid to go
after opponents, like Navalny, who
continue to reveal the corruption and
authoritarianism of his regime.
Despite the growing consensus that
Putin himself may have directed the
attack, our President has refused to
even query—even ask questions—
whether there is malicious intent in-
volved. Vladimir Putin, as we know, is
a proven enemy of democracy and will
go to any lengths to undermine democ-
racy activists in his own country and
other countries.
When a President of the United
States speaks out, the world listens. In
this case—this case of attempted mur-
der—the silence of President Trump is
insulting to our values as Americans.
He is signaling to autocratic leaders all
over the world that it is OK to take di-
rect action against their opposition
through violence and intimidation. He
is signaling to the world that the
United States is not committed—not
committed—to protecting and pro-
moting democracy.
President Trump’s silence on Alexei
Navalny’s poisoning is not the only in-
stance of absolute deference to Vladi-
mir Putin. Throughout his Presidency,
President Trump has continuously
made decisions that benefit Putin’s
agenda. In so doing, President Trump
also acts to undermine U.S. influence
and even to undermine our national se-
curity.
The U.S. Senate, as a part of a co-
equal branch of government, must rec-
ognize this threat and act as a body to
ensure that our institutions at home
and our interests abroad are protected.
In these last 4 years, the Senate has
not lived up to this solemn responsi-
bility.
Here is a list—some may argue a
short list—of how the President has en-
abled and empowered Putin and his ef-
forts to undermine our democracy and
our national security:
No. 1, vowing to pursue closer ties
with Russia in his first foreign policy
speech as a Presidential candidate at
the Center for the National Interest in
April of 2016, then-Candidate Trump
said: ‘‘We desire to live peacefully and
in friendship with Russia.’’
Openly and repeatedly questioning
U.S. intelligence community findings
that Russia interfered in the 2016 elec-
tions.
Siding with Putin—with Putin—at
the 2018 Helsinki summit against the
U.S. intelligence community findings
about the 2016 election interference. At
that now infamous press conference,
President Trump said he doesn’t ‘‘see
any reason why’’ Russia would be re-
sponsible and that ‘‘President Putin
was extremely strong and powerful in
his denial today.’’ That is what the
President of the United States of
America said, totally undermining our
intelligence community in just a few
remarks. In my judgment, this was one
of the worst moments in the history of
the U.S. Presidency—a dangerous
statement by the President that under-
mined and still undermines our na-
tional security.
Another example is attempting to
impeach Special Counsel Mueller’s in-
vestigation into the Trump campaign’s
ties to Russia and Russian interference
in the 2016 election. Special Counsel
Mueller’s report documents 10 episodes
in which the President interfered with
the investigation, including when he
asked White House Counsel Don
McGahn to fire Mueller in June of 2016.
In my opinion, that is a clear case
among several of such instances of ob-
struction of justice.
Next, deploying Attorney General
Bill Barr around the world chasing con-
spiracy theories and investigating
President Trump’s complaints about
the origin of the government’s inves-
tigation into Russia’s election inter-
ference.
Intimidating Ukraine’s President to
investigate former Vice President
Biden and his son and threatening to
cut U.S. security assistance to Ukraine
if they didn’t cooperate. As we all
know, this originated in a White House
whistleblower complaint that led to
the President’s impeachment. The
President’s conduct distracted from ac-
tual engagement and support to
Ukraine as it continues to grapple with
Russian aggression.
Next, making continued attacks
against and undermining NATO, more
recently evidenced by his sudden deci-
sion to withdraw nearly 10,000 U.S.
troops from Germany.
Another example is withdrawing U.S.
troops from Syria nearly a year ago,
clearing the way for Russia—Russia—
to become the sole power broker in
Syria through enhanced cooperation
with Turkey, as evidenced by Turkey’s
purchase of the Russian S–400 missile
system. The Associated Press reports
of Russia deploying troops to Syria the
same week that the United States
withdrew indicates the benefit to Rus-
sia.
Next, failing to act on intelligence
that the Russian Government offered
to pay Taliban and Haqqani Network
militants to target American troops in
Afghanistan, as reported by the New
York Times in June of this year. In
fact, President Trump suggested this
intelligence was ‘‘a hoax’’ in a July 1
tweet. It was not a hoax. We know it
happened.
Withdrawing from the Open Skies
Treaty, which gives us critical access
to and intelligence into Russian mili-
tary activities.
As I noted earlier, continuing to be
silent—totally silent—about the recent
poisoning of Russian opposition politi-
cian Alexey Navalny. Navalny has
openly stated that Putin is behind the
attack, as I mentioned, and President
Trump stands apart—far apart—from
Western leaders in his lack of con-
demnation of the attack.
Next, refusing to approve a clean 5-
year extension of the New START trea-
ty and thereby clearing a path for Rus-
sia to expand its nuclear arsenal un-
checked.
Finally and most recently—just this
statement alone maybe sums up all of
it—the President said at a campaign
rally on Monday, September 21:
I like Putin. He likes me.
This list should concern every Mem-
ber of the Senate. I know it concerns a
lot of the Members here, but we have
to do more.
President Trump has never said a
critical word about Vladimir Putin.
Yet President Trump has publicly in-
sulted, denigrated, and smeared the
U.S. intelligence community, Members
of Congress, and even veterans. His
tweets disparaging Americans count in
the hundreds—hundreds of tweets re-
garding Americans, but he has never
said a word—not a single word—critical
of Vladimir Putin.
I will focus on one of the big issues
and then conclude. In June of this
year, the New York Times reported on
intelligence that the Russian Govern-
ment offered to pay Taliban and
Haqqani Network militants to target
American troops in Afghanistan. The
President’s silence and refusal to raise
this with Putin in his many one-on-one
conversations with him is alarming,
and this failure undermines our na-
tional security.
One incident that may have been a
bounty attack was an April 2019 bomb-
ing that killed three marines. One of
them was a Pennsylvanian. We know
that as of the most recent numbers, 294
servicemembers from Pennsylvania
were killed in the wars in Afghanistan
and Iraq—the third highest toll of any
State.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.064 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6325
October 20, 2020
Any possibility that Russia is play-
ing a hand in killing American and
Pennsylvania soldiers must be thor-
oughly investigated. President Trump’s
silence indicates not only that he
doesn’t care about Russian threats to
national security, but apparently he
doesn’t care that American lives might
be at risk because of Russian aggres-
sion. To date, the majority in the Sen-
ate has not taken appropriate action to
hold this President accountable for his
failure to act or investigate these seri-
ous allegations.
ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. President, despite these recent
failures abroad, one of the biggest chal-
lenges we all face right now is the
pressing threat to our democracy.
As Americans across the Nation are
currently casting their ballots by way
of voting early in person or voting by
mail for the next President of the
United States, we are seeing increasing
reports of Russian efforts to interfere
in our election.
The CIA has concluded that Vladimir
Putin is likely directly involved in
Russian efforts to promote
disinformation, sow discord, and carry
out cyber attacks on the United
States. I cite for this the New York
Times September 22, 2020, article.
Former Director of National Intel-
ligence Dan Coats, a former Republican
Senator here from Indiana on two dif-
ferent occasions—he served his State
twice in that capacity—wrote in an op-
ed recently:
If we fail to take every conceivable effort
to ensure the integrity of our election, the
winners will not be Donald Trump or Joe
Biden, Republicans or Democrats. The only
winners will be Vladimir Putin, Xi Jinping
and Ali Khamenei.
Leaders, of course, of China and Iran.
Despite clear evidence, President
Trump continues to deny Russian mis-
conduct, and he continues to con-
tradict our intelligence community.
We should ask, what is the obligation
of the Senate? I spent 4 years—as many
people have—urging the President from
afar, at least, to actively demonstrate
to us that his love of country out-
weighs his affinity for Putin. At this
point in time, I don’t expect his behav-
ior to change. But it is incumbent—in-
cumbent—upon the U.S. Senate, as
part of a coequal branch of govern-
ment, to call out the President and to
hold him accountable when he engages
in these kinds of actions or inactions,
as the case may be.
The Senate has taken some actions.
This body has passed a number of sub-
stantive sanctions: the Countering
America’s Adversaries Through Sanc-
tions Act—so-called CAATSA—against
Russia for its aggression in Ukraine
and interference in the 2016 election.
That was the right thing to do and an
appropriate thing to do.
The Senate Intelligence Committee
and other committees of jurisdiction
have done important work docu-
menting Russia’s interference in the
2016 election, but that is not enough.
The work cannot stop there. Russia has
continued, will continue, and will con-
tinue to succeed in undermining our
national security if we allow them.
The silence of Senate Republicans on
this issue of the President’s total def-
erence to Putin has become, in my
judgment, complicity. Those who fail
to stand up and loudly express their
alarm are tacitly showing their ap-
proval. Their failure to take action is
also its own danger to our democracy.
Instead of prioritizing the unprece-
dented public health and economic cri-
sis that is in front of us, some Repub-
lican-led committees—not all but
some—are prioritizing a partisan polit-
ical investigation, the basis for which
stems directly from a known Russian
disinformation campaign.
In the face of intelligence reports
showing that the Russians are once
again seeking to influence this elec-
tion, Senate Republicans have refused
to pass a single piece of substantive
election security legislation.
There is still time. I will give one ex-
ample or one suggestion to the major-
ity. The SAFE Act, which requires
paper ballots in Federal elections and
would authorize $775 million in grants
to help States secure their voting sys-
tems, passed the House 450 days ago,
but Majority Leader MCCONNELL would
rather let this bill gather dust on his
desk than take meaningful action to
protect our democracy, to protect our
election. The unwillingness to protect
our elections from foreign interference
is a dereliction of duty by the major-
ity.
Finally, in conclusion, I call on my
colleagues to answer the call of duty to
protect our election, protect our de-
mocracy, and protect our national se-
curity against malign and persistent
Russian influence and interference or-
chestrated by the man President
Trump has never criticized.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
f
REMEMBERING AMBASSADOR
RICHARD SCHIFTER
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today I
mourn the loss of a tremendous cham-
pion for human rights and the State of
Israel and one of my personal heroes
and mentors, Ambassador Richard
Schifter. Ambassador Schifter lived a
truly remarkable life. After escaping
Nazi-occupied Austria in 1938, he brave-
ly returned to Europe just a few short
years later as one of the U.S. Army’s
‘‘Ritchie Boys’’, German-speaking offi-
cers trained in counterintelligence at
Camp Ritchie in Maryland. While serv-
ing in Europe, he learned that all of his
family had been killed in the Holo-
caust. At just over 20 years old, Ambas-
sador Schifter had experienced more
adversity than most of us see in a life-
time. Nevertheless, he spent the next
seven decades demonstrating incredible
faith and courage as he strived to make
the world a better place.
Ambassador Schifter was successful
in this mission. After he graduated
from Yale Law School, he went on to
become an attorney, advocating for the
rights of Native American Tribes fac-
ing discrimination at the hands of the
U.S. Government. Under Presidents
Reagan and George H.W. Bush, he
served as Assistant Secretary of State
for Human Rights and Humanitarian
Affairs, U.S. Representative to the Ge-
neva-based UN Human Rights Commis-
sion, and as Deputy U.S. Representa-
tive to the UN Security Council. Under
President Clinton, he served as Special
Assistant to the President on the staff
of the National Security Council and as
Special Advisor to the Secretary of
State. As a diplomat and public serv-
ant, he fought against oppressive re-
gimes around the world. He pressured
the Soviet Union to release political
prisoners, end the criminalization of
dissent, and allow the emigration of
Soviet Jews. After leaving the U.S.
Government, Ambassador Schifter
went on the lead the American Jewish
International Relations Institute,
where he fiercely defended the State of
Israel and worked to ensure that other
people would never suffer his family’s
fate under the Nazis. Until his last day,
Ambassador Schifter fought to pro-
mote fairness and democracy and to
protect the security and freedom of
others.
I would be remiss if I failed to com-
memorate Ambassador Schifter’s enor-
mous impact on our home State of
Maryland. Ambassador Schifter served
for 20 years on the Maryland State
Board of Education, leading both the
Governor’s Commission on Funding the
Education of Handicapped Children and
the Governor’s Commission on Values
Education. He was also the chairman of
the Montgomery County Democratic
Committee. In all these roles, he
worked to expand equality and oppor-
tunity for everyone in our State. Even
as his professional responsibilities
spanned the globe, Ambassador
Schifter remained committed to build-
ing a brighter future for his neighbors.
Ambassador Schifter’s passing is a
staggering loss, but his legacy lives on
and will serve as the true North Star
for all of us who share his devotion to
human rights, democracy, and decency.
His parent’s decision in 1938 to send
their 15-year-old son to a new country,
alone, saved not just his life, but also
countless others on whose behalf Am-
bassador Schifter worked so indefati-
gably throughout his illustrious career.
I extend my deepest condolences Am-
bassador Schifter’s children and grand-
children and all those who were fortu-
nate enough to call Ambassador
Schifter a friend.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.066 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6326 October 20, 2020
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
RECOGNIZING THE CURTIS FAMILY
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I am
honored to recognize Dawn Curtis and
her late husband Danny Curtis on being
named 2020 Angels in Adoption award
recipients.
The Congressional Coalition on Adop-
tion Institute, CCAI, was established in
2001 to raise awareness about the need
for adoption in the United States and
eliminate barriers standing between or-
phan and foster children becoming part
of a family. Angels in Adoption is the
CCAI’s signature public awareness pro-
gram, which annually recognizes out-
standing individuals, families, and or-
ganizations that have made extraor-
dinary contributions to adoption, per-
manency, and child welfare. I am hon-
ored to congratulate Dawn and Danny
Curtis for their exemplary work that
led to this well-deserved national
honor.
Dawn and Danny had two biological
children and dreamed of a bigger fam-
ily. The call to expand their family was
answered during a visit to their local
Walmart, where Dawn and Danny were
browsing a photo album of children in
foster care at a booth hosted by the Ar-
kansas Department of Human Services.
They fell in love with the picture of a
4-year-old girl and learned she had
three brothers. The siblings had been
in the foster care system for 3 years
and multiple homes when the couple
adopted all four of the children.
After their first adoption experience,
Dawn decided to follow her passion to
work with children in foster care and
obtained her master’s degree in social
work. She went on to work for the Ar-
kansas Department of Human Services
and served in a variety of roles during
her career, including as an adoption
specialist. During these years, the fam-
ily was approached to consider adopt-
ing others in foster care and eventually
added six more children to their home.
Danny worked for many years as a
police officer and a bus driver while
caring for his growing family. Danny
and Dawn also visited Washington, DC,
on several occasions to advocate for
adoption and children in foster care.
The 12 Curtis children span 20 years of
age and are all adults now, but the ex-
ample and dedication of their parents
continues to move everyone around
them.
The Curtis family is an amazing ex-
ample of putting love into action.
Their personal commitment changed
the lives of the children they brought
into their family and serves as an in-
spiration for others as to the impact of
foster care and adoption.∑
f
REMEMBERING NORMAN HARRY
∑ Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I come forward today to recognize the
life and service of Norman Harry, wise
leader of the Pyramid Lake Paiute
Tribe, fierce advocate for the environ-
ment and a friend to all Nevadans. On
the morning of August 11, 2020, Mr.
Harry passed peacefully at his home in
Nixon, NV, his family surrounding him
in love. He was 65 years old.
Mr. Harry was born to Floyd and
Charlotte Harry on October 20, 1954,
and was raised on the Pyramid Lake
Paiute Reservation in addition to
spending time with family on the
Walker River Paiute Reservation. At
Fernley High School, he played basket-
ball and was a member of the rodeo
club, going on to gain recognition as a
competitive team roper and talented
rodeo photographer as a young man.
On December 21, 1990, he married
Beverly, and together, they have a son,
Jared, and a daughter, Autumn. He was
dedicated to his family and to his peo-
ple and was recognized as a national
leader in the environmental justice
movement as he was a tireless advo-
cate for his people, the lands, the
water, and the bounty our natural
world provides.
Mr. Harry’s legacy includes his his-
toric work protecting Northern Ne-
vada’s Pyramid Lake. Under his leader-
ship, the Truckee River Operating
Agreement was completed and settled
decades of litigation over water rights
and preserving the flow of water to
Pyramid Lake and securing it for fu-
ture generations.
Over the years, Mr. Harry served in
many roles for the Pyramid Lake Pai-
ute Tribe, including as Tribal chair for
three terms and vice chair. He fought
many battles to protect water quality
in northern Nevada and waged a
multiyear battle that ended the open
burning of munitions at the Sierra
Army Depot in Herlong, CA, a practice
that sent toxic clouds eastward over
the nearby Pyramid Lake Paiute tribal
lands and northern Nevada. In 2005, he
fought for the removal of 13 tons of
rockets, shells, and ammunition from
Pyramid Lake left by the military
going back to World War II. He served
as chairman of the board for Great
Basin Mine Watch and, through his
life, urged other Tribal leaders to get
involved in protecting groundwater and
environmental resources for the peo-
ple. He mentored and taught countless
other activists and organizers to cham-
pion issues of environmental protec-
tion.
Today, I celebrate the life and many
contributions of Mr. Norman Harry,
and I offer my sincere condolences to
his family and Pyramid Lake Paiute
Tribe. The State of Nevada is a better
place because we were lucky enough to
call Norman Harry one of our own. His
activism, leadership, knowledge, and
voice will be sorely missed.∑
f
RECOGNIZING RANDY DRUVENGA
∑ Mrs. ERNST. Mr. President, I am
honored to congratulate Waverly’s
Randy Druvenga on the conclusion of
his tenure as Chair of the National As-
sociation of Mutual Insurance Compa-
nies—NAMIC—a member organization
of property and casualty insurance
companies. Randy has helped lead this
organization through its 125th year of
existence, including the NAMIC Mutual
Insurance Foundation’s drive to raise
$125,000 for scholarships to help tal-
ented young Americans pursue their
college degrees toward careers in insur-
ance. It is fitting that Randy led
NAMIC during this milestone anniver-
sary as the association was founded by
Iowans in 1895.
While the Hawkeye State is happy to
share Randy with NAMIC, we are most
proud of his servant leadership in his
home State. Randy has served as the
past president of the Mutual Insurance
Association of Iowa and is currently
president of First Maxfield Mutual In-
surance Association, a farm mutual in-
surance company serving more than
7,900 policyholders in northeast Iowa.
He is a constant presence in his com-
munity, supporting numerous causes
including the Waverly-Shell Rock
Community Schools Foundation, and
as a former referee and member of the
Iowa High School Athletic Association
Officials Hall of Fame.
I want to again congratulate Randy
Druvenga for his leadership. Iowans are
famous for their commitment to their
communities, and Randy embodies that
spirit at home and beyond.∑
f
REMEMBERING MIRIAM STAHL
∑ Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, today I
would like to honor the life of a woman
who made immense contributions to
improve the lives of children through-
out New Hampshire, Miriam Stahl.
Originally from the Midwest, Miriam
moved to New Hampshire to be near
her family, and once here, she began
working at a critical community re-
source and early intervention center
called the Richie McFarland Children’s
Center.
Founded in 1971, the Richie McFar-
land Children’s Center works to pro-
vide social and therapeutic programs
for children, including those who expe-
rience disabilities. This center helps
children learn, grow, and thrive, while
also empowering families and working
to meet the needs of every child. The
center and its remarkable staff are
often the first professional resources
made available to a family and child
grappling with developmental chal-
lenges. To say that the center serves as
a lifeline is an understatement.
According to her colleagues, the
Richie McFarland Children’s Center
would not be what it is today without
Miriam’s vision and leadership. Miriam
served as the executive director of the
center for a decade, and she believed
passionately in the power of early
intervention to help children develop.
During her tenure, Miriam did all
that she could to use her talent, en-
ergy, and quiet determination to
prioritize the needs of children and to
provide them with vital support. Her
advocacy was clear, no nonsense, and
nonjudgmental. She made inroads as a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:34 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.054 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6327
October 20, 2020
result. After she retired, she remained
in New Hampshire and remained close
with her colleagues at the center.
Miriam passed away last month at
the age of 88, and she will be sorely
missed. Her legacy, though, will live on
through her family and through the
lasting impact she made on children
and families throughout New Hamp-
shire.
I hope that you join me in honoring
the life of a champion for all children,
Miriam Stahl.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
ENROLLED BILLS PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, October 20, 2020, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bills:
S. 2330. An act to amend the Ted Stevens
Olympic and Amateur Sports Act to provide
for congressional oversight of the board of
directors of the United States Olympic and
Paralympic Committee and to protect ama-
teur athletes from emotional, physical, and
sexual abuse, and for other purposes.
S. 2638. An act to amend title 49, United
State Code, to require small hub airports to
construct areas for nursing mothers, and for
other purposes.
S. 3051. An act to improve protections for
wildlife, and for other purposes.
S. 3758. An act to amend the Klamath
Basin Water Supply Enhancement Act of 2000
to make certain technical corrections.
S. 4075. An act to amend the Public Works
and Economic Development Act of 1965 to
provide for the release of certain Federal in-
terests in connection with certain grants
under that Act, and for other purposes.
S. 4762. An act to designate the airport
traffic control tower located at Piedmont
Triad International Airport in Greensboro,
North Carolina, as the ‘‘Senator Kay Hagan
Airport Traffic Control Tower’’.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–5612. A communication from the Chair-
man and Chief Executive Officer, Farm Cred-
it Administration, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report relative to the Administra-
tion’s 2020 compensation program adjust-
ments; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–5613. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Registration
and Compliance Requirements for Com-
modity Pool Operators and Commodity Trad-
ing Advisors: Prohibiting Exemptions Under
Regulation 4.13 on Behalf of Persons Subject
to Certain Statutory Disqualifications’’
(RIN3038–AE76) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 13, 2020; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
EC–5614. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Privacy of Con-
sumer Financial Information’’ (RIN3038–
AE91) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 13, 2020; to the Committee
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–5615. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Retail Com-
modity Transactions Involving Certain Dig-
ital Assets’’ (RIN3038–AE62) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 13,
2020; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–5616. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Trinexapac-ethyl; Pesticide Toler-
ances’’ (FRL No. 10012–51–OCSPP) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 19, 2020; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–5617. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Calcium Pantothenate; Exemption
from the Requirement of a Tolerance’’ (FRL
No. 10015–71–OCSPP) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 19,
2020; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–5618. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Thiamine Mononitrate; Exemption
from the Requirement of a Tolerance’’ (FRL
No. 10015–69–OCSPP) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 19,
2020; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–5619. A communication from the Con-
gressional Review Coordinator , Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, Department
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘National
Poultry Improvement Plan and Auxiliary
Provisions’’ ((RIN0579–AE49) (Docket No.
APHIS–2018–0062)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 15, 2020; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–5620. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readi-
ness), transmitting the report of an officer
authorized to wear the insignia of the grade
of major general in accordance with title 10,
United States Code, section 777, this will not
cause the Department to exceed the number
of frocked officers authorized; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–5621. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report relative to the export to the
People’s Republic of China of items not det-
rimental to the U.S. space launch industry;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–5622. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report on the continuation of
the national emergency that was originally
declared in Executive Order 13894 of October
14, 2019, with respect to the situation in and
in relation to Syria, and in particular the re-
cent actions by the Government of Turkey
to conduct a military offensive into north-
east Syria; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–5623. A communication from the Coun-
sel for Legislation and Regulations, Office of
the Secretary, Department of Housing and
Urban Development, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Enhanc-
ing and Streamlining the Implementation of
Section 3 Requirements for Creating Eco-
nomic Opportunities for Low- and Very Low-
Income Persons and Eligible Businesses’’
(RIN2501–AD87) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 5, 2020; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–5624. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Prohibitions
and Restrictions on Proprietary Trading and
Certain Interests in, and Relationships With,
Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds’’
(RIN3038–AE93) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 8, 2020; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–5625. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, Department of the Treasury, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Statement of Policy on Applica-
tions for Early Termination of Consent Or-
ders’’ (12 CFR Chapter X) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 19, 2020; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–5626. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Whistleblower Pro-
gram Rules’’ (RIN3235–AM11) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 13,
2020; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–5627. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Modernization of
Regulation S–K Items 101, 103, and 105’’
(RIN3235–AL78) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 13, 2020; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–5628. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Procedural Re-
quirements and Resubmission Thresholds
under Exchange Act Rule 14a-8’’ (Release No.
34–89964) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 13, 2020; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–5629. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fund of Funds Ar-
rangements’’ (RIN3235–AM29) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 13,
2020; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–5630. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19OC6.056 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6328 October 20, 2020
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Publication or Sub-
mission of Quotations Without Specified In-
formation’’ (RIN3235–AM54) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 13,
2020; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–5631. A communication from the Acting
General Counsel, Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Electric Reli-
ability Organization Proposal to Retire Re-
quirements in Reliability Standards Under
the NERC Standards Efficiency Review’’
(RIN1902–AF69) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 5, 2020; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
EC–5632. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Connecticut; Con-
trol of Particulate Matter and Visible Emis-
sions’’ (FRL No. 10013–47–Region 1) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 19, 2020; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
EC–5633. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Ohio; Volatile Or-
ganic Compounds’’ (FRL No. 10015–49–Region
5) received in the Office of the President of
the Senate on October 19, 2020; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–5634. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Pennsylvania; At-
tainment Plan for the Indiana, Pennsylvania
Nonattainment Area for the 2010 Sulfur Di-
oxide Primary National Ambient Air Quality
Standard’’ (FRL No. 10015–78–Region 3) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 19, 2020; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–5635. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Imple-
mentation Plans; Designation of Areas for
Air Quality Planning Purposes; California;
South Coast Moderate Area Plan and Reclas-
sification as Serious Nonattainment for the
2012 PM2.5 NAAQS’’ (FRL No. 10015–43–Re-
gion 9) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 19, 2020; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–5636. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Imple-
mentation Plans; New Jersey; Revisions to
Emissions Reporting Requirements’’ (FRL
No. 10014–13–Region 2) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on October 19,
2020; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–5637. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Findings of Failure to Submit State
Implementation Plans Required for Attain-
ment of the 2010 1-Hour Primary Sulfur Diox-
ide (SO2) National Ambient Air Quality
Standard (NAAQS)’’ (FRL No. 10015–79–OAR)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 19, 2020; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–5638. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Emission Standards for Haz-
ardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Recovery
Combustion Sources at Kraft, Soda, Sulfite,
and Stand-Alone Semichemical Pulp Mills;
Standards of Performance for Kraft Pulp
Mill Affected Sources for Which Construc-
tion, Reconstruction, or Modification Com-
menced After May 23, 2013’’ (FRL No. 10015–
72–OAR) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 19, 2020; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–5639. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Partial Approval and Partial Dis-
approval of Air Quality Implementation
Plans; Arizona; Nonattainment Plan for the
Hayden SO2 Nonattainment Area’’ (FRL No.
10014–48–Region 9) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 19,
2020; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–5640. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regu-
latory Guide (RG) 7.4, Revision 2, ‘Leakage
Tests on Packages for Shipment of Radio-
active Material’’ received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 5, 2020; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–5641. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regu-
latory Guide (RG) 3.72 ‘Guidance for Imple-
mentation of 10 CFR 72.48, Changes, Tests,
and Experiments’ ’’ received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 14, 2020; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–5642. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regu-
latory Guide (RG) 1.236, Revision 0, ‘Pressur-
ized-Water Reactor Control Rod Ejection and
Boiling-Water Reactor Control Rod Drop Ac-
cidents’ ’’ received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 14, 2020; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–5643. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regu-
latory Guide (RG) 5.61, Revision 0, ‘Intent
and Scope of the Physical Protection Up-
grade Rule Requirements for Fixed Sites’ ’’
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 5, 2020; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–5644. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nu-
clear Reactor Regulation, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Envi-
ronmental Considerations Associated with
Micro-reactors’’ (10 CFR Parts 50 and 52) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 5, 2020; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–5645. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nu-
clear Reactor Regulations, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Knowl-
edge and Abilities Catalog for Nuclear Power
Plant Operators: Boiling Water Reactors’’
(NUREG–1123) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 5, 2020; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–5646. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nu-
clear Reactor Regulations, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Knowl-
edge and Abilities Catalog for Nuclear Power
Plant Operators: Pressurized Water Reac-
tors, Revision 3’’ (NUREG–1122) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 5, 2020; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–5647. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Imple-
mentation Plans; Utah; Regional Haze 5-
Year Progress Report State Implementation
Plan’’ (FRL No. 10015–23–Region 8) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 8, 2020; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–5648. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; West Virginia;
Redesignation of the Marshall Sulfur Diox-
ide Nonattainment Area to Attainment and
Approval of the Area’s Maintenance Plan’’
(FRL No. 10015–34–Region 3) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 8,
2020; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–5649. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; New Hampshire;
Infrastructure State Implementation Plan
Requirements for the 2015 Ozone and 2012
PM2.5 Standards’’ (FRL No. 10015–24–Region
1) received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 8, 2020; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
EC–5650. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Kentucky; Jeffer-
son County Administrative Procedures’’
(FRL No. 10015–13–Region 4) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 8,
2020; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–5651. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Reclassification of Major Sources as
Area Sources Under Section 112 of the Clean
Air Act’’ (FRL No. 10014–50–OAR) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 8, 2020; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. HOEVEN, from the Committee on
Indian Affairs, without amendment:
S. 3099. A bill to provide for the convey-
ance of certain property to the Southeast
Alaska Regional Health Consortium located
in Sitka, Alaska, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–281).
By Mr. HOEVEN, from the Committee on
Indian Affairs, with an amendment in the
nature of a substitute:
S. 3100. A bill to convey land in Anchorage,
Alaska, to the Alaska Native Tribal Health
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.057 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6329
October 20, 2020
Consortium, and for other purposes (Rept.
No. 116–282).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. BRAUN:
S. 4812. A bill to provide the Secretary of
Defense and the Secretary of State with tem-
porary direct hire authority for certain posi-
tions, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 4813. A bill to support United States pol-
icy toward Taiwan; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 4814. A bill to ensure that sales, exports,
or transfers of F–35 aircraft do not com-
promise the qualitative military edge of the
United States or Israel, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself and Mr.
CASSIDY):
S. 4815. A bill to provide for a National Dis-
aster Safety Board; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN):
S. 4816. A bill to establish the Southern
Maryland National Heritage Area, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. RISCH,
Ms. COLLINS, and Mr. HAWLEY):
S. 4817. A bill to modify the 7(a) loan guar-
anty program of the Small Business Admin-
istration, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. SCHUMER, Ms. ROSEN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. COONS, Ms. HIRONO,
Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
BOOKER, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. KING,
Mr. REED, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. WARREN, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. HEINRICH,
Mr. BENNET, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. STABENOW,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Mr. PETERS):
S. 4818. A bill to provide assistance to
small businesses affected by COVID–19, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. CARDIN,
and Mr. KAINE):
S. 4819. A bill to improve the health of mi-
nority individuals, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TOOMEY:
S. 4820. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand the use of retire-
ment plan funds to obtain long-term care in-
surance, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 4821. A bill to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to clarify that utility line
technicians qualify as emergency response
providers; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mr.
YOUNG):
S. 4822. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to enhance tax benefits for
research activities; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Ms. WARREN, Mr. SAND-
ERS, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 4823. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act
to create a national zero-emission vehicle
standard, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and
Mrs. MURRAY):
S. Res. 748. A resolution congratulating the
Seattle Storm women’s basketball team on
winning the 2020 Women’s National Basket-
ball Association Championship; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
SCOTT of Florida, Mr. CARDIN, and
Mr. KAINE):
S. Res. 749. A resolution denouncing the
Maduro regime’s efforts to hold fraudulent
legislative elections, the absence of accept-
able conditions to ensure free, fair, and
transparent electoral processes in Venezuela,
and the further erosion of Venezuelan de-
mocracy; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 362, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to reform tax-
ation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 511
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 511, a bill to promote and protect
from discrimination living organ do-
nors.
S. 997
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
997, a bill to recognize and honor the
service of individuals who served in the
United States Cadet Nurse Corps dur-
ing World War II, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1374
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1374, a bill to amend title II of the
Social Security Act to eliminate the
waiting periods for disability insurance
benefits and Medicare coverage for in-
dividuals with metastatic breast can-
cer, and for other purposes.
S. 1418
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1418, a bill to establish the
Strength in Diversity Program, and for
other purposes.
S. 1687
At the request of Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
the name of the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1687, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a spe-
cial rule for certain casualty losses of
uncut timber.
S. 1700
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1700, a bill to provide a temporary safe
harbor for publishers of online content
to collectively negotiate with domi-
nant online platforms regarding the
terms on which content may be distrib-
uted.
S. 2246
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2246, a bill to amend titles
XVIII and XIX of the Social Security
Act to provide equal coverage of in
vitro specific IgE tests and
percutaneous tests for allergies under
the Medicare and Medicaid programs,
and for other purposes.
S. 2477
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2477, a bill to establish a Na-
tional Commission on Fibrotic Dis-
eases.
S. 2561
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2561, a bill to amend the Lacey
Act Amendments of 1981 to clarify pro-
visions enacted by the Captive Wildlife
Safety Act, to further the conservation
of certain wildlife species, and for
other purposes.
S. 2842
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2842, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act and the Bipar-
tisan Budget Act of 2018 to expand and
expedite access to cardiac rehabilita-
tion programs and pulmonary rehabili-
tation programs under the Medicare
program, and for other purposes.
S. 3072
At the request of Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
the name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3072, a bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to pro-
hibit the approval of new abortion
drugs, to prohibit investigational use
exemptions for abortion drugs, and to
impose additional regulatory require-
ments with respect to previously ap-
proved abortion drugs, and for other
purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.052 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6330 October 20, 2020
S. 3182
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 3182, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry
out the Women’s Health Transition
Training pilot program through at
least fiscal year 2020, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 3353
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3353, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide for
extended months of Medicare coverage
of immunosuppressive drugs for kidney
transplant patients, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 3471
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN), the Senator from
Nebraska (Mr. SASSE), the Senator
from Delaware (Mr. COONS), the Sen-
ator from Virginia (Mr. WARNER) and
the Senator from West Virginia (Mr.
MANCHIN) were added as cosponsors of
S. 3471, a bill to ensure that goods
made with forced labor in the Xinjiang
Uyghur Autonomous Region of the
People’s Republic of China do not enter
the United States market, and for
other purposes.
S. 3684
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 3684, a bill to make supplemental ap-
propriations for the Departments of
Agriculture, the Interior, Homeland
Security, Labor, and Commerce for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes.
S. 3686
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Georgia
(Mrs. LOEFFLER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 3686, a bill to provide for pa-
rental notification and intervention in
the case of an unemancipated minor
seeking an abortion.
S. 3722
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Nebraska (Mr.
SASSE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
3722, a bill to authorize funding for a
bilateral cooperative program with
Israel for the development of health
technologies with a focus on combating
COVID–19.
S. 3812
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 3812, a bill to amend title
38, United States Code, to expand eligi-
bility for hospital care, medical serv-
ices, and nursing home care from the
Department of Veterans Affairs to in-
clude veterans of World War II.
S. 3967
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 3967, a bill to reform Federal
Aviation Administration safety re-
quirements for commercial air tour op-
erators, and for other purposes.
S. 4012
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN), the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Sen-
ator from North Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
SMITH), the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE), the Senator from
Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN) and the Senator
from Iowa (Ms. ERNST) were added as
cosponsors of S. 4012, a bill to establish
a $120,000,000,000 Restaurant Revitaliza-
tion Fund to provide structured relief
to food service or drinking establish-
ments through December 31, 2020, and
for other purposes.
S. 4212
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
name of the Senator from Georgia
(Mrs. LOEFFLER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 4212, a bill to amend title 28,
United States Code, to strip foreign
sovereign immunity of certain foreign
states to secure justice for victims of
novel coronavirus in the United States.
S. 4216
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) and the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. PERDUE) were added
as cosponsors of S. 4216, a bill to direct
the Secretary of Health and Human
Services and the Comptroller General
of the United States to conduct studies
and report to Congress on actions
taken to expand access to telehealth
services under the Medicare, Medicaid,
and Children’s Health Insurance pro-
grams during the COVID–19 emergency.
S. 4225
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
4225, a bill to establish authority to de-
stroy counterfeit devices offered for
import, and for other purposes.
S. 4255
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 4255, a bill to amend the
CARES Act to establish community in-
vestment programs, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 4258
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) and the Senator from
New Mexico (Mr. UDALL) were added as
cosponsors of S. 4258, a bill to establish
a grant program for small live venue
operators and talent representatives.
S. 4349
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES), the Senator from Maine
(Ms. COLLINS) and the Senator from
Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 4349, a bill to address
behavioral health and well-being
among health care professionals.
S. 4380
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY), the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator
from New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 4380, a
bill to provide redress to the employees
of Air America.
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mr. MANCHIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 4380, supra.
S. 4395
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 4395, a bill to amend title 46,
United States Code, to authorize mari-
time transportation emergency relief,
and for other purposes.
S. 4426
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator from
Virginia (Mr. KAINE) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 4426, a bill to establish
an Office of Subnational Diplomacy
within the Department of State, and
for other purposes.
S. 4555
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 4555, a bill to reauthorize funding
for programs to prevent, investigate,
and prosecute elder abuse, neglect, and
exploitation, and for other purposes.
S. 4564
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN), the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH), the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) and
the Senator from California (Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN) were added as cosponsors of S.
4564, a bill to authorize the location of
a memorial on the National Mall to
commemorate and honor the members
of the Armed Forces that served on ac-
tive duty in support of the Global War
on Terrorism, and for other purposes.
S. 4657
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 4657, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to designate one
week each year as ‘‘Buddy Check
Week’’ for the purpose of outreach and
education concerning peer wellness
checks for veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 4701
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
4701, a bill to amend the Intermodal
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act
of 1991 with respect to future interstate
designations, and for other purposes.
S. 4764
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
4764, a bill to require the Secretary of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.061 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6331
October 20, 2020
Housing and Urban Development to es-
tablish a pilot program for public-pri-
vate partnerships for disaster mitiga-
tion projects, and for other purposes.
S. 4799
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT), the Senator from Missouri (Mr.
HAWLEY) and the Senator from Georgia
(Mrs. LOEFFLER) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 4799, a bill to require the im-
position of sanctions with respect to
forced abortions by the Government of
the People’s Republic of China.
S. 4805
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) and the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) were added as cosponsors
of S. 4805, a bill to create a point of
order against legislation modifying the
number of Justices of the Supreme
Court of the United States.
S.J. RES. 14
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S.J. Res. 14, a joint resolution pro-
posing an amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States to require
that the Supreme Court of the United
States be composed of not more than 9
justices.
S.J. RES. 76
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN), the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) and the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) were added as cosponsors
of S.J. Res. 76, a joint resolution pro-
posing an amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States to require
that the Supreme Court of the United
States be composed of nine justices.
S. CON. RES. 49
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN), the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. LEAHY), the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. CARDIN), the Sen-
ator from Rhode Island (Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE), the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN), the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Sen-
ator from Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ), the
Senator from Maryland (Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN), the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL), the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the Senator
from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN), the Senator
from California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN), the
Senator from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO), the
Senator from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO), the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET), the Senator from Vir-
ginia (Mr. KAINE), the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. MERKLEY), the Senator from
Connecticut (Mr. MURPHY), the Senator
from Ohio (Mr. BROWN), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH), the Sen-
ator from Arizona (Ms. SINEMA), the
Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. HAS-
SAN), the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH), the Senator from Ne-
vada (Ms. ROSEN), the Senator from Il-
linois (Ms. DUCKWORTH), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN), the
Senator from Maine (Mr. KING) and the
Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs.
SHAHEEN) were added as cosponsors of
S. Con. Res. 49, a concurrent resolution
mandating procedures to ensure ade-
quate precautions against COVID–19 in
Senate buildings.
S. RES. 679
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 679, a resolution express-
ing appreciation and support for essen-
tial employees with disabilities or who
are blind during the COVID–19 pan-
demic and beyond.
S. RES. 680
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Senator
from Delaware (Mr. COONS) were added
as cosponsors of S. Res. 680, a resolu-
tion condemning the People’s Republic
of China’s use of military aggression to
change the status quo at the Line of
Actual Control between India and
China.
S. RES. 689
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO), the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY), the Senator from Texas
(Mr. CORNYN) and the Senator from In-
diana (Mr. BRAUN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 689, a resolution
condemning the crackdown on peaceful
protestors in Belarus and calling for
the imposition of sanctions on respon-
sible officials.
S. RES. 709
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY), the Senator from New
Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS)
were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 709,
a resolution expressing the sense of the
Senate that the August 13, 2020, and
September 11, 2020, announcements of
the establishment of full diplomatic re-
lations between the State of Israel and
the United Arab Emirates and the
State of Israel and the Kingdom of
Bahrain are historic achievements.
S. RES. 716
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) and the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. SCOTT) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 716, a resolution
designating the week of October 5
through October 9, 2020, as ‘‘Malnutri-
tion Awareness Week’’.
S. RES. 745
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. YOUNG) and the Senator from Ne-
vada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. Res. 745, a resolution hon-
oring the life, legacy, and example of
former Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak
Rabin on the 25th anniversary of his
death.
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CARDIN, and Mr. KAINE):
S. 4819. A bill to improve the health
of minority individuals, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, there is
no shortage of examples showing how
our Nation systemically fails commu-
nities of color and other minorities,
but the events of 2020—namely COVID–
19 and the killings of Black Ameri-
cans—have brought heightened atten-
tion and urgency to addressing inequi-
ties and disparities throughout our na-
tion. Tragically, these inequities and
disparities pervade our health care sys-
tem, resulting in poor health outcomes
and barriers to care for far too many
communities.
Mr. President, I believe that
healthcare is a right—not a privilege—
and that this right should extend to ev-
eryone in our Nation. Yet, this is not
the case. Our Nation falls short in en-
suring that right to everyone regard-
less of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual
orientation, socioeconomic status, im-
migration status, or any other factor,
which is why I am reintroducing the
Health Equity and Accountability Act
(HEAA). This bill is a comprehensive
blueprint of bold policy solutions that
address a wide spectrum of health eq-
uity concerns.
Despite progress made through the
Affordable Care Act, health care access
remains a problem in the U.S., with
minority communities disproportion-
ately facing barriers to coverage.
HEAA expands access to health care
for many communities in need includ-
ing immigrant communities, rural
communities, and of particular impor-
tance to my state, citizens of the Free-
ly Associated States who are living in
our country under the Compacts of
Free Association.
We know that diversity in our health
care workforce can improve health out-
comes, and yet racial and ethnic mi-
norities remain underrepresented in
our health professions. HEAA seeks to
address the lack of diversity in our
health workforce through loan repay-
ment programs and health professions
fellowships. The bill would also help
providers better serve a diverse patient
population with culturally and linguis-
tically appropriate health care services
through investments like cultural com-
petency education and expanded lan-
guage access services to assist the over
12 percent of Hawaii residents and
about 8 percent of people nationwide
with limited English proficiency.
Women, children, and adolescents
often face additional barriers and dis-
parities in accessing information,
health education, health services, and
coverage. HEAA aims to dismantle
those barriers and address a range of
infant, maternal, sexual, and reproduc-
tive health needs, particularly for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.063 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6332 October 20, 2020
marginalized and underserved commu-
nities. For example, HEAA would in-
vest in sexual health education for un-
derserved, minority, and LGBTQ youth
and link them to services related to
positive health behaviors. The bill also
seeks to address our country’s trag-
ically high maternal mortality rate,
particularly for Black women, who
have a maternal mortality rate three
to five times that of White women.
HEAA would expand services to preg-
nant and postpartum women, develop
maternal health initiatives in rural
areas, and establish a program to ad-
dress implicit biases and cultural com-
petency in providers.
HEAA doesn’t stop there. The legisla-
tion would also expand and promote
mental and behavioral health services
for minority communities, increase
Federal resources for diseases that dis-
proportionately affect minorities—
such as heart disease and diabetes in
Native Hawaiians—and improve data
collection and reporting so we can
more completely recognize and address
health disparities. In Hawaii, these in-
vestments through HEAA will help
combat diseases like viral hepatitis,
which disproportionately affects Asian
Americans, Native Hawaiian, and Pa-
cific Islander communities, and better
understand the health disparities faced
by Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians,
and Pacific Islanders through
disaggregated data collection.
Finally, HEAA addresses the ‘‘social
determinants of health’’—non-medical
factors like the environment, housing,
education, and economic stability that
ultimately affect individual and com-
munity health. HEAA would require
non-health federal agencies like De-
partment of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, Department of Transpor-
tation, Department of Agriculture, and
Environmental Protection Agency to
work together to improve the social de-
terminants of health.
Achieving health equity is achievable
and to do it we must make bold, sub-
stantial investments in transforming
our health and health care systems. I
thank my colleagues for joining me in
introducing the bill, and encourage
others to join us as we work to level
the playing field and empower every-
one in our nation to achieve their full
health potential.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 748—CON-
GRATULATING THE SEATTLE
STORM WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
TEAM ON WINNING THE 2020
WOMEN’S NATIONAL BASKET-
BALL ASSOCIATION CHAMPION-
SHIP
Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Mrs.
MURRAY) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation:
S. RES. 748
Whereas, on October 6, 2020, the Seattle
Storm women’s basketball team (referred to
in this preamble as the ‘‘Seattle Storm’’)
won the 2020 Women’s National Basketball
Association (referred to in this preamble as
the ‘‘WNBA’’) Championship;
Whereas the 2020 WNBA Championship is
the fourth national championship that the
Seattle Storm has won and the second na-
tional championship that the team has won
in 3 years;
Whereas the Seattle Storm won the final
game of the 2020 WBNA finals with the larg-
est margin of victory in the history of the
WNBA finals;
Whereas, during the 2020 WNBA playoffs,
the Seattle Storm bested the Minnesota
Lynx women’s basketball team in the WNBA
conference finals and beat the Las Vegas
Aces women’s basketball team in the WNBA
finals;
Whereas the Seattle Storm led the 2020
WNBA season in points per game, assists per
game, and three-pointers;
Whereas the players of the 2020 Seattle
Storm championship team, including Sue
Bird, Jordin Canada, Alysha Clark, Natasha
Howard, Crystal Langhorne, Jewell Loyd,
Ezi Magbegor, Epiphanny Price, Mercedes
Russell, Breanna Stewart, Morgan Tuck, and
Sami Whitcomb, exhibited extraordinary
teamwork;
Whereas Breanna Stewart—
(1) received the WNBA Finals Most Valu-
able Player award for the second time in
2020, having received that award and the
WNBA League Most Valuable Player award
in 2018, and
(2) was named the 2020 WNBA Comeback
Player of the Year after missing the 2019 sea-
son with a torn Achilles tendon;
Whereas Alysha Clark received the 2020 De-
fensive Player of the Year award;
Whereas Sue Bird—
(1) finished her 17th season in the WNBA
with the Seattle Storm, having played in
every WNBA Championship series game in
which the Storm has participated;
(2) leads the WNBA with 2,888 career as-
sists; and
(3) has played more WNBA games than
other player in the history of the WNBA;
Whereas, during the 2020 WNBA season, the
Seattle Storm was led by Head Coach Gary
Kloppenburg and Assistant Coaches Ryan
Webb and Noelle Quinn;
Whereas the players of the Seattle Storm
were supported during the 2020 WNBA season
by the dedicated operational and medical
staff, including Talisa Rhea, Perry Huang,
Emily Blurton, Caroline Durocher, Susan
Borchardt, Dr. Michael Erickson, Dr. Jeff
Cary, Abby Gordan, Dustin Williams, Erica
Nash, Hunter Johnson, Mel Cable, and
Brooke Tyler;
Whereas the owners of the Seattle Storm,
Lisa Brummel, Dawn Trudeau, and Ginny
Gilder, are 1 of just 2 all-female ownership
groups in the WNBA;
Whereas the Seattle Storm has exhibited
dedication to making a social impact by
strengthening communities through the
StormCares partnership, a partnership be-
tween the Seattle Storm and organizations
in the greater Puget Sound region; and
Whereas the dedication and hard work of
the Seattle Storm have inspired and empow-
ered girls, boys, women, and men of all ages:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate recognizes—
(1) the achievements of the players, coach-
es, fans, and staff of the Seattle Storm wom-
en’s basketball team, whose dedication
helped the team win the 2020 Women’s Na-
tional Basketball Association Championship;
(2) the State of Washington and the city of
Seattle for their enthusiastic support of
women’s professional basketball; and
(3) the continuing progress toward ensur-
ing equity in men’s and women’s professional
sports.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 749—DE-
NOUNCING THE MADURO RE-
GIME’S EFFORTS TO HOLD
FRAUDULENT LEGISLATIVE
ELECTIONS, THE ABSENCE OF
ACCEPTABLE CONDITIONS TO
ENSURE FREE, FAIR, AND
TRANSPARENT ELECTORAL
PROCESSES IN VENEZUELA, AND
THE FURTHER EROSION OF VEN-
EZUELAN DEMOCRACY
Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. SCOTT
of Florida, Mr. CARDIN, and Mr. KAINE)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 749
Whereas the regime of Nicolás Maduro is
undertaking efforts to hold fraudulent legis-
lative elections for Venezuela’s National As-
sembly in December 2020 that will not com-
ply with international standards for free,
fair, and transparent electoral processes;
Whereas the Maduro regime is seeking to
use fraudulent legislative elections to under-
mine Venezuela’s sitting democratically
elected National Assembly;
Whereas, as codified under section 112 of
the VERDAD Act of 2019 (22 U.S.C. 9702), it is
the policy of the United States to recognize
the democratically elected National Assem-
bly of Venezuela, elected in December 2015
and sworn in on January 2016, as the only le-
gitimate national legislative body in Ven-
ezuela;
Whereas the United States Government
and members of the international commu-
nity have rightly denounced the Maduro re-
gime’s efforts to hold fraudulent legislative
elections in December 2020;
Whereas, on October 13, 2020, members of
the Lima Group—including Bolivia, Brazil,
Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guate-
mala, Haiti, Honduras, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, and Venezuela—issued a joint declara-
tion on the Maduro regime’s efforts to hold
legislative elections in December 2020 that
expressed ‘‘firm rejection of the continuing
of the illegitimate regime of Nicolás Maduro
in holding parliamentary elections without
the minimum democratic guarantees and
without the participation of all political
forces’’;
Whereas, on September 17, 2020, the Inter-
national Contact Group on Venezuela—
whose members include Argentina, Costa
Rica, Ecuador, the European Union, France,
Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Panama,
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, the United King-
dom, and Uruguay—issued a joint declara-
tion on the Maduro regime’s efforts to hold
legislative elections in December 2020 that
stated that ‘‘conditions are not met, at the
moment, for a transparent, inclusive, free
and fair electoral process’’;
Whereas, on June 12, 2020, the Maduro re-
gime’s illegitimate Supreme Court unilater-
ally appointed new members to Venezuela’s
National Electoral Council without the ap-
proval of the democratically elected Na-
tional Assembly;
Whereas, throughout 2020, the Maduro re-
gime—
(1) sought to coopt and undermine inde-
pendent political parties through a campaign
of systematic persecution; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.066 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6333
October 20, 2020
(2) used its discredited Supreme Court to
strip independent political parties of their
leadership, including Voluntad Popular,
Primero Justicia, and Acción Democrática;
Whereas the Maduro regime has a dem-
onstrated track record of holding fraudulent
elections over the last four years;
Whereas, on July 30, 2017, the Maduro re-
gime manipulated the results for Venezuela’s
Constituent Assembly by more than 1,000,000
votes, according to Smartmatic, the com-
pany that supplied Venezuela’s electronic
voting machines;
Whereas, in May 2018, the Maduro regime
held fraudulent presidential elections that
were broadly criticized as illegitimate, lead-
ing more 50 countries to recognize the end of
Nicolás Maduro’s term in office and the inau-
guration of National Assembly President
Juan Guaidó as Interim-President of Ven-
ezuela on January 23, 2019;
Whereas, according to the Venezuelan con-
stitution, Juan Guaidó, as President of the
National Assembly, serves as Venezuela’s In-
terim President in the absence of democrat-
ically elected president of Venezuela;
Whereas the conditions do not currently
exist for the free, fair, and transparent elec-
tion of new members of the National Assem-
bly or the president of Venezuela;
Whereas, as of September 7, 2020, the inter-
nationally recognized nongovernmental or-
ganization Foro Penal confirmed that, out of
the 110 individuals recently released from
prison by the Maduro regime to serve out the
remainder of their sentences under house ar-
rest, 53 were political prisoners, and that
currently 363 political prisoners remain un-
justly detained by the dictatorship without
due process;
Whereas, on September 16, 2020, the United
Nations Independent International Fact-
Finding Mission on the Bolivarian Republic
of Venezuela found that Nicolás Maduro and
senior members of his regime ordered and
carried out a campaign of extrajudicial exe-
cutions, forced disappearances, torture, and
arbitrary detentions that amounted to sys-
temic crimes against humanity;
Whereas the Maduro regime’s efforts to
hold fraudulent legislative elections, under-
mine the democratically elected National
Assembly and independent political parties,
and implement a campaign of state-spon-
sored violence and repression further erodes
democracy and the rule of law in Venezuela;
and
Whereas, as codified under section 4 of the
Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and
Civil Society Act (Public Law 113–278; 128
U.S.C. 3013), it is the policy of the United
States ‘‘to support the people of Venezuela
in their aspiration to live under conditions
of peace and representative democracy as de-
fined by the Inter-American Democratic
Charter of the Organization of American
States’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) denounces efforts by the Maduro regime
to hold fraudulent legislative elections in an
effort to undermine Venezuela’s democrat-
ically elected National Assembly;
(2) joins members of the international
community, including members of the Lima
Group, in rightfully rejecting the Maduro’s
regime efforts to carry out fraudulent legis-
lative elections;
(3) urges that presidential and legislative
elections in Venezuela be conducted at the
earliest possible date according to inter-
national standards for free, fair, and trans-
parent electoral processes, including credible
international election observation;
(4) calls on the Maduro regime to cease its
campaign of systematic persecution against
Venezuela’s independent political parties
and their leadership;
(5) calls on the Maduro regime to imme-
diately release all political prisoners, facili-
tate access by humanitarian organizations,
and end its campaign of extrajudicial execu-
tions, forced disappearances, torture, and ar-
bitrary detentions of political opponents,
human rights defenders, civil society activ-
ists, peaceful protesters, and citizens; and
(6) takes note of the finding of the United
Nations Independent International Fact-
Finding Mission on the Bolivarian Republic
of Venezuela that the Maduro regime’s cam-
paign of state-sponsored violence and repres-
sion against the people of Venezuela amount-
ed to crimes against humanity, and calls for
Nicolás Maduro and senior members of his
regime to be held accountable for their ac-
tions.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
f
RECESS UNTIL TOMORROW
Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I move
to recess.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on the motion.
The motion is agreed to.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:50 p.m.,
stands in recess until Wednesday, Octo-
ber 21, 2020, at 12 noon.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. MICHAEL T. PLEHN
THE FOLLOWING AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE UNITED
STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RESERVE
OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. RYAN T. OKAHARA
THE FOLLOWING AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE UNITED
STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RESERVE
OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be brigadier general
COL. MARLON E. CROOK
THE FOLLOWING AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE UNITED
STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RESERVE
OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be brigadier general
COL. DONALD R. BEVIS, JR.
THE FOLLOWING AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE UNITED
STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RESERVE
OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be brigadier general
COL. JOHN M. WEEK
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
PURSUANT TO TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. GEORGE N. APPENZELLER
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral
REAR ADM. (LH) RICHARD D. HEINZ
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. WESLEY R. MCCALL
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. KEVIN P. LENOX
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
MICHAEL G. KING
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED INDIVIDUAL FOR APPOINT-
MENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF
THE ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
JOHN M. TOKISH
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
MARK Y. LEE
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR TEMPORARY
APPOINTMENT TO THE GRADES INDICATED IN THE
UNITED STATES NAVY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
605:
To be captain
RAUL T. ACEVEDO
SAMANTHA A. DUTILY
TERRENCE E. FROST
JOHN M. HALTTUNEN
JUSTIN T. ISSLER
ROBERT S. JONES
JAMES A. MORROW
MATHIAS J. VORACHEK
To be commander
MIGUEL D. CHARLES
JASON A. FITE
DANIEL T. JONES
HENRY J. KENNEDY
PATRICK L. MCCLERNON
JEREMIAH S. SHUMWAY
ANDREW W. TOM
MATTHEW P. WARNECKE
To be lieutenant commander
ADAM K. ALBRECHT
DAVID M. ALLEN
KYLE C. ARNESON
NATHAN D. ASHINHURST
HARRISON B. ASKEW
MICHAEL H. AVERY
JASON P. BAITINGER
BRANDON L. BARKER
JASON B. BARKER
JAMES D. BARNES
ALEXANDER J. BODDIFORD
DAVID A. BRADLEY
CHASE P. BROWN
VANESSA D. BROWN
JOSEPH A. BUONACCORSO
WILLIAM R. CARTER III
CARLOS R. CEPEDA
DANIEL K. CHAPMAN
EVAN E. CHRISTMAN
PATRICK J. CONNAWAY
KENNETH W. DECKER
TIMOTHY R. DENNELLY
MATTHEW S. DESROSIERS
ASHLEE J. DILLARDHOUSTON
KEVIN P. DOYLE, JR.
TONY G. DUNLAVY
DANIEL E. ESPINOZA
ALEXANDER J. FISHMAN
DANIEL M. GALGINAITIS
JOHN W. GANNON
MARIO A. GRANATA
TYRELL S. GRANT
HAMILTON R. GUBANC
BRIAN R. GURECK
JOHN H. HADDAD
ANDREW C. HAINES
HARLEY S. HARP
JACKSON W. HUMMELDORF
JASON C. INGRAM
WILLIAM B. JONES
CHRISTOPHER L. KAMINSKY
DANIEL J. KINDERVATER
JOHN A. LAWLER
HEATHER I. LEE
PHILIP S. LEE
JOHNNIE R. LOWERY, JR.
OWEN H. LYNCH
SAMANTHA F. MARGOLIS
MICHAEL J. MARTIN
MICHAEL A. MARTINEZ
ANTONIO B. MIRANDA
BRIAN T. MOORE
CHRISTOPHER C. MORGAN
RYAN D. MULLEN
CHRISTOPHER M. MURRAY
JOSEPH P. NEWMAN
ALEXANDER P. PAPADAKOS
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.067 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6334 October 20, 2020
ANDREW J. PARKER
ERIC E. PAUL
NICHOLAS M. PULIDO
JOEL T. RALEY, JR.
BENJAMIN W. RATHWELL
TIMOTHY A. REEVES II
KRISTOPHER S. RESTEL
JASON C. ROBERTS
MARCO V. ROCHE
ROBERTO S. P. ROSALES
THOMAS J. SCOGGINS
DAVID J. SPAULDING
BRIAN A. STANFIELD
ANDREW C. TAYLOR
MICHAEL J. TENAGLIA
ANTHONY P. TESTINO
JAMES E. THOMAS
CARLOS S. TRAVERIA
KEVIN P. TULLOCH
TRAVIS M. TURNER
MICHAEL G. WALKER
DANIEL J. WILKINS
BRETT R. WILLIAMS
BENNIE R. WOODS, JR.
SHEU O. YUSUF
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
BRANDEN J. ALBRECHT
ADAM M. ALLEMAN
BLAINE M. ALLGOOD
ANDREW V. ANDERSON
KENNETH W. ANDERSON
STEPHEN L. ASTAFAN
FREDERIK J. AULIVELD
RHETT C. BARKER
MICHAEL J. BARTON
CHRISTOPHER M. BATTAGELLO
JUAN C. BENAVIDESBAYAS
JASON M. BENTLEY
JEFFREY R. BLAND
DAVID A. BOTWIN
RYAN J. CAHILL
CARISSALINA Q. CALISTE
ELIAZAR D. CAMPOS
ALEX CHERY
BRANDON J. CLEARY
STACIA L. A. CLUTTS
DAVID B. CONNELL
ALEXANDER J. COOPER
ZEFERINO CORTESRODRIGUEZ
ELIZABETH M. COURTNEY
RYAN M. CRAM
DANIEL E. CRIPE
MICHAEL A. CURTIS
FRANCISCO J. DEGOLLADO
NICHOLAS D. DESCHAMPS
ANTHONY J. DESPOTA
AARON B. DIAZ
GLADYS V. DIAZ
RICARDO ELIZALDEVALENCIA
ROBERT L. FORD
ANDREA P. FRANCIS
MICHAEL P. FRANKHOUSER
TYRONIE M. GARBUTT
LORENZO GARNER, JR.
TIMOTHY M. GEIL
CHRISTOPHER T. GERBER
JOSEPH GREEN III
NEAL R. GREENLUND
STEPHEN C. HALL
JACOB A. HAMILTON
LISA A. HARDMAN
JOHN A. HARMONY
EDWARD B. HAVEL
EMILY J. HAWKINS
FAITHANN M. HAWKINS
JEREMY L. HOBBS
LUCAS J. HORAN
WALTER R. HUSSONG II
HENSLEY G. HYLTON
BRETT R. JACOBS
ELISA M. JAIME
CHARLES E. JAMISON
JESSICA JIMENEZ
JASMINE J. JORDAN
SAMUEL S. JORDAN
ALEXANDER M. JULIAN
BRIGID M. JURGENS
KEVIN M. KIM
DARTANYON R. KING
GREGORY M. KRANZ
JACOB C. LAIRD
TIMOTHY N. LANDRY
MAYNARD K. LEE
JUSTIN A. LEMONS
BLAKE J. LINGAD
TUCKER M. LIVINGSTON
MICHAEL S. LUCAS
LUIS E. LUY, JR.
WILLIAM J. LYNCH
SAMUEL E. MACAVOY
MARK D. G. MACSULE
STEVEN A. MAKUCH
JOSHUA J. MANSILLA
MICHAEL S. MARCHESE
NATHANIEL T. MARLOW
GARY E. MAURER
MICHAEL T. MCCALL
BRENDAN P. MCCREARY
SHAUN P. MCGAHAN
PHILLIP E. MCGINNIS
BENJAMIN D. MCLAURY
FRANKLIN D. MIDDLEBROOKS
DERRICK D. MILLER
ERIC MIN
JEFFREY L. MORGAN
DAVID W. OH
CHRISTOPHER D. OKIMURA
DERRICK D. OLSON
BRYAN H. PACE
GARRETT A. PACE
JOHN M. PALERMO
KRISTINA M. PARMENTER
RONALD R. PARRY
CODY R. PERNA
JONNY M. PERRY
LEON A. PINHEIRO
JARED J. PITTS
JASON L. POTVIN
MATTHEW N. REDMOND
ERIC J. RICHEY
FRANKLIN D. ROBERSON II
PHILIP N. ROBINSON
PABLO J. RODRIGUEZ
DEREK A. RONCAIOLI
ERIK M. RUTTER
GUSTAVO B. SANTOS
THOMAS M. SCHWANDER
ERIC A. SCOGGINS
JARRETT A. SEIBEL
AARON J. SHINOFF
RYAN N. SHIPLEY
TAYLOR A. SHIPLEY
SAMUEL D. SHORTS
JUSTIN M. SHULL
CHRISTOPHER W. SMITH
TERRENCE L. SMITH
CHAD D. STEVENSON
ANDREW P. STILLERMAN
MATTHEW G. STYMFAL
VINCENT V. TES
TAMSYN O. THOMPSON
ERNESTO B. TIONGCO III
ELLIOT J. TORRESRIVERA
TIMOTHY S. TRASK, JR.
ROBERT M. VALLANCE
CORY D. VANDIVIER
TYLER R. VAUGHAN
MICHAEL J. VAZANA
JOHN P. WAGGENER
MICAH R. WALLIN
RYAN T. WARD
CHRISTOPHER B. WELLS
JOHN T. WELSH
MATTHEW R. WILKENS
HEATHER L. WILKINS
MANYIN C. WILLIAMS
JACOB P. WILLIAMSON
ROSANNE M. WITT
KIM L. WONG
DANIEL S. WRIGHT
BRANDY L. ZEHR
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
MARK E. BEAUDET
MICHAEL D. BROWN
ALEXANDER J. CHO
JISUP CHOI
CURTISS P. DWYER
ETHAN M. EVERTS
BRIAN D. GIBBONS
AUSTIN R. GRIMES
DAVID C. HOSTETLER
TAKANA L. JEFFERSON
KENNETH T. JEWELL
LARRY L. JONES, JR.
BRIAN E. MYERS
WILLIAM E. NEWSOME
HARDY G. OWENS
LAURA E. PALMER
EMILY B. ROSENZWEIG
WESLEY E. SCHOLTZ
MARK R. SIMONSEN
KENNETH M. STILES
DONELSON THEVENIN
COLBY R. TORRES
CHARLES M. WISE
MARK J. WON
ZACHARY B. ZUMWALT
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
CHRISTOPHER L. ADCOCK
DAMIAN R. ALLEN
STEPHEN V. BAKER
RYAN C. BARRETT
MICHAEL A. BOHN
TRAVIS O. BOLES
JAMES A. BRUNO
AARON V. BUREN
DYLAN L. M. BUSH
CHRISTIAN J. CAPRON
MAJELLEN C. CHANGCOCO
REECE E. COMER III
DANIEL M. CURLEY
TIMOTHY R. DAHMS
ANDREW D. DESCARY
ANDRES ESPINOSAFELICIANO
TYSON D. FENNERN
GENEVIEVE P. FLATGARD
YAHMAINE FORD
RICHARD K. FORNEY
PETER D. FOVARGUE
DENIQUA S. FREDDIE
NATALIA GERENASANTIAGO
JEREMIAH D. GILL
MELANIE R. GRIGSBY
VAUGHN A. HAMMANG
CHRISTOPHER L. HEBERT
BLAINE A. HENNING
ANGEL HERRERA, JR.
ADAM R. HOMEWOOD
ALLISON W. ISLIN
RHETT S. JOHNSON
SETH D. JONES
LUCAS E. KEISER
MARCUS F. KNOLL
AARON R. KOTLARZ
AARON S. KULP
MARY W. LEONE
JEDEDIAH C. LOMAX
MATTHEW T. LUNDIN
PAUL A. MANGLONA, JR.
CAROLINE Y. MASTRANGELO
DANIEL H. MCDONALD
DAMIAN MENDOZA
CHARLES F. MURDOCK
RORY J. OBOYLE
THEODORE D. PACKOWSKI II
NATHAN B. PLUMEY
ALLISON C. PONTAL
CODY N. ROBERTSON
AARON K. SAMUELSON
RYAN W. SAWYER
DAVID G. SCHULTZ
WILLIAM M. SHORT
GREGORY M. SHULTZ
PAUL E. SIMPSON
SCOTT D. SOBIERALSKI
NICHOLAS P. SWEET
NICHOLAS E. THOMPSON
LAUREN N. WAKEFIELD
MATTHEW G. WARD
SCOTT D. WIESER
ANTONI WYSZYNSKI
MICHAEL S. YEARY
STEVEN C. YEE
MICHAEL J. YOSHIHARA
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
JASON E. HAYES
JEREMIAH P. HILL
CHRISTOPHER S. WALTON
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES MA-
RINE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
WILLIAM J. WARKENTIN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES MA-
RINE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
JARED L. REDDINGER
IN THE COAST GUARD
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD TO THE GRADE IN-
DICATED UNDER TITLE 14 U.S.C., SECTION 2121(E):
To be commander
MICHAEL S. ADAMS, JR.
JOHN C. ADAMS
RYAN F. ADAMS
LISA M. AGUIRRE
JENNIFER P. AHEARN
WILLIAM C. ALBRIGHT
HALE A. ALLEGRETTI
NICHOLAS M. ANDERSON
PATRICK N. ARMSTRONG
HUNTER T. ATHERTON
NICOLE D. AUTH
LEE D. BACON
KRISTEN N. BAKER
STEVEN J. BALDOVSKY
JEFFERY C. BARNUM
ROGER B. BARR
YAMARIS D. BARRIL
NICHOLAS A. BARROW
SEAN H. BARTONICEK
PHILIP S. BAXA
EILEEN BECK
WILLIAM W. BELCHER
MICHAEL S. BELL
ARIEL BERRIOS
NATALIA M. BEST
SAMUEL A. BLASE
TIMOTHY E. BOETTNER
STEPHEN BOR
AMALIA D. BOYER
SARAH E. BRENNAN
MATTHEW P. BRINKLEY
MARK H. BROWN
JOSHUA W. BUCK
JESSICA J. BURRELL
JEFF B. BYBEE
ERIN M. CALDWELL
JASON R. CAMERON
JANE N. CARLEY
CHRISTOPHER D. CART
REY F. CASTILLO
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.039 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6335
October 20, 2020
LESLIE R. CLARK
JOEL C. COITO
TRAVIS S. COLLIER
MICHAEL P. CORTESE
WILLIAM F. COTY III
TIMOTHY N. CRONIN
THOMAS S. CROWLEY
KRISTEN A. CURRAN
GREGORY T. DAHL
CAREN C. DAMON
ADAM M. DAVENPORT
HOLLY J. DEAL
ANTHONY M. DESTEFANO
EDWARD L. DIPIERRO
JOSHUA M. DIPIETRO
JOHN Z. DOWNING
MEGAN L. DREWNIAK
KRISTIN P. DRISCOLL
JAYME L. DUBINSKY
MICHAEL S. DYKEMA
PATTON J. EPPERSON
SCOTT L. FARR
BOBBIE-JEAN FELIX
MICHAEL P. FELTOVIC
MICHELLE FERGUSON
BRIAN M. FINN
SUSAN M. FISCHER
BRIAN D. FITZPATRICK
KARYN S. FORSYTH
DIANNA D. GARFIELD
LUDWIG R. GAZVODA
ANGELIQUE M. GEYER
WESLEY M. GEYER
EMILY M. GIBBONS
MICHAEL S. GLINSKI
PHILIP J. GRANATI
JEANNETTE M. GREENE
GEORGE F. HALL
KARIMA A. HANTAL
JARED A. HARLOW
JONATHAN R. HARRIS
ANNA M. HART
JOSEPH H. HART
RYAN D. HAWN
WILLIAM K. HAYWOOD
TYLER K. HEFFNER
RYAN P. HENEBERY
KIMBERLY A. HESS
KELLY L. HIGGINS
JEFFREY S. HOLM
ROBERT M. HUNTER
JEFFERY B. HUSTACE
ELIZABETH A. HUTTON
JESSE E. HYLES
CHRISTOPHER A. JASNOCH
NOEL H. JOHNSON
FRANCES S. JOHNSON–GILLION
MATTHEW V. KEMPE
DANIEL P. KILCULLEN
CHRISTOPHER J. KLEIN
JASON M. KLING
SCOTT R. KOSER
BRIAN A. KUDRLE
NICHOLAS D. LEITER
JOHN M. LISKO
AMY M. LOCKWOOD
GREGORY R. LYNCH
DAVID S. MACCAFERRI
ANDREW P. MADJESKA
ARTHUR P. MAHAR
HEATHER M. MAJESKA
MATTHEW L. MARKOS
JUSTIN M. MATEJKA
DAVID P. MCCARTHY
JENNIFER A. MCKAY
DAVID M. MCLOUGHLIN
JACOB T. MCMILLAN
DANIEL J. MCQUATE
ADRIAN P. MICHALSKI
CHRISTOPHER J. MILLER
RYAN C. MILLER
GARY R. MILLS
STEPHEN R. MIROS
MATTHEW J. MITCHELL
CHRISTIAN G. MIURA
JEREMY J. MONTES
KIRA M. MOODY
KATHRYN A. MORETTI
MICHAEL C. MORGAN
FRANKLIN J. MORRISON
MATTHEW K. MOTHANDER
GINNY R. NADOLNY
ERICK M. NEUSSL
ELIZABETH J. NEWTON
JOHN E. NOTO
WAYNE T. O’DONNELL, JR.
JEFFREY K. PADILLA
HOON PARK
TREVOR E. PARRA
ADAM A. PAUL
JONATHAN C. PERRY
KRYSIA V. POHL
BRITTANY C. POLEY
RYAN B. POPIEL
EDWARD L. PORTER
CHRISTOPHER D. PRESNELL
STEVEN L. PUFFER
DAVID W. RATNER
RAYMOND J. REICHL
CORY A. RIESTERER
JOSEPH E. RIZZO
NATHANIEL L. ROBINSON
CHRISTOPHER C. ROSEN
MICHAEL T. ROSS
SARAH K. ROUSSEAU
ERIC E. ROY
KYLE T. RUSSELL
GEOFFREY A. SAHLIN
JOSEPH R. SEMKE
LINDSEY E. SENIUK
NICHOLAS C. SENIUK
REBECCA B. SHULTS
GREGORY S. SICKELS
BRIAN E. SIEMIATKOWSKI
JARED L. SILVERMAN
RICHARD S. SLOCUM
JUSTIN C. SMITH
SCOTT R. STECHSCHULTE
ANNA E. STEEL
FRANK A. STROM III
DAVID W. STUTT
RACHEL A. STUTT
BRENDAN SULLIVAN
CONOR J. SULLIVAN
CHRISTOPHER E. SVENCER
COLLEEN A. SYMANSKY
NICOLE M. TESONIERO
MICHAEL C. THOMAS
JONATHAN T. TILLMAN
TRACEY L. TORBA
DONALD S. TROUTMAN
JESSICA A. TRUJILLO
HOWARD K. VACCO
GERALYN M. VAN DE KROL
ERIC J. VELEZ
OSVALDO E. VERA
ADOLFO E. VIEZCA
JOHN H. WALTERS
MATTHEW E. WARANIUS
CHRISTIANE D. WEBER
CHRISTOPHER C. WEISER
JONATHAN I. WELCH
KRISTA L. WELCH
GERARD M. WENK
JEFFREY D. WEST
TAMARA B. WHALEN
JUDSON B. WHEELER
BRADLY G. WINANS
ADAM R. WOLFE
DEWEY W. WORKER
RONNEY C. WRIGHT
JOSHUA L. ZIKE
JAMES R. ZOLL, JR.
ANDREW H. ZUCKERMAN
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A19OC6.042 S19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
SENATE
D923
Monday, October 19, 2020
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6049–S6302
Measures Introduced: Twelve bills and two resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 4800–4811, S.J.
Res. 76, and S. Res. 747. Page S6073
Measures Reported:
S. 3287, to modify the governmentwide financial
management plan, with an amendment in the nature
of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–278)
S. 4204, to establish an Interagency Task Force to
analyze preparedness for national pandemics, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S. Rept.
No. 116–279)
H.R. 4713, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to make certain improvements in the Office
for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–280)
Page S6073
Measures Considered:
Protect Act: Senate began consideration of the mo-
tion to proceed to consideration of S. 4675, to
amend the Health Insurance Portability and Ac-
countability Act. Pages S6051–52
Community Reinvestment Act Regulations Con-
gressional Disapproval: By 43 yeas to 48 nays
(Vote No. 201), Senate did not agree to the motion
to proceed to consideration of H.J. Res. 90, pro-
viding for congressional disapproval under chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted
by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency re-
lating to ‘‘Community Reinvestment Act Regula-
tions’’. Pages S6052–58
House Messages:
Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act: Senate re-
sumed consideration of the amendment of the House
of Representatives to S. 178, to condemn gross
human rights violations of ethnic Turkic Muslims in
Xinjiang, and calling for an end to arbitrary deten-
tion, torture, and harassment of these communities
inside and outside China, taking action on the fol-
lowing motions and amendments proposed thereto:
Page S6050
Withdrawn:
McConnell (for Tillis) Amendment No. 2673 (to
Amendment No. 2652), to amend the Health Insur-
ance Portability and Accountability Act to prohibit
pre-existing condition exclusions. Page S6050
Pending:
McConnell motion to concur in the amendment of
the House of Representatives to the bill, with
McConnell Amendment No. 2652, in the nature of
a substitute. Page S6050
McConnell Amendment No. 2680 (to Amend-
ment No. 2652), to improve the small business pro-
grams. Pages S6050–51
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
A motion was entered to close further debate on
McConnell motion to concur in the amendment of
the House of Representatives to the bill, with
McConnell Amendment No. 2652 (listed above),
and, in accordance with the provisions of Rule XXII
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a vote on clo-
ture will occur on Wednesday, October 21, 2020.
Page S6050
Newman Nomination—Agreement: Senate re-
sumed consideration of the nomination of Michael
Jay Newman, of Ohio, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of Ohio.
Pages S6059, S6302
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination at
approximately 12 noon, on Tuesday, October 20,
2020. Page S6302
Messages from the House: Pages S6071–72
Measures Referred: Page S6072
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S6072
Measures Read the First Time: Page S6072
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S6073
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6073–75
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S6075–S6298
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:18 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D19OC0.PT2 D19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D924 October 19, 2020
Additional Statements: Page S6071
Amendments Submitted: Pages S6296–S6301
Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today.
(Total—202) Pages S6075–58
Recess: Senate convened at 4:30 p.m., agreed to the
motion to recess, and recessed at 7:04 p.m., until 12
noon on Tuesday, October 20, 2020. (For Senate’s
program, see the remarks of the Acting Majority
Leader in today’s Record on page S6302.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
The House was not in session today. The House
is scheduled to meet at 9 a.m. on Tuesday, October
20, 2020.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D903)
H.J. Res. 87, providing for the reappointment of
Michael M. Lynton as a citizen regent of the Board
of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. Signed on
October 2, 2020. (Public Law 116–162)
H.J. Res. 88, providing for the appointment of
Franklin D. Raines as a citizen regent of the Board
of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. Signed on
October 2, 2020. (Public Law 116–163)
H.R. 991, to extend certain provisions of the Car-
ibbean Basin Economic Recovery Act until Sep-
tember 30, 2030. Signed on October 10, 2020.
(Public Law 116–164)
S. 227, to direct the Attorney General to review,
revise, and develop law enforcement and justice pro-
tocols appropriate to address missing and murdered
Indians. Signed on October 10, 2020. (Public Law
116–165)
S. 982, to increase intergovernmental coordination
to identify and combat violent crime within Indian
lands and of Indians. Signed on October 10, 2020.
(Public Law 116–166)
S. 490, to designate a mountain ridge in the State
of Montana as ‘‘B–47 Ridge’’. Signed on October 13,
2020. (Public Law 116–167)
S. 1646, to designate the community-based out-
patient clinic of the Department of Veterans Affairs
in St. Augustine, Florida, as the ‘‘Leo C. Chase Jr.
Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic’’. Signed on
October 13, 2020. (Public Law 116–168)
S. 4072, to designate the clinic of the Department
of Veterans Affairs in Bend, Oregon, as the ‘‘Robert
D. Maxwell Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic’’.
Signed on October 13, 2020. (Public Law 116–169)
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
OCTOBER 20, 2020
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Over-
sight, hearing entitled ‘‘Maximizing Health Coverage En-
rollment Amidst Administration Sabotage’’, 12 p.m.,
Webex.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of October 20 through October 23, 2020
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the nomination of Michael Jay Newman, of Ohio, to
be United States District Judge for the Southern
District of Ohio.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Octo-
ber 21, to hold hearings to examine passenger and freight
rail, focusing on the current status of the rail network
and the track ahead, 10 a.m., SR–253.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:18 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D19OC0.PT2 D19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D925
October 19, 2020
Committee on the Judiciary: October 22, business meeting
to consider the nominations of Amy Coney Barrett, of In-
diana, to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court
of the United States, Benjamin Joel Beaton, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of Ken-
tucky, Kristi Haskins Johnson, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of Mississippi, Tay-
lor B. McNeel, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Mississippi, Kathryn Kimball
Mizelle, to be United States District Judge for the Mid-
dle District of Florida, and Thompson Michael Dietz, of
New Jersey, to be a Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims, S. 4632, to amend title 17, United States
Code, to establish an alternative dispute resolution pro-
gram for copyright small claims, to amend the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 to modify the scope of protection
from civil liability for ‘‘good Samaritan’’ blocking and
screening of offensive material, and an authorization for
subpoenas relating to online content moderation, 9 a.m.,
SD–G50.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: October 21, to hold hear-
ings to examine VA MISSION Act, focusing on assessing
progress implementing Title I, 9:30 a.m., SD–106.
House Committees
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:18 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D19OC0.PT2 D19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D926 October 19, 2020
Next Meeting of the SENATE
12 noon, Tuesday, October 20
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Michael Jay Newman, of
Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Southern
District of Ohio.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Tuesday, October 20
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 9 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:18 Oct 21, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D19OC0.PT2 D19OCPT2
ctelli
on
DSK11ZRN23PROD
with
DIGEST
