Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H7669
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2019 No. 146
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
PRAYER
Reverend Kyle Wright II, Holy Cross
Lutheran Church and School, Collins-
ville, Illinois, offered the following
prayer:
In the name of the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Ghost, amen.
I thank and praise You, Heavenly Fa-
ther, for moving each and every one of
these men and women to serve this
country which You sustain in Your
mercy. Watch over them this day that
Your will be done in their discussions,
decisions, and, most of all, their ac-
tions.
You are the God of all power and
might who, out of love for Your cre-
ation, established order from chaos,
peace from discord, and life from
death.
For the sake of Christ Jesus our
Lord, forgive us of our pride, our dis-
obedience, and our poor stewardship of
what You have placed into our care.
According to Your mercy, open the
eyes and hearts of Your people so they
may know the depth of Your love found
only in Christ Jesus.
Dear Lord, I commend to Your care
our Congress, our government, and our
Nation, as You judge and keep us ac-
cording to Your just mercy.
In Jesus Christ our Lord, amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from Minnesota (Mr. STAUBER) come
forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. STAUBER led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING REVEREND KYLE
WRIGHT II
The SPEAKER. Without objection,
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. SHIM-
KUS) is recognized for 1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I
rise to thank and welcome Pastor
Wright. Pastor Wright serves as pastor
of my home congregation, Holy Cross
Lutheran Church and School in Col-
linsville, Illinois.
He received his undergraduate degree
from Concordia University in Austin,
Texas, and a master of divinity from
Concordia Theological Seminary in
Fort Wayne, Indiana. He is currently
pursuing a master of sacred theology
at Concordia Seminary in St. Louis,
Missouri.
He has served as a pastor for the Lu-
theran Church Missouri Synod since
2006. During that time, he has also
served as a resource hospital chaplain,
hospice chaplain, and on multiple
boards.
His wife, Keri, is the help, support,
and love of his life. They have four
beautiful daughters. Katie is 12; Gwen,
10; Lilli, 10; and Magie, also 10.
Yes, you heard it right, triplets.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to five further requests for 1-
minute speeches on each side of the
aisle.
IN RECOGNITION OF THE SEP-
TEMBER 13, 2018, MERRIMACK
VALLEY GAS EXPLOSIONS
(Mrs. TRAHAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise in recognition of a tragic anniver-
sary that the residents of the
Merrimack Valley will never forget.
Tomorrow marks 1 year since a cas-
cade of explosions in Lawrence, Ando-
ver, and North Andover, Massachu-
setts, damaged over 130 homes and
businesses, burning several to the
ground.
At least 20 people were sent to the
hospital. A Lawrence police officer,
Ivan Soto, lost his home while aiding
his community. Shakira Figueroa was
seriously injured, and a young man,
Leonel Rondon, lost his life.
An NTSB investigation revealed a se-
ries of failures by the gas company as
it replaced pipelines in the area. Over-
sights allowed the full flow of high-
pressure gas to enter a low-pressure
distribution system.
In April, I introduced the Leonel
Rondon Pipeline Safety Act to prevent
this type of disaster from ever hap-
pening again. We owe it to the Sotos,
the Figueroas, the Rondons, and the
many other families who suffered on
September 13 to pass strong pipeline
safety legislation this year.
f
THANKING THE ST. LOUIS COUNTY
VOLUNTEER RESCUE SQUAD
(Mr. STAUBER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to express my gratitude for the
St. Louis County Volunteer Rescue
Squad, located in northern Minnesota,
and their quick response to an emer-
gency that took place in my district a
little over a month ago.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE7.000 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7670 September 12, 2019
At the end of July, a group of Girl
Scouts traveled to northern Minnesota
to experience the beauty and magnifi-
cence of the Boundary Waters Canoe
Area. Their trip unexpectedly hit a
rough patch when severe thunder-
storms rolled in and lightning struck
close to their campsite. A few of the
girls reported feeling something from
the ground, potentially a ground cur-
rent, and needing precautionary med-
ical attention.
The Boundary Waters Canoe Area is
very remote, making any rescue at-
tempt more complex and rigorous. Nev-
ertheless, the St. Louis County Volun-
teer Rescue Squad members imme-
diately sprang into action, navigating
five portages by motorboat and then
canoe, escorting the girls back to safe-
ty.
Mr. Speaker, I am thankful that the
Northland has such a capable and well-
trained group of individuals dedicated
to the safety of our neighbors and visi-
tors. Due to their hard work over the
years, many emergencies have been
averted and lives have been saved.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF MARCA BRISTO
(Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
this past weekend, we lost my dear
friend, Marca Bristo, an inspiring civil
rights activist from Chicago.
Marca had a diving accident when
she was young that left her paralyzed
from the chest down. She never allowed
her disability to define her. Instead,
her disability became her superpower.
Marca dedicated her life to changing
laws and bringing attention to the dis-
parities faced by people with disabil-
ities in the most basic services. She
was instrumental in bringing wheel-
chair ramps to Chicago public buses.
She didn’t do this by just writing let-
ters or holding meetings. Marca went
as far as chaining herself to a bus to
force the Chicago Transit Authority to
make mass transit more accessible.
She worked with the broader civil
rights communities to pass key legisla-
tion like the Americans with Disabil-
ities Act. The organization she found-
ed, Access Living of Metropolitan Chi-
cago, will carry on with her legacy.
I send our heartfelt thoughts to her
son and her daughter.
Rest in power, Marca Bristol.
f
HONORING THE SIMPSON COUNTY
HISTORICAL SOCIETY
(Mr. COMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Simpson County
Historical Society and its long-reach-
ing influence on Simpson County and
the surrounding communities.
Since its founding in 1959, Simpson
County Historical Society has been a
valuable asset to the First District of
Kentucky. Through the collection and
preservation of historical property and
genealogical records, the society has
been able to maintain an extensive ar-
chive for the benefit of future genera-
tions.
I applaud the work the society has
done over the last 60 years, and I am
pleased to say that, as of Thursday,
September 12, they will have expanded
to a newer, larger facility enabling
them to increase their research capa-
bilities and broaden their effect on
local education and cultural develop-
ment.
I join with the residents of Simpson
County and the local community, as
well as those who have benefited from
the work of the Simpson County His-
torical Society, in honoring their in-
credible dedication to the preservation
and promotion of history. I wish the
historical society the best as they
begin a new phase of their own history
and express my gratitude for their
service to the First District of Ken-
tucky.
f
WE NEED A RESET
(Mr. BLUMENAUER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, we
have a crisis in housing, in homeless-
ness, growing wealth inequality, and it
is all not an accident. It is the result of
deliberate discrimination and policy
failure.
The Federal Government, for years,
intervened in housing for White vet-
erans, for middle-class homeowners, for
developers and property owners, but
shut out poor and, especially, people of
color—African Americans, most nota-
bly. Trump is making it worse.
Tonight, 550,000 people will go to
sleep homeless. We have a gap of 7 mil-
lion affordable rental units, and in-
come inequality grows. We need a
reset.
Last week, I released this report,
‘‘Locked Out: Reversing Federal
Housing Failures and Unlocking
Opportunity,’’ which details solutions
for our most vexing housing policy
challenges. It is available on
blumenauer.house.gov website.
We must be bold, transformative, and
ambitious in solving these challenges.
We can’t afford another generation of
small-scale thinking and large-scale
failure.
f
CELEBRATING THE 150TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE JEFFERSON
COUNTY COURTHOUSE
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate
the 150th anniversary of the Jefferson
County Courthouse in Pennsylvania’s
15th Congressional District.
Since its opening in 1869, the Jeffer-
son County Courthouse has undergone
serious renovations and changes, but
its impact on the community remains
steadfast. County Commissioner Jack
Matson said: ‘‘You really can’t be a
resident of Jefferson County and not
have the courthouse affect your daily
lives.’’
Tomorrow, the Jefferson County
community will come together to cele-
brate this milestone on the courthouse
grounds in Brookville. The program-
ming will include tours of the court-
house, a performance by the Punx-
sutawney Area High School marching
band, a reenactment of the trial of abo-
litionist Judge Elijah Heath, and the
dedication of a World War II monu-
ment. The evening will conclude with
the lighting of the bell tower and a spe-
cial rig designed by students at the Jef-
ferson County-Dubois Area Vocational-
Technical School.
Jefferson County Commissioner Jeff
Pisarcik said it best when he said: ‘‘It’s
not our building; it’s everybody’s build-
ing that lives in Jefferson County.’’
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF TOM
FERRARESE
(Mr. MORELLE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor my longtime friend and
Monroe County Board of Elections
commissioner, Tom Ferrarese, as he
begins his retirement.
For more than two decades, Tom has
served our community with distinction
at the Board of Elections, working tire-
lessly to expand access to voters, safe-
guard our elections, and uphold the
democratic process.
Tom has been a passionate political
and community activist, working dili-
gently to advance the ideals of the
Democratic Party, not just through his
work at the board, but through his ex-
tensive volunteer and community ad-
vocacy on behalf of LGBTQ individuals.
It has been a true privilege to work
alongside Tom, and our entire commu-
nity is grateful for his many years of
service. I wish him nothing but a well-
deserved rest, relaxation, and best
wishes in retirement.
f
b 0915
RECOGNIZING U.S. SPACE
COMMAND
(Mr. LAMBORN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize our newest combat-
ant command: U.S. Space Command,
which was stood up on Monday in Colo-
rado Springs.
President Trump’s decision to stand
up SPACECOM could not be more time-
ly. In recent years, Russia and China
have reorganized their militaries and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.002 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7671
September 12, 2019
pursued capabilities to threaten our
space assets. Fortunately, our Nation
has no shortage of innovative and bril-
liant men and women in uniform.
Our newest combatant command will
harness the creative dynamo of these
space warfighters. Congress will give
them the authorities and funding they
need to triumph in this newest contest
of arms. With the infrastructure, in-
dustrial base, and personnel already lo-
cated at Peterson and Schriever Air
Force Bases in Colorado Springs,
SPACECOM can seamlessly transition
into a fully functioning combatant
command immediately. This is a great
and exciting milestone for our Nation.
f
ARCTIC CULTURAL AND COASTAL
PLAIN PROTECTION ACT
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
1146.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BLUMENAUER). Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from Cali-
fornia?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 548 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 1146.
The Chair appoints the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. CASTEN) to preside
over the Committee of the Whole.
b 0916
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1146) to
amend Public Law 115–97 (commonly
known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act)
to repeal the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge oil and gas program, and for
other purposes, with Mr. CASTEN of Illi-
nois in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall be confined to
the bill and amendments specified in
section 2 of House Resolution 548, and
shall not exceed 1 hour equally divided
and controlled by the chair and rank-
ing minority member of the Committee
on Natural Resources
The gentleman from California (Mr.
HUFFMAN) and the gentleman from
Alaska (Mr. YOUNG) each will control
30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Today the House of Representatives
will take a historic vote to roll back
one provision of the Republican tax law
that was rammed through the last Con-
gress on a party line vote. In addition
to the tax breaks to millionaires, bil-
lionaires, and multinational corpora-
tions, there was a provision that man-
dated oil and gas development in the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
Today we will take up bipartisan leg-
islation to repeal this drilling man-
date, protecting, not just the Arctic
Refuge, but the wildlife and the indige-
nous people who depend on this sacred
natural landscape.
I introduced H.R. 1146 earlier this
year with my Republican colleague
BRIAN FITZPATRICK because we believe,
as do 182 other cosponsors of this bill,
that there are some places that are
simply too important, too special, too
sacred to be spoiled by oil and gas de-
velopment. This is the same basic prop-
osition that we were presented with
yesterday when the House passed bi-
partisan legislation to protect our
coasts from offshore drilling. Because
the north coast of California is too spe-
cial to have its fisheries and coastal
economy put at risk for the profit of
big oil. Because places like the
Lowcountry of South Carolina are too
special to be spoiled by oil spills.
Today we are here to show that the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, the
largest wildlife refuge in the United
States is also too special.
The refuge is home to more than 200
different wildlife species, and that in-
cludes the Porcupine caribou herd that
is a vital source of subsistence for the
indigenous Gwich’in people. The refuge
is a special place where veterans recov-
ering from PTSD find themselves
again. We have heard these voices and
many others during Natural Resource
Committee deliberations on this bill in
a hearing earlier this year. And I thank
all of those who testified and have spo-
ken out to help us bring this bill to the
floor today.
The question before us is: Will the
Federal Government protect this spe-
cial place and the communities that
depend on it or will our Federal Gov-
ernment be responsible for its destruc-
tion by auctioning it off to big oil?
During this debate, my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle are going to
ask us and ask the American people to
trust this administration to do the
right thing.
They are going to say that drilling
can be done responsibly. They will ask
us to trust a Secretary of the Interior
who the GAO has determined violated
Federal spending laws during the
Trump government shutdown. A sec-
retary who violated his ethics pledge
by meeting with his former clients at
the U.S. Oil and Gas Association as
they were pushing for more drilling on
American public lands. And a secretary
who continues to shill for his former
lobbying clients at every turn.
They will ask us to trust this admin-
istration where the leading Depart-
ment of the Interior official pushing
for drilling in the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge just left public service
days ago to start a new job at an oil
and gas company with interests, be-
lieve it or not, in Arctic oil and gas de-
velopment in Alaska. You can’t make
this stuff up. They will ask us to trust
a President, who, armed with a
Sharpie, overrules scientists and
threatens the jobs of scientists when
they speak out.
We need to reject this agenda of big
oil and protect America’s Arctic from
oil and gas drilling. It is time to pass
H.R. 1146 and repeal the Trump admin-
istration tax laws drilling mandate.
Mr. Chairman, I urge adoption, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
(Mr. YOUNG asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, I listened
to the presentation of the author of
this bill. I have been in this House 48
years. We have been arguing about this
ANWR for 40 of those years. We have
passed it out of the house 14 times. And
by the way, it was established by a
Democrat President and a Democrat
House to allow the 1002 areas to be ex-
plored if Congress said so. And that is
what we have done.
Now we have a sponsor from Cali-
fornia who doesn’t know beans about
this business talking about big oil and
about Trump. This has been a policy of
this Nation to allow drilling there if
the Congress spoke, and we did so.
Under the tax bill, yes, but 13 times be-
fore that this House passed the legisla-
tion to have the 1002 explored.
Just keep in mind, we are talking
about an area of a 19-million-acre ref-
uge and areas left inside, the 1002
area—the map behind me, if anybody
can see that little tiny red dot, 2,000
acres, less than the size of Dulles Air-
port, less than the size of the Capitol
grounds. And yet, we are trying to say,
no, no development. We are trying to
say that is not right, this is the last
pristine area. May I say again, it is not
the last pristine area.
We have had approximately 30 years
of development in Prudhoe Bay, the
same type of terrain, same species of
animals, same amount of caribou. In
fact, we have more now than we had
before after we started drilling. So this
bill is a sham. And I listened to this
with great interest. I always under-
stand what they are trying to do, and
it is also a sham to this Congress. This
Congress spoke. It is a sham to this Na-
tion. We are taking time away from
what should be done in this Nation. We
have sat, frankly, 2 years in this House
and have done nothing.
Unfortunately, we have heard also
this is a cultural bill, and the Gwich’in
supposedly is all this gentleman listens
to, doesn’t listen to the Inupiats. That
to me is important. The people that
live there want the drilling. The people
at least 150 miles away don’t want the
drilling, but that is who they are lis-
tening to.
So, again, my colleagues, this bill is
the wrong step forward for this Nation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.005 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7672 September 12, 2019
It is not about big oil. It is about the
State of Alaska. It is about my con-
stituents, not California; they have
enough problems of their own. Just
read the papers. So I am suggesting,
with respect, this bill should not go
anywhere. It may pass today, because
there are a lot of people on that side
who don’t believe in oil. I understand
that. But it is wrong to undo what Con-
gress has done. And now I will suggest,
respectfully, it is dead. You are wast-
ing our time. It will not go anywhere,
that is why I am not going to get really
excited and go over there and—never
mind.
I would suggest, respectfully, I am
going to see the death of this bill a
long time before this gentleman is ever
in this House again.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentleman for his restraint.
One of the arguments my friend from
Alaska invariably makes when we talk
about this issue is the proposed drilling
area is just a tiny little piece of a great
big refuge in a great big State. And it
is typically characterized as just a lit-
tle 2,000-acre postage stamp.
We need to dispel this very inac-
curate and disingenuous characteriza-
tion. It may be 2,000 acres of hard foot-
print, but it is not 2,000 acres of devel-
opment all in one place. It is spread
out across the coastal plain, which is
the beating heart of America’s largest
wildlife refuge. And if you want to see
what this footprint really looks like, it
is not so tiny, folks. When you look at
the hundreds of miles of roads and the
gravel mining and the gravel pads and
the oil rigs and other infrastructure
that have to go in, it looks a lot dif-
ferently than what has been character-
ized.
So this picture depicts what the true
footprint of this little postage stamp
development in the Arctic refuge looks
like. And I think by any fair measure,
it would absolutely despoil the beating
heart of America’s largest wildlife ref-
uge.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Oregon (Mr. BLU-
MENAUER), my friend and great cham-
pion of our public lands and of the Arc-
tic refuge.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Chairman, I
appreciate the gentleman yielding and
allowing me to speak on this.
I was on the Ways and Means Com-
mittee that passed the grotesque Re-
publican tax cut. This provision was
never debated on a bill that never had
a hearing wedged in. The math doesn’t
work out. It portends that we are going
to have hundreds of millions, a billion
or more in savings. It is not going to
happen. We are talking about a rel-
atively small amount of money, which
I am convinced, despite my good friend
from Alaska’s assertion, this is going
to move forward.
The American public opposed it. It is
the wrong thing to do. We need to be
moving in the other direction in terms
of keeping the oil up there in the
ground for climate, but also, for the en-
vironment there. I had a chance to
visit that area with Governor Inslee
and other colleagues and am really im-
pressed with the nature of that. I saw
that caribou herd.
This is a treasure. It is much more
fragile than one would think, and we
are bound and determined to work to
support the environmental values, the
desire of the American people, our
challenges for climate, and to unwind
this egregious provision in the Repub-
lican tax bill, which, mark my words,
will, in fact, be substantially adjusted,
if not in this Congress in a subsequent
Congress.
I appreciate my friend’s forthright
approach here. I appreciate the fact
that we are focusing the American pub-
lic on the outrageous provision, that
we are fighting to protect the Arctic
Wildlife Refuge and dismissing this
egregious provision in the Republican
tax scam.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Arkan-
sas (Mr. WESTERMAN).
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentleman from Alaska for
yielding.
Mr. Chairman, my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle proclaim that
they are concerned about the environ-
ment, but that does not mean that I
am not concerned about the environ-
ment or that my colleagues on this
side of the aisle are not concerned
about the environment.
One of our earliest and most recog-
nized conservationists, Gifford Pin-
chot, stated that when conflicting in-
terests must be resolved that we should
strive to do the greatest good for the
greatest number for the long run. Pin-
chot also wrote that conservation is
the application of common sense to the
common problems for the common
good.
Mr. Chairman, this bill today lacks
common sense. I have been to the
North Slope of Alaska. We can develop
clean, safe, low-cost energy in the
world and conserve our public lands
and the environment. I would argue
that because of our technology and in-
novation and using clean fuels like nat-
ural gas that has allowed the United
States to decrease our global green-
house gas emissions more than any
other country in the world.
As we look at this bill today, and we
look at the history of what has hap-
pened, in 1980 a Democratic-held Con-
gress passed the Alaska National Inter-
est Lands Conservation Act, and Presi-
dent Carter signed it into law. That act
set aside more than 1.5 million acres
for responsible oil and gas development
in ANWR itself, nearly 20 million acres
in total.
Such a large commitment less than a
decade after the Arab oil embargo
made logical sense at the time.
b 0930
However, it took until 2018 for Con-
gress to uphold its word, finally ap-
proving a limited exploration project
on 2,000 acres in ANWR. This con-
stitutes less than one ten-thousandth
of the total acreage and one one-hun-
dredth of the initial exploration.
The CHAIR. The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I yield an ad-
ditional 1 minute to the gentleman.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Chair, in the
face of increasing belligerence from
Russia and China and an unstable Mid-
dle East, Members of this House have a
choice. We can choose dirtier foreign
energy over responsibly developing a
tiny parcel of land already set aside for
production.
That inaction, Mr. Chair, is one that
demands common sense. It is in the
common interest to protect domestic
energy. Realistically, 2,000 acres is a
small price to pay for our security.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
vote for the greatest good for the
greatest number and to vote for the
long run. I urge my colleagues to vote
for common sense and vote ‘‘no’’ on
H.R. 1146.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from New
Mexico (Ms. HAALAND), the chair of the
National Parks, Forests, and Public
Lands Subcommittee of the Natural
Resources Committee.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Chair, as a 35th-
generation American, I rise in support
of H.R. 1146.
The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
was set aside to protect its unique
wildlife, wilderness, and resources. It
sustains the Gwich’in Tribe and has for
centuries. It is why they call it ‘‘the
sacred place where life begins.’’
Oil and gas drilling puts at risk the
Porcupine caribou herd, which has sus-
tained tribes for centuries and cen-
turies. It also threatens wolves, polar
bears, and migratory birds that live in
the refuge. It will release carbon diox-
ide into the atmosphere, exacerbating
the effects of global warming, which
have affected Alaska far more than any
State in this country.
Republicans slipped this drilling pro-
vision into their tax cut bill last Con-
gress. I might add that no tribes had an
opportunity to voice their opinions on
any of that. Now, this administration
is rushing ahead without adequate en-
vironmental review or Tribal consulta-
tion.
Americans want a smart approach to
sustainable energy development, not a
careless rush to sell off one of our most
iconic and sacred places for short-
sighted, destructive fossil fuel produc-
tion.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
stand with the Gwich’in, speak up for
the animals that live in the refuge, and
support this important legislation.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 min-
utes to the gentleman from Oklahoma
(Mr. KEVIN HERN).
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Mr.
Chair, I thank my colleague from Alas-
ka for yielding.
Mr. Chair, how long must we rely on
foreign adversaries for fuel? Utilizing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.006 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7673
September 12, 2019
our domestic resources is essential to a
strong economy. Energy dominance on
the world stage is our end goal. We will
never get there if we continue to cut
off access to our own resources.
The truth is, oil and gas production
in ANWR benefits our country as a
whole, but it is also a key industry for
the people of Alaska.
The community of Kaktovik sees the
energy sector as a significant source of
employment, revenue, and reliable en-
ergy. The people, including the local
Tribe of Alaska Natives, are incredibly
supportive of the continuation of oil
and gas production in their commu-
nity. These people were never con-
sulted by my colleagues at any point in
the development of this bill.
Neither was our colleague DON
YOUNG, who has represented the needs
of the people of Alaska for more than
40 years, who has more experience than
everyone who wrote this bill combined.
DON YOUNG, the dean of the House, the
longest serving Member in Congress,
should have been the first person con-
sulted about this legislation was never
sought out. Instead, they consulted a
Tribe 350 miles away that has nothing
to do with oil and gas in ANWR.
To put this in perspective, I live in
Tulsa, Oklahoma. Omaha, Nebraska, is
about 380 miles away. Can anybody tell
me what my opinion would matter in
Omaha, Nebraska? I don’t spend time
there. I don’t know what the people
there want.
The only assumption we can make as
to why a Tribe over 350 miles away was
consulted instead of the local commu-
nity is that my colleagues knew they
wouldn’t find support in Kaktovik.
This should be an easy decision.
There is no reason to vote ‘‘yes’’ on
this bill.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
think about the future of our country
and vote ‘‘no’’ today on H.R. 1146.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I know
the gentleman does not mean to dis-
respect or trivialize the interests of an
indigenous tribe that for hundreds and
hundreds of years has depended on the
Porcupine caribou herd, where its
calving grounds and the heart of its
migratory road is right in the refuge
we are talking about. I know the gen-
tleman doesn’t mean to disrespect
them by suggesting that their voices
don’t matter, but we believe that the
Gwich’in people’s voice does matter.
Mr. Chair, you are going to hear us
stand up for their interests consist-
ently on this issue.
Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from California (Mr. LEVIN).
Mr. LEVIN of California. Mr. Chair, I
rise today in support of H.R. 1146, the
Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain Pro-
tection Act.
After almost 40 years of protection,
the Trump administration and the fos-
sil fuel lobbyists that have taken up
residence at the Department of the In-
terior opened up the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas develop-
ment. The timing of this decision could
not be more irresponsible.
The last thing we should be doing is
expanding fossil fuel development in
the Arctic, where temperatures are ris-
ing twice as fast as the rest of the
United States. But we know that this
administration isn’t concerned about
protecting our environment or address-
ing the climate crisis, so it is not sur-
prising that it is willing to sacrifice
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge’s
diverse habitat in an attempt to help
its Big Oil friends turn an even bigger
profit.
The American people disagree. The
vast majority of Americans oppose
drilling in this iconic landscape, and I
am proud to stand with them.
We should be reducing our depend-
ence on fossil fuels, embracing renew-
able energy, and leading the world in
combating climate change, not going
backward.
Mr. Chair, I strongly support the
Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain Pro-
tection Act, and I urge my colleagues
to do the same.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Colo-
rado (Mr. LAMBORN).
Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Chair, environ-
mentally responsible development of
ANWR will increase America’s energy
security and independence, create jobs,
and provide affordable, reliable energy
for consumers while providing much-
needed revenue to both the State of
Alaska and the Federal Government.
While congressional authorization is
required by law for any leasing in
ANWR, I, along with my Republican
colleagues on the Natural Resources
Committee, believe that Alaska Na-
tives should be able to exercise their
right to develop minerals on their
lands if they so choose.
As the gentleman from Alaska has
pointed out, Native Alaskans who actu-
ally live within ANWR fully support re-
sponsible development of their local
energy resources.
Who do we listen to? The people who
actually live there or extreme environ-
mental activists here in Washington?
The oil and gas sector has histori-
cally served as a significant source of
employment, revenue, and reliable en-
ergy for Alaska and Alaska Natives,
and supports over 110,000 direct and in-
direct jobs.
Mr. Chair, I encourage my colleagues
to oppose this legislation, which, fortu-
nately, will never become law.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I might consume.
Mr. Chair, listen to ‘‘the people who
actually live there.’’ I wish we had seen
that same concern yesterday when we
had a chance to vote on banning off-
shore drilling in places where Gov-
ernors, mayors, and overwhelming ma-
jorities of actual residents don’t want
to see their pristine coastlines and
their coastal economies despoiled by
oil and gas development.
I am afraid that my friends some-
times have a selective sense of hearing,
but the one consistent voice that al-
ways seems to be heard is that of Big
Oil.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from California (Mr.
LOWENTHAL), my friend and the chair of
the Energy and Mineral Resources Sub-
committee.
Mr. LOWENTHAL. Mr. Chair, I thank
Representative HUFFMAN for his leader-
ship on this very, very important bill.
I would like to discuss briefly one
idea, and that is the idea that you hear
around that if we are going to protect
ANWR, that somehow is going to hurt
our ability to become energy inde-
pendent, that we cannot be energy
independent unless we open up ANWR,
and that right now, we have to really
worry because we are going to become,
by not opening ANWR, more beholden
to the Russians, to Saudi Arabia.
This is all going to be whether we
open up ANWR or not? This is absolute
nonsense.
Republicans and this administration
no longer care about energy independ-
ence. Let’s be clear. They do not care
about energy independence, and they
haven’t for years, ever since they voted
to lift the oil export ban.
For so many years, we said that we
care about energy independence, and
we are not going to export our oil and
gas. If energy independence was the
goal, we wouldn’t be letting companies
send American-produced oil all over
the world, particularly when we are
still importing from other countries,
yet that is exactly what is happening
today.
We export over 3 million barrels a
day. Yet at the same time, we are im-
porting 7 million barrels a day.
If oil development, what we are hear-
ing today, is really about making
America energy independent, instead
of exporting those 3 million barrels, we
could keep them here at home.
If Republicans want to put the export
ban back in place, then we should have
a real discussion. I would love to have
that discussion, but they know that
their friends in the oil and gas industry
would never let them have that discus-
sion because this is all about profits.
The CHAIR. The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman.
Mr. LOWENTHAL. Mr. Chair, this is
all about profits. It is not about energy
independence.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 min-
utes to the gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. DUNCAN).
Mr. DUNCAN. Mr. Chair, I stand in
opposition to this legislation, as it
hamstrings U.S. energy production and
goes against the will of the people.
Tax reform not only delivered on the
tax cuts for the country and propelled
our record-breaking economy, but it
paved the way to further energy domi-
nance by authorizing the development
of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
Specifically, there is an area in the
NPR that has reserves designated in
1980 by a Democratic Congress to be
opened up for gas and oil lease sales.
Before tax reform and the opening of
ANWR, 92 percent of the 19.5 million
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.008 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7674 September 12, 2019
acres could not even be legally
touched. This area was set aside by the
1980 Congress and was limited to 2,000
Federal acres. That is just 0.0001 per-
cent of ANWR.
I heard an analogy the other day. It
is like the size of a football on a foot-
ball field. It is a very, very small spot.
I heard another analogy, the size of a
postage stamp on a wall.
This was set aside for energy produc-
tion. It has the resources, and it is
time for us to develop those resources
because the failure to develop the re-
sources we have in this country to
meet the energy needs of our Nation
means that we continue to be depend-
ent on other nations.
We think about the Middle East when
we think about that, but as I told a
story yesterday, the New England
States get natural gas from Russia. An
LNG tanker that showed up at Boston
Harbor provides natural gas to an
American State.
That means they are relying on Rus-
sia. That is hard for me to fathom
when we have an abundance of natural
gas in this country, when we have an
abundance of oil in this country both
offshore and onshore.
These are American resources that
should be developed, with a very mini-
mal impact on the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge. It is time for America
to develop the resources God gave us
when He blessed this great Nation, de-
velop these resources in the Arctic Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge. It is the law of
the land right now. It is time to de-
velop.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I might consume.
Mr. Chair, we have addressed this
postage stamp canard that we often
hear. This is the postage stamp. It is
spread out throughout the coastal
plain of the Arctic Refuge. It is the
world’s biggest postage stamp, if it is a
postage stamp, and it would certainly
despoil the beating heart of America’s
largest wildlife refuge.
b 0945
Let me just briefly address this other
canard, the idea that Congress set
aside the 1002 area of the refuge for oil
and gas development. If we actually
read the law, it was set aside for a
study by the Department of the Inte-
rior that would determine if it makes
sense to open up the beating heart of
America’s largest wildlife refuge to oil
and gas development.
And here is an inconvenient fact: The
Department of the Interior actually
found that this is a uniquely vital nat-
ural resource that could be dramati-
cally harmed. That is why, for over 40
years, Congress has declined to take
the step that that law envisioned of
opening it up to oil and gas develop-
ment. That is, until the last Congress,
when it was slipped in on a party-line
vote against the wishes, frankly, of
even many of my friends across the
aisle.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
BARRAGÁN).
Ms. BARRAGÁN. Mr. Chairman, I
rise today in support of H.R. 1146 and
protecting one of our Nation’s greatest
treasures from becoming the spoils of
an industry that recklessly puts profits
ahead of risks to the environment.
After nearly four decades of protec-
tion, earned by virtue of its diverse
wildlife habitats and scenic wonders,
the Trump administration wants to
sell off the heartbeat of the Arctic Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge to the highest
bidders. Buried in the small print of a
tax giveaway, the President removed
critical habitat protections with the
stroke of a pen, leaving more than 250
wildlife species, like the polar bear, ex-
posed to potential disaster at the hands
of the oil industry.
This action is not only a complete
failure of the government’s steward-
ship of these natural habitats, but
completely unnecessary, considering
the United States is already the
world’s largest producer of petroleum.
Why threaten a fragile ecosystem that
is already under terrible threat from
climate change?
We owe it to the planet, to future
generations of Americans, and to the
two-thirds of American people who are
opposed to drilling in this iconic land-
scape to pass this protection act.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, as pain-
ful as it is to listen to all of that non-
sense on the other side, I am glad to
have logical people speak on this side.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. SHIMKUS).
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Chairman, it is
great to be out here with my friends on
both sides of the aisle. As many know,
I have announced I am not going to run
for reelection. One of the successes is
because of what Chairman YOUNG was
able to do in the last Congress.
Mr. Chairman, I have been to the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. I don’t
want to debunk the view. Alaska is big-
ger than the whole continental United
States. The Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge is a small area where no one is
at. I have been there. I hope you get
there. It is a flat coastal plain. This
would be like putting a drilling rig
that is the size of a football field on the
State of South Carolina. We can’t de-
bunk those arguments.
My father-in-law worked on the pipe-
line. He was a communications micro-
wave guy. There are thousands of jobs.
Also, an insidious part of this plan is
we know that the pipeline has to have
oil in it to flow. We know that we need
to continue to have exploration up
there so that there is enough oil to
keep that pipeline operating.
My friends in the environmental left
organizations want to shut down the
pipeline. This will make sure it doesn’t
get shut down.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, I
yield such time as he may consume to
the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. GRI-
JALVA), the chair of the House Natural
Resources Committee.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the distinguished chairman of
the Water, Oceans, and Wildlife Sub-
committee for the time and for his
longstanding leadership on this issue.
And also, I thank the 182 Members of
Congress who support H.R. 1146.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today to strong-
ly support this legislation, H.R. 1146, a
bill to protect the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge from the irreversible
impacts of oil and gas drilling.
This bill would undo a particular ter-
rible provision that was slipped into
the 2017 Republican tax bill with no de-
bate in this Chamber, no amendments
in this Chamber, and no votes in this
Chamber.
The Republican Party was not con-
tent with merely giving trillions of dol-
lars of tax cuts to the wealthiest com-
panies and individuals in this country,
tax cuts that have driven us deeper
into debt without any of the positives
the bill sponsors promised; at the same
time they were handing out trillions of
dollars to their friends and donors,
they threw in the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge for their oil and gas
buddies. They promised that this would
be done right, as if destroying a pris-
tine wilderness and threatening the
survival of an entire Tribe’s way of life
can ever be done right.
But then the Trump administration
took over. Since then, we have had
rushed environmental reviews so they
could try to get a lease sale done in 1
year, 2 years quicker than the schedule
laid out in the tax bill.
We have seen evidence of the con-
cerns of career scientists being ignored
or overridden, and we have seen the As-
sistant Secretary in charge of making
this lease sale happen jump ship and,
after a long 3-day cooling off weekend,
start at an oil company that has leases
right next to the refuge.
The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
should never have been opened, and
even those who want to see it develop
should recoil at the idea that this is
now in the hands of Donald Trump and
his buddies.
The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
has nothing to do with national secu-
rity, has nothing to do with gas prices,
and has nothing to do with energy
independence. It has to do with greed,
plain and simple.
This administration simply can’t
stand the idea that there are some
places that the oil and gas industry
shouldn’t be allowed to destroy. They
can’t believe that there are some
places that deserve to be protected.
They can’t imagine there being any-
thing more important than profits.
I don’t agree. At some point, we have
to say: Stop. You have enough.
We are the number one producer of
oil and gas in the world, and produc-
tion is going up.
The administration is repealing regu-
lations left and right and reduced land
or wildlife protections on over 150 mil-
lion acres of public land. The oil and
gas industry has enough. They
shouldn’t get the Arctic National Wild-
life Refuge as well.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.009 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7675
September 12, 2019
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to vote for this legislation.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Min-
nesota (Mr. STAUBER).
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Chairman, I
thank Chairman YOUNG for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today in opposi-
tion to this Democratic messaging bill,
H.R. 1146, a harmful attempt to under-
mine responsible energy development.
Throughout the history of our coun-
try, we have observed a pattern of poli-
ticians in Washington and the East and
West Coasts legislating based on what
they think is best for the folks in the
rest of the country. As we have lis-
tened to debate today, we can clearly
see that this Washingtonian habit is
alive and well.
My good friends on the other side of
this issue think they know better than
the Alaska Natives living within
ANWR; they think they know better
than those who would benefit from job
growth; they think they know better
than the unions; and they think they
know better than the people closest to
the project.
I urge my colleagues to take a step
back and look at the unsettling trend
that is occurring throughout this coun-
try of outsiders with a tenuous grip on
the truth imposing their will on the
people really impacted by these local
projects.
For instance, in my home State of
Minnesota, the same thing is hap-
pening with the replacement of Line 3.
People from the Twin Cities who are
unimpacted by this project are launch-
ing efforts right here in this Chamber
to stop the replacement and stop the
job growth and economic development
that would accompany it. Instead of
putting our laborers, operating engi-
neers, teamsters, and construction
workers to work, they support legisla-
tion that is undermining these jobs.
These projects are meant to develop
our natural resources to ensure our en-
ergy independence and not reduce our
reliance on foreign and hostile nations
to this country. We responsibly develop
our energy with the strongest environ-
mental standards and labor standards
in the world.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to oppose this bill. Let’s listen to those
affected directly by these projects and
do what is right.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. LEVIN).
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Chair-
man, I thank my colleague, the gen-
tleman from California, for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, I am proud to rise in
strong support of this bill as someone
who has had the privilege of spending 2
weeks in the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge 15 years ago. It was a life-
changing trip.
ANWR’s beauty and majesty are al-
most beyond description. Paddling
down the Kongakut River and along
the shore of the Beaufort Sea, my com-
panions and I experienced an astound-
ing wealth of plants and animals in a
mix unique to the region, a truly iconic
corner of our Earth.
Anyone who says it is an empty place
or that there is nothing there is com-
mitting a sacrilege as far as I am con-
cerned. It is a sacred place to me, and
it is no wonder that it is a sacred place
to the Gwich’in people.
The Arctic is warming twice as fast
as the rest of the United States. Drill-
ing in ANWR would exacerbate that re-
gional effect as well as hastening cata-
strophic warming, generally.
In short, we must prevent this ad-
ministration’s reckless effort to open
up ANWR to oil and gas development
to prevent dangerous biological, cul-
tural, and climate impacts. We simply
cannot allow this to happen on our
watch.
I would point out that, when I pad-
dled down the Kongakut River, I vis-
ited these places that are planned for
drilling. We were literally hiking along
the plain and we came upon these drill
pads. It would be outrageous to drill in
these places where there are nesting
grounds for birds and homes to other
animals that just don’t exist anywhere
else.
I invite any of my colleagues who
have the ability to travel on their own
power paddling and hiking to join me
in going back to ANWR. I don’t think
they would want to drill there if they
did.
Mr. Chairman, I thank Congressman
HUFFMAN for his leadership on this, and
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, it is an
honor now to yield 2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Wyoming (Ms. CHE-
NEY).
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Chairman, I thank
my colleague from Alaska for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposi-
tion to this legislation.
I wish I could say that I am surprised
by the bills that are being brought be-
fore us this week, but I am not. The
Democratic war on our economy, on
America’s families, and on fossil fuels
continues.
Mr. Chairman, energy independence
is crucial for our economy and our se-
curity. I stand in strong solidarity with
my friend and colleague from Alaska,
someone who is a mentor not just to
me, but to all on our side of the aisle.
Partly, I stand in solidarity with him
because I, like Mr. YOUNG, represent
my entire State. Like Alaska, Wyo-
ming is no stranger to outsiders think-
ing they know what is best for us.
The legislation we have before us
today echoes the majority’s goal of
making the Green New Deal a reality,
fundamentally changing our way of life
by making us increasingly dependent
on foreign sources of energy.
Yesterday, Mr. Chairman, I joined
my colleagues, Whip SCALISE and the
House Committee on Natural Re-
sources ranking member, Mr. BISHOP,
to introduce the American Energy
First Act.
Our bill would end unnecessary over-
reach from Washington bureaucrats
and enable States to manage energy
production on lands within our borders.
Our all-of-the-above pro-energy legisla-
tion would help put our families to
work, further our energy independence,
and put our national security at the
forefront.
Wyoming prides itself on our fossil
fuels. We know that our economy and
that our security depends on these. We
consider our fossil fuels to be national
treasures, and, Mr. Chairman, we
thank God for our fossil fuels.
Mr. Chairman, I stand here today to
oppose this misguided anti-energy
independence and anti-national secu-
rity agenda that the Democratic ma-
jority has continued to put before us,
and I urge my colleagues to oppose this
bill.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Chairman, this is not about en-
ergy independence. If my friends across
the aisle were concerned about energy
independence, they certainly wouldn’t
have lifted the crude oil export ban in
the previous Congress. And if they
wanted to talk about putting that
crude oil export ban back in place, we
would have something to work to-
gether on and we could actually take a
step towards energy independence.
But the truth is we are awash in oil
right now. We are exporting millions of
barrels of oil a day while we continue
to import all that big bad imported oil
that sometimes my friends across the
aisle are concerned about.
b 1000
What this is really about, is money
and profits for Big Oil. They make a lot
more money when they can export that
oil on the world market. That is why,
when we talk about developing the
coastal plain of the Arctic refuge, no
one should be confused by these claims
that that oil would go to American
consumption. It won’t.
It will find top dollar on the global
export market because that is where
Big Oil can make the most money, and
that is what the agenda we have heard
about is really all about.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, I am
happy to yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. GRAVES).
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Chairman, I want to thank the Rep-
resentative from Alaska for yielding
me the time.
I want to say it again. I want to
thank the gentleman from Alaska, the
sole Member representing all Alaskans
in the House of Representatives, who
joins with his Senators, the entire
Alaska delegation, in opposing this
bill.
I heard Mr. STAUBER come down ear-
lier and talk about how we don’t need
people from other States, from Cali-
fornia coming in and imposing their be-
liefs on Alaska. We have a Constitu-
tion. We have a structure here where
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.012 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7676 September 12, 2019
Members from the State of Alaska,
residents from the State of Alaska,
they elect their Representatives. And
their Representatives are unanimously
supporting the development in the
ANWR. They unanimously support it.
Why do we have this structure where
other people come in? It is fascinating
to me that we can be here and have
folks from California sit there and all
the time ask for exemptions, ask for
exceptions, ask for their own condi-
tions or rules in California, and then
they now come in and they know bet-
ter, and they need to tell Alaskans
what needs to be done.
I just heard allegations that this was
about oil company profits and other
things. This is about what the citizens
of Alaska want, what their elected
Representatives are doing to represent
their own constituents.
Now, to give you an idea of how much
of a farce this whole thing is, do you
realize that this is the third bill that is
using the same funding stream to pay
for everything? We have taken $1 and
we paid $3 with it. How do you do that?
This entire thing is a farce.
To take it a step further to let you
know what a farce this is, when this
bill came up in the Natural Resources
Committee, I offered an amendment
that said that if this bill results in
greater greenhouse gas emissions, then
this bill doesn’t take place. It is not
enacted.
Do you know that my Democrat
friends voted against it, meaning they
want greater emissions and greenhouse
gases, my environmentalist friends?
This whole thing is a farce. This is
going to result in greater dependence
upon foreign oil imports.
The CHAIR. The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I yield an ad-
ditional 1 minute to the gentleman
from Louisiana.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Chair, I thank Mr. YOUNG for yielding
me more time.
This is going to result in greater de-
pendence on imports of energy. We
have seen it over and over again. We
had career officials sit right in front of
us in the Natural Resources Committee
and testify that when you stop domes-
tic production, that you become more
dependent.
Look upon my friend’s own State of
California that has become increas-
ingly dependent upon oil from Saudi
Arabia, increasing their imports of oil
from Saudi Arabia. Look at our friends
up in the northeast that had to import
natural gas from Vladimir Putin’s Rus-
sia and burn heavy heating oil to help
to warm the homes in the northeast be-
cause they similarly cut off their en-
ergy supplies.
This makes no sense whatsoever. We
are doing it under the auspices of an
environment that this very bill threat-
ens.
Mr. Chair, I urge rejection of this leg-
islation, and rejection of this entire
farce process.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
We just heard some pretty high sanc-
timony about the need to listen to the
people who actually live there. That
might be convincing but for the fact
that just yesterday, my friends voted
to override the wishes of the people
who actually live on the Atlantic and
Pacific Coasts, the wishes of their Gov-
ernors, their mayors, overwhelming
majorities of their populations, who
don’t want to wreck their pristine
coastlines and put their coastal econo-
mies at risk because of oil develop-
ment.
So, again, let’s not pretend that this
is about listening to local voices. This
is about listening to one voice, and
that is the voice of Big Oil.
Let’s take it back to Alaska. Even in
the hotbed of oil development, as my
friends would tell it, in the village of
Kaktovik, a 2016 poll in that commu-
nity indicated that that community
itself is divided on the question of
whether oil and gas development
should proceed.
So, again, let’s not be selective or
hypocritical about the voices we claim
to care about. Certainly, the voice of
Big Oil is well-represented here today
in this debate.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. UPTON).
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
opposition to the bill. I served as the
former chairman of the Energy and
Commerce Committee and now serve as
the top Republican on the Energy Sub-
committee.
In those years, I helped develop, pro-
mote, and implement a North Amer-
ican energy independent plan, and it
includes all of the above—yes, renew-
able energy as well.
I can remember the gas lines. I can
remember paying higher prices for nat-
ural gas. I can remember $4 and $5 per
gallon gas prices. And I can remember
sending $1 billion every day to the Mid-
dle East.
I smiled this last weekend when I
filled up for $2.25. I smile now when I
know that we can export rather than
import oil from places that may not be
so friendly to the United States.
So if this bill passed, as well as the
other two that passed yesterday and
somehow became enacted into law, we
have this thing called supply and de-
mand. And guess what? Our consumers
will pay much higher gas prices and we
will lose out. So I would urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no.’’
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. LAMALFA).
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Chairman, I wish
to thank my colleague from Alaska,
the Dean of the House here, Mr. YOUNG,
for his strong efforts for many years on
opening up this important piece of en-
ergy for our country and for our whole
grid.
It is fascinating to listen to the de-
bate here. Every piece of land, every-
thing we would ever go to develop,
whether it is for a pipeline, for energy,
for forestry, the moment somebody ap-
proaches that resource, these God-
given resources we have all over this
country, it now becomes this pristine,
untouchable, non-usable land that we
shouldn’t have anything to do with as
humankind.
Salvage logging after a fire, oh, we
can’t do that. We have to sue over that.
So we hear a lot about Big Oil.
How about big enviro? There are a lot
of people who make a lot of money, six-
digit numbers and more, in this town, a
lot of dollars that come in by invoking
a picture of an animal who probably
was a victim of a fire in a forest be-
cause we are not managing that.
We have 47,000 acres of burning fire
right in my district, in Plumas County
in northern California, because we are
not allowed to go out and manage
these lands.
Almost everybody here in this Con-
gress that lives more than a few hun-
dred miles away flew here by a jet to
get to this place to do this session. So
where is the hypocrisy being talked
about with the amount of energy ev-
eryone uses?
Energy has to come from somewhere,
Mr. Chairman, for us to live as we do,
to keep the lights on in this place, to
keep it cool in here, to keep it warm in
the winter—especially in the northeast
where it is extremely cold. Oil is need-
ed. Energy is needed.
We need to develop it in this country.
We hear: We are exporting oil. We are
importing oil. Well, there are different
types of oil for different types of pur-
poses, too. You have different types of
food you exchange for different recipes.
We have different types of oil and dif-
ferent types of energy.
Do we want to be relying or have our
European allies relying on Iranian oil?
Is that what we are asking here? Do we
want them to be relying upon Russian
natural gas in our European theater?
No. We need to be part of that matrix,
the United States. If we are an ex-
porter or self-sufficient, we need to be
active on this.
The CHAIR. The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I yield an ad-
ditional 30 seconds to the gentleman
from California.
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Chair, we know
how to ecologically do it well. This
isn’t 1850. We are not going to go out
and do horrible environmental damage.
We know how to do this right and we
will be responsible. When that resource
is done being used someday, we are
going to put it back how it was.
We need to develop within our own
country under our own rules, instead of
having the arrogance of relying on
other countries who do it without
rules, such as China, such as the Mid-
dle East, and others that don’t have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:30 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.014 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7677
September 12, 2019
our best interests or even the environ-
ment at heart.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, I re-
serve the balance of my time. I am pre-
pared to close.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I insert in the RECORD a
Statement of Administration Policy on
this bill which indicates that the Presi-
dent’s advisers would recommend that
we veto it, even though it is unlikely
that it will ever get to his desk.
STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
H.R. 205—PROTECTING AND SECURING FLORIDA’S
COASTLINE ACT OF 2019—REP. ROONEY, R–FL,
AND 18 COSPONSORS
H.R. 1146—ARCTIC CULTURAL AND COASTAL
PLAIN PROTECTION ACT—REP. HUFFMAN, D–
CA, AND 182 COSPONSORS
H.R. 1941—COASTAL AND MARINE ECONOMIES
PROTECTION ACT—REP. CUNNINGHAM, D–SC,
AND 51 COSPONSORS
The Administration opposes H.R. 205, the
Protecting and Securing Florida’s Coastline
Act of 2019, H.R. 1146, the Arctic Cultural and
Coastal Plain Protection Act, and H.R. 1941,
the Coastal and Marine Economies Protec-
tion Act. These bills would undermine the
Administration’s commitment to a pros-
perous American economy supported by the
responsible use of the Nation’s abundant nat-
ural resources. Development of our resources
enhances our energy security and energy
dominance, and produces high-paying Amer-
ican jobs; provides increased revenue to the
Treasury, States, tribes, and local commu-
nities; and is a critical source of conserva-
tion funding.
H.R. 1146 would prohibit the Department of
the Interior’s Bureau of Land Management
from administering an oil and gas leasing
program in the Coastal Plain of the Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) in Alaska.
The bill would repeal a provision of the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 that directed the
Secretary of the Interior to establish a pro-
gram for the development of the Coastal
Plain that would allow the use of no more
than about 0.01 percent of the total acreage
of ANWR for surface development of produc-
tion and support facilities. The Administra-
tion supports environmentally responsible
energy development in the Coastal Plain,
also known as the 1002 Area, of ANWR. Such
development is expected to increase Amer-
ica’s energy security and independence, cre-
ate jobs, and provide affordable, reliable en-
ergy for consumers while providing much-
needed revenue to both the State of Alaska
and the Federal Government.
Similarly, H.R. 205 and H.R. 1941 would
both restrict future oil and gas development
in the Federal waters of the U.S. Outer Con-
tinental Shelf (OCS). H.R. 205 would amend
the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act
(GOMESA) to make permanent the current
temporary leasing moratorium on offshore
leasing in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico, off the
west coast of Florida. H.R. 1941 would amend
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act
(OCSLA) to permanently remove from con-
sideration acreage for offshore leasing on
both the Atlantic and Pacific OCS. Both of
these bills would undermine OCSLA, which
established a periodic, multi-stage planning
process involving State and tribal consulta-
tion and a thoughtful comparison and bal-
ancing of the benefits and impacts to all the
regions of the OCS. These bills would perma-
nently constrain this careful administrative
process. Under the bills, large swaths of the
OCS would be off limits for resource develop-
ment without the benefit of periodic assess-
ments of the potential economic, social, and
environmental effects of development, as re-
quired by existing law. Excluding these areas
from leasing consideration could place more
pressure for development on other OCS areas
and constrain our ability to meet national
energy needs as required by OCSLA.
Additionally, each of these bills would
eliminate the potential for future direct rev-
enue that would otherwise be provided to the
Treasury, and through revenue sharing, to
the States, tribes, and counties where the de-
velopment activities occur. In Fiscal Year
2018, energy development on Federal and In-
dian lands and waters generated approxi-
mately $9 billion in direct revenue from roy-
alties, bonus bids, and rents. Of that rev-
enue, $1.78 billion was disbursed to 35 States.
The top States receiving Fiscal Year 2018
revenues were New Mexico ($634.9 million);
Wyoming ($563.9 million); Colorado ($112.5
million); Louisiana ($91 million); and Utah
($76 million). Additionally, more than $1 bil-
lion was disbursed to Indian tribes and indi-
vidual Indian mineral owners; $1.22 billion to
the Reclamation Fund; $970 million to the
Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF);
$150 million to the Historic Preservation
Fund; and $3.5 billion to the general fund of
the Treasury.
Prohibiting energy development in new
Federal areas would hinder future adminis-
trations’ efforts to make up for revenue lost
as production declines from leases in aging
energy fields. Such restrictions will tie the
hands of future administrations and reduce
their ability to enhance energy security
through strong domestic energy production
and to ensure affordable energy for American
families.
If these bills were presented to the Presi-
dent, his advisors would recommend he veto
them.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I also insert
in the RECORD a letter in strong opposi-
tion to this bill signed by over 20 enti-
ties, including the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the Consumer Energy
Alliance.
SEPTEMBER 5, 2019.
U.S. CONGRESS,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: We rely on Amer-
ican made energy to power our daily lives,
communities and to grow a more prosperous
future. Americans deserve clean, safe, reli-
able, abundant and affordable energy so that
our families, communities and businesses
can all share the opportunities American en-
ergy creates. Our country cannot afford to
block access to new energy supplies and risk
losing our energy advantage. That’s why we
ask you to oppose legislation being consid-
ered by the U.S. House of Representatives
next week that would slow scientific surveys
and prevent access to new sources of Amer-
ican offshore energy in the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf.
For more than seven decades, energy devel-
opment in the Gulf of Mexico has worked
collaboratively alongside tourism, fishing
and Defense Department training activities.
But H.R. 205 would permanently extend the
eastern Gulf of Mexico moratorium on oil
and natural gas activities. The Congressional
Budget Office conservatively estimates that
this could cost taxpayers $400 million in rev-
enue over the next 10 years. Similarly, H.R.
1941 would block offshore energy develop-
ment in the Pacific and Atlantic planning
areas, and H.R. 1146 would lock up energy re-
sources in the Alaskan Coastal Plain.
Congress should support progress. Modern
energy technologies have enabled an impres-
sive record of environmental stewardship
and innovation. But when the government
chooses to arbitrarily and permanently close
off areas to exploration and potential devel-
opment, we simply increase our dependency
on foreign sources. This reality is visible in
places like California and Massachusetts.
Despite abundant offshore oil and natural
gas resources, California imports 57 percent
of its oil supply, a staggering 37 percent of
which comes from Saudi Arabia. Meanwhile,
to meet energy needs each winter, Massachu-
setts imports liquefied natural gas from Rus-
sia.
American energy is produced with a small-
er carbon footprint under significantly
stronger environmental protections than en-
ergy produced anywhere else in the world.
We ask you to embrace these homegrown op-
portunities that benefit American families,
create high-wage jobs, strengthen the U.S.
economy and protect our environment.
Next week, the House of Representatives is
expected to consider legislation undercut-
ting domestic energy security and economic
opportunity by limiting American energy ac-
cess. We urge you to reject these bills and in-
stead stand up for energy produced in Amer-
ica, by American workers for the benefit of
American families.
Sincerely,
American Chemistry Council, American
Council of Engineering Companies, American
Forest & Paper Association, American Gas
Association, American Iron and Steel Insti-
tute, American Petroleum Institute, Amer-
ican Pipeline Contractors Association, Con-
sumer Energy Alliance, Distribution Pipe-
line Contractors Association, Energy Equip-
ment and Infrastructure Alliance, Inde-
pendent Petroleum Association of America.
International Association of Drilling Con-
tractors, International Association of Geo-
physical Contractors, Laborers’ Inter-
national Union of North America, National
Association of Manufacturers, National
Ocean Industries Association, National Util-
ity Contractors Association, Offshore Marine
Service Association, Portland Cement Asso-
ciation, Power and Communication Contrac-
tors Association, U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce, U.S. Oil and Gas Association.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I also insert
in the RECORD a letter of opposition
from the Laborers’ International Union
of North America.
LIUNA!,
September 9, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND MINORITY LEAD-
ER MCCARTHY: On behalf of the 500,000 mem-
bers of the Laborers’ International Union of
North America (LiUNA), I want to express
our opposition to H.R. 205, which would per-
manently extend the moratorium on oil and
gas leasing in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico;
H.R. 1146, to once again prohibit oil and gas
drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Ref-
uge (ANWR); and, H.R. 1941, which would bar
offshore drilling along the Atlantic and Pa-
cific Coasts.
Once again, jobs of LiUNA members who
work in the energy sector are being targeted
for elimination by environmental radicals
for purely political purposes. There is abso-
lutely no chance for these ‘‘message bills’’ to
be enacted into law this Congress. So, in-
stead of working to enact real job creating
infrastructure legislation, union members
see their jobs once again being denigrated
and belittled.
Energy independence is central to the fu-
ture of the American economy and our
standard of living. Unfortunately, the en-
emies of job creation continue to try to wall
off and strand our domestic energy resources
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.015 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7678 September 12, 2019
from development; killing jobs, prolonging
our energy dependence on unfriendly foreign
regimes, and saddling middle-class and
lower-income families with rising energy
costs.
LiUNA members, in Alaska and elsewhere,
know first-hand that when done responsibly,
with union-trained workers, energy develop-
ment can coexist with environmental stew-
ardship. LiUNA and the other building
trades unions invest significant resources
into the training of our members that help
develop the knowledge and skills they need
to work safely and productively while con-
structing energy and other infrastructure to
the highest standards.
For the hard-working members of LiUNA
and other building trades unions, these jobs
put food on their families’ tables and roofs
over their heads. These jobs enable them to
put their children through college, to save
for retirement, and to spend money in busi-
ness establishments that employ others.
I urge you to vote against these ill-con-
ceived bills.
With kind regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
TERRY O’SULLIVAN,
General President.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I insert in
the RECORD a letter from the president
of Voice of the Arctic Inupiat, which is
in strong opposition to this legislation.
VOICE OF THE ARCTIC IÑUPIAT
Point Hope, AK, March 20, 2019.
Congressman JARED HUFFMAN,
Washington, DC.
REPRESENTATIVE HUFFMAN, Voice of the
Arctic Iñupiat (VOICE) strongly opposes
H.R. 1146 amending Public Law 115–97 to re-
peal the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
(ANWR) oil and gas leasing program. Beyond
the fact that your bill would repeal an oppor-
tunity that the Iñupiat people have fought
for decades to achieve, we are struck by the
lack of knowledge displayed in this legisla-
tion, which completely ignores the existence
of the Iñupiat people, and especially the peo-
ple of Kaktovik. The Native Village of
Kaktovik is a federally recognized tribe and
the Kaktovikmiut have occupied the Coastal
Plain for at least 11,000 years.
The Coastal Plain is home to more than
just caribou and none of the Coastal Plain is
wilderness. It is not a place without people;
it never has been—it has been continuously
occupied by the Iñupiat people and our an-
cestors for millennia, and we find it insult-
ing that you fail to acknowledge this history
Currently, the Coastal Plain is the home of
a community of over 200 people. People who
live, hunt, fish, raise their families, and hope
for a secure economic future for their chil-
dren. People who walk in the footsteps of
their ancestors all over the land that Con-
gress, without our permission, designated as
the 1002 Area of the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge People that you have completely dis-
regarded because they generally do not agree
with you. In light of this, Congressman, your
concern about human rights seems a bit
pale.
When we, Indigenous peoples, use terms
like self-determination, sovereignty, eco-
nomic equality, cultural survival, and tradi-
tional lands, they are more than just
buzzwords. These are objectives that have
long been denied us and for which we have
had to fight for generations. It is not for you
to ignore those ideas, nor the people fighting
for them, in favor of those who are more
aligned with your political agenda. To us,
this issue goes beyond politics to the very
sustainability of our communities, culture,
and economy.
The Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain Pro-
tection Act undermines the wishes of those
of us living closest to ANWR and negates
years of work by local stakeholders toward
ensuring a sustainable economy for the peo-
ple and communities of our region. We hope
this letter might help you better understand
the realities of life in the Arctic. H.R. 1146
preaches a ‘‘moral responsibility to protect
this wilderness heritage as an enduring re-
source to bequeath undisturbed to future
generations of Americans’’, but fails to ac-
knowledge the basic needs of future genera-
tions of Arctic Inupiat. Our regional govern-
ment, the North Slope Borough (NSB), is re-
sponsible for more territory than any other
local government in the nation. The NSB re-
ceives over 96% of its revenue from property
taxes levied on industry infrastructure on
the North Slope, which enables them to pro-
vide services that were never accessible be-
fore in the Arctic. The Borough School Dis-
trict provides vocational and academic edu-
cation for people of all ages; NSB health
clinics provide modern medical services to
residents in even the smallest and most re-
mote of villages. The Municipal Services De-
partment operates water, sewage, and elec-
tric utilities, plows roads and runways, and
maintains landfills Other NSB departments
provide housing, police and fire protection,
search and rescue, and other critical services
to our communities. Altogether, the NSB is
the single largest local employer on the
North Slope, employing over 63% of the
workforce. These benefits of modern Amer-
ican civilization, common in the rest of the
nation, have been built on the foundation of
the North Slope oil industry.
It is hypocritical of you, Congressman, to
stifle the efforts of Kaktovik to secure jobs,
a local economy, and income for their com-
munity while your state makes billions of
dollars off the development of its own oil and
gas resources. If you are concerned about the
impacts of resource development, we suggest
that you focus on your own state of Cali-
fornia, which despite its green image, pro-
duces the dirtiest crude in America and has
some of the largest refineries on the West
Coast, which in addition to refining much
cleaner Alaska North Slope Crude, also im-
ports and refines oil from foreign countries
like Saudi Arabia and Angola. The message
this bill sends is that you prioritize the lei-
sure whims of your California constituents
above the needs of the Native people of
Kaktovik.
H.R. 1146 cites climate change as one of the
main drivers of the bill. In reality, climate
change—and the world’s response to it—add
additional layers to existing burdens that
we, the Arctic’s Indigenous people, are fac-
ing. We agree that climate change has deeply
affected our traditional Inupiat ways of life.
We do not agree that the solution to that
problem is to create more wilderness that
hinders our ability to provide for our people
and respond to the impacts that we are fac-
ing. It is unfair for you to ask that we, as In-
digenous peoples, carry the burden of cli-
mate change and the burden of mitigation so
that you can fly back and forth to your home
district with an easy conscience.
Even with the services our local govern-
ment provides, many of the people in the
Arctic live in conditions that fall below ac-
ceptable standards of living, despite being
citizens of one of the richest countries in the
world. We are concerned and puzzled, then,
by your focus on protecting eco-tourism and
this idea of pristine, unspoiled wilderness—
at the expense of an economy to sustain our
children—that rich elites across America
‘‘cherish.’’ While we are certainly used to
this harmful narrative by now, it does not
seem in line with your democratic values.
For our part, we do not see any contradic-
tion between developing our resources and at
the same time protecting our environment
and wildlife. These are not diverging prior-
ities but an integral piece to balance in the
Arctic.
The bill as introduced further ignores the
historical and cultural trauma that is a part
of this land and the Kaktovikmiut who in-
habit it. The people of Kaktovik, in recent
memory, have suffered through three forced
relocations at the hands of the American
military. Then, in 1980, the federal govern-
ment took 23 million acres of land—without
consent, consultation, nor a treaty between
parties—and gave the people of Kaktovik
back 92,000 acres of land immediately sur-
rounding their village. A mere fraction of
their traditional and ancestral lands. The
‘‘deal’’ was that this land was locked up, the
Kaktovikmiut were unable to access Native
allotments, cultural sites, and subsistence
areas in the newly expanded Refuge in the
summer months. No, they now live with ex-
treme restrictions on how they can use their
own lands as a result of the changes made by
the federal government in how the land is
designated, lands that the Inupiat people
have been stewards over for thousands of
years. Do you consider these human rights
violations, Representative Huffman? We
hope, at the very least, that this does not di-
minish ‘‘the integrity of the National Wild-
life Refuge System,’’ which in itself operates
on the mistaken Western idea that Indige-
nous peoples are incompetent at managing
their own lands.
The views of the Iñupiat who call ANWR
home are frequently ignored, and your bill
reinforces the perception that the wishes of
people who live in and around the Coastal
Plain are less important than those who live
hundreds and thousands of miles away. Mr.
Huffman, you do not have to tell the Iñupiat
people, who have lived on this land for gen-
erations, the importance of our homelands—
we see it, we know it, we depend on it, we are
a part of it. We have something very impor-
tant in common, that often gets lost in this
debate—this false dichotomy of ‘‘for’’ vs.
‘‘against’’, republican vs. democrat, economy
vs. environment—we all share a commitment
to protecting this land and we would wel-
come the opportunity to work collabo-
ratively with you and the Gwich’in people,
to whom we have extended many invitations
for discussion, to protect this balance be-
tween responsible development and environ-
mental protections that is integral to our
way of life and the long-term sustainability
of our culture.
The Iñupiat people have existed, and even
flourished, in one of the most severe cli-
mates in the world for generations. We un-
derstand the balance needed to sustain our
way of life and our communities; this pri-
ority is currently dependent on successful
and safe oil and gas developments. We are
confident that the health of the Porcupine
Caribou Herd can be maintained given our
success in maintaining the health of three
other caribou herds that migrate within our
region. We respectfully request that you re-
move your bill from consideration and come
visit our communities to better understand
the needs of our people and our communities.
We would welcome the opportunity.
Taikuu,
SAYERS TUZROYLUK,
President, Voice of the
Arctic Iñupiat.
REX A. ROCK SR.,
Chairman.
JOHN HOPSON JR.,
Vice Chairman.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Utah (Mr. BISHOP), the
former chairman of the committee and
ranking member at this time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE7.011 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7679
September 12, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chair, I was
hoping the gentleman would insert me
as well.
Mr. Chair, I appreciate the oppor-
tunity of being here. We are here today
on day two of the Democrat week of
energy proposals. And once again, we
will quote Earl Weaver when he went
out to the umpire and said:
Is this as good as it gets, or are you going
to get better?
I will say the same thing on this bill
as we did yesterday. Is this as good as
it gets, or are you actually going to get
better?
This is the same concept we had with
the first bill that we did. We voted sec-
ond, but we actually discussed it as the
first bill yesterday, in which we did
things that are basically illogical, not
for science reasons. Science was essen-
tially taken out and shoved into a
trash can, but, actually, we did it for
political reasons.
It is signified by the amendments
that the Rules Committee, unfortu-
nately, made in order in which we
made amendments in order to have all
sorts of studies on the issue.
In the real world, you would try and
do a study, come up with results, and
then come up with the policy. That is
not what we did yesterday. We decided
on a policy, and then we are going to
institute a lot of non-comprehensive,
skewed studies to try and see if we can
come up with arguments in favor of the
policy we already did. It is backwards.
It is okay to do it. You have the
votes to do it. That is fine. Just don’t
have the audacity to say that this ad-
ministration doesn’t trust science or
that we don’t trust science over here,
when you also put an amendment in
there to deny any kind of seismic re-
search, which would give you the data
we haven’t had since the 1980s, but only
some of that seismic data. It is a
skewed approach to it.
But the most significant issue is the
one that Mr. HUFFMAN has raised sev-
eral times today in which he was
right—slightly off center with it—but
he is actually right.
Yesterday, many of the arguments
that were made were that the States
and State populations in these areas
want a kind of moratorium on drilling
in their areas. I get that. Listening to
those people is a good thing to do. But
where the gentleman got it wrong,
though, is that they weren’t talking to
the States who were wanting that. We
are not talking about the areas within
their States or even the water that
abuts their States as legally theirs.
They wanted the ability to control
what happens on Federal waters, which
is not part of the State’s concept.
Once again, if you would allow me
the ability to have control of what hap-
pens on Federal lands in my State, in
the State, we might have an apples-
and-apples situation, but that ain’t it.
There is also the concept that there
was not consultation with Native
Americans who live in Alaska and that,
once again, is actually inaccurate.
There have been consultations going on
since the gentleman was playing
volleyball in college. And they will
continue to go on from that side.
In fact, that is where the difference
comes. The people in Alaska who live
there don’t want this bill. And, once
again, they don’t want it because it is
impacting their State, their property,
their land, which is not what was hap-
pening yesterday, where States were
trying to impact what was happening
on Federal water.
It was sad that when we had the
hearing on this bill, the Democrats did
not invite those residents of this area
to testify. We did. And when they came
in March to testify, the Tribal leaders
from the only village in this coastal
plain, the one that is closest to this
area, simply said they were against
this bill.
Their exact words were: ‘‘The Arctic
Inupiat will not become conservation
refugees. We do not approve of efforts
to turn our homeland into one giant
national park, which literally guaran-
tees us a fate with no economy, no
jobs, reduced subsistence, and no hope
for the future of our people.’’
b 1015
That is what they want in their area.
When some of the other speakers said
there is no consultation, that is not
true.
Mr. YOUNG is saying exactly what the
constituents want in their area. Even
though this land is controlled by Fish
and Wildlife, the mineral resources are
not Federal. These people who are tes-
tifying that they don’t want this bill
own a majority or a significant portion
of those mineral rights. It is their min-
eral rights, and they should have the
ability to say what they want, too.
They have spoken clearly year after
year.
That is where the difference of yes-
terday and today is significant, and the
gentleman is glossing over that. That
is significant.
These people need to have the ability
to control their own destiny. They are
not trying to control something that is
not within the State. It is their re-
sources. It is their area.
We have had this debate before. We
had it when I first came here. It is
going to continue on ad nauseam.
The problem is this is not a good en-
ergy position for the future. What we
produced yesterday as Republicans is a
program that increases jobs, increases
the economy, and makes this country
stronger. The stuff the Democrats are
putting on in their energy week is dis-
jointed, discombobulated, and doesn’t
actually help anyone at all.
Once again, Mr. Chair, I agree with
Mr. YOUNG. Trust his people on what
they want to do with their resources—
not Federal—their resources.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, it is im-
portant to remember that we are talk-
ing about a Federal wildlife refuge,
America’s Arctic refuge.
Mr. Chair, you would lose sight of
that, perhaps, listening to the pretzel
logic we just heard from my friend who
at the end of the day cannot square the
selective concern for local voices when
it comes to drilling in a Federal refuge
and yet the flouting of local voices
when it comes to drilling, in the Fed-
eral interest, the Outer Continental
Shelf on the Atlantic and Pacific
Coasts. The disconnect is dizzying.
Mr. Chair, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Colorado (Ms.
DEGETTE), who is one of the Members
of Congress who has actually spent
some time in the Arctic refuge.
Ms. DEGETTE. Mr. Chair, in 2017,
with little debate, the Republican-led
Chamber quietly approved a provision
to open up the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge to oil and gas drilling. ANWR is
our Nation’s largest wildlife refuge,
and it is the ancestral home to the
Gwich’in people and current home to
more than 250 species of wildlife, in-
cluding threatened species like polar
bears that raise their cubs there.
As the chairman said, I have traveled
to this special place. I have met with
the Gwich’in people. I saw the pristine
beauty of the coastal plain, and I saw
thousands of Porcupine caribou in
their annual migration process. I know
how important this refuge is to our en-
tire ecosystem.
Instead of protecting this important
environment, this administration is
going to open it up to drilling and
allow it to be destroyed for an indeter-
minate amount of oil. Why? The Amer-
ican people are overwhelmingly op-
posed to this plan. They want this land
preserved, not destroyed.
This bill, H.R. 1146, will block the ad-
ministration’s disastrous plan and pro-
tect the refuge.
Mr. Chair, I strongly urge all of my
colleagues to support it.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 min-
utes to the gentleman from Arizona
(Mr. GOSAR).
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman for yielding.
I rise in opposition to this unwar-
ranted legislation. Like the two bills
we debated yesterday, this bill is an-
other attempt to hinder American en-
ergy dominance and our national secu-
rity.
As someone who has visited the Arc-
tic National Wildlife Refuge, I know
the support that responsible energy
production in section 1002 has among
the local population.
Responsible energy production will
provide much-needed employment op-
portunities to the local population as
well as critical tax revenue for local
government services. Not only does en-
ergy development in section 1002 have
the support of inhabitants in the re-
gion, but it also has the support of our
colleague, Congressman DON YOUNG,
and Alaska’s two Senators. In addition,
the majority of Alaskans support it;
every Alaskan Governor since 1980 has
supported it; 100 percent of Alaska’s
congressional delegation since 1980 has
supported it; and the Natives who live
right there, the village of Kaktovik,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:30 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.019 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7680 September 12, 2019
the Inupiat, the proper Tribe that is
closest to them and the only Tribe
within section 1002, support it.
This bill follows a bad pattern of how
Democratic members on the Natural
Resources Committee operate. They do
not care that local representatives and
residents oppose this legislation. They
believe that Washington, D.C., and ex-
tremist national environmental groups
know best and everyone else should
just go along with their extremism.
And it double-crosses the tax bill
passed just last year.
Section 1002 has the potential to ben-
efit greatly our country’s energy secu-
rity. Estimates from the U.S. Geologi-
cal Survey believe section 1002 contains
more than 12 billion barrels of oil, not
to make mention of natural gas.
Once again, Mr. Chair, we have an ex-
ample of the other side putting left-
wing extremism and their environ-
mental donors ahead of local voices,
our national security, and the needs of
the American people. I am a firm be-
liever in an all-of-the-above approach
to responsible energy production and
multiple use. Our public lands, like
section 1002, have nearly unlimited po-
tential to power our country.
Further, we can do all this while pro-
tecting the environment. Section 1002
is a small sliver in this area, 2,000
acres, in fact.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
oppose this legislation.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, does the gen-
tleman from California have the right
to close?
The CHAIR. The gentleman from
California has the right to close.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I yield myself
the balance of my time.
Mr. Chair, this is a sham bill. I have
heard people say there was no con-
sultation. There has been consultation.
The gentleman from California has
driven a wedge between two groups of
Alaska Natives, one that lives there,
resides there, and is directly affected,
and the other one is 400 miles away. We
had testimony from that group.
By the way, I am a Gwich’in. I may
not be one, but my daughters are. My
wife was. She would turn over in her
grave right now if she heard this non-
sense about the Gwich’in.
You invited a group in Alaska. This
used to be the House of the people. In-
stead of people putting their nose in
my business, I am going to put it in
your business. I will figure out a way
to do that because this is wrong. This
has been debated for 40 years, an area
set aside by this Congress for explo-
ration.
By the way, we gave the Alaska Na-
tives who live there at Kaktovik 70,000
acres of land for their social and eco-
nomic well-being, and you are taking it
away from them. You talk about a cul-
tural aspect, you are hurting those
people, and you don’t care. I remember
who you represent, and I understand
that. You are a lawyer.
To me, to have this type of bill on
the floor is not only a waste of time for
this House body but a bad thing for
this Nation, but worse than that is
going back on their word.
I represent the whole State of Alas-
ka. The people who live there, live on
the Arctic slope, want this legislation,
not the Gwich’in. Yes, they are being,
very frankly, shilled and used for a
sham, and that is a shame.
You can be what you want to be. You
can stand there holier-than-thou. You
are doing something wrong to this Na-
tion, the Alaska people, and the Alaska
Native. You listen to one side.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on this
legislation, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Chair, I have a lot of respect and
affection for the dean of the House. I
am sorry that we are on opposite sides
of this issue. I am also sorry that it
seems when it comes to oil and gas de-
velopment in the Arctic refuge, he is
listening to only some of the voices in
the Alaska community.
Mr. Chair, this week, dozens of indig-
enous Gwich’in leaders flew all the way
to Washington, D.C., as they have done
many, many times over the years, long
before I started working on this bill.
They do that because the Arctic refuge
is not simply a policy issue for them. It
is not about energy supplies, geo-
politics, profits, or scoring political
points. It is about their entire way of
life.
Those of us on the floor today don’t
worry that our entire history and our
entire culture hinge on the outcome of
this vote. But for the people in the gal-
lery today, the Gwich’in who are in the
gallery behind me right now, that is
exactly what is at stake.
For those on the other side who
would have us destroy this wild and sa-
cred area for some petroleum profits, I
would ask them this: Why now? Why do
we need to do this now? Because once
it is done, it is done. The coastal plain
will never be the same again after the
drill rigs roll in.
If we wait, if we conserve, if we pro-
tect, and if we treat this special area
with the care it deserves, then it will
still be there, wild and undisturbed for
future generations to enjoy. Or maybe
my grandchildren will still be debating
Congressman YOUNG’s great-great-
grandchildren over this same issue on
this very floor.
Do you know what? That is fine. I
don’t mind the debate. That is what
this country is all about. But reck-
lessly throwing open one of the most
special places in this country because a
few oil companies want even higher
profits and President Trump wants a
win? That is not fine. That is not worth
it.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
protect the Arctic, stand with the
Gwich’in people, and vote ‘‘yes’’ on the
Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain Pro-
tection Act.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. The Chair would remind
Members to avoid referencing occu-
pants of the gallery.
All time for general debate has ex-
pired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule.
In lieu of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on Natural Resources,
printed in the bill, the amendment in
the nature of a substitute consisting of
the text of Rules Committee Print 116–
30, modified by the amendment printed
in part C of House Report 116–200, shall
be considered as adopted. The bill, as
amended, shall be considered as an
original bill for purpose of further
amendment under the 5-minute rule
and shall be considered as read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 1146
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled.
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Arctic Cultural
and Coastal Plain Protection Act’’.
SEC. 2. REPEAL OF ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE
REFUGE OIL AND GAS PROGRAM.
Section 20001 of Public Law 115–97 (16 U.S.C.
3143 note) is hereby repealed.
SEC. 3. INSPECTION FEE COLLECTION.
Section 22 of the Outer Continental Shelf
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1348) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(g) INSPECTION FEES.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of the
Interior shall collect from the operators of facili-
ties subject to inspection under subsection (c)
non-refundable fees for such inspections—
‘‘(A) at an aggregate level equal to the
amount necessary to offset the annual expenses
of inspections of outer Continental Shelf facili-
ties (including mobile offshore drilling units) by
the Secretary of the Interior; and
‘‘(B) using a schedule that reflects the dif-
ferences in complexity among the classes of fa-
cilities to be inspected.
‘‘(2) OCEAN ENERGY SAFETY FUND.—There is
established in the Treasury a fund, to be known
as the ‘Ocean Energy Safety Fund’ (referred to
in this subsection as the ‘Fund’), into which
shall be deposited all amounts collected as fees
under paragraph (1) and which shall be avail-
able as provided under paragraph (3).
‘‘(3) AVAILABILITY OF FEES.—Notwithstanding
section 3302 of title 31, United States Code, all
amounts deposited in the Fund—
‘‘(A) shall be credited as offsetting collections;
‘‘(B) shall be available for expenditure for
purposes of carrying out inspections of outer
Continental Shelf facilities (including mobile
offshore drilling units) and the administration
of the inspection program under this section;
‘‘(C) shall be available only to the extent pro-
vided for in advance in an appropriations Act;
and
‘‘(D) shall remain available until expended.
‘‘(4) ADJUSTMENT FOR INFLATION.—For each
fiscal year beginning after fiscal year 2020, the
Secretary shall adjust each dollar amount speci-
fied in this subsection for inflation based on the
change in the Consumer Price Index from fiscal
year 2020.
‘‘(5) ANNUAL FEES.—Annual fees shall be col-
lected under this subsection for facilities that
are above the waterline, excluding drilling rigs,
and are in place at the start of the fiscal year.
Fees for fiscal year 2020 shall be—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:30 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.020 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7681
September 12, 2019
‘‘(A) $25,300 for facilities with no wells, but
with processing equipment or gathering lines;
‘‘(B) $40,700 for facilities with 1 to 10 wells,
with any combination of active or inactive
wells; and
‘‘(C) $75,900 for facilities with more than 10
wells, with any combination of active or inac-
tive wells.
‘‘(6) FEES FOR DRILLING RIGS.—Fees shall be
collected under this subsection for drilling rigs
on a per inspection basis. Fees for fiscal year
2020 shall be—
‘‘(A) $73,700 per inspection for rigs operating
in water depths of 500 feet or more; and
‘‘(B) $40,700 per inspection for rigs operating
in water depths of less than 500 feet.
‘‘(7) FEES FOR NON-RIG UNITS.—Fees shall be
collected under this subsection for well oper-
ations conducted via non-rig units as outlined
in subparts D, E, F, and Q of part 250 of title
30, Code of Federal Regulations, on a per in-
spection basis. Fees for fiscal year 2020 shall
be—
‘‘(A) $29,172 per inspection for non-rig units
operating in water depths of 2,500 feet or more;
‘‘(B) $25,366 per inspection for non-rig units
operating in water depths between 500 and 2,499
feet; and
‘‘(C) $9,834 per inspection for non-rig units
operating in water depths of less than 500 feet.
‘‘(8) BILLING.—The Secretary shall bill des-
ignated operators under paragraph (5) annu-
ally, with payment required within 30 days of
billing. The Secretary shall bill designated oper-
ators under paragraph (6) within 30 days of the
end of the month in which the inspection oc-
curred, with payment required within 30 days
after billing.’’.
SEC. 4. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the pur-
pose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by ref-
erence to the latest statement titled ‘‘Budgetary
Effects of PAYGO Legislation’’ for this Act, sub-
mitted for printing in the Congressional Record
by the Chairman of the House Budget Com-
mittee, provided that such statement has been
submitted prior to the vote on passage.
The CHAIR. No further amendment
to the bill, as amended, shall be in
order except those printed in part D of
House Report 116–200.
Each further amendment printed in
part D of the report may be offered
only in the order printed in the report,
by a Member designated in the report,
shall be considered as read, shall be de-
batable for the time specified in the re-
port equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent, shall
not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division
of the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. YOUNG
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 1 printed in part
D of House Report 116–200.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
On page 1, line 6, strike ‘‘Section’’ and in-
sert the following:
(a) Section
On page 1, after line 7, insert the following:
(b) TRIBAL CONSULTATION REQUIREMENT.—
The repeal made by subsection (a) shall not
take effect until—
(1) the Secretary of the Interior completes
a thorough consultation with the Inupiat
people regarding the effect of this Act on the
quality of life, human rights, and future of
the Inupiat people; and
(2) by formal action Kaktovic Village ap-
proves of such repeal.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 548, the gentleman from Alaska
(Mr. YOUNG) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Alaska.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, we discussed
before that this bill was written by the
gentleman from California. It only im-
pacts Alaska and impacts it only, and
I am the only Congressman. I strongly
oppose this legislation.
My amendment, very frankly, was to
try to solve one of the problems, the
lack of consultation with the people in
Kaktovik, the Inuits, and only listen to
one side, the Gwich’in.
This amendment says, yes, they will
have to consult with the Inuits, and
they have to consult with the people of
Kaktovik, and it would require them to
understand that if they didn’t agree
with it, very frankly, this would not go
forth.
It is a good amendment. If the gen-
tleman says this is culturally real, you
have to listen to both sides. You have
divided us. This amendment solves that
problem.
Adopt this amendment and make this
bill a little bit better but not totally
good.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I claim
time in opposition.
The CHAIR. The gentleman from
California is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, unfortu-
nately, this amendment is a stall tac-
tic to delay the bill’s protections for
the Arctic refuge from taking effect
until the Secretary of the Interior—a
walking conflict of interest who be-
came the subject of investigations into
ethical violations just 4 days into his
job—has conducted a ‘‘consultation’’
process and received formal action
from one village, the village of
Kaktovik. I wish that same concern for
Native American community consulta-
tion had existed before the Republican
tax bill was amended to insert this
drilling mandate without any consulta-
tion with Native American Tribes, cer-
tainly not the Gwich’in people who
may technically live a little further
away from the drilling area, but we are
talking about people who for millennia
have depended on the Porcupine car-
ibou herd that absolutely depends on
this pristine beating heart of America’s
Arctic refuge.
b 1030
So again, we are cherry-picking, I am
afraid, which voices matter, which
voices get to be listened to, and cer-
tainly putting this Secretary of the In-
terior in charge of that process would
be a cruel joke.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. YOUNG. Again, might I may say,
Mr. Chairman, this bill has been de-
bated. It passed out of this House 14
times—14 times—with consultation.
And with all due respect to my friend
from Gwich’in, I would like to take a
count of the caribou they have har-
vested in this last year and the year
before. It is a very small number. The
people who live there, right on the
shores and with them, are saying this
is okay.
We developed Prudhoe Bay. We have
more caribou now than we have ever
had.
This is, again, a sham. It is such a
dishonest presentation of something
that is not fact at all. But, again, in so-
ciety, people can do that. I understand
that.
But we ought to understand one
thing: This bill should never have came
to the floor.
Number two, it is not the first time.
There was consultation. We did pass
it—again, 14 times—out of this House,
even when you were in control, and
now it is the wrong thing to do. The
Senate didn’t pass the bill once, and
Bill Clinton beat it to death.
So I am just saying, again—not much
use talking about it much more—that
we can go ahead and vote on this
today, but this amendment solves one
of the problems: true consultation with
two groups of individual Alaska Na-
tives, both having some say in it, one
totally not listened to because you
have never asked them, and that is an
unfortunate thing.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, let’s do be
careful about the facts.
More caribou than we have ever had
before? That is certainly the case for
the Porcupine caribou herd, precisely
because it has had the benefit of the
wilderness management of the coastal
plain of the Arctic Refuge so critical to
its migratory pattern and its calving.
Throughout the rest of the Arctic,
caribou are in real trouble. Herds are
declining, and a very recent study has
confirmed that. So let’s take note of
the fact that we have one place where
caribou are thriving. Let’s not wreck
that place with oil and gas develop-
ment.
Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentle-
woman from New Mexico (Ms.
HAALAND), chair of the Subcommittee
on National Parks, Forests, and Public
Lands.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Chairman, I rise
in opposition to this amendment. As a
35th-generation American, it is well
known that I am deeply committed to
ensuring proper consultation with In-
dian Tribes about Federal policies and
laws that impact them.
But this amendment isn’t really
about Tribal consultation. If it were,
Republicans would have insisted on
this provision before the Arctic Refuge
was added to the tax bill and opened up
for drilling. And they would also be in-
sisting on consultation with all Tribes,
including the Gwich’in people, who get
sustenance from the Porcupine caribou
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:30 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE7.005 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7682 September 12, 2019
herd that will be directly impacted by
drilling on the coastal plain.
Just because certain Alaska Natives
don’t ‘‘live there’’ doesn’t mean they
don’t have ancestral ties to the land.
And, in fact, this land is imperative to
their present and future existence. The
real purpose of this amendment is to
delay protecting the refuge until this
administration is able to give it away
to oil and gas companies, when it will
be too late.
If we stop the leasing process first, I
would fully support a thorough con-
sultation with the Inupiat and
Gwich’in people and would look for
ways to improve the quality of life of
the people of Kaktovik without drilling
the Arctic Refuge. We can’t drill first
and ask questions later, because there
is no going back.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on this
amendment.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chair, I am urging a
‘‘yes’’ vote on this amendment and
‘‘no’’ on the legislation itself.
And, again, I think the gentleman
from California (Mr. HUFFMAN) has
done a great disservice to the people of
Alaska, especially the natives. He has
divided us, and that is not right.
The floor of this House has divided a
culture, different cultures, Alaska Na-
tives, and it is for that I am deeply re-
gretful. It shows what you can do when
you interfere with other people’s dis-
tricts.
This House used to be a House of the
people. Now it is a House of what?
What have they done in 2 years? Noth-
ing.
Now they are trying to undo what
was done legitimately in 40 years. And
so I understand it. You have the votes.
I understand that. It is not going to be-
come law. I hope you understand that.
And we are going to have a sale—I
hope you understand that—and then
my people that I represent will, in fact,
get their just due. I know that.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, as I
said, this amendment is a delay tactic
to ensure that the current administra-
tion will lock in a lease sale before pro-
tections can go into place or before
they are finally run out of office.
It does not require consultation with
the Gwich’in people, many of whom are
here today. These are the folks who
consider the coastal plains sacred.
They have relied on the Porcupine car-
ibou since time immemorial for their
cultural, spiritual, and physical suste-
nance, as well as food security.
There was no demand for Tribal con-
sultation prior to this little provision
being slipped in to the tax giveaway in
the previous Congress. What we are
hearing today is a very selective inter-
est in consultation that would place
the entire process in the hands of a De-
partment of the Interior whose only in-
terest is serving the interests of big oil.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘no’’ on this amendment and
‘‘yes’’ on the underlying bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Alaska (Mr. YOUNG).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Chairman, I demand
a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Alaska will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. GOSAR
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 2 printed in part
D of House Report 116–200.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill, insert the following:
SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.
Section 2 of this Act shall not be effective
until the Secretary of the Interior, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Labor, finds
that the repeal under section 2 will not ad-
versely affect jobs available to Native Amer-
icans, other minorities and women.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 548, the gentleman from Arizona
(Mr. GOSAR) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chairman, I rise
today to offer an amendment that al-
lows the section 2 moratorium in this
bill to go into effect when the Depart-
ment of the Interior, in consultation
with the Department of Labor, certifies
that the anti-energy moratorium in
the bill will not kill a substantial num-
ber of Tribal, minority, and women
jobs.
We heard arguments from Demo-
cratic Members on the other side of the
aisle against a similar amendment that
this amendment doesn’t matter and is
meaningless. How callous that re-
sponse. Tell the opponents of this
amendment to tell that to the single
mother working to put food on the
table for her two children that her job
doesn’t matter.
How about the minority family who
just moved into a new neighborhood so
their kids could go to better schools?
Tell those hardworking minority par-
ents these jobs don’t matter.
Tell those local Tribe members, the
Inupiat, the only Tribe within the 1002
section who want these jobs, whose
prosperity comes to their community
with these jobs, that these economic
benefits don’t matter.
Under the current administration,
unemployment has reached record
lows. In August, the national unem-
ployment rate sat at 3.7 percent, with
the unemployment rate for African
American workers sitting at 5.5 per-
cent, breaking the previous record of
5.9 percent, which was set in May of
2018.
According to a recent report by The
Washington Post, a bastion of conserv-
ative dictation, nearly 90 percent of the
jobs added under this administration
have gone to minority communities.
This can be attributed to, for the first
time, a majority of new hires are peo-
ple between the ages of 25 and 54 and
are from minority communities.
According to statistics published by
the American Petroleum Institute, mi-
norities will comprise one-third of the
total workforce in the oil and gas sec-
tor by 2030. Women already comprise
more than 15 percent of the oil and gas
workforce.
These are good-paying jobs, $90,000
and above, that hardworking families
depend on. This legislation puts these
employment opportunities and associ-
ated economic benefits at risk.
America’s energy renaissance has
boosted the economies of previously
left-behind towns in areas and sections
of this country and has turned them
into vibrant communities.
Mr. Chairman, this is a commonsense
amendment, protects minority Tribal
members and women jobs, and puts the
interests of the American workforce
first.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment.
The CHAIR. The gentleman from
California is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, this
amendment, I am sorry to say, is an-
other delay tactic in order to buy this
administration more time to jam
through a lease sale.
We know that former Assistant Sec-
retary Joe Balash said earlier this year
that the leased sale will happen in 2019
and that the administration is running
over all opposition in order to make
that happen, ignoring concerns of wild-
life biologists about impacts from seis-
mic testing and oil development itself.
Now, I said ‘‘former Assistant Sec-
retary’’ when I referred to Mr. Balash,
because he left the Department of the
Interior. Just days ago, he was a top of-
ficial—remember—pushing for drilling
in the Arctic Refuge, and he left to
take a job with an oil company that
stands to profit from the Trump ad-
ministration’s oil giveaway bonanza.
You can’t make this stuff up, folks.
Anyone who thought Teapot Dome was
the high watermark of corruption at
the Department of the Interior I hope
is paying attention to the incredible
craven levels of corruption that we are
seeing today. These are the folks who
this amendment would entrust with
the authority to call the shots on
whether drilling should proceed.
Unfortunately, this is not a serious
proposal. I urge my colleagues to op-
pose it, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, how offen-
sive. How offensive that argument, par-
ticularly when you look at the Depart-
ment of Labor. Hardly a bastion in re-
gards to the corruptness, at least in
this administration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:30 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.025 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7683
September 12, 2019
Amazing. Amazing that jobs that we
see the empowerment of people, taking
them away from the victims,
victimhood, that Democrats so des-
perately need, particularly, the Native
Americans who are empowered right
here with the money and the jobs to
lift them out from the poverty that
they actually see.
Amazing. Absolutely amazing.
So it seems to me that when you
start looking at this application in
consultation with the Department of
Labor, makes a big, big difference.
Now, when you look at this, Amer-
ican oil and gas production is nearly
responsible for 10 million jobs. That is
a huge amount of sector. And we dis-
cussed earlier that 90 percent of these
jobs in this sector are going to women
and minorities. That is a fabulous
number. That is the American Dream.
This is a commonsense application
that Congress has got to get used to to
understand the ramifications, the true
ramifications of our intent.
Mr. Chair, I ask everybody to vote
for this amendment, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, the impacts on jobs for
Native Americans, for minorities, for
women, this should not be used as a
pretext for more oil and gas drilling,
especially in a pristine place like the
Arctic Refuge. These are frontline
communities that often bear the brunt
of pollution and environmental justice
impact. And it is deeply cynical to try
to suggest that their interest would be
a reason to push for more drilling in a
place like the Arctic Refuge.
Mr. Chairman, if my colleagues want
to work on jobs and the economic in-
terest of these communities, we have
got a lot to work together on, but we
should do that in a way that looks to
the future.
Squeezing a little more fossil fuel out
of a special place like the Arctic Ref-
uge is not the future. Developing clean
renewable energy resources absolutely
is the future. I hope some day we can
get to the point of working together to
create great, well-paying jobs in those
future interests instead of trying to
look backward to the era of fossil fuels,
which I hope we can bring to an end as
quickly as possible.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. GOSAR).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chairman, I demand
a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Arizona will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. GOSAR
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 3 printed in part
D of House Report 116–200.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill, insert the following:
SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.
Section 2 of this Act shall not be effective
until the Secretary of the Interior, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Labor, finds
that the repeal under section 2 will not ad-
versely affect Caribou herd populations.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 548, the gentleman from Arizona
(Mr. GOSAR) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
MODIFICATION TO AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED
BY MR. GOSAR
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, I ask unani-
mous consent that my amendment be
modified in the form I have placed at
the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will report the
modification.
The Clerk read as follows:
Modification to Amendment No. 3 Of-
fered by Mr. GOSAR:
Strike ‘‘Secretary of Labor’’ and insert
‘‘Director of the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service’’.
The CHAIR. Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman of Arizona?
There was no objection.
The CHAIR. The amendment is modi-
fied.
The gentleman from Arizona is rec-
ognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
The modified amendment allows sec-
tion 2 of the bill to go into effect when
the DOI, in consultation with the Fish
and Wildlife Service, certifies that sec-
tion 2 of the bill will not harm the car-
ibou herd population.
It has been proven that, over time,
the caribou herds of the North Slope
can coexist and even thrive with en-
ergy development that takes place
there.
Many of my Republican colleagues
and Members of the Western Caucus
have seen this firsthand. We have seen
the great lengths that industry and re-
gional governments, Alaska Natives
and others have gone through to pro-
tect the caribou.
b 1045
In March of this year, the Tribal ad-
ministrator of the Native village testi-
fied: ‘‘Through the use of science and
traditional knowledge, best practices
have been implemented to reduce or
avoid impacts; such as, adequate pipe-
line height to not impede migrating
caribou, sufficient distance between
pipeline and road to avoid deterring
crossing caribou, specifications on road
height and slope, thoughtful design on
road placement to avoid funneling mi-
grating caribou, aircraft altitude
guidelines, time-area closures, and
other restrictions on operations.
‘‘These safeguards have worked to
protect caribou across the North Slope,
and we are confident that, through co-
ordination with the people of
Kaktovik, these mechanisms can be
successfully applied to oil and gas pro-
grams in the coastal plain.’’
In fact, I have seen that the pipelines
that go through the area occupied by
the caribou herd are now 10 to 15 feet
in the air, allowing the herds to easily
pass underneath them to facilitate mi-
gration and breeding. And this was
done voluntarily, at the industry’s ex-
pense.
Statistics have shown that the car-
ibou herds that inhabit areas in and
around areas where oil and gas produc-
tion is taking place have actually
grown in size; whereas, herds that have
inhabited areas where no oil and gas
activity has taken place have actually
declined.
Yes, we have heard the false nar-
rative from the other side today and
over the years that caribou populations
are declining and oil and gas produc-
tion is to blame. That is simply not
true.
For example, the Porcupine herd lo-
cated within the proposed development
has fluctuated greatly, even without
the oil and gas development taking
place. From 1989 to 2001, the Porcupine
herd population decreased by nearly
one third, even while no oil and gas
production was taking place on the
lands they inhabited.
This stands in stark contrast with
the central Arctic caribou herd which
inhabits lands adjacent to ANWR,
where oil and gas development takes
place.
The central Arctic herd grew from
5,000 caribou in 1975, about the time de-
velopment began, to almost 32,000 in
2002.
In short, oil and gas production has
proven to be good for the central Arc-
tic caribou herd, and breeding caribou
have even been found to migrate to-
ward the pipelines due to the heat they
put off.
The other side uses the caribou herds
that live in the ANWR region as polit-
ical pawns to try and prevent energy
development in the area.
Again, statistics show that the car-
ibou herd populations can benefit with
responsible oil and gas development.
This amendment challenges the false
narrative that has clearly been dis-
proven with the population explosion
of the central Arctic caribou herd in
oil-and-gas-producing areas.
Further, this commonsense amend-
ment provides further protection for
caribou herds by ensuring this bill
won’t negatively impact these popu-
lations.
Mr. Chair, I urge everybody to vote
for this amendment, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, I rise in
opposition to the amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentleman from
California is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, this is,
unfortunately, another delay tactic in-
tended to enable this administration to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:30 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.027 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7684 September 12, 2019
rush through oil lease sales in the Arc-
tic refuge.
And now I am afraid my friends
across the aisle are really stretching.
This argument that oil development is
good for caribou is something we have
heard before. It has been debunked
every single time we hear it.
But, if you really want to see the cra-
ven nature of this proposal, focus on
the fact that the person who would
make the decision, who would strike
that balance between oil drilling and
caribou protection, is none other than
the Secretary of the Interior, David
Bernhardt, an oil and gas lobbyist who
temporarily left the payroll of the oil
and gas industry for a little time in
public service and has never stopped
representing their interests. And we all
know that, a year and a half from now,
he will be right back on Big Oil’s pay-
roll.
So this is not a serious argument.
This is a delay tactic.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on this
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, once again,
we are going to debunk the flawed
science that the other side looks at.
Mr. Chair, I have two different arti-
cles that have been peer reviewed, and
I include them in the RECORD.
CARIBOU CALVES AND OIL DEVELOPMENT—DO
THEY MIX?
(By Patti Harper)
One thing’s certain about day-old caribou
calves. ‘‘They are incredibly cute,’’ says
Steve Arthur, a biologist with the Alaska
Department of Fish and Game in Fairbanks.
Arthur and his research partner, Patricia
Del Vechhio, have gotten up close and per-
sonal with newborn calves of the Central
Arctic caribou herd each June since 2001, in
an effort to address an important question:
What is the effect of oil field development on
wildlife?
Arthur says data they have collected sug-
gest that when cows are displaced from pre-
ferred calving areas, their calves are smaller
at birth and may not grow as fast or survive
as well. It’s an important finding because
some of the calving and summer ranges of
the Central Arctic caribou herd overlap
areas of oil development on Alaska’s North
Slope.
The herd’s size increased from approxi-
mately 5,000 caribou in 1975, about the time
development began, to almost 32,000 in 2002.
But Arthur says no easy answer can be
gleaned about whether development has af-
fected the herd from looking at changes in
the overall number of caribou, because many
factors affect growth or decline of caribou
populations. Previous researchers have
drawn contradictory and controversial con-
clusions about whether and how much car-
ibou are affected, he said.
When the study started, the Alaska De-
partment of Fish and Game (ADF&G) and
other management agencies had been en-
couraging oil field developers to minimize
impacts and activities in calving areas, but
wanted better data. ‘‘My interest is in trying
to cut through some of the controversial as-
pects of some of the previous work that has
been done and come up with something con-
crete and measurable,’’ Arthur said. The goal
has been to identify and measure the mecha-
nisms through which development disturb-
ance might affect the caribou population,
such as by reducing body condition, repro-
ductive success or calf survival.
The Bureau of Land Management and
ConocoPhillips contributed major funding
for the project, and the National Park Serv-
ice and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service also
provided support.
Arthur and his team spent five years meas-
uring calves, and radiotracking cows and
calves, to learn more about such things as
preferred calving areas, feeding ranges, and
calf survival. Each year, they captured 60 to
65 calves during the two-week calving season
in June, fitted them with radio collars,
weighed them and measured metatarsus
(lower leg bone) length. These calves were
then located by radio signal every two weeks
through October, and the following March
and June, to find out how many calves sur-
vived. Calves were captured, weighed and
measured when they were three and nine
months old. Over the course of the study, 58
cows were fitted with Global Positioning
System (GPS) collars that provided loca-
tions for them every five hours from May
through October, and every two days from
November through April.
The work was exciting, but it wasn’t easy.
The team had to hope for good flying weath-
er during what could be a somewhat wintry
and blustery June. It was important, Arthur
says, to measure calves within a couple of
days of their birth. Having some older than
others would make it difficult to compare
data. Also, at three days old, calves can run
pretty fast, making them difficult to catch.
The newborns were caught by hand—the hel-
icopter landed, Arthur or Del Vecchio
jumped out, grabbed a calf, collared and
measured it, and then left as quickly as pos-
sible so its mother, watching from nearby,
could return.
Netting rather than drug-darting was used
to capture older caribou because animals
from the herd are an important food source
for residents of the area. Skilled net-gunners
leaned from low-flying helicopters to release
the nets. Caribou caught in the nets were
then hobbled and blindfolded to calm them
and again, the process of collaring, weighing
and measuring took just a few minutes be-
fore the caribou were released.
In their recently published interim re-
search technical report, ‘‘Effects of Oil Field
Development on Calf Production and Sur-
vival in the Central Arctic Herd,’’ Arthur
and Del Vecchio compare what happened to
calves that were born in two different
calving areas, an area that is in a mostly un-
developed area east of Prudhoe Bay, and an
area west of Prudhoe Bay that has seen in-
creasing development since the late 1980s. In
the western area, calving has shifted south
since development began, though the re-
searchers point out that it is unclear if the
shift resulted from development, increased
herd size, or other factors.
The researchers found that newborns from
the western area on average weighed a little
less and were slightly smaller than those
from the eastern area, and that these dif-
ferences persisted through at least the first
nine months of life. They also found that
calves that were heavier in September were
more likely to survive the following winter.
However, statistically, survival rates did not
differ between the areas—depending on the
year, 53 to 87 percent of calves that were
alive at the end of the calving period sur-
vived to the end of their first year. The re-
searchers say it is hard to detect small dif-
ferences in survival rates, and other research
has shown that small differences can have
significant effects on caribou population
trends.
Arthur and Del Vecchio conclude that the
differences in size and mass of calves may be
largely influenced by the quality of habitat
and forage available to cows during the
calving period. ‘‘Thus, displacement of car-
ibou cows from preferred calving habitats
may reduce fitness and survival of calves,’’
they wrote.
As oil exploration and production con-
tinue, the approach set out in this research
may help to provide solid answers to the
question of whether development does or
does not adversely affect caribou popu-
lations. Arthur and Del Vecchio explain it
this way in their interim report: ‘‘If further
increases in levels of anthropogenic disturb-
ance cause caribou to reduce their use of pre-
ferred habitats, it should be possible to de-
tect effects of these changes by measuring
birth weights and growth rates of calves. If
similar changes do not occur in less-dis-
turbed areas, then this may be taken as evi-
dence of possible effects of disturbance.’’
Del Vecchio is headed back to the field this
June to take final measurements on calves
born in 2006, and to recover radio collars
used in the study. Then, she and Arthur will
take another look at the data and write
their final report.
The study collected lots of data. So, when
they’re finished with the project report, Ar-
thur, Del Vecchio and others will look at
other ways to use that data. Arthur says the
techniques to analyze GPS data have not
kept up with the ability to gather it, so they
may be developing new techniques. They
hope to look more closely at where caribou
move and what habitat they use in relation
to oil field infrastructure.
Dave Yokel, wildlife biologist with the Bu-
reau of Land Management, said he’s looking
forward to that sort of analysis. ‘‘We hope we
can use the results to mitigate any impacts
on the Teshepuk (caribou) herd from devel-
opment in the NPRA (National Petroleum
Reserve Alaska),’’ he said. To do that, the
BLM needs to know more about the impacts
on caribou of movement through infrastruc-
ture.
Looking back over his experiences in the
field, Arthur says he is struck by the resil-
ience of the calves. ‘‘The thing that im-
presses me is how these little calves are so
helpless and weak and they’re born in these
really harsh conditions—and yet most of
these little guys still make it.’’,
[From the ANWR Information Brief]
DO THE CARIBOU REALLY CARE?
Are caribou affected by oil development on
the North Slope? It would appear not, based
on the growing population of herds that use
land in the existing oil fields in northern
Alaska. The population of the Central Arctic
caribou herd, which migrates north each
summer into the oil fields near Prudhoe Bay,
has been growing about 8.5 percent per year.
Alaska Dept. of Fish and Game biologists
counted 31,857 caribou in aerial surveys of
this herd in July 2002. In July 2000, fish and
game biologists counted 27,128. In 1997, the
count was 19,730.
Caribou herd populations rise and fall with
natural cycles, but one explanation biolo-
gists have for the increasing population of
the Central Arctic Herd is good calf produc-
tion and survival, and high survival of
adults.
Pregnant caribou cows in the Central Arc-
tic herd bear their calves on lands within or
near operating oil fields. Some calves are
born within a few hundred meters of oil field
roads.
The Alaska Dept. of Fish and Game find-
ings are backed by the Argonne National
Laboratory. Argonne found no evidence that
oil development harmed the Central Arctic
Herd in the lab’s work on the Environmental
Impact Statement for an extension of the
Trans-Alaska Pipeline System federal right-
of-way.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:30 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.032 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7685
September 12, 2019
ARCTIC CARIBOU HERDS
Caribou herds rise and fall in natural cy-
cles, and it is interesting that while popu-
lations have been rising in the Central Arc-
tic Herd (see chart) which use lands in the
North Slope oilfields, populations have been
declining in the Porcupine herd (see chart)
which do not use lands where there is oil and
gas development. The Central Arctic Herd
increased to 32,000 animals in 2002, up from
27,000 in 2000. The Porcupine herd was esti-
mated at 123,000 in 2001, 129,000 in 1998 and
152,000 in 1994. In 1989, the population was
counted at 178,000. Most recent survey taken
in 2002.
CENTRAL ARCTIC, PORCUPINE CARIBOU MINGLE
There is now evidence that caribou mix be-
tween all of the North Slope caribou herds,
the Porcupine, Central Arctic and Western
Arctic herds. Using analysis of DNA, re-
searchers from the University of Alaska,
Texas A&M University and the U.S. Dept. of
Agriculture found that caribou in the three
herds are genetically related. This reflects
migration of animals between the herds over
many generations.
THE TRUTH ON ARCTIC CARIBOU
Caribou use of the 1002 Area of ANWR var-
ies dramatically from year to year. In 1995,
92% of the Porcupine Caribou Herd used this
area to calve. In 2000 none did so.
In some years, the Porcupine Herd calves
only in Canada.
Choice of calving area depends on snow
melt and early growth of forage plants.
Caribou live a boom and bust cycle, due to
predation, weather, and overhunting.
During the summer, caribou frequently use
oil field roads and gravel pads as insect relief
habitat: they stand on the elevated gravel
pads because fewer mosquitoes and flies har-
ass them there.
North slope oil facilities are specifically
designed to allow caribou migration with
elevated pipes to allow caribou to freely
walk underneath and limited use of service
roads.
With 30 years of contact with oil develop-
ment to go by, the industry has shown that
caribou and oil fields can successfully co-
exist. The Central Arctic Herd, which calves
in the vicinity of the Prudhoe Bay, Kuparuk,
and Milne Point oil fields, has increased
900% from an estimated 3,000 animals in the
early 1970s to 32,000 in 2002.
ANWR FACTS:
Refuge totals 19.6 million acres.
8 million acres designated Wilderness;
Coastal Plain, 1.5 million acres, set aside
by Congress for study of oil potential;
Only a small percentage of Coastal plain,
about 2,000 acres, would be impacted by oil
development;
THE COASTAL PLAIN IS NOT A PRISTINE
WILDERNESS:
About 40 guide outfits offer hunting and
recreation services in the coastal plain; A
community, Kaktovik, exists in the Coastal
Plain; Military installations operate on the
Plain now and in the past.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, once again,
we see the caribou herds that have
been associated with oil and gas drill-
ing actually expanding from 5,000 to
32,000.
Facts are hard to come by when they
don’t benefit you in the discussion. It
is simply untrue what they have been
trying to narrate in this respect.
This truly shows that you can work
hand in hand, being environmentally
friendly and having energy independ-
ence, empowering local communities
and Tribes, looking at this in a com-
prehensive fashion.
This is a commonsense amendment.
This is not about delay. This is about
proper orientation, whether it be jobs
associated with it or whether it be the
numbers of critical habitat and num-
bers of populations within that critical
habitat.
The facts just don’t stand up for the
other side.
Mr. Chair, once again, this is a very
good amendment. Once again, when we
want to start talking about facts, facts
that are exploited by the other side
that are truly false, we have to start
looking at, didactically, the facts.
When a herd goes from 5,000 caribou
to 32,000 when it is associated with oil
and gas drilling in that area, where a
herd declines by one third where there
is no drilling there, there has got to be
some kind of a prospect here.
Heat doesn’t just rise. It is associated
with the protection.
So, when you start looking at what
industry and the individuals have done
to promote these herds, this is a stellar
amendment.
Mr. Chair, I hope that everybody
votes for this, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chair, well,
again, this canard that oil and gas
drilling is good for caribou is right out
of the ‘‘thank you for smoking’’ play-
book. It is just not true.
And rather than subscribe to these
alternative facts, we need look no fur-
ther than the latest credible science
that we have—it is from the 2018 Arctic
Report Card—which found that caribou
populations across the Arctic have ac-
tually declined by 56 percent over the
last two decades. Yet, there is one ex-
ception to that trend, and that is the
Porcupine caribou herd, which has
shown strength.
This is good news. It shows the im-
portance of the National Wildlife Ref-
uge system and the wisdom of pro-
tecting this area in the first place.
There is one place in the Arctic
where caribou are thriving. It is a place
where we haven’t done oil and gas de-
velopment.
Let’s not wreck the coastal plain of
the Arctic refuge. If we care about car-
ibou, then, by all means, absolutely
vote ‘‘no’’ on this amendment and vote
‘‘yes’’ on the underlying bill.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment, as modified, offered by the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. GOSAR).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Arizona will be postponed.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CHAIR
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, proceedings will now re-
sume on those amendments printed in
part D of House Report 116–200 on
which further proceedings were post-
poned in the following order:
Amendment No. 1 by Mr. YOUNG of
Alaska.
Amendment No. 2 by Mr. GOSAR of
Arizona.
Amendment No. 3, as modified, by
Mr. GOSAR of Arizona.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote after the first vote in the series.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. YOUNG
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Alaska (Mr. YOUNG) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the noes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 193, noes 230,
not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 526]
AYES—193
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Costa
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Larsen (WA)
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:51 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE7.010 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7686 September 12, 2019
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOES—230
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—15
Abraham
Castro (TX)
Clyburn
Collins (NY)
Correa
Cummings
Duffy
Gabbard
Marchant
McEachin
Radewagen
Reed
Rice (NY)
Wilson (FL)
Yoho
b 1119
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ and Mr. TED
LIEU of California changed their vote
from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Mr. LONG changed his vote from
‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. GOSAR
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. GOSAR) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the noes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 184, noes 237,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 527]
AYES—184
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Costa
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOES—237
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—17
Abraham
Beyer
Castro (TX)
Clyburn
Collins (NY)
Correa
Cummings
Duffy
Gabbard
Huizenga
Marchant
McEachin
Radewagen
Rice (NY)
Turner
Wilson (FL)
Yoho
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:30 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE7.014 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7687
September 12, 2019
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CHAIR
The CHAIR (during the vote). There
is 1 minute remaining.
b 1126
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 3, AS MODIFIED, OFFERED BY
MR. GOSAR
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment, as modified, offered by
the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
GOSAR) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the noes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment, as modified.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment, as modified.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 187, noes 237,
not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 528]
AYES—187
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Costa
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOES—237
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—14
Abraham
Castro (TX)
Clyburn
Collins (NY)
Correa
Cummings
Gabbard
Harder (CA)
Huizenga
Marchant
McEachin
Radewagen
Rice (NY)
Yoho
b 1133
So the amendment, as modified, was
rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. HARDER of California. Mr. Chair, had I
been present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on
rollcall No. 528.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD). There being no further
amendments, under the rule, the Com-
mittee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois) having assumed the
chair, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Acting Chair
of the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union, reported that
that Committee, having had under con-
sideration the bill (H.R. 1146) to amend
Public Law 115–97 (commonly known as
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act) to repeal
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge oil
and gas program, and for other pur-
poses, and, pursuant to House Resolu-
tion 548, he reported the bill, as amend-
ed by that resolution, back to the
House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I have a
motion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. CURTIS. Yes, in its current
form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Curtis moves to recommit the bill,
H.R. 1146, to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources with instructions to report the same
back to the House forthwith with the fol-
lowing amendment:
At the end of the bill, add the following:
SEC. ll. EFFECTIVE DATE.
Section 2 of this Act shall take effect on
the date the President certifies that the en-
actment of this Act will not result in a net
increase of Russian oil and gas imports into
the United States.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Utah is recognized for 5 minutes in sup-
port of his motion.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, we are all
familiar with the famous line from
Thomas Jefferson, ‘‘The government
closest to the people serves the people
best.’’ So how is it that we are here
today considering a bill that has been
opposed by every member of the Alas-
kan delegation since 1980? Not just the
Alaskan delegation, but every Gov-
ernor of Alaska since 1980 and even the
gubernatorial candidates last year, two
Republicans, an independent, and a
Democrat, opposed this bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:30 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.037 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7688 September 12, 2019
This week, many of my friends across
the aisle sought to protect their coast-
lines by banning offshore energy devel-
opment. They know what is best in
their States. Apparently, the same
standard of local control does not
apply to Mr. YOUNG, who is the only
person in this body elected by the resi-
dents of Alaska.
Not only is this bill opposed by the
entire Alaskan delegation, it is opposed
by the local Alaska Native population
and written without their consulta-
tion.
As a Member who represents Bears
Ears, I hear from my colleagues all the
time how important it is to have Na-
tive American consultation, and they
are right. However, with local Alaska
Native opposition to this bill and no
consultation, there seems to be a dou-
ble standard.
In fact, just 3 days ago, I sat in a
hearing where BLM was criticized for
not working with the Native popu-
lation. They held 11 hearings, 7 listen-
ing sessions—apparently, not enough.
Unless I missed 18 trips of my col-
leagues to Alaska, we are working with
a double standard.
Those of you from States with very
little Federal ownership have a dif-
ficult time understanding what it is
like being from a State or county with
90 percent Federal ownership. Imagine
being a local elected official maintain-
ing roads, police, fire, sewers, and
parks when only 10 percent of your
property generates property tax.
At the end of the day, Mr. YOUNG and
the native Alaskans, not the rest of us,
should be determining the fate of Alas-
ka.
Mr. Speaker, I have heard the argu-
ment that this development will con-
tribute to climate change. Really? I am
listening. This is one Republican who
believes the climate is changing and
man is influencing it, but I am baffled
why so many of my colleagues will give
a pass to a human rights-violating dic-
tator in China and deny the local na-
tive Alaskans the right to have a living
off the land.
If we were serious about climate
change, I have an idea. Let’s take all
the natural gas we are putting back
into the ground in ANWR and send it
to China and India. We would do more
to reduce global carbon emissions than
by implementing the entire Green New
Deal.
I have heard the term ‘‘science de-
nier’’ tossed around, but I ask, who is
denying science the most? Those who
ignore 85 percent of carbon coming
from outside the United States, or
those who think that impacting 0.01
percent of ANWR will destroy the Alas-
kan environment?
Let’s put this in perspective. ANWR
is less than 5 percent of Alaska. This
project is less than 0.01 percent of
ANWR. For perspective, that is like
taking a janitorial closet in the Cap-
itol of 175 feet and putting HVAC in it
to keep us warm and cool. That is the
perspective.
When the other side is ready to fight
climate change, Republicans stand
ready. This is not one of those times.
To start, my friend GREG WALDEN
and his colleagues on the Energy and
Commerce Committee seem to have
the ability to generate a bill almost
daily that would truly impact the true
problems with climate change.
Mr. Speaker, this motion to recom-
mit will prevent the bill from taking
effect until the President certifies that
it will not result in a net increase of
Russian oil and gas imports into the
United States.
The answer to climate change is not
making the U.S. more reliant on for-
eign fossil fuels. A vote for this MTR is
a vote to support local Alaska Natives.
I repeat, the answer to climate
change is not making the U.S. more re-
liant on foreign fossil fuels. The last
time I checked, Ryan Zinke was the
only one riding a horse.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support of the
motion to recommit, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in opposition to the motion to recom-
mit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, for
those who have flights to catch and
would like to get out of here, I think I
have some good news. I think we can
keep this pretty short and pretty sim-
ple because this is a very simple bill. It
reflects the proposition that there are
some places that are simply too spe-
cial, that are too unique, that are too
environmentally vital, and that are too
sacred to indigenous people to wreck
them with oil and gas development.
Surely, that is something that most
Americans and even most people in
this body, regardless of their party,
could agree upon.
In fact, we saw bipartisan votes yes-
terday that reflected the same propo-
sition that the pristine coasts of the
Atlantic, the Lowcountry in South
Carolina, and the beautiful California
coast are places too special to wreck
them with new oil and gas develop-
ment. If my colleagues believe in this
simple proposition, then, surely, it
must apply to America’s largest wild-
life refuge and to the beating biological
heart of that refuge, the coastal plain
of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
That is the simple thing that this bill
is all about.
Unfortunately, this motion to recom-
mit is an attempt to distract us from
that, to delay protections against this
drilling, so that this administration
can rush a lease plan forward. Frankly,
by that time, it is too late. You can’t
go backward once you open a place like
this up to drilling.
Now, my friends’ concern for the
local voices, some of whom in Alaska
want to see drilling, would be a lot
more persuasive if, yesterday, we
hadn’t had a vote where my friends
across the aisle thumbed their nose at
the local voices in California, South
Carolina, Florida, and other places
that don’t want offshore drilling. So
let’s be consistent about what local
voices matter, and let’s acknowledge
the reality that the only voice they
really are hearing is that of Big Oil.
The truth is that this bill will not af-
fect or impact our role in global energy
markets in the slightest. The minority
seems to believe that we can provide
enough oil, if we just drill everywhere,
to let everyone in the world break free
of Russian gas or Saudi Arabian oil.
The truth is that we are, right now,
the largest oil producer in the world.
We produce over 12 million barrels of
crude oil every single day, and we are
not going to be able to corner the mar-
ket. I certainly don’t think, in light of
that fact, that we should put at risk
America’s coastal jobs or our biggest
wildlife refuge in the Arctic under this
misguided notion of so-called energy
dominance.
Now, I want to just close with two
things. First, for those who may still
have some fiscal sensibility, I think
there are still a few in this House who
would like to talk about fiscal issues.
Last week, Taxpayers for Common
Sense said in an op-ed: ‘‘Drilling in the
Arctic Refuge will be difficult and
costs from mistakes high. Right now,
oil and gas is plentiful and prices are
low, so this isn’t the time to develop
marginal areas. It’s not like the oil is
going away. So without huge returns,
this action will put taxpayers on the
hook for a lot of risk with little poten-
tial reward. In the current fiscal and
energy climate, if drilling proposals in
the Arctic Refuge move forward, the
joke’s on us.’’
Let the joke not be on us, colleagues.
Finally, I want to close by pointing
out that there are some people who
have traveled thousands of miles to be
with us today, all the way from Alas-
ka, the Gwich’in people, an indigenous
community that since time immemo-
rial have depended on the Porcupine
caribou herd and its migratory route
and its calving grounds that are abso-
lutely in the heart of the coastal plain
of the Arctic Refuge. Many of them are
here today.
And, ladies and gentlemen, none of us
here on this floor have to worry about
what our ancestors and what our fam-
ily depend on for our way of life, for
our culture, for what is sacred for
them, depending on the outcome of this
vote. For Gwich’in people, that is ex-
actly what is at stake.
So, colleagues, let’s do the right
thing for the environment. Let’s recog-
nize that some places are too special to
wreck with oil and gas drilling. Let’s
do right by the Gwich’in people. Vote
‘‘no’’ on this motion to recommit and
‘‘yes’’ on the underlying bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:30 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.041 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7689
September 12, 2019
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of passage.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 189, nays
229, not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 529]
YEAS—189
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—229
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—14
Abraham
Castro (TX)
Clyburn
Collins (NY)
Correa
Cummings
Gabbard
Gonzalez (TX)
Huizenga
Marchant
McCaul
McEachin
Rice (NY)
Yoho
b 1154
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoid-
ably detained. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 529.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 225, noes 193,
not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 530]
AYES—225
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—193
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Costa
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.043 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7690 September 12, 2019
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Vela
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—14
Abraham
Baird
Castro (TX)
Clyburn
Collins (NY)
Correa
Cummings
Gabbard
Gonzalez (TX)
Huizenga
Marchant
McEachin
Rice (NY)
Yoho
b 1202
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. VELA. Mr. Speaker, at the end of a long
vote series today, I unintentionally voted nay
for H.R. 1146, the Arctic Cultural and Coastal
Plan Protection Act, on rollcall number 530.
Had I been able to correct my vote at that
time, I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Miss RICE of New York. Mr. Speaker, I was
necessarily absent from votes on Thursday
September 12, 2019. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 526;
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 527; ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No.
528; ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 529; and ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 530.
f
DIRECTING THE CLERK TO PRO-
VIDE AUDIO BACKUP FILE OF
DEPOSITION OF ROGER J. STONE
JR.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I send
to the desk a resolution (H. Res. 553)
directing the Clerk of the House of
Representatives to provide a copy of
the on-the-record portions of the audio
backup file of the transcribed inter-
view of Roger J. Stone Jr. conducted
by the Permanent Select Committee
on Intelligence on September 26, 2017,
to the prosecuting attorneys in the
case of the United States of America v.
Stone, No. 1:19-cr-00018–ABJ (D.D.C),
and ask unanimous consent for its im-
mediate consideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 553
Whereas on September 26, 2017, Roger J.
Stone Jr. appeared in Washington, DC, and
was interviewed by the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence of the House of
Representatives in connection with that
Committee’s investigation into Russian in-
terference in the 2016 United States election;
Whereas the Department of Justice re-
quested in a December 14, 2018, letter to the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
that the Committee provide a transcript of
its September 26, 2017, interview with Mr.
Stone, as well as any other written submis-
sions or correspondence from Mr. Stone or
his attorneys before and after his interview;
Whereas on December 20, 2018, pursuant to
a bipartisan Committee vote on that date
authorizing the release of Executive Session
materials, the then-Chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence jointly sent the
Department of Justice the transcript of Mr.
Stone’s September 26, 2017, interview, as well
as an enumerated list of related materials;
Whereas on January 24, 2019, Mr. Stone was
indicted by a grand jury on seven counts, in-
cluding one count of obstruction of an offi-
cial proceeding, in violation of sections 1505
and 2 of title 18, United States Code, and five
counts of making false statements in viola-
tion of sections 1001(a)(2) and 2 of title 18,
United States Code;
Whereas the Department of Justice re-
quested via letter on August 20, 2019, that
the House voluntarily provide to it a copy of
the on-the-record portions of the audio
backup file of Mr. Stone’s September 26, 2017,
transcribed interview;
Whereas by the privileges and rights of the
House of Representatives, an audio backup
file of Mr. Stone’s transcribed interview may
not be taken from the possession or control
of the Clerk of the House of Representatives
by mandate of process of the article III
courts of the United States, and may not be
provided pursuant to requests by the court
or the parties to United States of America v.
Stone except at the direction of the House;
and
Whereas it is the judgment of the House of
Representatives that, in the particular cir-
cumstances of this case, providing a copy of
the on-the-record portions of the audio
backup file of Mr. Stone’s transcribed inter-
view to the prosecuting attorneys in the case
of United States v. Stone would promote the
ends of justice in a manner consistent with
the privileges and rights of the House: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives directs the Clerk of the House to pro-
vide for use at trial a copy of the on-the-
record portions of the audio backup file of
the transcribed interview of Roger J. Stone
Jr. that was conducted by the Permanent Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence of the House
of Representatives on September 26, 2017, to
the prosecuting attorneys in the case of
United States of America v. Stone, No. 1:19-cr-
00018–ABJ (D.D.C.).
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Miss Kaitlyn
Roberts, one of his secretaries.
f
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
HOYER), for the purpose of inquiring of
the majority leader the schedule for
the week to come.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday, the House
will meet at 12 p.m. for morning-hour
debate, and 2 p.m. for legislative busi-
ness, with votes postponed until 6:30
p.m. On Wednesday and Thursday of
next week, the House will meet at 10
a.m. for morning-hour debate, and 12
p.m. for legislative business. On Fri-
day, the House will meet at 9 a.m. for
legislative business, and last votes are
expected no later than 3 p.m.
We will consider several bills under
suspension of the rules. The complete
list of suspension bills will be an-
nounced by the close of business to-
morrow.
The House, Mr. Speaker, will con-
sider a clean continuing resolution to
fund the government past September
30. While the House did its work, and
sent 10 appropriation bills to the Sen-
ate, funding 96 percent of the govern-
ment—the first time that is been done
in over three decades—I am dis-
appointed that the Senate failed to
pass a single appropriation bill. Not
one.
Not only that, they haven’t filed any
until just the other day when we got
back from the summer break.
I am disappointed that the Senate
failed to introduce a single appropria-
tion bill for the first time in more than
three decades. So that while we were
very successful, the Senate failed to
move forward.
Therefore, as we wait for them to
complete their work so that we can
begin conference negotiations, a con-
tinuing resolution will be necessary to
prevent another government shutdown
like the one we experienced earlier this
year.
In addition, the House will consider
H.R. 1423, Forced Arbitration Injustice
Repeal Act, called the FAIR Act, and
the legislation would eliminate forced
arbitration in employment, consumer,
and civil rights cases so that Ameri-
cans, as they have under the Constitu-
tion, would have the right to seek re-
dress of grievances through the courts.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:51 Nov 18, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\H12SE9.REC H12SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7691
September 12, 2019
This would restore access to justice
for millions of Americans who are cur-
rently locked out of the court system
and are forced to settle their disputes
against companies in a private system
of arbitration.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, as it re-
lates to the funding of government, I
know that it is important that as we fi-
nally got an agreement a few months
ago to come up with a 2-year budget
process where we agreed on numbers of
funding, especially for the Defense De-
partment which needs that certainty,
they don’t want these short-term CRs.
They need the long-term certainty so
they can go out and acquire the kind of
equipment we need to keep our men
and women in uniform safe to effec-
tively do their jobs in a safe manner.
One of the things I would point out,
as the gentleman talked about the Sen-
ate process, let’s be clear that the
House bills that were passed out moved
on a very partisan basis. There were no
bipartisan agreements as you passed
the bills out of the House.
The Senate does work differently.
The Senate has to have a 60-vote mar-
gin to get any bills moved, so they
have been in negotiations to try to get,
not a partisan agreement but a bipar-
tisan agreement, and, unfortunately,
so far, they have had a lot of problems
with some of the Senate Democrats
who try to put poison pills in those
budget talks that would ultimately not
yield something that can get signed
into law and would not comply with
the 2-year budget agreement that we
reached.
So I would encourage both on our
side, there should have been a bipar-
tisan agreement on the bills that are
moved through, and at least there are
some talks going on, but they haven’t
resulted in bipartisan legislation that
can get signed by the President.
The Senate needs to do the same
thing. And so we are beyond the time
for partisan differences. Now is the
time where we need to come together
and agree on those things that we can
put in a bill that can get signed into
law. Drop this idea of these poison pills
that everybody knows will gum up the
works. Let’s get the certainty that we
deserve for a full budget process for the
year.
We are not there yet. If we have to do
a short-term budget agreement or
short-term CR, then that is one thing
that we may consider next week. We
haven’t seen the final details, of
course. It would have to be clean with
no poison pills attached to it. But,
hopefully, that yields talks that are
truly bipartisan, which we haven’t, un-
fortunately, seen to this point.
So I would hope that we can get be-
yond that next week. It gives us more
time to have real negotiations that can
result in something that can get signed
into law and give certainty to our men
and women in uniform and all of the
other agencies that rely on us doing
that work on a bipartisan basis.
I would like to shift gears and ask
the gentleman about the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement,
USMCA. I yield to the gentleman if he
has something to add to that.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I understand the gentleman said a lot
of things about reaching bipartisan
agreements and all of this sort of stuff,
and the Senate needed 60 votes. They
didn’t introduce a bill. Not a single ap-
propriation bill was introduced.
b 1215
They had the same 60-vote require-
ment last year, and they passed a lot of
bills last year. The reason they didn’t
pass bills is that the President of the
United States wouldn’t come to the
table and agree on caps. They could
have done the same thing we did.
We are an independent branch of gov-
ernment. We are the Article I branch of
government. We appropriate money.
We spend money. But the Senate has
not done its work.
If you brought the bills to the floor
and couldn’t get 60 votes, we get it. But
I will tell my friend that there is great
frustration. For the first time since my
friend has been a Member of the Con-
gress, we passed 96 percent of the fund-
ing for government by June 30, other-
wise known as 3 full months before the
end of the fiscal year, giving the Sen-
ate a lot of time.
But, no, we had to wait and wait and
wait until the President sent down Sec-
retary Mnuchin, and we finally made
an agreement on 302(a)s, in other
words, the caps, what we were going to
spend.
With all due respect to all this talk
about bipartisanship and that we need
to work together, that is, of course,
true. It was not true in the Congresses
when my friend’s party was in the ma-
jority. The Republicans passed partisan
bills, and they went over to the Senate.
The Senate didn’t take them, and we
went back and forth.
There has been no back and forth. We
did our work, and although the Repub-
licans disagreed with the numbers pub-
licly, privately, very frankly, a lot of
my friend’s Members told me the num-
bers were pretty good numbers, and
they liked them, including defense. We
passed a Defense bill with a substantial
increase for our troops, readiness, oper-
ations, and training.
I say that to Mr. Whip not to criti-
cize my friend but to simply say that
of all this verbiage about being nice to
get together and do something, the reg-
ular order is we pass bills, the Senate
passes bills, and then we have a con-
ference. Unfortunately, we have gotten
away from that, which I think is very
bad for the House, the Senate, and the
American people.
We cannot go to conference if the
Senate doesn’t even pass a bill, doesn’t
even introduce a bill, waiting on the
President of the United States to say,
‘‘Simon says.’’
We can’t get a bill supported by 90
percent of the American people, com-
prehensive background checks, which
90 percent, a majority of my friend’s
party, a majority of my party, and a
majority of independents thinks makes
common sense. We passed it in Feb-
ruary, and we can’t even have it on the
floor in the United States Senate.
Not only are they not doing appro-
priations bills, but they are not doing
any other bills either. They spend all
their time on judges.
We are a little frustrated on this side
because we have done our work. Nine-
ty-six percent of government is funded,
and, yes, there could have been dif-
ferences of opinion. They should have
passed bills and said, no, we don’t
agree.
Mr. Speaker, the problem they would
have had, I tell my friend, is that they
didn’t want to have bipartisan bills be-
cause, yes, it would have required them
to get 60 votes, and they didn’t want to
make the compromises necessary to
get 60 votes.
We are here, just a little more than
15 days before the end of the fiscal
year, and the Senate has not passed a
single bill while we have funded 96 per-
cent of government. This CR is nec-
essary. Nobody wants to shut down
government, I hope. Hopefully, the CR
will not have anything that either
party will disagree with, and we will
extend some things that need to be ex-
tended because we haven’t acted upon
them in a timely fashion. But I am
hopeful that the CR will get to the
Senate, that we will pass the CR, that
there will be no drama, and then, as
the gentleman suggests, and I agree
with him, that we will sit down in a bi-
partisan way and try to reach agree-
ment on each 1 of the 12 appropriations
bills and either put them separately or
in a minibus or omnibus and pass them
to fund the government and not have
what we had last year and into the first
part of 2017, a shutdown of the Govern-
ment of the United States. That was
not good for the people of our country,
not good for our government employ-
ees, and not good for the Congress of
the United States to be unable to do its
work, resulting in a shutdown of gov-
ernment.
I appreciate the gentleman’s senti-
ment about doing things in a bipar-
tisan way, but you can’t do things in a
bipartisan way if they don’t come to
the floor. If the leader over there
doesn’t have 60 votes, then he needs to
reach a compromise because we need to
get our business done. We passed all of
our bills. Some were not partisan, I
think, in many ways, but there was a
determination not to vote for them be-
cause we hadn’t reached a caps num-
ber. I think that was unfortunate be-
cause I think, as someone who served
on the committee for 23 years, Mr.
Speaker, we passed our bills in many,
many instances—most instances—in a
bipartisan fashion.
I didn’t want the comment to go not
responded to, in terms of the Senate’s
refusal and unwillingness to act and do
its business. And here we are, not a sin-
gle bill—not one—has been passed
through the committee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.049 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7692 September 12, 2019
The gentleman’s party has the ma-
jority on the committee. At least my
friend could report them out of com-
mittee and then work on getting 60
votes.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, there
were a number of items that my friend
brought up. I will start with the gov-
ernment shutdown that the gentleman
referred to last year. When we were in
the majority last year, we passed bi-
partisan bills to fund over 70 percent of
the government prior to October 1—no
shutdown—more than 70 percent of the
government that we worked with
Democrats and President Trump to get
an agreement on, including defense, so
our men and women in uniform did not
have that uncertainty and had that full
year of funding. All of that was worked
out.
Clearly, we had a difference of agree-
ment over the Homeland Security De-
partment because of funding for border
security. The government shutdown
was clearly over whether or not we
were going to have a secure border and
all the things that were involved, in-
cluding physical barriers. We resolved
it, and the President was able to get
over $4.5 billion of new money to con-
tinue putting that physical security in
place to secure our Nation’s border.
That took a few more months, but we
resolved it.
Keep in mind, over 70 percent of the
government was fully funded prior to
the end of the fiscal year, working with
Republicans and Democrats in the
House and Senate.
As the gentleman brags about pass-
ing over 96 percent of the bills out of
the House, it has to be noted that the
majority didn’t work with Republicans
to do it. The easy thing is just to say
that we will just talk amongst our-
selves, knowing it will never get signed
into law. Of course, a partisan bill is
not going to get signed into law when
you have a President of the different
party or when you have a Senate con-
trolled by a different party.
The Senate works differently than
us. We can have that debate for an-
other day. We would probably both
agree on a lot of the differences we
have with how the Senate operates.
But because of their 60-vote require-
ment, they know nothing is going to
pass unless they have Republican and
Democratic agreement in those nego-
tiations.
Let’s be clear about what is bottling
up those negotiations. There are Sen-
ate Democrats in Democratic leader-
ship on the Democratic side who are of-
fering up things that everybody knows
are poison pills that would not get
signed into law.
They are at an impasse. They need to
break that impasse. That is their issue.
But, Mr. Speaker, you can talk to some
of the Senate Democrats who are try-
ing to offer up things that everybody
knows will not happen or become law
or pass over there, but both sides need
to come together.
Mr. Speaker, when you pass an NDAA
bill—and the gentleman from Maryland
knows this. The National Defense Au-
thorization Act is a bill that a Repub-
lican-controlled House or a Demo-
cratic-controlled House, no matter who
has been in charge, we have come to-
gether always. Every single year that
we have moved an NDAA, it has been
bipartisan. This is the first year that
the majority broke from that.
The majority passed a partisan bill
on defense knowing it was never going
to become law but not working with
Democrats and breaking the tradition
that every year we have followed, that
Republicans and Democrats would
come together and say that we have all
of these other differences—and there
are a lot of differences that we have
that we need to work through. We
might get some; we might not get oth-
ers. But we put defense on the side and
said that this is one where we will
come together, Republicans and Demo-
crats in every year we did it, including
last year when we were in the major-
ity.
This year, the majority did not. They
broke that tradition. It is unfortunate
because, again, that will never become
law.
My friend can brag they got it done,
but they got something done that will
never get signed into law and broke a
tradition that we have always had that
that bill was bipartisan, making sure
that we work together to take care of
our men and women in uniform in a
way that they deserve and in a timely
way.
I would hope that we would get those
things done before October 1. But we
all know what came out of this House
is not what is going to be a final prod-
uct.
Let’s work better to get these ad-
dressed, working with Members of both
parties and the President, who, by the
way, did agree with us on the numbers.
We are in agreement. The House, the
Senate, and the White House have fi-
nally agreed on the numbers.
Now it is up to us in the Congress to
come to an agreement. It is not just,
hey, we passed our bill with just mem-
bers of our party. It is going to have to
mean people work together through
those differences as we have done in
the past.
Sometimes we disagreed. Seventy
percent of government was funded last
year prior to October 1. Ultimately, we
got agreement on the rest.
Does the gentleman have anything
else to say on that before I move on?
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, the defense
bill passed this House with almost
every Republican voting against it. It
was a bill that provided $733 billion, a
figure that the Joint Chiefs of Staff
suggested publicly. It was a figure that
I know personally was a figure that
was deemed acceptable by the leader-
ship of the authorizing committee and
the appropriating committee on the
Republican side. The rhetoric was to-
tally partisan.
We have now made a deal, and we are
now going to save defense because we
did $5 billion more. The figure last
year, of course, was somewhere around
$700 billion, a little over.
I will tell my friend that we believe
on our side of the aisle that the opposi-
tion to the defense bill was totally par-
tisan, no attempt at bipartisanship.
Yes, the Republicans had some success
in getting bipartisan bills through.
Why? Because we were prepared to vote
in a bipartisan way.
That is the difference. We were pre-
pared to vote in a bipartisan way. We
were prepared to accept my friend’s
party was the majority.
Mr. Speaker, we understand when
you are in the minority you work to
get the best objective you think is pos-
sible. We did that, and the gentleman,
Mr. Speaker, says that they got bipar-
tisan bills done because Democrats
voted for them, including me. But I
know the number was an acceptable
number, and it was a number suggested
by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Yet we
heard rhetoric after rhetoric of how
this was letting down the Defense De-
partment.
What did they do? They made a deal,
not $733 billion, $738 billion. My good-
ness, what an extraordinary difference.
They voted against funding the men
and women in uniform, funding oper-
ations, and funding overseas contin-
gencies.
I hope that we get off this. If you
want to talk bipartisan, act bipartisan,
Mr. Speaker. Talk is cheap. It was
clear that Democrats, in fact, when the
Republicans were in the majority, did
vote on a number of occasions, not
every occasion, for bipartisanship. But
you can’t have bipartisanship if you
don’t introduce a bill.
Mr. Speaker, the Republicans have
the majority in the United States Sen-
ate on the committee. They don’t need
60 votes in the committee. They don’t
need 60 percent. They don’t need two-
thirds. All they need is a simple major-
ity to pass a bill out of committee, as
the gentleman pointed out when he
said we did fund some pieces of govern-
ment before. Why? Because we got bi-
partisan agreement.
b 1230
And I have never seen, as I say, in
three decades, the Senate fail to even
introduce an appropriation bill prior to
the end of July.
I hope the Senate will move with
some degree of alacrity. I hope that we
will get to agreement on these 12 bills.
I hope that we will fund the govern-
ment and not have a shutdown, as we
had the last time. The first time it has
ever happened in a new Congress where
the government was shutdown—all
over the wall—which a number of Re-
publicans have said is not a useful
thing to do.
I won’t name them. I am sure the mi-
nority whip, the Republican whip,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.050 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7693
September 12, 2019
knows a lot of them. They served in
this body. Some are chairman of com-
mittees over there now.
So I am hopeful that we will move to-
gether on the appropriations process
and do our business, do it on time, as
we have done here in the House so that
the American people can be well-
served.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, let’s be
clear on the funding of government.
From last year, we did fund over 70 per-
cent of the government, and we didn’t
play a partisan game with our Nation’s
defense.
This bill, the NDAA, you can talk
about what both sides should do.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. Let me make this
point, because you have made some
points that aren’t completely accurate.
The number we agreed upon—but if
you say, Okay, we agree on a certain
spending level, that is one part of the
debate. But you then go put policies in
the bill at that level that undermine,
not only our beliefs of what is best for
national defense, but what the Presi-
dent needs to do to be able to do his job
to secure our border. You did that in
the bill knowing that that would make
it partisan. It was a bipartisan bill, and
then you added provisions, like things
that would undermine the ability to se-
cure America’s border in that bill
knowing it was partisan.
If you took that out, you knew it
would have been a bipartisan bill, but
you left it in. And that is a pattern we
have seen from Speaker PELOSI’s ma-
jority this year.
We had a bill in the Committee on
Energy and Commerce to lower drug
prices—a major problem in this coun-
try. Republicans and Democrats
worked for months and came up with a
bill in the committee of jurisdiction to
solve the problem and lower drug
prices.
And you know what happened? It was
a unanimous vote—unanimous vote.
People looking at Congress going,
Wow, here in the year 2019, on a major
issue like lowering drug prices, Repub-
licans and Democrats came together
and figured out a way to lower drug
prices, and the vote was unanimous.
You would figure we would put that
on suspension the next day to pass it
out, so we could get it signed by the
President as soon as possible and lower
drug prices as soon as possible.
And you know what happened? It just
happened a few months ago. As that
bill came out of committee unani-
mously to lower drug prices, the
Speaker made a decision that she was
going to put a poison pill in it—after it
came out of committee, before it was
voted on on the House floor—knowing
what that would do.
And it immediately became a par-
tisan bill because you put something in
that you knew was not going to get Re-
publican support. And so the bill
passed out of the House. And you can
brag you passed it, but it is not going
to go anywhere.
It will not become law, but we had a
bill that was unanimous out of com-
mittee to lower drug prices. It would be
signed into law today if you wouldn’t
have done that. But you wanted to play
political games, and it has happened
over and over.
And so you can talk about what you
passed, but when there was a bill that
was unanimous out of the committee of
jurisdiction, where doctors, people in
the healthcare professions, people in
business, people on both sides of the
aisle that know this issue figured out a
way to put all of their differences aside
and pass a bill to lower drug prices,
you had to make that partisan after it
came out of committee unanimously.
That is what has been done over and
over that undermines the ability for us
to get our job done. We could have got-
ten that done. It could be signed by the
President today, and we could all hail
that as a major accomplishment.
That is just one example, and it is
happened over and over again, and it
shouldn’t happen that way.
So, yes, we need to move this process
along, but we move it along by working
together. Defense could have been done
in a bipartisan way. The things that
were added in that you knew would
make it partisan shouldn’t have been
put in that bill. It had never happened
that way before, ever.
We had always passed a bipartisan
NDAA bill through the House, and this
is the first year that didn’t happen.
Drug pricing could be solved, but it
hasn’t happened yet. It should happen.
I hope we get it done, but it should
have been done in a partisan way when
the committee figured out a way to do
it unanimously.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
SCALISE) for yielding.
We can discuss all sorts of bills, but
we discussed the appropriations proc-
ess. And the gentleman expressed how
they were able to pass 70 percent of
funding of the government because
they had the Defense bill and the
Labor-Health, which are the two big-
gest bills, passed and signed by the
President.
Why were they able to do that, Mr.
Speaker, when it requires 60 votes in
the Senate? They didn’t have 60 votes
in the Senate because Democrats acted
in a bipartisan way to affect that end.
This year, we have had no oppor-
tunity to do that. We have had no op-
portunity to conference on our bills.
Republicans lead the Senate, passed
your bills, and if you can’t get 60 votes,
yes, you would have to compromise in
the Senate.
You didn’t compromise when you
were in charge, frankly, on an awful lot
of things that had closed rules, more
than any other Congress, so we didn’t
have an opportunity to even amend.
But that aside, when you claim that
you passed those bills you did, and the
only reason you could do it is because
the Democrats acted in a bipartisan
fashion because you did not have the
votes to pass them on your own, you
needed Democratic votes. Democrats
gave you those votes because we knew
that in order to get things done you
had to move in a bipartisan fashion.
That is the only way you were able to
do it. We have not been given the op-
portunity in the United States Senate
because there are no bills yet to con-
sider, except for the last 3 days the
bills came forward.
But for the first 9 months of the year,
no bills came forward, Mr. Speaker, not
one.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I would
hope those Senators on both sides of
the aisle, as they are having negotia-
tions—and, yeah, they don’t have a
bill, but they are negotiating. And
there are Senators that know that
some of the provisions they are insist-
ing upon are things that will not be-
come law because they undermine our
Nation’s security. And yet, they keep
insisting. And so they are not at an
agreement, but they need to keep
working just like we need to work in a
bipartisan way on those issues. And
they will get resolved if we do that.
And, again, I think if you go look at
the example of what the House Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce did on
lowering drug prices, it is a great
model to follow.
That bill should have been brought to
the floor. That bill should not have
been changed by the Speaker at the
last minute to become partisan, and
now it is not law.
I would like to move on to something
that has been troubling that we have
been seeing out of the Committee on
the Judiciary, and that is this drum-
beat towards impeachment. It seems
like there is an infatuation by this ma-
jority to impeach the President of the
United States, whether or not the facts
are there. And so there was the Mueller
report that went on for years.
And all of these members—chairs of
your own committees—saying there
was evidence that they had, and it was
going to show the President colluded
here and there. And then it turned out
to be false; there was no collusion.
We know that. The report showed
that. Russia tried to interfere with our
elections when Barack Obama was
President. Maybe they should be inves-
tigating why he didn’t do more to stop
the Russians from trying to interfere
with our elections, but there was no
collusion.
So instead of saying, Okay, that is it,
move on—as the American people
would like to see us do—maybe that
committee that has jurisdiction over
the border, over immigration law, that
has serious problems that should be
worked out in a bipartisan way, and
could be worked out in a bipartisan
way, but it is not, because the com-
mittee of jurisdiction is infatuated
with impeaching the President.
In fact, the chairman of the com-
mittee just said today: This is formal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.052 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7694 September 12, 2019
impeachment proceedings. The chair-
man of the committee said that today,
as they are having a hearing on im-
peaching the President without even
evidence to impeach him. There is
nothing to impeach him on. They have
Articles of Impeachment drawn up
with blanks that they are just looking
around to fill in on this witch hunt,
and they are just going to look and
look and look.
Imagine if somebody said, We are
going to target a person and we are
going to try to indict him. We don’t
have anything to indict him on, but we
are going to write up an indictment
and then look around and look around
and hope to find something.
And that is what is going on in the
Committee on the Judiciary. So they
had this hearing today. They changed
the rules. They had this big drama. The
media is all covering it. The chairman
says: This is formal impeachment pro-
ceedings.
And then you look at the rules that
they brought forward. The rules that
they brought forward allow the chair-
man to do things he can already do. It
was a farce. It was a farce to try to ap-
pease the radical left base that wants
to impeach the President, even though
there is nothing to impeach him on.
And instead of just giving it up and fo-
cusing on their job, the things they
should be focused on, they are just
going to keep meandering around on
this witch hunt.
And I know some in your majority—
maybe even the majority leader him-
self—are trying to distance themselves
from it because they know the Amer-
ican people think that it is lunacy to
be wasting time trying to impeach the
President, even though there is noth-
ing to impeach him on and just driving
around on a witch hunt.
And so I guess the real question is, if
the chairman of the committee—your
chairman—today, said: This is formal
impeachment proceedings. He talked
about, hopefully, by the end of the year
they will vote on Articles of Impeach-
ment—‘‘hopefully,’’ by the end of the
year.
There is nothing to impeach him on,
and yet they are going to actually go
out on a witch hunt and say, We are
going to look for something, and by the
end of the year, we hope to impeach
the President.
So I would ask the gentleman: Are
you all bringing Articles of Impeach-
ment to the floor? Is the chairman
rightly going down an impeachment
road? And what exactly are those arti-
cles?
What are the Articles of Impeach-
ment, if the committee today—your
chairman of your committee—said:
This is formal impeachment pro-
ceedings? What exactly is the gen-
tleman planning on impeaching the
President of the United States on? And
are you, if he brings those Articles of
Impeachment out of committee—
blanks that haven’t even been filled
in—if they bring them to the floor, or
if they move them out of committee by
the end of the year, as the chairman
hopes, is the gentleman prepared to
bring that to the floor of the United
States House of Representatives?
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER).
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, the chair-
man of the committee spoke about
their process. Their process has been a
fact-finding process. That is our re-
sponsibility as a Congress. That is his
responsibility and the committee’s re-
sponsibility as a committee.
The majority party claims that they
have an agenda for the people, and the
people believe we ought to exercise our
responsibility. That is what the com-
mittee is doing. I do not want to an-
ticipate what the committee’s findings
will ultimately be nor what the com-
mittee’s actions will finally be. We will
wait to see. But it is exercising its re-
sponsibility as a coequal branch of gov-
ernment as provided in the Constitu-
tion.
I am not going to get into an argu-
ment, Mr. Speaker, about the premises
in the Mueller report, other than to
say I disagree with the characteriza-
tion made by the Republican whip.
That will be for another day to argue
that.
The committee is doing its duty and
it will continue to do so. And if it de-
cides that that requires further action,
my presumption is it will pursue that
as well.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman, but I don’t think the
question has been answered. Because
the gentleman says the committee has
a responsibility, and I agree. But the
committee has a responsibility to be
responsible, and it is highly irrespon-
sible. It is reckless and dangerous for
the committee to start impeachment
proceedings when there is nothing to
impeach the President on.
We were in the majority when the
President of the United States was
somebody we had a lot of disagree-
ments with. We never filed Articles of
Impeachment or talked about impeach-
ing the President because there was
nothing to impeach the President on.
We never did that.
We might have disagreed with them
on a lot of things, but there were no
committee hearings where the chair-
man said: This is formal impeachment
proceedings, with nothing to impeach
the President on.
If he does something years down the
road when he gets reelected, you know,
this is not the time to go and try to
harass the President when there is
nothing that you have found—and you
have looked. There has been this witch
hunt going on for years.
It didn’t yield what you were hoping
for it to yield. We all should have ap-
plauded when the Mueller report said
that there was no collusion. But in-
stead of closing it out, there is still—I
guess he says, by the end of the year he
wants to move Articles of Impeach-
ment. So I guess that means they have
drafted it up and are hoping to find
something to fill in the blanks.
But that is irresponsible of that com-
mittee to be moving down a course of
impeachment when there is nothing to
impeach the President on, and espe-
cially, when there is so much other
work that needs to be done by that
committee.
We have a border that is out of con-
trol right now; thousands of people
coming across every day. Good thing
the President of the United States has
actually worked in agreement with
Mexico. The President was able to
achieve that recently, where the Mexi-
can President said that he is going to
start putting thousands of troops at
the Mexican southern border.
And you know what? It is starting to
yield results. But we still have human
trafficking coming across our border.
We still have drugs coming across our
border. And there has been requests
made to get more funding to secure
that border, to put technology in place,
to put other tools in place so that our
border patrol agents can do their job
securing America’s border. And that is
the committee of jurisdiction, and they
are not bringing bills out of committee
to solve that.
They are filing Articles of Impeach-
ment or hoping to move Articles of Im-
peachment in the next 3 months. And
there is not even anything filled in, be-
cause there is nothing the President
has done to be impeached upon.
This is a serious responsibility the
committee has, and, yet, they are act-
ing in such a reckless fashion such to
appease the radical left base, who
wants to impeach the President, even
though there is nothing to impeach
him on.
But everybody else in America says,
Do your job and focus on the things
that are in front of you and drop this
daily harassment and drumbeat of im-
peachment and witch hunts.
b 1245
It is time to move on and do the
work of the committee instead of fo-
cusing on impeaching a President, even
though there is nothing to impeach
him on.
If there is something, show us what it
is. But to recklessly say in an open
hearing that they are going to impeach
the President and move Articles of Im-
peachment to this House floor by the
end of this year, on what?
This has to end. We have to focus on
the things that need to be fixed by that
committee and this Congress and drop
this witch hunt.
Look, at some point, the other side is
going to have to figure out which way
they want to go because some people in
the gentleman’s radical base might
want to impeach no matter what, but
everybody else knows it is the wrong
thing to do. Everybody else knows it is
irresponsible for that committee to act
that way.
I would hope that y’all would make
the right decision and say that you are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.053 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7695
September 12, 2019
going to move forward on the things
that need to be addressed by the com-
mittee. If there is something that
comes up, sure, they go look at it, but
there is not anything. If there was,
they would have filed it already. But to
say they are going to file it even if
there is nothing, that is dangerous,
reckless, and irresponsible.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I didn’t want to get into this debate,
and I don’t want to prolong it, but I do
not want the premises articulated by
the whip, Mr. Speaker, to stand
unobjected to.
In my view, Mr. Speaker, the Mueller
report is replete with instances of co-
operation by members of the Trump
team with the Russians, page after
page after page. As a matter of fact,
one of them was Page, of collusion.
Now, ‘‘collusion’’ is not a legal term.
‘‘Conspiracy’’ is the legal term. Mr.
Mueller said we didn’t look at collu-
sion because it was not a legal premise.
In fact, Mr. Mueller made it very
clear that the reason they didn’t find
criminal wrongdoing was because they
believed, under Justice Department
rules, a President cannot be indicted
during the course of his term. They did
not absolve him.
Whether it was obstruction of jus-
tice, using a foreign government that
is, essentially, not our ally, not our
friend, or meeting with Putin secretly
and not allowing the American people
or the Congress to know what was said,
my friend’s premise that there is no
smoke, no fire, is wrong.
Very frankly, as someone who has
served here a long time and who has
seen some of the most irresponsible at-
tacks on the President during the
Obama administration—hearings, over
and over and over again. A tragedy in
Benghazi—seven hearings, seven hear-
ings, all concluded nothing there, so
they had an eighth hearing.
The gentleman talks about Judici-
ary. Eight hearings on Benghazi, four
lives lost tragically, with an attempt
over and over and over again to be
made a political issue. The eighth
found nothing there either.
When I see this wringing of hands,
Mr. Speaker, I am not impressed. I
have been here for a long time. I have
seen irresponsible action, and the
American people have seen it.
The Judiciary Committee is doing
what it pledged to do when they all
raised their hands to defend and sup-
port the Constitution of the United
States of America.
The President would like us to think
everything is fake news. The gen-
tleman hasn’t used ‘‘fake news’’ but
‘‘the witch hunt.’’
‘‘Poor me. I am the victim of all
these people,’’ when, daily, the Presi-
dent says things that are demonstrably
not true.
Mr. Speaker, the Judiciary Com-
mittee will continue to pursue its du-
ties, as it needs to do.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, if you
talk about Benghazi, there are a lot of
serious questions that have not been
answered yet.
Mr. HOYER. Eight hearings, all Re-
publican-led.
Mr. SCALISE. Eight hearings, and
maybe more should have been had, to
investigate why those deaths happened
that should not have happened.
Mr. HOYER. And all found nothing
there.
Mr. SCALISE. It shouldn’t have hap-
pened. It should have been stopped.
Mr. HOYER. All found nothing there,
Mr. Speaker.
Mr. SCALISE. It was unwarranted,
what happened there. Fast and Furi-
ous, a lot of questions raised.
There were multiple times when the
President took action where, ulti-
mately, he was found to be out of com-
pliance with the law, where courts re-
versed what the President did. We
never moved Articles of Impeachment
for that. That doesn’t warrant high
crimes and misdemeanors.
Surely, we investigated those things,
and in most cases, it turned out we
were right.
With Benghazi, those questions still
haven’t been answered, about why they
died and shouldn’t have, because every-
body knew the dangers.
Mr. HOYER. Eight hearings found
nothing there.
Mr. SCALISE. Found nothing there?
Mr. HOYER. All led by Republicans.
Mr. SCALISE. Found out that Ameri-
cans died when it was known that it
was dangerous where they were. Why
weren’t planes circled? You could have
flown jets over there in 15 minutes to
scare away the people who were at-
tacking that Embassy and killing
Americans.
We looked into it, and it raised a lot
of questions.
Mr. HOYER. Eight times you looked
into it.
Mr. SCALISE. Maybe it should have
been more to look into why those
Americans died so that it doesn’t hap-
pen again. Things like that, which
shouldn’t have happened, we should
find out what went wrong. Why did
people miss telltale signs and let those
people die who shouldn’t have died?
Yes, those hearings were warranted,
but we never filed Articles of Impeach-
ment. We never said we were going to
move to impeach so now let’s go figure
something out, see if we can find some-
thing, and even if we don’t find some-
thing, we are still going to do it.
That is reckless. They took an oath,
absolutely, like all of us, to uphold this
Constitution and protect this country.
We have a border that is not secure.
We have thousands of people coming
over every single day, including people
who are bringing drugs, trafficking hu-
mans, young kids who are being
abused. We all know what is happening.
That is the committee of jurisdic-
tion, and they are ignoring it. They
haven’t produced a single bill to go and
solve that problem.
Are they okay with what is going on
at the border? They don’t think that
legislation is warranted to address it,
to close the asylum loopholes that ev-
erybody knows are a magnet that is
bringing people over here illegally,
coming through other countries that
are offering them asylum to come here
illegally? But we don’t want to fix that
problem because the committee is fo-
cused on impeachment.
We will see what they do. But the
American people are watching, too, and
the American people are tired of those
kinds of games—every single day, fo-
cusing their energies and taxpayer dol-
lars on attacking the President, on at-
tacking his family, on attacking his
Cabinet members and people who did
business deals with him 20 years ago
who are getting subpoenaed and who
have nothing to do with his Presidency
just because they want to harass the
President because they don’t like the
fact that he was duly elected in 2016.
The American people did duly elect
him President, and he is doing his job.
He is carrying out his mission despite
all that.
Shame on that committee for con-
tinuing to abuse their power by going
after something whether it is there or
not. Every prosecutor knows you don’t
try to go find something on somebody.
You should follow the facts. If the facts
lead you to a dead end, then you end.
You don’t keep looking. It is not there.
They want to keep doing it and abus-
ing their power. But there is account-
ability that happens, too. That is why
we have elections.
If that is what the committee wants
to do, and if that is what the leadership
of this House Democratic Caucus wants
to do, people are watching.
I want to talk about one final thing,
and that is USMCA, an opportunity for
us to get something big done for this
country.
I had a meeting yesterday with Am-
bassador Lighthizer, the U.S. Trade
Representative, who I know has been
meeting with Speaker PELOSI and her
team. In fact, a few weeks ago, the
Speaker, through her trade working
group on USMCA, sent a letter to Am-
bassador Lighthizer, identifying some
areas that they would like addressed in
the USMCA trade agreement.
I understand that, last night, Ambas-
sador Lighthizer sent a reply, including
things that he has worked with the
Democratic majority on, to try to ad-
dress some of those issues and ulti-
mately get this done.
I say this in the most sincere way: I
really do think USMCA is something
that we can do together, that we can
get an agreement with our friends from
the north and south. Canada and Mex-
ico have both come to the table and
agreed to make NAFTA work better for
American workers, for American indus-
tries, for our dairy farmers that can’t
sell their products into Canada right
now that will be able to have better
open markets, better working condi-
tions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.055 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7696 September 12, 2019
Clearly, we want to make sure there
is enforcement, and I know that is
being worked through, to put belt and
suspenders.
At the end of the day, every day we
wait means more jobs we are missing
out on creating for our economy. I
know that there is still the oppor-
tunity to get this done, maybe in the
next few weeks.
We have a whip team that has been
put in place specifically for USMCA. I
know there are a lot of Democrats that
have been working with Ambassador
Lighthizer as well, to try to get this
done.
I would ask the gentleman if he has
any idea of where that process is on his
side, if there is any idea of a timeline
to finally bring this to the floor, pass
this important agreement that would
send a message not only to our friends
from the north and south, Canada and
Mexico, but to our friends all around
the world, to Japan and other coun-
tries that want to get trade agree-
ments with America but this is holding
back because they want to see if this
can get done.
Then, ultimately, let’s shift our focus
to China and all the countries around
the world that want China to have to
comply with the rules that everybody
else has to comply with, to finally get
these tariff fights over so we can have
an even stronger economy.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, we have
said all along that we want to get to
yes on the USMCA. Frankly, we think
it is an improvement over NAFTA,
which needs improving.
As the gentleman may know, the
Speaker and I were here when we voted
on NAFTA. We both voted for it.
There were some promises made and
side agreements that the rights of
workers and the environment would be
protected. Unfortunately, that did not
turn out to be true, so that, in adopt-
ing a change to NAFTA, we want to
make sure that the promises made in
the agreement are promises that can be
enforced.
As the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
has often said, the commitments in a
trade pact aren’t worth the paper they
are written on if they can’t be en-
forced.
Mr. Speaker, that has been the pos-
ture of the Speaker, myself, and of so
many others, that enforcement is crit-
ical. Unfortunately, the NAFTA en-
forcement mechanisms have been a
failure.
In 25 years, as I am sure the whip
knows, the U.S. has taken only one
successful enforcement action under
the NAFTA dispute resolution proce-
dure, and none in the past 20 years. Not
a single enforcement has prevailed. We
have been completely unable to enforce
its labor provisions, not one successful
enforcement action.
We want to get to yes. And, yes, I
want to say that Ambassador
Lighthizer is somebody who we respect
and think is operating in good faith.
We think he is a positive interlocutor.
He is somebody who we can work with
and have been working with.
On the other hand, we sent a letter 6
weeks ago, and as the gentleman point-
ed out, we got an answer yesterday. So,
it is taking some time for our task
force to get answers to questions and
to determine how we can move forward
to ensure that the matters included in
the agreement become reality, not sim-
ply words on paper.
That is important for workers. It is
important for our environment. Very
frankly, it is also important in terms
of trying to contain drug prices, here
and around the world.
The gentleman talked about prescrip-
tion drugs. That is one of the items
that is still in dispute. We want to get
to yes. We think this is an improve-
ment on what exists.
Therefore, I am hopeful that we will
be able to get to an agreement. We be-
lieve it will require that the agreement
be opened and that enforcement be in-
cluded so that, as the chamber said, it
can really be enforced.
If that happens, I am hopeful that we
can pass that agreement, with the
agreement of our friends in labor, with
our friends at the Chamber of Com-
merce, and in a bipartisan way on this
floor. Let’s hope that happens.
But we have made it very, very clear
that, if it is just words on paper and
not enforceable, it is not a good agree-
ment for America or America’s work-
ers.
But I hope that we can move forward
and achieve an agreement on this issue
so that we can pass it.
b 1300
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I share
the gentleman from Maryland’s opti-
mism about the ability to get there, to
get this done, to get to ‘‘yes.’’ And with
the provisions that are already in place
on enforcement, if there is a way to
make them stronger, I know that that
is something that Ambassador
Lighthizer has been working with the
gentleman’s team on.
That is why, while the letter was
sent 6 weeks ago, Ambassador
Lighthizer started going to work right
away, sitting down with folks on both
sides, including Democratic leadership
in the House, to address those as best
as both sides could get agreement; and
that is where the letter, I think, finally
lays out the remedies to those issues
that were brought up.
It is my hope that, as that is re-
viewed, we get to a place where we can
find agreement and then get it passed.
Mexico has already passed it. Canada is
waiting on us. And I think we would
send a strong signal to the world that,
not only is America the best place to
do business, with the strongest econ-
omy in the world, but we are also able
to reach better trade deals, both for
Americans and for our friends. Then
there are a lot more folks in line wait-
ing for us to be a part of those kind of
deals, too.
So I look forward to the ability to
keep working on that. I would love the
ability to work with the gentleman as
the Republican whip, the leader, laying
out a floor schedule for when that
comes, and we can celebrate something
big for this country and the workers of
America.
I thank the gentleman for his work
and for this discourse, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMOR-
ROW, AND ADJOURNMENT FROM
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2019, TO
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow, and further,
when the House adjourns on that day,
it adjourn to meet on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 17, 2019, when it shall convene
at noon for morning-hour debate and 2
p.m. for legislative business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
PHILLIPS). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Byrd, one of its clerks, announced that
the Senate has passed a bill of the fol-
lowing title in which the concurrence
of the House is requested:
S. 178. An act to condemn gross human
rights violations of ethnic Turkic Muslims in
Xinjiang, and calling for an end to arbitrary
detention, torture, and harassment of these
communities inside and outside China.
The message also announced that the
Secretary of the Senate be directed to
request the House to return to the Sen-
ate the bill (S. 1790) ‘‘An Act to author-
ize appropriations for fiscal year 2020
for military activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense, for military construc-
tion, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.’’.
f
PERMISSION TO EXTEND
REMARKS
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent to extend my
remarks in the RECORD and to include
therein extraneous material notwith-
standing the fact that it exceeds two
pages and is estimated by the Director
of the Government Publishing Office to
cost $2,433.98.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
f
CONGRATULATING ELKS LODGE
2839
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.056 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7697
September 12, 2019
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, Elks
Lodge 2839, in greater Cape May, South
Jersey, recently won first place in the
Division IV ENF Chairman’s Challenge
at the National Convention. It was also
named number one in the entire State
of New Jersey.
Anne Krause, the lodge’s ENF chair-
person, is truly a dedicated member
whose leadership has helped make this
Elks Lodge the very best of its kind.
Elks Lodges help our community by
offering programs to keep children
healthy and to keep them drug-free.
They also meet the needs of veterans
and help improve the quality of their
life, work that is so much needed in to-
day’s times.
In addition to these services, Elks
Lodges have a generous charitable
foundation that gives millions of dol-
lars in scholarships each year to help
shape the future of the community of
our children.
I feel very lucky to have such a well-
run community center as a place for
people to come to gather, to grow clos-
er in our beautiful district.
To all the members and staff of Elks
Lodge 2839: Congratulations on your
awards, and thank you for all you bring
to our community. South Jersey is
proud of you; New Jersey is proud of
you; and the United States of America
is proud of you.
God bless you.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF MARCA BRISTO
(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise to celebrate the life of Marca
Bristo, whose unyielding commitment
to advancing disability rights im-
proved the lives of millions.
As the founder of Access Living and a
leader of the National Council on Dis-
ability, the National Council on Inde-
pendent Living, and the United States
International Council on Disabilities,
Marca fought passionately to ensure
that people with disabilities have the
same rights as their able-bodied peers,
including the right to live independ-
ently in the community.
She was a crusader for the Americans
with Disabilities Act, and her steadfast
advocacy was instrumental in the pas-
sage of this landmark civil rights legis-
lation.
Her work tearing down barriers
cleared the way for people with disabil-
ities to pursue their own dreams,
which, ultimately, also helped me real-
ize my dream of becoming a United
States Congressman.
Marca’s legacy is the continued im-
provement of the lives of people with
disabilities. She made a difference, and
my condolences go out to her entire
family and her friends.
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
CERTAIN TERRORIST ATTACKS—
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC.
NO. 116–62)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act, 50 U.S.C. 1622(d), provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. Consistent
with this provision, I have sent to the
Federal Register the enclosed notice,
stating that the emergency declared in
Proclamation 7463 of September 14,
2001, ‘‘National Emergency by Reason
of Certain Terrorist Attacks,’’ is to
continue in effect beyond September
14, 2019.
The threat of terrorism that resulted
in the declaration of a national emer-
gency on September 14, 2001, continues.
The authorities that have been invoked
under that declaration of a national
emergency continue to be critical to
the ability of the Armed Forces of the
United States to perform essential mis-
sions in the United States and around
the world to address the continuing
threat of terrorism. For these reasons,
I have determined that it is necessary
to continue in effect the national
emergency declared on September 14,
2001, in response to certain terrorist at-
tacks.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, September 12, 2019.
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, there is
a lot going on today, a lot going on
this week. I wish I could say it was all
good, but we spent until 10 p.m. the
night before last working on bills that
would find ways to take people’s guns
away and, unfortunately, not give
them the kind of due process that we
think the Constitution affords people.
During my days as, well, a prosecutor
and as a felony judge, thousands of
criminal cases went through my court.
I don’t remember anywhere a criminal
defendant bought his gun at a sporting
goods store, gun store, applied for a
gun. That is not the way criminals
work.
And so I didn’t see anything in our
hours and hours and hours of com-
mittee hearings trying to amend bad
bills with good amendments that the
majority didn’t allow to be passed. We
thought they might be joining us on
some. They said they would look at
some, but, basically, defeated every
amendment.
Today, we met in the Judiciary Com-
mittee at 8 a.m. to take up a semi, sort
of, kind of, a bit of an impeachment
resolution. We had amendments that
would have made a bad resolution a lit-
tle better—still not good—but we had a
hard time figuring out, on the Repub-
lican side: What is this?
It sounds like—in Texas, we would
say we’re fixing to do something. A lot
of times people say, ‘‘I am fixing to do
that,’’ but it means it may get put off
and I may not really be serious, be-
cause if I was really serious, I would do
it right now.
But this resolution—and I have it
here—it, in the first paragraph, talks
about the committee making discovery
requests. But the second paragraph is
really the one that deals with allega-
tions that would be an impeachable of-
fense, or offenses—at least, it is sup-
posed to.
And so it says: ‘‘Whereas, Special
Counsel Robert Mueller’s report re-
leased on April 18, 2019, found that the
Russian Government interfered in the
2016 election in ‘sweeping and system-
atic fashion.’’’
Okay. But the Mueller report made
very, very clear, and those who inves-
tigated, I thought, made it very clear
there was no collusion or, to use the
legal term, conspiracy by anyone in
the Trump campaign with the Russian
Government—none. That part didn’t
happen.
Even though we have networks like
CNN and MSNBC, and I don’t know
who all else, but for 2 or 3 years they
have talked about the crimes of this
President and their collusion with Rus-
sia.
Well, when people who have law de-
grees talked about collusion between
the Trump campaign and Russia, that
immediately sent up red flags with me
because that is not—‘‘collusion’’ is not
a legal term that is used in talking
about crimes; it is conspiracy. And so
it immediately begins to raise ques-
tions.
Are they really serious about some
type of crime? Because if they were,
they would use words that are used in
criminal terminology.
But here, this is a completely decep-
tive allegation when it comes to Presi-
dent Trump because they take this ini-
tial allegation and say Mueller found
that the Russians really were trying to
interfere in our 2016 election.
Okay. But it didn’t involve anybody
in the Trump campaign. That was
clear.
So they tried to brush over that and
make it sound like, yeah, even though
there was nobody, President Trump or
the Trump campaign who were in-
volved at all, but we are going to kind
of word this, put it in the same sen-
tence so that it kind of sounds like,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.059 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7698 September 12, 2019
yeah, President Trump was involved
with Russia, because then it jumps into
another gear.
It says, ‘‘that there were at least 10
separate episodes of President Trump
using his official powers to’’—and here
is the word—‘‘thwart or attempt to
thwart the special counsel’s investiga-
tion.’’
b 1315
And that is also very troubling lan-
guage for those of us that have dealt
with legal terminology in criminal
cases. I don’t know of anybody that has
dealt with criminal cases. I didn’t hear
from anybody on the committee that
has ever heard of a crime involving
thwarting. We are familiar with ob-
struction of justice. But these are the
kind of games you play with words
when you know, yes, there is no evi-
dence a crime was committed, but
maybe if we use different terminology
it will sound like some kind of bad
crime was committed. And clearly, we
are not going to be able to remove a
President from office with the Senate
understanding that even the Mueller
report, even the Mueller special coun-
sel team that had all these people that
hated Donald Trump, they still
couldn’t find anything that would be
indictable.
Now, some say, Well, but there was
obstruction of justice. We even had
one, I would say, incompetent law pro-
fessor come before our committee and
say she could guarantee that she could
get a conviction and win on appeal.
Well, I have tried enough cases in State
and Federal court and in the Army
that I know—and I have told people
that were looking for lawyers in my
days as a judge—I couldn’t recommend
a lawyer, but I would warn people—if
you ever hear a lawyer who tries cases
who says they can guarantee you a win
in a trial, then that lawyer is either to-
tally incompetent or is one of the big-
gest liars in the legal profession. I
don’t know which one this professor
was. I got the impression she just real-
ly didn’t know what she was talking
about, because no one swears, Oh, yes,
I can guarantee you, you know, I can
win this case at trial and on appeal.
That is not a good lawyer. That is
somebody who doesn’t know what they
are talking about.
What we have found now after thou-
sands and thousands of interviews, sub-
poenas, documents, millions of docu-
ments, there was no crime. And the
reason there was no obstruction of jus-
tice by President Trump or anybody
that was assisting him is because the
President made very clear as soon as
he heard about some collusion, con-
spiracy, whatever you want to call it
with Russia to rig the election, he
knew he never colluded. He knew that
he never conspired, nor did anybody in
his campaign conspire with Russia to
affect the election. That never hap-
pened, and he knew it.
But he could see from what these 17
or so people on the special counsel’s
team were trying to do. They were try-
ing to frame him. And this guy that
was dishonored and was no longer re-
spected by MI6 that he used to work for
in England and there was information
that he was discredited, not just his in-
formation, but he had been discredited,
but that is who was hired by Fusion
GPS, that was hired apparently by the
Clinton campaign and the Democratic
National Committee to try to dredge
up dirt on candidate Donald Trump so
that they could rig the election against
Donald Trump.
And we have gotten to the bottom of
it, almost. We know that Christopher
Steele is the one that didn’t just
collude, he conspired with people in
Russia who he ultimately had to
admit, yes, it is quite possible they
could have been working for Vladimir
Putin. So Christopher Steele, it ap-
pears most likely he was the one that
was conspiring with people from Rus-
sia, sounds like Putin’s agents, to try
to destroy Donald Trump.
And there has been noise made about,
oh, gee, you know, Russia really want-
ed Donald Trump to win. That is not
the way Vladimir Putin thinks. He
wants the old Soviet empire back. It
really bugs me when educated people
say, you know, he is such a com-
plicated guy. No, he isn’t. He is one of
the most easily discernable people in
the world. He wants the old empire
back. He is a former KGB guy, and he
will do whatever it takes to try to get
it back. I don’t think he cared so much
who won the election. He wanted to di-
vide America, and lo and behold, he
was able to see the Fusion GPS, Chris-
topher Steele, the Clinton campaign,
DNC, they were able to take all this in-
formation that were nothing but lies in
the dossier—they have even given dos-
sier a bad name—and divide America.
And at least one political party in
America has been totally willing to be
complicit to help divide America over a
bunch of lies in a dossier that was cre-
ated as political fodder when it became
very clear very quickly to those who
had paid for the dossier that it was not
only not verifiable, the person that
gathered the information didn’t really
know the people, the Russians that
gave him the lies about Donald Trump,
and that got taken before a FISA court
to get a warrant to spy on a campaign;
to wit, the Trump campaign. That is
scary stuff; when one administration
can use the powers of the office of
President, the Intel community, the
FBI, the Department of Justice, use all
those powers to destroy another cam-
paign. And as Newt Gingrich has point-
ed out, if Ms. Clinton had won, we
would have never known how corrupted
and weaponized the DOJ and FBI had
become.
And I know there are some of my
friends here in Congress on our side of
the aisle that think Michael Horowitz
is doing a good job, because look at all
the evidence of wrongdoing, bias, all
this that he has found. Well, if you
look at the most recent report, just
like the first one, in the first report
Horowitz found—and he was a good
Obama appointee as inspector general
there at the Department of Justice,
good Democrat, good appointee.
And so he does his digging, finds hun-
dreds of pages of the most outrageous
political bias—it’s actually a personal
hatred for Donald Trump and absolute
love and affection for candidate Hillary
Clinton—so much overwhelming bias,
and every conclusion that these biased,
prejudiced, bigoted investigators had
was 100 percent consistent with all of
their conclusions. That speaks for
itself.
Now, if half of their conclusions had
gone against their bias and prejudice,
bigotry, then you would say, well, you
know, maybe it really didn’t affect the
outcomes of their investigations. But
when every conclusion is consistent
with the bias and prejudice, even
though it is clear, like in the case of
the investigation into the Clinton
emails, you had Strzok and Page exam-
ining emails, and they were making
the calls on whether documents are
classified, knowing full well if they
said something was classified that Hil-
lary Clinton was being set up legiti-
mately to be indicted and convicted.
So they wanted Hillary Clinton to win.
They wanted to do whatever they could
to stop Donald Trump from winning,
and if he didn’t win, as they said, they
needed an insurance policy, you know,
just in case he won.
And Horowitz did a grave injustice
within the Justice Department, and he
says there is no indication that all that
bias had anything to do with the out-
comes of the cases. That is just gar-
bage. He is being disingenuous. He
wasn’t doing his job in his conclusions.
And I know there were a lot of Repub-
licans that said, Yes, okay, but, boy,
when he investigated, when that report
comes out on Comey, it is going to end
up sending him to prison.
Well, Comey did leak information
that he should not. He did keep docu-
ments that he was not permitted to
keep. He secreted them, kept them
after he had left government service.
He is not allowed to do that. And the
biggest thing about those and whether
or not they were felonies that would
put him in jail would be: Was this in-
formation classified and at what level?
And we find out, you know, on page
one and two of the Horowitz IG report,
the FBI investigated, and the FBI de-
termined that this wasn’t classified;
the FBI this and that. And you have to
wait 40 pages to see who he means by
the FBI. Well, it turns out, the two
most important people, because they
had the most experience in analyzing
documents to determine their classi-
fication level, it was a couple named
Peter Strzok and Lisa Page. And he
has the gall, Horowitz does, to even
point out—to try to get more credi-
bility to Strzok and Page’s work on de-
ciding whether Comey should go to
prison, because they were classified at
a high level. He said, Oh, but they had
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.060 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7699
September 12, 2019
more experience, because they did all
this work on the Clinton emails deter-
mining whether those were classified
or not.
For heaven’s sake, somebody needs
to wake up. Michael Horowitz does not
need to be doing the investigation.
Maybe let him do the investigation,
but he doesn’t need to be doing the re-
ports. In a lot of places people would
say he doesn’t know sic ‘em from come
here when it comes to proper conclu-
sions. It is outrageous.
And he justified not having them re-
examined because time was of the es-
sence 2 years ago in 2017, back before
Strzok and Page were fired. But not to
worry, because a guy named Bill
Priestap was going to rubber stamp
whatever Strzok and Page decided on
classifications.
There was another unit chief. Didn’t
give us that name. That tells you
something right there.
But Priestap was supposed to have
the final decision, apparently rubber
stamp whatever our experienced Strzok
and Page decided when they knew full
well if they classified things at a cer-
tain level that it meant Jim Comey
was going to prison.
So they did Comey a favor. And so
then Horowitz, he didn’t want to have
them rereviewed for proper classifica-
tion away from the bias of Strzok and
Page and Priestap that—you know,
there were reports of him going to Lon-
don trying to help out Steele’s credi-
bility.
So Horowitz said time was of the es-
sence, so nobody reconsidered the clas-
sification that the bigoted bias and
prejudice of Page and Strzok would not
be determinative.
And I know that people, Republicans,
many of them are saying, well, look,
there is no question that McCabe lied,
perjured, he should end up going to
prison. But I am telling you as a his-
tory buff, a historian, if you would, it
is true. History is often the best indi-
cator of what someone will do in the
future.
b 1330
The indications are that Obama’s IG,
Horowitz, will find some terrible
things, but he will do it in such a way
that he will give not only Comey,
Strzok, and Page a get-out-of-jail-free
pass, but he will do that with McCabe
and with anybody else he is inves-
tigating, because that is his history.
He knows which side his bread is but-
tered on and who is doing the but-
tering, who got him in the position he
is in.
We end up now being told, well, this
isn’t a formal impeachment hearing,
the investigation we started today in
the Judiciary Committee. Then, to-
ward the end of our hearing, we heard
from two different Democrats who
wanted to go on record to make it
very, very clear that this was an im-
peachment hearing, an impeachment
investigation.
That is what it is. It is not just a res-
olution for investigative procedures, as
it says here on the resolution.
There was so much fraud involved in
this case. I am not talking about from
anybody with the Trump campaign. I
am talking about a guy like James
Comey who should have known better.
He swore and apparently verified the
application and affidavit information
to go before the FISA court so he could
get a warrant to spy on the Trump
campaign, all while he was lying to the
President about him not being under
investigation and also trying to set the
President up by doing little memos.
I hope and pray one of the things
that comes out of all this Department
of Justice, FBI, and intel abuse is a
practice the FBI has had for years. It is
section 302, where FBI agents, after
they do an interview, they sit down and
type up their own version of what they
think or what they recall a witness
said. Most of the ones I have seen over
the years in my different roles in the
justice system appear to be very accu-
rate. But it is a problem when every
other local and State law enforcement
entity I am aware of, when they want
credibility for a statement, they record
it.
I saw it from juries in my court.
‘‘Look, you are telling us this is what
the defendant said. Why didn’t you
record it so we could see for ourselves,
hear for ourselves, see the body lan-
guage?’’
That is why local governments all
over the country have come up with
billions of dollars altogether so that
they can make sure that they get video
and audio of someone being questioned,
so there is no question what they say.
But not at the FBI. Oh, no. They will
talk to a witness and then write out
their own version of what is said.
Thankfully, most of them do a great
job, but it also allows unscrupulous
FBI or DOJ officials, as now we have
seen existed under the Obama Justice
Department, it allows them to twist
the FBI’s or the DOJ’s version of what
a witness says and use that, as they
have thousands and thousands of
times, I don’t know how many times,
to convict people, saying, ‘‘This is
what he said because I wrote it down in
my own notes after I did the inter-
view.’’
‘‘Really? Well, let’s see the video.
Let’s hear the audio.’’
‘‘Well, we don’t do that at the FBI.
We only write down our version of
what is said because we really would
rather you hear our version and not the
defendant’s version of what he said, be-
cause we get more credibility than any
defendant.’’
At least that used to be the way it
was. But I hope one of the things that
will come out of all of this is, in order
for the FBI to get back the credibility
they used to have as the greatest law
enforcement agency in the world, they
are going to need to start doing audio
and video so that we can see what a
witness said, hear what they said for
ourselves, and so that juries can hear
that and judges can see and hear that.
But we don’t have that here.
People like the biased Strzok and
Page, who hated Trump and loved Hil-
lary Clinton, when you talk about ob-
struction of justice, I don’t know how
you can be more obstructive than to
get a subpoena for emails and then
BleachBit, take all the stuff off so no-
body can ever see and then beat up
with hammers cellphones and whatever
you need to, to destroy the evidence.
That would seem to be a classic case of
obstruction.
Fortunately, for people involved with
Hillary Clinton, it was Strzok and Page
on the job, so they didn’t see anything,
didn’t hear anything that might resem-
ble something that should be pros-
ecuted.
But we end up today with this resolu-
tion that the majority passed without
allowing any amendments, and they
used this word ‘‘thwart,’’ that the
President used his official powers to
thwart or attempt to thwart. Nobody
has ever been convicted of thwarting.
You just can imagine, say the Demo-
crats got exactly what they wanted
and were able to impeach or charge
President Trump with thwarting an of-
ficial investigation. It goes to the Sen-
ate. They get what they want, and
President Trump is removed. Years
down the road, they say, ‘‘You used to
be President. You were removed? What
were you removed for?’’
‘‘Well, I was a thwarter, apparently. I
have been branded a thwarter.’’
Maybe we ought to put a ‘‘T’’ on
their head so everybody knows: Here
comes a thwarter.
The only thing he was thwarting, if
at all, is massive injustice from the
Justice Department. He knew he had
not conspired with anybody in Russia,
nor had anybody in his campaign.
The evidence has borne that out.
Even Mueller, Weissman, the people
who hated the President, had to come
around to saying they couldn’t find
any evidence of them conspiring with
Russia.
Nonetheless, we still have to go
through this hearing today, and I am
sure there will be other hearings.
The truth is, President Donald
Trump never obstructed or thwarted
justice. He knew that if there was true
justice, this effort to frame him for
colluding with the Russians would be
found false and would be found to be a
frame-up job. He wanted justice.
The DOJ could never convict some-
one of obstructing justice when all
they did was what they could to ensure
that an injustice did not occur. They
were seeking justice to make sure
there wasn’t a successful frame-up.
That is not obstructing or thwarting
justice. That is seeking justice. But
there certainly were people inside the
DOJ who were doing what they could
to inflict an injustice on President
Trump.
So here we go into this impeachment
exercise that started today.
I think about those in England who
would say, ‘‘God save the Queen,’’ ‘‘God
save the King.’’ God save this Republic.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.062 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7700 September 12, 2019
We are in a lot of trouble when we
have caught the Justice Department
red-handed trying to impose a massive
injustice, conspiring to do so, even hav-
ing an Acting Attorney General who we
found out from the emails this week—
and some of us knew this because we
knew from other information that
Rosenstein, the Acting Attorney Gen-
eral, did not just once say sarcasti-
cally: I will wear a wire. I can get into
the White House. I will wear a wire and
record the President.
Then, they could try to remove him
under the 25th Amendment for not
being competent. They formulated a
response to act like he was being sar-
castic when everybody there knew he
was not being sarcastic.
Apparently, from what I understood,
the reason he brought that up is be-
cause others there in the meeting were
mad at him. They said: You have been
helping the President instead of help-
ing us get the President. You wrote
that memo that gave him a basis to
fire Comey. Whose side are you on?
That is the kind of context where
Rosenstein says: Look, I will wear a
wire if you want.
He wanted to show that he was an
Obama team player, a Sally Yates
team player, a Loretta Lynch team
player, that he was not a Trump team
player: I will even wear a wire and go
in.
That wasn’t the only place he
brought it up. He brought it up at an-
other meeting, such that McCabe went
back and told people: You know,
Rosenstein brought it up again. He still
says he is willing to wear a wire.
That is because Rosenstein was try-
ing to convince them he was a good
team player and would go set up and
try to frame the President to help re-
move him from office.
That is not all that has gone on this
week. We had the vote today. The
House has voted to eliminate the tiny,
little part of ANWR where Jimmy Car-
ter said that drilling would be allowed.
Now, this is Jimmy Carter who says
everybody is supposed to wear a car-
digan and turn your temperature in
winter way down, wear a sweater, you
know, shiver a little bit. It is okay be-
cause we are going to save energy.
Even he said it is right that part of
ANWR, that tiny, little part of that
huge area, nothing is there, so it is not
going to affect any wildlife, really, so
that can be an area that can be drilled.
Since then, Democrats have done all
they could to put it off-limits. Some-
times you see these pictures of all this
wildlife, this beautiful, pristine area.
Well, if that is what you see, that isn’t
the part of ANWR where drilling would
be allowed.
We can get a little perspective on the
size. There was another poster up here
somewhere. It has a map of how big
Alaska is, and then it has the size of
ANWR. Then there is a red dot that
you can’t see more than a few feet
away that is the tiny, little part, com-
paratively, where drilling would be al-
lowed.
There are people here in this body
who are absolutely wonderful people,
friends on both sides of the aisle. Some
of my Democratic friends, I know they
would never lie to me. They are honest
people. We just have disagreements on
things.
One of the most honorable people I
ever knew in this body was chairman of
the Energy and Commerce Committee
back initially when Democrats took
the majority in January 2007. He want-
ed socialized medicine. We disagreed on
that. But I knew the man’s heart. He
wanted to help poor people.
b 1345
That is why he didn’t want to pass
the cap-and-trade bill, because he knew
it would cause the price of energy to
skyrocket. And he knew it was a tough
blow to the Nation’s poor, to our senior
citizens on Medicare, but especially on
Social Security, a fixed income. If you
start skyrocketing the price of energy
to those folks, it is devastating.
That is why John did not want to
pass the cap-and-trade bill. He wanted
to do everything he could to help poor
people. That was his nature. He knew if
you start doing this kind of stuff for
the rich with energy prices—gasoline,
electricity, propane, and those things
going up—it is an inconvenience, but
for those on a fixed income, it is abso-
lutely devastating.
America, under the Trump adminis-
tration, has been allowed to gather up
more of our own blessed energy
sources. The economy gets better.
More people are working now than
ever. Unemployment is the lowest it
has ever been for minorities since they
started recording those numbers. It is
fantastic. Energy prices have come
down low, and it has been stabilized be-
cause we are finding so much of our
own energy and using it.
We disagree about a lot of things on
both sides of the aisle. I don’t know
anybody who serves in this body on ei-
ther side of the aisle who doesn’t want
a clean environment. But those who
know our history of the world know
that, if you have a struggling economy,
the number one thing that suffers, be-
sides the people, is the environment.
In China, that government, as big
and totalitarian as it can be, they
know if people get laid off and are not
working, they could have another revo-
lution, and they don’t want that. They
are more concerned about people being
busy and working and having money
than they are about the environment.
In India, they are scared to death of
too many people not being able to work
or have income.
We get all of this pollution from the
other side of the world. I heard today
that 85 percent, somebody said, of the
pollution that we have in our atmos-
phere is coming from these other coun-
tries. When those countries’ economies
are struggling, there is more pollution.
That is just the way it works, because
you just can’t help afford to clean up
the environment like we are and have
been in the United States.
We need a vibrant economy to con-
tinue to clean up our environment. We
have lakes that were dead, now brim-
ming with activity and with wildlife.
These are good things. In Texas, it
seems like our air gets cleaner every
year.
I asked my staff to find a picture, as
best they could, that would reflect
what we are talking about in ANWR in
that tiny—well, relatively speaking,
tiny area of ANWR where drilling
would be allowed. This is from Google
Maps. This isn’t actually the area, but
it looks like most of the area where
drilling would be allowed.
From time to time, there will be
wildlife across this area, in the area
where drilling would be allowed, but
they can’t stay because they can’t live
there in that area. There is just not
enough to sustain life there.
As Jimmy Carter figured out, it is an
ideal place to drill, and that is why
they designated it for that. But we
have been waiting over 40 years to use
that as a place to even further reduce
our cost of energy, which will also
allow us to export energy, which means
European countries don’t have to be
blackmailed or extorted by Russia.
There is one country that hopes the
Democrats are very, very successful—
well, of course, the OPEC nations. But
Russia is probably the most hopeful
that the Democrats are successful in
preventing us from getting the energy
that we have been blessed with in this
area where you don’t have caribou or
things, wildlife, like you do in other
parts of ANWR. They don’t want us to
drill because they know we will be able
to get energy to Europe. And we won’t
blackmail Europe. We won’t extort Eu-
rope the way that Putin often has,
countries that he supplies natural gas
to.
If we export that, we can help give
more freedom to the world. We can
bring down our own prices even fur-
ther. Why wouldn’t we do that?
This picture was near the proposed
exploration area. It is from Google
Maps. It is taken on Dalton Highway,
just south of Prudhoe Bay. It is facing
east towards the coastal area of the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. So it
is not right in the refuge, but it is a
very fair representation of the coastal
areas found within the refuge.
It is actually a more accurate depic-
tion of the proposed exploration area
than the images that we have been see-
ing around here about the mountains
and rainbows and all the herds of ani-
mals. This is much more representative
than any of those types of pictures.
I want to touch on one more thing
about the Russians meddling in our
election.
Sean Hannity had a great article 11⁄2
years ago, February of 2018. In there,
he quotes from President Obama.
President Obama said: ‘‘There is no se-
rious person out there who would sug-
gest somehow that you could even rig
America’s elections. There’s no evi-
dence that that has happened in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.064 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7701
September 12, 2019
past or that there are instances in
which that will happen this time.’’
That was at the height of the 2016
election.
He goes on to say: ‘‘And so I invite
Mr. Trump to stop whining and go try
to make his case to get votes.’’
President Trump did nothing. It
turns out they knew that the Russians
were trying to meddle in our election.
So why wouldn’t Obama try to stop the
Russians from meddling in our elec-
tion? He did nothing.
There is speculation that he knew
Hillary Clinton was going to win, and
he was afraid if they started admitting
what they knew was true—that Russia
was trying to meddle in our elections—
and then Hillary Clinton won, it might
make her victory look suspect if they
talked about the effort they knew Rus-
sia was engaged in to affect our elec-
tion.
But the truth is that Putin wants to
divide America as much as he can. Di-
vide and conquer is what he hopes to
do. And he has been successful.
The Russians that they had who gave
their lives to Christopher Steele, the
discredited former MI6 guy, that he
provided to Fusion GPS that appar-
ently the Clinton campaign and the
DNC had hired, it has done what they
wanted. It has done what Putin want-
ed. It has adversely affected the Presi-
dent of the United States. It has di-
vided our country, and it has pitted
family against family.
Someone once said that the last
phase of a civil war involves guns, but
we have been in a nonfirearm civil war
for a while now. And this Mueller in-
vestigation—the whole Russia dossier,
the lies in there about candidate, now
President, Trump—the Russians, just
like Putin wanted, have been success-
ful in dividing this country.
As of yesterday, being 9/11, we can
disagree, like John Dingell and I did,
but I loved the guy. He was a brilliant,
caring, honorable man of integrity. We
have those on both sides of the aisle.
You have some that you have got to be
careful on both sides. But there are
people on both sides of the aisle; and
we can work together because they are
honest, honorable people, and we can
disagree when we need to.
I need to touch on, before we finish
the week here, of course, we have seen
in the news Afghanistan peace talks
with the Taliban broke down. The
Taliban continue to kill Americans,
and they are going to continue to kill
Americans. It is who they are. It is
what they are.
In my trips to Afghanistan and other
places, I made friends with some of
those Muslims who were part Afghan,
Muslims who were part of the Northern
Alliance. It is no longer called the
Northern Alliance. But these were
Muslim friends of the United States.
They just wanted their freedom. They
are Muslims, but they did not want
ruthless totalitarians like the Taliban
running their country.
The enemy of our enemy were people
we could work with. Unfortunately, our
intelligence was not sophisticated
enough, plugged in enough, so that a
day or so before 9/11, when Ahmad Shah
Massoud, sometimes called the Lion of
Panjshir because he was such a hero—
he was a great warrior, soldier; he was
a great politician, beloved in Afghani-
stan. The Taliban wanted to kill him,
but he had good security.
The Taliban, they may be crazy, they
may be haters and want to kill all
Americans, but they are not stupid at
all. They knew that if the United
States figured out that the 9/11 attack
had originated in Afghanistan with al-
Qaida and the Taliban, that the United
States would come to Afghanistan, and
we would look for an Afghan leader
that the people would rally behind,
who could lead the country to destroy
the Taliban. And they knew that would
most likely be the Lion of Panjshir,
the hero of the Afghan victory over
Russia, Ahmad Shah Massoud.
A day or so before 9/11—I think it was
around 36 hours or so before—they had
gotten Massoud to agree to an inter-
view. His security people checked out
the reporter, known reporter, the cam-
eraman there, let him in, and, when
they start the interview, the camera-
man blows up the bomb in his camera
and kills Massoud.
If our intelligence people had been on
top of their game, they would have
known something was about to happen.
Something was about to happen for
them to kill Massoud now, this na-
tional hero.
Ahmad Shah Massoud has a brother,
Ahmad Zia Massoud, and I think of
him as a friend. I hope he thinks the
same way. He fought with and under
his older brother. His brother used him
as a diplomat, but he was one of many
of the Northern Alliance.
The movie ‘‘12 Strong’’ shows Gen-
eral Dostum that we got after 9/11, get-
ting around October, got other tribal
groups to agree to fight with Dostum
as the leader. Some of them weren’t
happy, but they agreed. And we pro-
vided air cover, and we provided weap-
ons for them.
b 1400
We have 300 or so, as I have under-
stood it, special ops, Special Forces,
CIA, in there, and only our guys could
call down bombs and direct them at
specific targets.
Between the weapons we provided the
Afghans, the bomb support from B–52s
40,000 or so feet up, the Northern Alli-
ance, our Afghan Muslim allies, they
destroyed the organized Taliban, with-
in—some say, maybe it was March, but
February, March of 2002. Without a sin-
gle American casualty, we defeated the
Taliban.
Then I think it was a mistake. We
were considered heroes. We came in.
We helped get rid of the Taliban that a
majority of Afghanistan did not want
running the country. And then we
came in and started what appeared to
be occupying. And that probably could
have been okay if we could have helped
them get a new government going and
then get out.
Condoleezza Rice, as I have heard
from others, relied on recommenda-
tions to use a guy named Zalmay
Khalilzad, a Pashtun. You can be
Pashtun and not be Taliban. He is not
Taliban. But you can’t be Taliban and
not be Pashtun, as I understand it.
And anyway, she relied heavily on
him. I talked to a guy who said he was
part of the inner circle, and the deci-
sion was: What kind of government are
we going to give Afghanistan now that
we have destroyed the Taliban? Unfor-
tunately, that shouldn’t have been our
decision, but there were people who
said, Look, this is a Tribal country and
nothing would fit this area better than
to have strong local and state or prov-
ince governments, and then it is a Fed-
eralist society where the national gov-
ernment is kind of an umbrella, but the
real power is in the provinces and the
local government.
That is not what we did. The wrong
people were listened to. And we pushed
a constitution through that gives the
power to the President, almost making
him a dictator. The President is elect-
ed in Afghanistan, but then he appoints
the governors. He appoints the mayors.
He appoints the police chief. It just cut
the local folks and the province folks
out of governing themselves.
And as my friend Massoud said: You
know, look, we know you are going to
end up having to pull out some day, so
please help us get an amendment to
our constitution that allows each prov-
ince to elect its own governor and al-
lows each city and town to elect their
own mayor. Let us pick our own police
chiefs, not somebody that Karzai, and
now Ghani who is President would
pick, but let us pick our own leaders.
And the reasoning I thought was very
sound. He said, when America leaves
Afghanistan with this strong central
government where the President has
all power, all I have got to do is either
knock off or corrupt the President, and
they are right back in charge of Af-
ghanistan.
The Taliban hate Americans, so they
are going to come kill a bunch more
once they take back over Afghanistan.
And then you are going to have to
come back and Americans die all over
again for nothing.
If you will simply allow us to have
that local provincial power so we elect
our own leaders and not have them ap-
pointed from Kabul, then, yeah, maybe
the Taliban gets one or two provinces,
but the rest of us can rise up like we
did before and defeat the Taliban
again, and you don’t have to have
Americans die like you have for all of
these years.
That made sense. But the only trou-
ble is, the guy that helped get Afghani-
stan this ridiculous constitution that
has created basically a totalitarian
Presidency, that is who was negoti-
ating with the Taliban. There are ru-
mors that he wanted to be President of
Afghanistan at one time himself, but
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.065 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7702 September 12, 2019
regardless, this guy, he gave the Bush
administration bad advice. He gave the
Obama administration bad advice.
They were trying to cut a deal with
the Taliban. The Taliban, you can cut
a deal with them and then they are
going to cut your throat the first
chance they get.
It makes no sense. But we have peo-
ple from the Bush administration
through the Obama administration.
Khalilzad is still being listened to, and
he wanted to do this deal with the
Pashtun brothers, the Taliban.
We don’t need to be dealing with our
enemies. We need to be dealing with
our allies. And this was one of the
great dangers, by rejecting those who
lost family members, risked their own
lives to help us take out the Taliban,
eliminate the organized Taliban origi-
nally, without a single loss of Amer-
ican life, why wouldn’t we want to put
them in positions of power? They can
get elected, if we just—I said to
Massoud: What makes you think we
could help you amend your constitu-
tion?
And he said: You are still paying for
most of our government operations. If
you threaten to pull out all of that
money prematurely, yeah, we will
change the constitution. But we need
your help to do it, so you don’t have to
keep losing American lives here in Af-
ghanistan.
It made so much sense. But, unfortu-
nately, the deep state just continues to
be deep and Khalilzad has been part of
that from the beginning. He seemed
like a nice guy when I met him in Iraq
back in 2005. He seemed like a nice guy.
He is just the wrong person to be lis-
tened to.
Americans have continued to be
killed while he has been wanting to
have peace talks with the Taliban, not
with the northern or former Northern
Alliance people who risked their lives
and lost family members fighting with
us and for us. Oh, no, we are not going
to deal with them. We are going to
leave them. And all of the former
Northern Alliance, they know that
when we leave and we cut a deal with
the Taliban or leave things so that the
Taliban can take right over again, they
are all going to be killed.
Then there isn’t going to be anybody
in Afghanistan who will be able to
stand up and fight against the Taliban.
On top of that, even if there were, they
wouldn’t want to cut a deal with us, be-
cause they will have seen the way the
Northern Alliance risked lives and lost
lives to help us defeat the Taliban.
What do we do? Do we leave them
high and dry? Do we allow the Taliban
to come in and kill them when we go?
No. No. We need to be talking to our
friends who fought with us and got rid
of all of the organized Taliban by Feb-
ruary or March of 2002 before we be-
came occupiers, more or less.
There needs to be a Federalist sys-
tem there, and we need our friends, our
allies who fought the Taliban and don’t
want them back in positions of author-
ity. And I think President Ghani would
be willing to do that, but, you know,
deep state just keeps getting deeper.
We need to negotiate with our friends,
so they are in a position to help our en-
emies not get back in control to kill
Americans again.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
REQUESTING RETURN OF S. 1790,
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following privileged
message from the Senate:
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate
be directed to request the House of Rep-
resentatives to return to the Senate the bill
(S. 1790) entitled ‘‘An Act to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for military ac-
tivities of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense activi-
ties of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the request of the Senate is
agreed to, and S. 1790 will be returned
to the Senate.
There was no objection.
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 178. An act to condemn gross human
rights violations of ethnic Turkic Muslims in
Xinjiang, and calling for an end to arbitrary
detention, torture, and harassment of these
communities inside and outside China; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs; in addition,
to the Permanent Select Committee on In-
telligence; and to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
f
BILL PRESENTED TO THE
PRESIDENT
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported that on September 11,
2019, she presented to the President of
the United States, for his approval, the
following bill:
H.R. 831. To direct the Secretary of Trans-
portation to request nominations for and
make determinations regarding roads to be
designated under the national scenic byways
program, and for other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 2 o’clock and 9 minutes p.m.),
under its previous order, the House ad-
journed until tomorrow, Friday, Sep-
tember 13, 2019, at 9 a.m.
h
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 1146, the Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain Protection Act, for printing
in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 1146 (RULES COMMITTEE PRINT 116–30)
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Effects ............................................................................................................................... 0 0 ¥95 500 ¥100 ¥100 201 ¥99 ¥104 ¥104 ¥104 205 ¥5
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2069. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Recoupment of Nonrecurring
Costs (NCs) on Sales of U.S. Items [Docket
ID: DOD-2018-OS-0088] (RIN: 0790-AK24) re-
ceived August 23, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
2070. A letter from the Special Agent,
Chief, Policy Branch, Department of the
Army, Department of Defense, transmitting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12SE7.067 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7703
September 12, 2019
the Department’s final rule — Individual Re-
quests for Access or Amendment of CID Re-
ports of Investigation [Docket ID: USA-2019-
HQ-0016] (RIN: 0702-AB00) received September
5, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Pub-
lic Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Armed Services.
2071. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Bureau of Industry and Security, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Addition of Certain Enti-
ties to the Entity List and Revision of En-
tries on the Entity List [Docket No.: 190814-
0013] (RIN: 0694-AH86) received September 5,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
2072. A letter from the Secretary, Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission, transmitting
the Commission’s guidance and interpreta-
tion — Commission Interpretation and Guid-
ance Regarding the Applicability of the
Proxy Rules to Proxy Voting Advice [Re-
lease No.: 34-86721] received August 23, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
2073. A letter from the Secretary, Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission, transmitting
the Commission’s guidance — Commission
Guidance Regarding Proxy Voting Respon-
sibilities of Investment Advisers [Release
Nos.: IA-5325; IC-33605] received August 22,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Financial Services.
2074. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Pen-
sion Benefit Guaranty Corporation, trans-
mitting the Corporation’s final rule — Bene-
fits Payable in Terminated Single-Employer
Plans; Interest Assumptions for Paying Ben-
efits received September 5, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
2075. A letter from the Program Analyst,
National Highway Traffic Safety Adminis-
tration, Department of Transportation,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards;
Electric-Powered Vehicles: Electrolyte Spill-
age and Electrical Shock Protection [Docket
No.: NHTSA-2019-0009] (RIN: 2127-AM10) re-
ceived August 30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2076. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Min-
nesota; Flint Hills Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Re-
vision [EPA-R05-OAR-2018-0731; FRL-9998-49-
Region 5] received September 11, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
2077. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Texas;
Control of Air Pollution from Motor Vehicles
[EPA-R06-OAR-2018-0811; FRL-9997-58-Region
6] received September 11, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2078. A letter from the Chief of Staff, Media
Bureau, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting the Commission’s final
rule — Electronic Delivery of MVPD Com-
munications [MB Docket No.: 17-317]; Mod-
ernization of Media Regulation Initiative
[MB Docket No.: 17-105] received August 23,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
2079. A letter from the Associate Chief,
Auctions Division, Office of Economics and
Analytics, Federal Communications Com-
mission, transmitting the Commission’s
final rule — Incentive Auction of Upper
Microwave Flexible Use Service Licenses in
the Upper 37 GHz, 39 GHz, and 47 GHz Bands
for Next-Generations Wireless Services; No-
tice and Filing Requirements, Minimum
Opening Bids, Upfront Payments, and Other
Procedures for Auctions 103; Bidding in Auc-
tion 103 Scheduled to Begin December 10,
2019 [AU Docket No.: 19-59] [GN Docket No.:
14-177] received August 23, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2080. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Bureau of Industry and Security, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Temporary General Li-
cense: Extension of Validity, Clarifications
to Authorized Transactions, and Changes to
Certification Statement Requirements
[Docket No.: 190814-0012] (RIN: 0694-AH86) re-
ceived September 5, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2081. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Sectary for Export Administration, Bureau
of Industry and Security, Department of
Commerce, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Addition of Certain Entities to
the Entity List, Revision of Entries on the
Entity List, and Removal of Entities From
the Entity List [Docket No.: 190808-0011]
(RIN: 0694-AH50) received August 23, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
2082. A letter from the Senior Attorney-Ad-
visor, Federal Highway Administration, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — FAST Act
Section 5516 ‘‘Additional State Authority’’
Implementation [Docket No.: FHWA-2018-
0042] (RIN: 2125-AF86) received August 27,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2083. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
Office of Chief Counsel, Federal Railroad Ad-
ministration, Department of Transportation,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
System Safety Program [Docket No.: FRA-
2011-0060, Notice No. 11] (RIN: 2130-AC81) re-
ceived August 29, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2084. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of Class E
Airspace; Endicott, NY; Correction [Docket
No.: FAA-2019-0347; Airspace Docket No.: 19-
AEA-6] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received September
6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Pub-
lic Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2085. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airspace Designations;
Incorporation by Reference [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0627; Amendment. No.: 71-51] (RIN:
2120-AA66) received September 6, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
2086. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-1012; Product Identifier
2018-NM-132-AD; Amendment 39-19708; AD
2019-16-05] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Sep-
tember 6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2087. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2019-0187; Product Identifier
2018-NM-172-AD; Amendment 39-19715; AD
2019-16-12] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Sep-
tember 6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2088. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus Helicopters Deutschland GmbH
Helicopters [Docket No.: FAA-2019-0643;
Product Identifier 2019-SW-013-AD; Amend-
ment 39-19719; AD 2019-10-51] (RIN: 2120-AA64)
received September 6, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
2089. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes [Docket
No.: FAA-2019-0322; Product Identifier 2019-
NM-039-AD; Amendment 39-19722; AD 2019-16-
09] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received September 6,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2090. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2019-0608; Product Identifier
2019-NM-084-AD; Amendment 39-19713; AD
2019-16-10] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Sep-
tember 6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2091. A letter from the Chairman, Surface
Transportation Board, transmitting the
Board’s final rule — Regulations Governing
Fees for Services Performed in Connection
With Licensing and Related Services-2019
Update [Docket No.: EP 542 (Sub-No. 27)] re-
ceived August 23, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2092. A letter from the Regulations Policy
Coordinator, Office of Regulations Policy
and Management, Office of the Secretary
(00REG), Department of Veterans Affairs,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Rental and Utility Assistance for Certain
Low-Income Veteran Families (RIN: 2900-
AQ40) received August 30, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
2093. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Domestic Partnerships and S Cor-
porations Filling Under Proposed GILTI Reg-
ulations [Notice 2019-46] received August 30,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
2094. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L12SE7.000 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7704 September 12, 2019
rule — Implementation of Nonresident Alien
Deposit Interest Regulations (Rev. Proc.
2019-23) received August 30, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi: Committee
on Homeland Security. H.R. 3356. A bill to
provide PreCheck to certain severely injured
or disabled veterans, and for other purposes
(Rept. 116–203, Pt. 1). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 3356 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
CONSENSUS CALENDAR
Under clause 7 of rule XV, the fol-
lowing motion was filed with the Clerk:
Motion No. 8, September 12, 2019 by Ms.
Speier on H.R. 1773.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. KIM (for himself, Ms. DEAN, and
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico):
H.R. 4295. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Defense to carry out a pilot program under
which the Secretary determines the exposure
of certain children of members of the Armed
Forces to perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl
substances; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
Ms. LEE of California, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms.
DEGETTE, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. MATSUI,
and Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ):
H.R. 4296. A bill to amend title VI of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to en-
sure the safe use of cosmetics, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on Education and Labor, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GOMEZ (for himself, Mr.
AGUILAR, Ms. BASS, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
CASTRO of Texas, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
CORREA, Mr. COSTA, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HARDER of
California, Ms. HILL of California,
Mr. KENNEDY, Ms. LEE of California,
Mr. TED LIEU of California, Ms. MAT-
SUI, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. MOORE, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PETERSON,
Mr. POCAN, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, Mr. VELA, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. KHANNA, and Mr.
LOWENTHAL):
H.R. 4297. A bill to amend the Food and Nu-
trition Act of 2008 to treat attendance at an
institution of higher education the same as
work for the purpose of determining eligi-
bility to participate in the supplemental nu-
trition assistance program; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture.
By Mrs. HAYES (for herself, Mrs.
MCBATH, Ms. SCANLON, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Mr. SABLAN, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. LANGEVIN, Ms. MENG,
Mr. LUJÁN, Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. POCAN, and Ms. PORTER):
H.R. 4298. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to restore Federal Pell
Grant eligibility for certain periods; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mr. TONKO, and Mr.
LOWENTHAL):
H.R. 4299. A bill to reauthorize through
2024 the National Geological and Geophysical
Data Preservation Program Act of 2005; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. DEAN (for herself, Mr. TURNER,
Ms. BASS, and Mr. STIVERS):
H.R. 4300. A bill to provide federal housing
assistance on behalf of youths who are aging
out of foster care, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Financial Services.
By Ms. GABBARD (for herself, Mrs.
MCBATH, and Mrs. HAYES):
H.R. 4301. A bill to require the Secretary of
Education, in consultation with Attorney
General and the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, to publish an annual report
on indicators of school crime and safety that
includes data on school shootings, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 4302. A bill to authorize public hous-
ing agencies to share certain data regarding
homeless individuals and families for the
provision of housing and services, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
By Ms. WILSON of Florida (for herself,
Ms. DELAURO, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr. SABLAN,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. TONKO, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mr. COX of California, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. SARBANES, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. PAYNE, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. RICHMOND, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs.
HAYES, Mr. CLAY, Mr. LEVIN of Michi-
gan, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. COURTNEY,
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. SOTO, Mr. CRIST, Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida, Ms. FRANKEL, Ms.
FUDGE, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Ms. BASS, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. EVANS, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Ms. ADAMS, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
GARAMENDI, and Mr. SUOZZI):
H.R. 4303. A bill to designate the Common-
wealth of the Bahamas under section 244 of
the Immigration and Nationality Act to per-
mit nationals of the Commonwealth of the
Bahamas to be eligible for temporary pro-
tected status under such section, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, and in addition to the Committee on
the Budget, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. PALAZZO (for himself, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. GUEST, Mr. KELLY of
Mississippi, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. HILL of
California, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, and
Mr. FOSTER):
H.R. 4304. A bill to amend title 51, United
States Code, to allow the Administrator of
the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration to accept in-kind consideration for
certain leases, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology.
By Mr. STIVERS (for himself, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. RUTHERFORD,
Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. DUNN, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. WALTZ, Ms. SLOTKIN,
Mr. ROY, and Mr. JOYCE of Ohio):
H.R. 4305. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot pro-
gram on dog training therapy; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself and Mr.
MALINOWSKI):
H.R. 4306. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Railroad Administra-
tion to conduct an evaluation of the safety,
security, and environmental risks of trans-
porting liquefied natural gas by rail, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mrs. ROD-
GERS of Washington, Mr. HECK, Mr.
PAYNE, Ms. HILL of California, and
Mr. GALLAGHER):
H.R. 4307. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, relating to certain require-
ments for the engineering phase of fixed
guideway capital investment grants, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. MORELLE (for himself, Ms.
HILL of California, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
KING of New York, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. BRINDISI,
and Mr. NADLER):
H.R. 4308. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to establish an emergency
grant aid program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mr.
KATKO, and Mrs. NAPOLITANO):
H.R. 4309. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to establish a grant program
to facilitate the installation, on bridges, of
evidence-based suicide deterrents, including
suicide prevention nets and barriers, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 4310. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to clarify that employ-
ment in any position at a nonprofit organiza-
tion is a public service job for purposes of
the public service loan forgiveness program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself and Mr.
CHABOT):
H.R. 4311. A bill to protect consumers from
discriminatory State taxes on motor vehicle
rentals; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
H.R. 4312. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify when educational as-
sistance is available for an individual who
pursues an approved program of education
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L12SE7.000 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7705
September 12, 2019
leading to a degree while on active duty in
the Armed Forces; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself and Mr.
FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 4313. A bill to authorize the Attorney
General to make grants to State and Tribal
courts in order to allow the electronic serv-
ice of certain court orders, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for him-
self and Mr. MAST):
H.R. 4314. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Defense to appoint officers of the Armed
Forces as directors of medical centers of the
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. KHANNA (for himself and Mr.
PHILLIPS):
H.R. 4315. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to prohibit a can-
didate for election to the office or Represent-
ative in Congress or Senator from accepting
contributions from any political committee
other than an authorized committee of the
candidate and from establishing a leadership
PAC; to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself
and Miss RICE of New York):
H.R. 4316. A bill to provide for temporary
emergency impact aid for local educational
agencies; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself and
Mr. WELCH):
H.R. 4317. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend and expand the
new energy efficient home credit, to extend
the energy efficient commercial buildings
deduction, to eliminate the basis reduction
for low-income housing properties receiving
certain energy benefits, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself, Mr.
STANTON, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, and Mr.
GALLEGO):
H.R. 4318. A bill to provide economic sta-
bilization resources to distressed rural com-
munities directly impacted by the closure of
an electric generating station, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and Labor, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CORREA, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Ms. HAALAND, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. LOFGREN, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. MENG, Ms.
MOORE, Mrs. MURPHY, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Ms. NORTON, Ms. OMAR, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
RUSH, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. SIRES, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Mr. SOTO, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. SWALWELL
of California, Mr. VARGAS, and Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ):
H.R. 4319. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to eliminate the annual
numerical limitation on U visas, to require
the Secretary of Homeland Security to grant
work authorization to aliens with a pending
application for nonimmigrant status under
subparagraph (U) or (T) of section 101(a)(15)
of such Act, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 4320. A bill to ensure that irrespon-
sible corporate executives, rather than
shareholders, pay fines and penalties; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 4321. A bill to eliminate lead-based
pipe and tap hazards in housing, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Financial Services, and Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. SHALALA (for herself, Mr.
GAETZ, and Ms. LEE of California):
H.R. 4322. A bill to promote cannabis re-
search, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on the Judiciary,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. STEUBE (for himself and Mr.
GAETZ):
H.R. 4323. A bill to provide for the resched-
uling of marijuana into schedule III of the
Controlled Substances Act; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on the Judiciary,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. TORRES of California (for her-
self, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. ENGEL, Mrs.
MURPHY, Ms. NORTON, Mr. CICILLINE,
and Mr. LOWENTHAL):
H.R. 4324. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to expand to all firearms the re-
quirement that Federal firearms licensees
report sales of 2 or more handguns to the
same unlicensed person within 5 consecutive
business days; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 4325. A bill to amend the Commodity
Exchange Act to clarify treatment of privi-
leged information after disclosure to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Agriculture.
By Mrs. WAGNER (for herself, Mr.
JEFFRIES, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey,
and Mr. WALBERG):
H.R. 4326. A bill to amend the Trafficking
Victims Protection Act of 2000 relating to
determinations with respect to efforts of for-
eign countries to reduce demand for com-
mercial sex acts under the minimum stand-
ards for the elimination of trafficking; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. WILD (for herself, Mr. QUIGLEY,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. TRONE, Ms.
DEAN, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
CUELLAR, Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
DEUTCH, and Mr. MOULTON):
H.R. 4327. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to promote comprehensive
campus mental health and suicide preven-
tion plans, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina (for
herself and Mr. ROUDA):
H. Con. Res. 62. Concurrent resolution re-
quiring the supervisors of employees of Con-
gressional offices to submit reports on the
outside compensation earned by such em-
ployees, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on House Administration.
By Mr. MCGOVERN:
H. Res. 553. A resolution directing the
Clerk of the House of Representatives to pro-
vide a copy of the on-the-record portions of
the audio backup file of the transcribed
interview of Roger J. Stone Jr. conducted by
the Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence on September 26, 2017, to the pros-
ecuting attorneys in the case of United
States of America v. Stone, No. 1:19-cr-00018-
ABJ (D.D.C.); considered and agreed to.
By Mr. TIPTON (for himself, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. LAM-
BORN, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. GOTTHEIMER, and Mr. SIRES):
H. Res. 554. A resolution supporting the
designation of September 2019, as ‘‘School
Bus Safety and Security Month’’; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Ms. MOORE, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. MENG,
Ms. HAALAND, Mrs. TORRES of Cali-
fornia, Mr. FOSTER, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Mr. KHANNA, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. DEAN, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. TONKO,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. BEYER, Ms.
LOFGREN, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Ms.
HILL of California, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Ms. STEVENS, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. GARCÍA of
Illinois, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Ms. PORTER, Ms. GARCIA
of Texas, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
LEWIS, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. CICILLINE, and Ms. WEXTON):
H. Res. 555. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives regard-
ing the relationships between firearm vio-
lence, misogyny, and violence against
women and reaffirming the importance of
preventing individuals with a history of vio-
lence against women from accessing a fire-
arm; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and
in addition to the Committees on Energy and
Commerce, Financial Services, Ways and
Means, Education and Labor, Natural Re-
sources, and Veterans’ Affairs, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Mr.
MEEKS, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. QUIGLEY,
Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. CARSON of Indi-
ana, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. PAL-
LONE, Mr. YARMUTH, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Ms. CASTOR of Florida,
Ms. BASS, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. EVANS, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Mr. SIRES, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, Mr. VELA, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
CLAY, Ms. MOORE, Mr. COSTA, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Ms. NORTON,
Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. GREEN of Texas,
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
TITUS, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. RUSH,
Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. LEE
of California, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
CRIST, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. LOEBSACK,
Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. SARBANES, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. ALLRED, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, and Mrs. LAWRENCE):
H. Res. 556. A resolution expressing support
for designation of the month of September as
‘‘National Voting Rights Month’’; to the
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition
to the Committees on House Administration,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L12SE7.100 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7706 September 12, 2019
Intelligence (Permanent Select), Oversight
and Reform, Science, Space, and Technology,
Education and Labor, Ways and Means, Fi-
nancial Services, Ethics, and Homeland Se-
curity, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
133. The SPEAKER presented a memorial
of the Senate of the State of California, rel-
ative to Senate Joint Resolution No. 8, me-
morializing the Congress and the President
of the United States to enact legislation, S.
866, known as the IDEA Full Funding Act,
during the current session of Congress to
fully fund the federal Individuals with Dis-
abilities Education Act; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
134. Also, a memorial of the Senate of the
State of California, relative to Senate Joint
Resolution No. 3, requesting the Congress of
the United States to enact, and the Presi-
dent to sign, legislation that would repeal
the Government Pension Offset and the
Windfall Elimination Provision from the So-
cial Security Act; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. KIM:
H.R. 4295
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8—The Congress shall
have the Power to lay and collect Taxes, Du-
ties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts
and provide for the common Defence and
general Welfare of the United States; but all
Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 4296.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. GOMEZ:
H.R. 4297.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mrs. HAYES:
H.R. 4298.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 4299.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power to . . . pro-
vide for the . . . general Welfare of the
United States; . . .
By Ms. DEAN:
H.R. 4300.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the powers
granted to the Congress by Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. GABBARD:
H.R. 4301.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The United States Constitution, including
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 4302.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18:
‘‘The Congress shall have Power . . . To
make Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof . . .’’
By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
H.R. 4303.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. PALAZZO:
H.R. 4304.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to to the
power granted to Congress under Article I,
Section 8, Clause 18 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. STIVERS:
H.R. 4305.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 13
The Congress shall have Power to provide
and maintain a Navy.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 12
To raise and support Armies, but no Appro-
priation of Money to that Use shall be for a
longer Term than two Years.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 14
To make Rules for the Government and
Regulation of the land and naval Forces.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 4306.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, Clause 3, and
Clause 18 of the Constitution.
By Mr. PETERS:
H.R. 4307.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. MORELLE:
H.R. 4308.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 4309.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 1
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 4310.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion under the General Welfare Clause.
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 4311.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution, which grants Congress the
power to regulate Commerce with foreign
Nations, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes.
By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
H.R. 4312.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 4313.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
H.R. 4314.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KHANNA:
H.R. 4315.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 4, clause 1 of the Con-
stitution reads ‘‘The Times, Places and Man-
ner of holding Elections for Senators and
Representatives, shall be prescribed in each
State by the Legislature thereof; but the
Congress may at any time by Law make or
alter such Regulations, except as to the
Places of chusing Senators.’’
So, Article I, Section 4, clause 1 allows
states to prescribe the ‘‘Time, Places and
Manner of holding Elections for Senators
and Representatives,’’ but allows Congress
‘‘at any time’’ to ‘‘make or alter such regu-
lations.’’
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 4316.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 ofthe United States
Constitution
[Page H3878]
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 4317.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 4318.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 4319.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 4320.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 4321.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
By Ms. SHALALA:
H.R. 4322.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts,
and Excises, to pay the Debts, and provide
for the common Defence and general Welfare
of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts
and Excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States.
By Mr. STEUBE:
H.R. 4323.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L12SE7.100 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7707
September 12, 2019
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States;
To borrow money on the credit of the
United States;
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes;
To establish an uniform Rule of Natu-
ralization, and uniform Laws on the subject
of Bankruptcies throughout the United
States;
To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof,
and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of
Weights and Measures;
To provide for the Punishment of counter-
feiting the Securities and current Coin of the
United States;
To establish Post Offices and Post Roads;
To promote the Progress of Science and
useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to
Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to
their respective Writings and Discoveries;
To constitute Tribunals inferior to the su-
preme Court;
and Offenses against the Law of Nations;
To declare War, grant Letters of Marque
and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning
Captures on Land and Water;
To raise and support Armies, but no Appro-
priation of Money to that Use shall be for a
longer Term than two Years;
To provide and maintain a Navy;
To make Rules for the Government and
Regulation of the land and naval Forces;
To provide for calling forth the Militia to
execute the Laws of the Union, suppress In-
surrections and repel Invasions;
To provide for organizing, arming, and dis-
ciplining, the Militia, and for governing such
Part of them as may be employed in the
Service of the United States, reserving to
the States respectively, the Appointment of
the Officers, and the Authority of training
the Militia according to the discipline pre-
scribed by Congress;
To exercise exclusive Legislation in all
Cases whatsoever, over such District (not ex-
ceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession
of particular States, and the acceptance of
Congress, become the Seat of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and to exercise
like Authority over all Places purchased by
the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be, for the Erection
of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards,
and other needful Buildings; And
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mrs. TORRES of California:
H.R. 4324.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
According to Article 1: Section 8: Clause
18: of the United States Constitution, seen
below, this bill falls within the Constitu-
tional Authority of the United States Con-
gress.
Article 1: Section 8: Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 4325.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Untied States
Constitution.
By Mrs. WAGNER:
H.R. 4326.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
Article I, Section 8, Clause 10
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
Amendment XIII (relating to slavery and
involuntary servitude)
By Ms. WILD:
H.R. 4327.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 4: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 99: Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 305: Mr. PALMER.
H.R. 435: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ and Mr. GRI-
JALVA.
H.R. 444: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 446: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 473: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 485: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 487: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 573: Mr. BAIRD and Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 674: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 707: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 744: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 777: Mr. MARCHANT and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 878: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 891: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 899: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 943: Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr. PRICE
of North Carolina, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. AMODEI, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, and Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 945: Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. BASS, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, and Mrs. RODGERS of Wash-
ington.
H.R. 991: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 1043: Mr. SPANO, Mr. SCHIFF, and Mr.
AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 1052: Ms. MOORE and Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 1066: Mr. FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 1109: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 1137: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1140: Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Mr. GOLDEN, and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California.
H.R. 1154: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 1185: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1220: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1230: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 1257: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 1266: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 1297: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 1309: Mr. MCEACHIN.
H.R. 1360: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1379: Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. COLE, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. LUCAS, Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
LIPINSKI, and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 1396: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. CAL-
VERT, and Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 1424: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1488: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI and Ms.
DELBENE.
H.R. 1527: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1534: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1551: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1570: Mr. KILDEE, Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mr. BILIRAKIS, and Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 1610: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 1646: Ms. CRAIG and Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 1673: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 1680: Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota, and Mr.
EVANS.
H.R. 1692: Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 1709: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 1713: Mr. RYAN and Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 1750: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1754: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 1766: Mr. SCHRADER, Ms. ESCOBAR, and
Mr. SABLAN.
H.R. 1824: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1840: Mr. COURTNEY and Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 1873: Mr. BURCHETT and Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 1944: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1959: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 1962: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1978: Ms. MATSUI, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. CASE, and Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1982: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 2062: Mr. OLSON and Mr. GONZALEZ of
Ohio.
H.R. 2091: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 2134: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2135: Mr. COSTA, Ms. SHERRILL, and
Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 2146: Mr. QUIGLEY and Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 2147: Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
ROUZER, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. JORDAN, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, Mr. STEWART, Mr. KELLER, Mr.
JOHNSON of South Dakota, Mr. ROGERS of
Alabama, Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. CHABOT,
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr. RATCLIFFE,
Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. KEVIN
HERN of Oklahoma, Mr. HARRIS, Mr.
MCADAMS, Ms. FUDGE, Ms. MUCARSEL-POW-
ELL, and Mr. TIMMONS.
H.R. 2178: Mr. LUCAS.
H.R. 2191: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 2208: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 2214: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 2218: Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 2222: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. POR-
TER, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. LARSON of Con-
necticut, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, and Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 2225: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 2256: Ms. UNDERWOOD, Ms. HOULAHAN,
and Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 2279: Mr. RUTHERFORD and Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 2301: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2339: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 2382: Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 2398: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2435: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. HECK,
and Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 2441: Mr. NADLER and Mr. HIGGINS of
New York.
H.R. 2474: Mr. O’HALLERAN and Mr. RICH-
MOND.
H.R. 2487: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 2568: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 2573: Ms. PINGREE, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. FERGUSON, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr.
LONG, Mr. MULLIN, Mr. STEUBE, Mr. RUSH,
Mrs. MILLER, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. FLORES, and Mr. VAN
DREW.
H.R. 2628: Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 2632: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 2645: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 2653: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2664: Mr. WOODALL.
H.R. 2708: Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
LEWIS, Mrs. BEATTY, and Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 2720: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 2721: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 2775: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 2825: Mr. FORTENBERRY.
H.R. 2846: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 2859: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 2862: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana and Mr.
MORELLE.
H.R. 2985: Mr. WENSTRUP and Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 3006: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 3048: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 3062: Mr. HOLDING.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE7.019 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7708 September 12, 2019
H.R. 3071: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 3077: Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 3114: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. DAVID SCOTT
of Georgia.
H.R. 3116: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 3129: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 3157: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 3172: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 3209: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 3214: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 3222: Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. CASE, Mr.
POCAN, and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 3289: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 3331: Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 3332: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 3350: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 3356: Mrs. AXNE, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, and Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 3369: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 3398: Mr. BEYER, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms.
JUDY CHU of California, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
EVANS, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. HIGGINS of New York,
Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. LEWIS, Ms.
MOORE, Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, and Mr.
SUOZZI.
H.R. 3435: Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 3446: Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 3450: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 3464: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 3486: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 3495: Mr. BAIRD, Mr. HUDSON, Mr.
STEUBE, Mr. BURCHETT, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. BOST,
Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. NEGUSE, and Mr. CAL-
VERT.
H.R. 3502: Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. JOHNSON of
South Dakota, Mr. VAN DREW, and Mr. HICE
of Georgia.
H.R. 3510: Mr. STANTON, Mr. LUCAS, and Mr.
SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 3516: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3529: Mr. COSTA, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, and Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 3545: Mr. KATKO and Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 3555: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 3563: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 3569: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3570: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ and Mr.
SIRES.
H.R. 3593: Ms. BROWNLEY of California and
Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 3630: Mrs. WAGNER and Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 3644: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 3654: Mr. VAN DREW, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr. GRAVES of
Missouri, Mr. YARMUTH, and Mr. BLU-
MENAUER.
H.R. 3664: Mr. LUCAS.
H.R. 3665: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 3681: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3685: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, and Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 3712: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 3716: Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. MCADAMS, and
Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 3727: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 3731: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 3742: Mr. WITTMAN and Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 3777: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 3799: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois and Mr.
MEEKS.
H.R. 3816: Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 3824: Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 3851: Mr. PANETTA, Ms. ESHOO, and Mr.
CUELLAR.
H.R. 3917: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 3956: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER and Mr.
CUELLAR.
H.R. 3968: Mr. CRAWFORD.
H.R. 3971: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 3973: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 4014: Ms. HAALAND, Ms. ESHOO, and
Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 4077: Mrs. MCBATH and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 4098: Mr. GOSAR, Mr. CURTIS, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr. BROOKS of Ala-
bama, Mr. STEUBE, and Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 4107: Mr. POCAN and Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 4129: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4142: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 4193: Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. KING of New
York, Ms. SLOTKIN, and Ms. BROWNLEY of
California.
H.R. 4219: Mr. FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 4226: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 4230: Ms. BONAMICI and Ms. BROWNLEY
of California.
H.R. 4248: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 4249: Mr. RASKIN and Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 4254: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 4261: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 4272: Mr. ENGEL, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Mr. SOTO, Ms. LOFGREN, and Miss RICE
of New York.
H. J. Res. 7: Mr. PASCRELL.
H. Res. 49: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H. Res. 109: Ms. FUDGE.
H. Res. 146: Ms. LEE of California, Ms. ROY-
BAL-ALLARD, and Mr. KING of New York.
H. Res. 326: Mr. LANGEVIN and Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia.
H. Res. 374: Mr. PALMER.
H. Res. 387: Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, and Ms. WILD.
H. Res. 454: Mrs. LURIA.
H. Res. 478: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H. Res. 493: Mr. HUIZENGA.
H. Res. 527: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H. Res. 539: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr.
COSTA.
H. Res. 543: Ms. NORTON.
H. Res. 545: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr. KIL-
MER.
H. Res. 549: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII, petitions
and papers were laid on the clerk’s
desk and referred as follows:
39. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
the City of Miami Commission, relative to
Resolution No. R-19-0281, urging the United
States Citizenship and Immigration Services
to reevaluate and grant Ramon Saul
Sanchez’s application for permanent resident
status; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
40. Also, a petition of House of Representa-
tives of the Commonwealth of the Northern
Marianas Islands, relative to House Joint
Resolution 21-4, HD2, To provide mutual con-
sent to amend Article III, Section 303 of the
Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands in Political
Union with the United States of America to
limit birth tourism in the CNMI; jointly to
the Committees on Natural Resources and
the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE7.023 H12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5453
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2019 No. 146
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Holy God, Your goodness extends to
all generations. Thank You that You
can be found by all who truly seek You.
You are our God, and we trust Your
love, wisdom, and power.
Lord, guide our Senators to protect
our goodly heritage of freedom, using
them to defend our Constitution from
all enemies, foreign and domestic.
Please, God, hear our fervent pray-
ers, for You are our refuge and
strength.
Cause us to live now as we shall wish
we had done when our time comes to
die.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. I ask unanimous
consent to speak in morning business
for 90 seconds.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CENTRAL COLLEGE TUITION
REDUCTION
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
have two points I would like to make.
I have three bills designed to help stu-
dents better understand the actual cost
of college because it is kind of a com-
plicated thing to determine because
there is not enough transparency.
Colleges tend to think that having a
high tuition is a reflection of quality,
which just means that they all have to
offer more scholarships. Between that
and the complexity of Federal student
aid, price shopping for college is very
difficult and some people might think
impossible. That is why I was glad to
learn that one of Iowa’s well-respected
private colleges, Central College in
Pella, IA, has lowered its tuition from
$38,600 a year to $18,600 to better reflect
the actual cost. Yes, that is right—
they reduced their college tuition by
$20,000 a year. Maybe Pella Central Col-
lege will start a trend.
f
REMEMBERING CHUCK GEERTZ
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
on another point, Iowans, and particu-
larly veterans, mourn the loss of Chuck
Geertz of Muscatine. Sergeant First
Class Geertz was an Active-Duty serv-
icemember for 23 years but continued
to serve his Nation after his retirement
in 2009, and this is how he did it:
through establishing an organization
in 2008 called Healing at English River
Outfitters or, as he established the ac-
ronym, HERO. That organization does
great good. It provides veterans and
their families with relaxing outdoor
activities for physical and mental heal-
ing.
Chuck is remembered for his caring
spirit and dedication to his community
and, most important, his fellow vet-
erans. While he will be missed, his leg-
acy of community service will con-
tinue.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Michelle Bow-
man, of Kansas, to be a Member of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System for a term of fourteen
years from February 1, 2020. (Re-
appointment)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
SOUTH DAKOTA
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, it
was a good August. While I head back
to South Dakota almost every week-
end, August gives me the chance to
spend multiple uninterrupted weeks
back home visiting with South Dako-
tans and traveling to the far corners of
the State.
August is also fair season in South
Dakota, and there is nothing better
than a South Dakota fair. This year I
got to attend the South Dakota State
Fair, the Brown County Fair, the Sioux
Empire Fair, the Turner County Fair,
and the McCook County Fair, to name
a few on the list. As usual, I had a
great time at all of them. Of course,
the people are the best part of the fair,
although I have to say that the fair
food is not far behind. I am still enjoy-
ing at this late date the Tubby Burger
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.000 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5454 September 12, 2019
that I had at the Brown County Fair,
and I will tell you that they don’t have
burgers like that here in Washington,
DC.
Agriculture is the lifeblood of South
Dakota, and, as always, a lot of my
conversations over August were cen-
tered on agriculture. Farmers and
ranchers have had a very rough few
years, and addressing the needs of our
agriculture community is one of my
top priorities in Congress.
One big concern for our producers is
ethanol and biodiesel. While we re-
ceived some good news this year with
the approval of year-round E15 sales,
the ethanol industry is still facing sig-
nificant challenges owing to the excess
of small refinery waivers that have
been issued—an issue we continue to
try to address.
Perhaps the biggest concern for our
farmers right now is trade. Multiple
protracted trade disputes have exacer-
bated an already struggling ag econ-
omy and have left farmers and ranch-
ers unsure how markets are going to be
going forward.
While ranchers received some good
news in August with the announcement
that the administration has reached a
deal to increase U.S. beef sales to Eu-
rope, that is just a tiny fraction of
what we need to be doing trade-wise.
Each time I speak with the President
and his administration, I tell them
what South Dakota farmers have told
me: We need to conclude negotiations
on the various trade deals we are work-
ing on as soon as possible to open new
markets and to expand existing ones
and to give agricultural producers cer-
tainty about what the playing field is
going to look like going forward.
One of my priorities right now is
pushing for passage of the United
States-Mexico-Canada free-trade agree-
ment. The United States-Mexico-Can-
ada Agreement will preserve farmers’
access to two of our Nation’s most sig-
nificant agricultural export markets—
Canada and Mexico—and substantially
expand market access for U.S. dairy
products in Canada. Negotiations on
this agreement have already been con-
cluded. We need Democrats in the
House to indicate their willingness to
take it up and pass it.
August is always a great time to
share with South Dakotans what I am
working on in Washington and to get
their feedback, which is why I am glad
I had the opportunity to host several
townhall meetings across the State,
toured numerous local businesses, and
visited nearly every corner of South
Dakota.
As South Dakotans know, I am a
longtime member of the Senate Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation
Committee. I served as chairman of the
committee in the last Congress, and I
currently chair the Commerce Sub-
committee on Communications, Tech-
nology, Innovation, and the Internet.
This has given me the chance to ad-
dress a number of issues facing Ameri-
cans and South Dakotans, from the
frustration of illegal robocalls to the
data privacy concerns we all face in the
internet age. It has also given me the
chance to focus on digital issues that
affect rural States like South Dakota,
particularly the lack of high-speed
internet access in rural areas.
To residents of large cities, being
without access to high-speed internet
is unthinkable, but for families in rural
areas, which lack the telecommuni-
cations infrastructure of cities and
suburbs, even basic internet access can
sometimes be a struggle. Broadband ac-
cess is frequently just a dream, and
that has real consequences for these
Americans.
It is not just a matter of being able
to stream Netflix without interruption.
In our digital economy, a lack of reli-
able, high-speed internet access means
losing out on opportunities to grow
your business, it means fewer edu-
cational opportunities, and it means
fewer healthcare resources in areas
that already lack easy access to spe-
cialty care services. Telehealth prom-
ises to reduce some of the geographic
barriers to care for individuals in rural
areas, but it depends largely on high-
speed internet access. Then there is the
rapidly developing field of precision ag-
riculture. Precision agriculture, which
uses tools like robotics and remote
monitoring to help farmers manage
their fields, promises to help farmers
substantially increase their yields
while reducing their costs. But, once
again, it depends on reliable access to
high-speed internet.
That is why I have made this issue
such a priority. Nationwide, the digital
divide is shrinking, as more and more
Americans gain access to broadband. In
South Dakota, we are ahead of the
curb, thanks to people like Sioux Falls
Mayor Paul TenHaken, who has
worked aggressively to remove barriers
to telecommunications investment in
cities like Sioux Falls. I was very en-
couraged by the Federal Communica-
tions Commission’s recent announce-
ment that it will invest $705 million
over the next decade to bring
broadband to rural areas in South Da-
kota that currently go without.
There is more work to be done, and I
am committed to pushing this issue
until reliable broadband access is
standard in rural America. During the
last week of the August break, I
brought the Commerce Committee to
Sioux Falls to conduct a field hearing
on rural broadband. We brought an
FCC Commissioner with us so that he
could hear directly from South Dako-
tans who are on the frontlines of rural
broadband expansion and leading the
innovations that come along with it. It
was a great hearing, and I am very en-
couraged by the progress we are mak-
ing on this issue. I look forward to
doing more work on this issue in the
coming months.
I am energized by the time that I
spent with South Dakotans during the
August break, and I am looking for-
ward to continuing to fight for South
Dakota’s priorities here in Washington
this fall.
TRIBUTE TO BRENDON PLACK
Madam President, before I close, I
want to take a minute to recognize one
of the people who has been instru-
mental in helping me serve South Da-
kotans throughout my time in the Sen-
ate.
This week, my whip office chief of
staff, Brendon Plack, is leaving my of-
fice after 14 years. He has been with me
during my entire time here in the Sen-
ate, from the very first month on the
job, and it is difficult to imagine the
office without him.
He started out at the bottom, as the
guy who had to drive me to evening
events so that I could squeeze in a lit-
tle more work or a few more phone
calls to South Dakota on the way. But
he was always cheerful about it, and,
even better, he drove well and never
ran out of gas. It may not sound like a
big deal, but having been subsequently
stranded on the way to an event after
running out of gas, I appreciate, as al-
ways, Brendon’s preparedness.
Brendon soon moved up to legislative
correspondent, then to legislative as-
sistant, and then up from there to pol-
icy director, legislative director, staff
director, and chief of staff. He has been
an indispensable part of my team.
No job has ever been too big for
Brendon, no task too hard. It doesn’t
matter how long the hours get. He is
always willing to put in the work that
needs to be done, and he stays cheerful
through it all, lifting everyone else up
with him.
He is a natural leader who is not only
exceptionally talented himself but is
great at spotting talent in others. He
helped me to put together an out-
standing team for the whip office and
has helped me to maintain an out-
standing team in my personal office.
In politics, as we all know, you meet
people who are great at the nuts and
bolts of policy and know every detail of
an issue, and you meet people who
aren’t as focused on the details but
have an ability to see the big picture
and how what we are doing fits into our
larger goals. You don’t always meet
people who can do both, but Brendon
has always been able to get into the
nuts and bolts of a policy and at the
same time see the bigger picture.
One of the things I have appreciated
most about Brendon is the fact that no
matter what we are doing, South Da-
kota is at the forefront of his mind. As
a native of Madison, SD, and the son of
a farmer, Brendon has a keen insight
into South Dakotans’ priorities.
Whether it is tax reform or energy leg-
islation or agriculture, Brendon is al-
ways thinking about how we can serve
South Dakota on the national stage.
He has played a key role in so many of
the things I have been able to get done
for South Dakota here in Washington.
Now, I have described a pretty out-
standing individual, but Brendon is not
without his flaws. He is a longtime Vi-
kings fan. Over the past 14 years, I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.003 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5455
September 12, 2019
have tried hard to convince him that
he should be rooting for the Green Bay
Packers, but so far I haven’t gotten
anywhere.
Fortunately, our shared appreciation
for the tuba has helped us to get over
our major disagreements on football.
Both Brendon and I are tuba players
from way back, although I think he is
a little more accomplished at the tuba
than I am. I never made it beyond the
high school marching band. Brendon
went on to Augustana University in
South Dakota on a music scholarship
and played in the concert band. I just
learned that he actually had lost his
tuba scholarship—if you can believe
this—to dedicate time to my first cam-
paign.
As I said earlier, it is hard to think
of my office without Brendon. He will
be deeply missed, but I look forward to
watching him excel in all his future en-
deavors. I know that he may enjoy hav-
ing a little bit more time to spend with
his wife Lindsay and his little ones,
Timmy and Katie Lou. As we all know,
days on the Hill can be very long.
If you ask Brendon how he got into
politics, he will tell you about the
meeting he attended in college where I
was the guest speaker. That meeting,
Brendon says, got him interested in
politics for the first time. Shortly
after, he applied to work on my first
Senate campaign, and the rest, as they
say, is history.
To hear Brendon tell it, attending
that meeting was a lucky day for him,
but I know it was an even luckier day
for me and for the people of South Da-
kota.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The clerk will call
the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
JOHNSON). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, there
are two possible paths when it comes
to the appropriations process in Con-
gress. There is a bipartisan path, where
both parties work together in good
faith to pass all 12 appropriations bills.
Then there is the partisan path, where
one party breaks faith with the other,
and we end up traveling down a road of
brinksmanship. Continuing resolutions
become the order of the day, and the
risk of a government shutdown in-
creases.
We all know the bipartisan path is
far preferable. It both avoids the possi-
bility of another damaging government
shutdown, and when we legislate the
appropriations bills, we can intel-
ligently allocate our resources for the
future. Continuing resolutions, on the
other hand, are blunt objects that sim-
ply recycle last year’s priorities. It
hurts our military; it hurts the middle
class; and it hurts the American peo-
ple.
We are at an important crossroads
between those two passes right now.
After successfully negotiating the
broad outlines of a budget deal earlier
this year, we must now agree on the al-
locations to the 12 appropriations sub-
committees. These are known as the
302(b) allocations. This process was
completely bipartisan in 2018; these al-
locations passed the Appropriations
Committee unanimously 31 to 0.
This year, the Republican majority,
without consulting with Democrats,
has proposed taking away $12 billion
from urgent domestic priorities and
from urgent military priorities and
wasting it—wasting it on President
Trump’s ineffective and expensive bor-
der wall. This is the very wall Presi-
dent Trump promised over and over
again that Mexico would pay for when
he ran for office and garnered support
for it from his constituency.
No Republican—certainly not the Re-
publican leader who knows this place
well—could seriously believe Demo-
crats would agree to that: $12 billion
for the wall, stolen from healthcare
programs to fight opioid addiction and
encourage cancer research, stolen from
military families? No Republican could
expect Democrats to support that, nor
should they. It is terrible policy.
This morning, in the appropriations
markup, every single Republican on
the committee, including Leader
MCCONNELL, voted to move forward on
this idea. Republican Senators who op-
pose the President’s emergency dec-
laration voted for it; Republican Sen-
ators whose States would lose tens of
millions of dollars in military funding
voted for it. This is the clearest indica-
tion yet that Republicans may well be
abandoning a bipartisan appropriations
process. They would do so at their
peril, as well as the peril of the Nation.
Republicans have started off here on
the wrong foot, repeating the exact
same mistakes they made at the end of
2018, which resulted in the longest gov-
ernment shutdown in American his-
tory—a shutdown that President
Trump and Republicans rightly shoul-
dered the blame for.
There is only one bit of good news in
this maneuver. There is still time for
Republicans to reverse course. The Re-
publican majority should sit down with
Democrats on the committee and start
over on the 302(b) allocations, figure
out an order to bring each bill to the
floor, and get a bipartisan process back
on track. That is how we Democrats
want to do it. That is how we have al-
ways gotten appropriations bills done.
No one wants to resort to a continuing
resolution or, God forbid, another Re-
publican, Donald Trump-inspired gov-
ernment shutdown, but it takes two to
tango.
My Republican colleagues must know
that what happens in the next few days
and weeks will determine whether we
can proceed with a bipartisan appro-
priations process this fall or not.
I urge Leader MCCONNELL and every
single Republican to reverse course—it
is certainly not too late—and work
with us and get it done. I spoke to
Leader MCCONNELL yesterday right
here in the well and suggested just
that. He seemed open to it. Let’s hope
our request is heeded.
BACKGROUND CHECKS
Mr. President, on guns, yesterday, in
an open letter to the Senate, the lead-
ers of 145 companies—some of the most
recognizable in our country—added
their voices to the millions of Ameri-
cans who want action on gun violence.
Here are the words of these corporate
leaders, hardly leftwing radicals:
‘‘Doing nothing about America’s gun
violence crisis is simply unacceptable
. . . the Senate must follow the
House’s lead by passing bipartisan leg-
islation that would update the back-
ground checks law, helping to keep
guns out of the hands of people who
shouldn’t have them.’’
They are correct, and the people who
shouldn’t have them, almost no one
thinks they should. Should felons have
guns? Should spousal abusers have
guns? Should people adjudicated men-
tally ill have guns? Yet the enormous
loopholes in the law allow them to
have guns. Forty percent of the guns
sold in America now are sold without
background checks because they are
sold either online or at gun shows.
These corporate leaders are exactly
right. They are not asking for anything
radical. They are asking for something
that 93 percent of the American people
support.
When it comes to gun safety legisla-
tion, no policy is a better starting
point than universal background
checks. We are certainly open to debat-
ing the finer points of legislation with
our Republican colleagues, but we cer-
tainly will not settle for anything less
than meaningful action to address gun
violence. We know meaningful action
begins with closing the loopholes in
our background check system so guns
don’t fall into the wrong hands in the
first place.
After saying the issue of gun safety
would be front and center when Con-
gress returned, Leader MCCONNELL has
given no indication of when the Senate
might have a debate. Instead, he has
suggested it is up to the White House—
a mercurial, inconsistent White
House—to determine what, if any, leg-
islation reaches the floor. Meanwhile,
after Republicans met with President
Trump at the White House this week, a
few said President Trump was liable to
let Congress take the lead.
Well, Leader MCCONNELL, President
Trump, Republican Senators, it is the
old Abbott and Costello routine again.
They are going like this: Congressional
Republicans point at the White House,
the White House points at congres-
sional Republicans, and nothing gets
done.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.004 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5456 September 12, 2019
We know why nothing gets done. The
public overwhelmingly—the vast ma-
jority of Americans, the vast majority
of Republicans, the vast majority of
gun owners, the majority of NRA mem-
bers—want to close the loopholes, but
the NRA has our Republican colleagues
quaking in their boots, and they al-
most always bow down in obeisance to
the NRA. The NRA says: Let us look at
the legislation. Then it is so weakened,
it virtually does nothing. That is not
going to happen this time.
We need a vote on H.R. 8—modest, bi-
partisan, universal background check
legislation. Our Republican colleagues
should realize this game they are play-
ing of Pennsylvania Avenue hot potato
has become a shopworn strategy to
delay and kick responsibility around so
Republicans can avoid addressing the
tough issue—the issue the American
people sent us here to take on.
When Leader MCCONNELL says he is
just going to do what President Trump
wants—how unreliable. President
Trump has been all over the lot on gun
safety, with no real results in the 21⁄2
years he has been in office. What lack
of leadership. Let’s just do it. The pub-
lic wants us to do it.
What is different this time, my col-
leagues on the Republican side, is the
public is so strongly on the side of
what we want to do—closing the loop-
holes—that people will begin to pay a
political price for not doing it. It used
to be the equation was the other way,
a small, dedicated core of advocates,
quite extreme, on the pro-gun side had
more weight than the vast majority of
the American people who cared about
this issue but didn’t make it high up on
their list. What has changed is this: It
is one of the most important issues in
the country. That is not I saying it;
that is what the average citizen is say-
ing.
The idea now of bowing down to the
NRA, of not doing anything they don’t
want you to do is a political loser. I
urge my Republican colleagues, for the
sake of our country, for the sake of
lives, to change their minds and behave
differently.
The fact of the matter is this: The
issue of gun violence is not going away,
and the American people are not going
to settle for half measures or half-
baked solutions that the NRA crafts.
While we continue to press the White
House to make its position public, we
urge Leader MCCONNELL to do some-
thing very simple: Let us debate H.R. 8,
the bipartisan, House-passed universal
background checks bill on the floor
ASAP.
CHINA
Mr. President, on China, a report in
the Wall Street Journal this morning
describes how China will seek to nar-
row the scope of ongoing negotiations
with the United States, hoping to focus
on trade alone, leaving national secu-
rity issues for a separate conversation.
Of course, in many cases, these two
issues are intertwined and indissoluble.
Of course, China and the United States
will invariably disagree about which
issue is a trade issue and which issue is
a national security issue.
Regardless, this transparent attempt
by China to dodge a conversation about
its predatory actions against American
companies should not stand. China has
stolen an entire generation of innova-
tion from the United States. Of course
they don’t want to talk about this
topic, and of course they want to defer
this conversation to a day in the future
that will never come.
Make no mistake about it, what the
Chinese are doing is another effort to
protect Huawei and similarly large
Chinese corporations from further ac-
tion in the United States. They don’t
let our best and biggest corporations
sell goods in China. Why should we let
them sell goods here, particularly when
there is a national security risk as
there is in Huawei? My late father-in-
law, a New York City cabdriver, used
colorful language. He said: Do you
know what? When it comes to China,
we are not Uncle Sam; we are Uncle
Sack. Let’s stop that already.
President Trump has shown some
strength in this issue, but then he also
often backs off. We have to be tough on
Huawei—very tough on Huawei. That is
the best way to teach China that they
can’t sell whatever they want here in
America and not let us sell in China.
I have a concise and pointed request
to the White House this morning: Tell
China to forget about it. Don’t let
China exclude our Nation’s security
and Huawei from the negotiations.
Let me remind President Trump and
his advisors that over the past several
years, China has endeavored to keep
our blue-chip technology companies
out of its markets. When it does allow
American companies access, it makes
the transfer of proprietary intellectual
property and technology to Chinese
companies a precondition. When Amer-
ican companies don’t play by their
rules, Chinese companies steal the
technology.
President Trump, you have been
tougher on China than President Bush
or Obama. I give you some credit for
that, but it will all come to naught un-
less we actually take action. Don’t let
Huawei sell here. Don’t let Huawei get
the components made in America they
need to continue to threaten both our
economic and national security.
If China keeps American companies
out, we should keep important Chinese
companies out, particularly those like
Huawei, until China relents. They will
if we stay strong and if we stay tough.
President Trump, stay strong on
China and on Huawei.
E-CIGARETTES
Mr. President, finally, on some praise
for the Trump administration, I don’t
do it that often, but when it is due it is
due. Yesterday, the Federal Drug Ad-
ministration announced that it plans
to pull most flavored e-cigarettes from
the market. I have been concerned
about the possible danger of e-ciga-
rettes for a long time. I have been one
of the first to bring attention to the
fact that the e-cigarette manufacturers
aim at kids with both flavors and ad-
vertising. I have called for greater
scrutiny, asked companies to recall
brands of e-cigarettes where the parts
are exploding, and have particularly fo-
cused on getting the FDA to ban e-
cigarettes with flavors that are de-
signed to appeal to teenagers and
young kids.
I had several conversations and meet-
ings with FDA Commissioner Scott
Gottlieb about this issue. In fact, I
brought him some kids from high
school in Westchester who said that e-
cigarettes were hurting their school
and that so many kids were involved. I
think it made a good impression—a
strong impression—on former Commis-
sioner Scott Gottlieb.
We take wide-ranging steps to pre-
vent tobacco companies from targeting
underage children in their markets but
so far have done little to prevent e-
cigarettes from executing basically the
same strategy. It is past time the FDA
moved to take these kid-friendly prod-
ucts off the shelves, and I commend the
FDA’s announcement that it plans to
take action.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ap-
preciate what the Democratic leader
just said about the flavored e-ciga-
rettes, and I, too, commended the
Trump administration yesterday for
taking this action. It is a big deal in
our high schools in Ohio and in other
venues as well, and this will help to
keep a lot of young people from engag-
ing in this, which is bad for their
health. Certainly, just like cigarette
smoke, it also leads to addictions. I
commend him for that.
The Democratic leader also talked
about the fact that President Trump
has been tougher on China than any
previous President in modern times,
certainly, and that is also true. Let’s
all hope the Chinese Government
comes to the table in the next few
weeks, as they get back to their discus-
sions, ready to actually address some
of these issues, particularly, the issue
of their subsidies, which are contrary
to our laws, but also the international
rules, the technology transfer, and the
taking of our intellectual property.
These are changes in the structure of
our trade relationship that are re-
quired for us to get to that level play-
ing field that all of us should want.
I also agree about the notion that we
should have more reciprocity. If they
are keeping our stuff out, we should be
able to respond in kind. Ultimately, we
all want a resolution to this issue. We
want the tariffs to be eliminated, but
we want to do it on a basis where there
is actually fair trade between our two
countries.
With regard to the appropriations
process, I, too, am hopeful we can get
something done here on a bipartisan
basis. The Democratic leader suggested
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.006 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5457
September 12, 2019
we might end up with a government
shutdown. We should never end up with
a government shutdown. It is terrible
policy. It hurts government workers. It
is bad for taxpayers.
We will be issuing a report from the
Permanent Subcommittee on Inves-
tigations tomorrow in this regard to
show how the last three government
shutdowns have resulted in tremendous
pain, not just to those who get fur-
loughed and those who work without
pay but also to the taxpayer, and they
are fairly inefficient. Let’s not even
talk about a government shutdown.
Why are we going down this road?
OHIO
Mr. President, in the Senate, this is
the first week back in session after
what is called the August work period.
Today, I want to talk a little bit about
my travels around the State of Ohio
over the August district work period
and talk about what I learned that can
help inform us here as to what we can
do better in the Congress to help on
issues that are important to people I
represent in Ohio.
One that was striking for me, and it
has been for the last several years, is
workforce needs. There aren’t enough
workers to fill the jobs that are out
there. What a great opportunity it is
for people to come in out of the shad-
ows and get to work, but also what a
necessity it is now for our economy to
have these workers. I learned a lot
about that and heard a lot about that.
The changing drug crisis. We in Ohio
have been hit hard with the opioid cri-
sis, but it is evolving, as always. There
is fentanyl, which is a synthetic form
of opioids, but now crystal meth is
much more powerful and cheaper than
ever and is coming in from Mexico, and
we need to be responsive to that
change.
Challenges in Ag country. Our farm-
ers are hurting. Low prices the last few
years have been compounded by ter-
rible weather this year. It was the
worst planting in my memory in Ohio.
A lot of crops didn’t get in at all. Of
those that did, about half of them are
not in good shape. This is tough on our
farmers.
Ways to do a better job in protecting
Lake Erie. This is a huge issue for us in
Ohio. It is our No. 1 tourist attraction,
and it is an incredible source of income
in jobs. We have about a $6 billion fish-
ing industry now in the Great Lakes.
The most important lake of all is Lake
Erie. As an example, several million
people get their drinking water from
Lake Erie. I learned a lot about that
over the break.
Then, also, there is the importance of
our military having the support they
need. I went to our military bases
around the State and learned about
what we can do to help them more, and
also I got the opportunity to visit two
of our NASA centers in Ohio. One of
the 10 NASA research centers is in
Cleveland, OH, NASA Glenn. There is
Plum Brook Station, where we test
equipment heading to the Moon soon.
That was very helpful to understand
better about how we can be providing
steady funding in the Congress so that
we can indeed fulfill our missions that
we have always had here in this coun-
try, which is to push beyond the
bounds and, in this case, to go back to
the Moon and have the first woman on
the Moon and, then, eventually, to go
to Mars and the benefits of that.
It was a busy month. I traveled to 39
different counties in Ohio over the last
several weeks and more than 4,000
miles in my pickup truck, which now
has over 180,000 miles on it, traveling
around our State and to 75 different
events.
When I began my second term rep-
resenting Ohio in 2017, I made it a goal
of mine to visit all 88 counties in Ohio
during this term. I am happy to report
that just during August we achieved
that goal. A few years early, we hit all
88 counties. We will continue to go
around our State and to see people in
every part of our State, hear them out,
and, again, to know what the best
thing is to do in Congress to be able to
help them and their families and to
help our State.
I also traveled by train and by ferry
in Lake Erie, by bike on charity bike
rides, and even by kayak on the Cuya-
hoga River, to meet with constituents
about how Washington can be a better
partner for them and their families. I
met with a lot of small businesses, and
I talked to them about how they are
doing. The tax reform and the regu-
latory relief has really helped, and this
is why we have a stronger economy
now than anybody projected. It is why
we have more jobs being created. It is
why we have wages going up for the
first time in a decade in Ohio.
Last month, we actually had nation-
ally wage increases of 3.5 percent year
to year, well above inflation. That is a
welcomed change. Really, in Ohio,
after about a decade and half of flat
wages and not keeping up with infla-
tion and people feeling like they are
working hard and playing by the rules
but they couldn’t get ahead, now you
finally see wages going up. The biggest
increases are among lower income and
middle-income workers. That is ex-
actly what you want.
I am happy to report that, and I am
happy to report that small business
owners in Ohio are happy that it is
working for them because they ex-
panded their plants and their oper-
ations and they hired more people.
What I did hear consistently from
employers at every level—and for that
matter, from hospitals and nonprofits
and from State and local government—
is one thing: workforce. They don’t
have enough qualified workers to fill
the jobs they have. Again, it is a great
opportunity to bring people off the
sidelines—people who are not applying
for work, not looking for work—and to
raise labor force participation, which
economists say is relatively low, and
bring them off the sidelines. We also
need these people to be able to meet
our economic needs.
If you go on OhioMeansJobs.com,
this morning, in that website you will
see about 150,000 jobs being adver-
tised—150,000 open jobs. When you look
at those jobs, a lot of them require
skills. They are not the kind of skills
you get from a college degree but the
kind of skills you achieve somewhere
between high school and college—
things like welding, machining, coding,
other IT jobs, techs for hospitals, and
truckdrivers. These jobs are open right
now in Ohio. Economists call these jobs
‘‘skilled jobs’’ but, again, they are the
kind of jobs that you can get the skills
from in short-term training programs.
I have been a big fan of improving
those skills, and we have made some
progress here. We started a caucus
called the Career and Technical Cau-
cus. I am the cochair and cofounder of
that. It is to focus on these practical,
hands-on, skills-training for jobs that
can help us to be able to fill this need.
The openings we have in Ohio are
also all around the country. I was
pleased that recently the President
signed my Educating Tomorrow’s
Workforce Act into law, which allows
States and localities to use Perkins
grant funding to establish these career
and technical education academies at
the high school level, but we need to do
more.
One that would really help is if we
could pass what is called the JOBS Act.
It is legislation I have introduced con-
sistently with Senator TIM KAINE from
Virginia. It is really very simple. It
says we ought to be able to use Pell
grants not just for college but also for
these shorter term training programs.
In fact, they are much more relevant
to what we need right now.
Sadly, most people who get a Pell
grant to go to college don’t end up with
a college degree. I support Pell grants
in colleges and universities. It is an im-
portant way for lower income students
to get access to education. But why not
allow those same students to get a
shorter term training program under
their belt? Right now they can’t afford
it. If you want to get a welding degree
to get an industry-recognized creden-
tial to become a welder in Ohio, you
can get a job right away—a good-pay-
ing job with good benefits. Yet it is
costly to go through that program.
They are less than 15 weeks. So they
don’t qualify for Pell.
A student is told: You can go to col-
lege and get a history degree, but you
can’t get a welding certificate and use
a Pell grant. That is just wrong. It is
unfair. I heard the same thing again
and again at visits I made to commu-
nity colleges around Ohio over August
and visits I made to career and tech-
nical schools around Ohio, which is
why they want the JOBS Act, and they
want it now because they know it will
help them.
I heard from one student at a welding
program at a CTE school who told me
she wanted to get an advanced welding
certificate so she could get a great job.
She knows exactly what she wants to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.007 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5458 September 12, 2019
do, but she can’t afford it. This is an 18-
year-old in her last year of high school.
She is working three jobs right now,
but she can’t afford the cost. So she is
probably going to take a Pell and go to
college when she would prefer to take a
Pell and get this advanced certificate
that is internationally recognized so
she can get a good welding job. Again,
that is something we should pass here
and do it soon.
The Higher Education Act may well
be passed this year. It is a perfect vehi-
cle for it. I want to thank Senator
LAMAR ALEXANDER, who has been sup-
portive of this commonsense change to
be able to get our young people and
others the training they need to be
able to access the jobs that are out
there.
Elsewhere around the State, I did
meet with our farmers in several coun-
ties. The heavy flooding has led to the
worst planting season in our modern
history in Ohio. We have helped a little
bit because the Department of Agri-
culture, at our urging, has included
Ohio in disaster declarations. So some
of these farmers who have not been
able to plant are getting low interest
loans right now and eventually will get
some grant money. That is good.
These farmers also want to have the
access to more markets around the
world because they know that is going
to increase their prices and enable
them to get back on their feet after
these tough times with the weather.
They are particularly concerned
about what is happening with regard to
the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement.
Remember, we have this existing
agreement called NAFTA, which is
with Mexico and Canada, our two larg-
est trading partners. For Ohio, they are
by far our two largest trading partners.
But right now, the NAFTA agreement
is 25 years old, outdated, not keeping
up with the times, and not opening up
markets enough. So we have this new
agreement that has been signed by
Mexico and signed by Canada. We are
ready to go with it, but it has to be
confirmed in the U.S. Congress. Right
now, unbelievably, it is being held up,
even though our farmers desperately
want it. You know who else wants it?
Our workers, because it is going to help
manufacturing.
The people who are involved in trade
understand the importance of Canada
and Mexico because they are our larg-
est markets, and it is going to be so
helpful for our country and for my
State of Ohio if we can get it done. The
International Trade Commission,
which is an independent body, studied
this and said: Yes, it is going to create
over 150,000 new jobs in the auto indus-
try. It is great for Michigan, Ohio, and
other States. Again, all we have to do
is have a vote here in the U.S. Congress
to be able to confirm this, and we can
put it in place. It will help our econ-
omy. It will help create more jobs. It
will help create some certainty going
forward. We need to get this done.
Many of the things in the agreement
are things that Democrats have been
calling for for years—tougher labor
standards that are enforceable, as an
example. It actually has a minimum
wage—40 to 45 percent of vehicles made
under USMCA must be produced by
workers earning an average of $16 an
hour. It has a 70-percent requirement
to use North American steel. It has a
number of things that the Democrats
have called upon us to do for years.
If we don’t pass USMCA, the alter-
native is the status quo, which is
NAFTA. In effect, if you don’t support
USMCA, it must mean that you sup-
port the status quo, which is NAFTA,
which, again, so many Democrats have
been criticizing over the years. Let’s
get this done. The 25-year-old NAFTA
is not the status quo that anybody
should want when we have this better
agreement in front of us.
Specifically, if the House of Rep-
resentatives were to bring the bill to
the floor, I believe they could pass it
just because of the logic, the fact that
this agreement is so much better than
the status quo. Then, over here in the
Senate, we would have no trouble pass-
ing it, in my view.
During my tour over the August
break, I also spent time visiting with a
lot of groups and organizations that
are combating the drug epidemic that
has gripped my State of Ohio and our
country. As you know, we now have
more people in Ohio dying from
overdoses than from any other cause of
death. It is unbelievable. In 2017, 72,000
people died of overdoses in this coun-
try, more than we lost in the entire
Vietnam war, just in one year—72,000
Americans.
We have made some progress re-
cently. We should be proud of that.
Last year, for the first time in 8 years,
we saw a reduction in overdose deaths.
It is partly because Congress has
stepped up—over $4 billion in new fund-
ing for prevention, longer term treat-
ment programs, recovery programs,
and more Narcan for our first respond-
ers. This is important, but we also have
to realize that the threat is evolving
and changing.
One thing I learned when I was home
and talking to groups all over the
State about this issue is that, yes, the
legislation we passed is helping. I got
to see how it is helping and to see how
my legislation, the Comprehensive Ad-
diction and Recovery Act, is being put
to work in Ohio.
The new threat in Ohio is these new
drugs that are coming in, particularly
crystal meth. The crystal meth coming
in from Mexico is more powerful and
less expensive than ever. We used to
have meth labs in Ohio. You may have
had them in your communities as well.
You probably will not hear much about
meth labs anymore. Why? Because the
stuff on the street is even more power-
ful than you can make in a meth lab,
in someone’s home, and it is less expen-
sive.
In fact, the law enforcement folks in
Ohio are telling me that the meth on
the street in Ohio is less expensive
than marijuana, and it has a much
more corrosive effect on our commu-
nities and a devastating impact on
families and individuals, increasing
crime. This is the psychostimulant,
like cocaine, that is causing more ag-
gressive crimes, in fact.
With regard to the opioid crisis, we
need to keep our eye on the ball. We
need to continue what we are doing.
Congress deserves credit for expanding
the treatment, longer term recovery
programs, some of the prevention
money, the use of Narcan, but at the
same time, we have to be more flexible.
The legislation I have introduced—
and I hope we will be able to pass—will
provide more flexibility to our commu-
nities to take that money for opioids
and use it for whatever the community
needs to address substance abuse.
When I was home, I also heard a lot
about Lake Erie, which is our treasure
in Ohio. It is the No. 1 tourist attrac-
tion in the State. It is the place where
Ohioans have come for generations and
generations for recreation, for fishing,
for swimming. Also, so many Ohioans
depend on it for their drinking water.
There are several million Ohioans
who require us to have clean drinking
water out of Lake Erie, and those indi-
viduals are worried. Why? Because in
Toledo a few years ago, we actually
had a recommendation that we shut
down the water system because of the
toxic algal blooms that are in Lake
Erie. This year was another tough year
for the toxic algal blooms, cutting off
fishing opportunities and swimming
opportunities. We need to do more to
address it.
Again, Congress has made progress in
this area. We have passed legislation
that is helping. We have added more
money that is helping. My legislation
to deal with harmful algal blooms is
giving the Federal Government a big-
ger role. That is important.
Clearly, we need to do more, and one
is to ensure that the Great Lakes Res-
toration Initiative, Federal legislation,
continues to be funded. That is the
fight we are having now in the appro-
priations process. Senator STABENOW
and I have introduced legislation to au-
thorize that program going forward
and to increase the funding slightly.
Why? Because it is working. These are
public-private partnerships all around
the Great Lakes to deal with the harm-
ful algal blooms, to deal with the pollu-
tion, and to deal with the invasive spe-
cies coming in. It is one of those Fed-
eral programs that works well.
We also had the opportunity to go to
all of our military bases around the
State of Ohio and to go to our two
NASA facilities. Again, I am so proud
of the individuals in Ohio who are
standing up for our troops in their own
way—whether it is the Lima tank
plant, where I got to visit individuals
making our M1 Abrams tanks and our
Stryker vehicles, or whether it is at
NASA, where we are preparing for the
next mission to the moon.
NASA Administrator James
Bridenstine came with us to the Glenn
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.009 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5459
September 12, 2019
Research Center in Cleveland and the
Plum Brook testing facility. We got to
see how those scientists and engi-
neers—the best in the world—are work-
ing to complete the Artemis Program.
Again, this is an ambitious effort to
put a woman on the moon and the next
man on the moon within the next 5
years, laying the groundwork for our
mission to Mars.
It was great to be home. It was great
to have the opportunity to visit with
folks all over the State of Ohio. We
were busy, but it is also great now to
have the opportunity to come back re-
freshed and to talk about how we can
make a bigger difference for them here
in the U.S. Congress with some of the
legislative initiatives I have talked
about today.
There is so much we can and should
do this fall. I am eager to roll up my
sleeves and have a productive session
here, working on a bipartisan basis to
get things done for the people I rep-
resent and for all Americans.
Thank you.
I yield back my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
VIETNAM HUMAN RIGHTS
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I think
people are surprised when they come to
Texas and find out how diverse a State
it really is. Not everybody there looks
like me or pronounces their last name
the same way.
In fact, we are a huge melting pot of
people from all over the country and,
literally, many from around the world
who come to the State because we have
a growing economy, creating jobs and
opportunity. People can find work to
provide for their family and achieve
their dreams.
It shouldn’t surprise anybody that
Texas is increasingly diverse. We have
benefited a lot from the variety of
folks and cultures and ideas that have
come around the world and planted
roots in the Lone Star State.
When I ask folks if they know what
the second most spoken language in
Texas is, they say: Well, that is easy. It
is Spanish.
I say: Well, that is right. Let me give
you a harder one. What is the third
most commonly spoken language in
Texas?
After a couple of guesses, they are
usually surprised when I say Viet-
namese.
It is not in the overall numbers of
Spanish or English, to be sure, but we
have a vibrant Vietnamese community
in Texas that was established after the
fall of Saigon and the Vietnam war.
Many of them immigrated to the Hous-
ton area or to the metroplex area.
Of course, they have faced many of
the same struggles as those who have
come to America throughout our coun-
try’s history. In addition to adjusting
to a new home, language, and culture,
they have dealt with some ugly aspects
of their new home: racism and bigotry.
From those challenges and from
overcoming those challenges, they
have derived tremendous strength,
demonstrated outstanding drive and a
desire to succeed.
Our Vietnamese-American commu-
nities in Texas are growing and thriv-
ing, and they continue to play a very
important role in our increasingly di-
verse State.
I had the chance to meet with a num-
ber of my Vietnamese-American con-
stituents during the August break, and
we talked about some of the issues that
concern them the most.
Just last weekend, in fact, I visited
Cali Saigon Mall in Garland, TX, for
their annual children’s festival. I par-
ticipated in an on-stage discussion
with a number of community leaders.
Although the children seemed more in-
terested in the tiger dance or musical
performances and the colorful cos-
tumes, it was a great opportunity for
me to hear from these folks firsthand.
We had a serious discussion about the
human rights climate in Vietnam,
which has continued to decline.
The Vietnamese Government limits
political freedom by denying its own
citizens their right to vote in free and
fair elections. It denies them the free-
dom of assembly and expression and
due process rights—the sorts of basic
rights we call human rights here in the
United States.
Last year, one of my constituents, a
young man named William Nguyen,
was unjustly beaten and detained for
participating in demonstrations in Ho
Chi Minh City. We were fortunate
enough to secure his release back home
after the government convicted him on
trumped-up charges. I was glad to wel-
come him back to the good old U.S. of
A.
Sadly, the people who continue to
live in Vietnam have to escape from a
brutal Communist regime, which con-
tinues to disregard the most basic
human rights, threaten religious free-
dom, and silence the press.
Vietnam remains one of the lowest
ranked countries in the world when it
comes to freedom of the press. In 2018,
Reporters Without Borders ranked
Vietnam 176th out of 180 countries
worldwide.
It should come as no surprise that
Vietnamese Americans who have lived
under this type of rule—or who have
family members who still do—don’t
take our freedoms here in America for
granted. It is just the opposite. These
immigrants are great patriots who
fully appreciate the freedoms they
enjoy here in America because they re-
alize how close they came to seeing
those same freedoms denied in their
home country.
With them, I share their concerns
about the rising interest here at home
in failed ideas, like socialism, and will
continue to dispel rumors that social-
ism can provide more than the free en-
terprise system, which has created the
very prosperity that Vietnamese Amer-
icans and other immigrants enjoy here
in the United States.
In addition to our efforts to strength-
en our own democracy, we need to do
more to strengthen democracies
around the world and to protect basic
human rights. Earlier this year, I re-
introduced the Vietnam Human Rights
Sanctions Act to try to do just that.
This bill would impose travel restric-
tions and other sanctions on Viet-
namese nationals complicit in human
rights abuses against their fellow citi-
zens. These sanctions would not be lift-
ed until the Vietnamese Government
releases all political prisoners and
stops the use of violence against peace-
ful demonstrators.
We simply can’t avert our gaze and
allow these practices to continue with-
out any sort of accountability. I say
the same for what is happening now in
Hong Kong.
I appreciate the many Vietnamese
Americans who have shared their expe-
riences with me on this topic, and I
will continue to advocate for a brighter
future for the people of Vietnam.
TRIBUTE TO SANDY EDWARDS
Mr. President, on one other matter, I
want to take a moment to recognize a
member of my staff who is nearing her
retirement—Sandy Edwards.
Sandy is the regional director in my
Austin field office. She has been with
me for nearly two decades—first, in my
office when I was attorney general of
Texas and now in the U.S. Senate,
where she serves, as I said, as my cen-
tral Texas regional director.
Everybody who knows Sandy knows
she has the heart and spirit of a public
servant. She works hard to make sure
that every Texan who contacts my of-
fice feels appreciated, understood, and
is happy with the support they receive.
She knows that our faces represent
what people get for their tax dollars.
With Sandy, central Texans have got-
ten some serious bang for their buck.
Over the years, she has, of course, de-
veloped countless relationships with
people and organizations that are
working to improve our Texas commu-
nities in Central Texas.
I will never forget one year spending
a December evening out in East Austin
at an incredible nonprofit called the
Community First! Village. We joined
formerly homeless people for a Christ-
mas tree lighting and spent a cold,
rainy night with them rejoicing at
what this organization and the good-
hearted people who work there have
helped them to achieve.
At one point, in 2012, Sandy had me
biting down on a Starburst candy so
students attending Girlstart Summer
Camp could analyze my dental impres-
sion. I never got a report back of ex-
actly how that turned out.
Sandy is not a fair-weather friend.
She has also been by my side during
some very difficult times. For example,
in 2009, following the horrific shooting
at Fort Hood, she was there as I fought
to find words to provide even an ounce
of comfort to the grieving post and the
families there. We paid our respects to
these American heroes and watched the
ramp ceremony as their flag-draped
caskets were loaded into a C–17 for
their flight to Dover.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.010 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5460 September 12, 2019
Then there was 2013 in West, TX.
That is not the region. That is the
name of the city. Following a massive
fertilizer plant explosion, it tore
through a tight-knit community and
claimed the lives of 15 people, includ-
ing most of the town’s volunteer fire
department. Sandy, of course, was on
the ground, as she always is, helping to
connect with the first responders and
local officials, making sure they had
the support we could provide from our
office.
She was there during the Bastrop
fires in 2011, the Wimberley flooding in
2015, and the deadly hot air balloon
crash in Maxwell, TX, in 2016. Sandy
has been a gracious helping hand dur-
ing the tough times and an enthusi-
astic cheerleader during the good ones.
I am sorry to lose such a devoted staff-
er and friend, and I know my team in
Texas will miss her bighearted partici-
pation in our team effort.
I don’t think it is really a coinci-
dence that Sandy chose the month of
September to retire because, of course,
this is the start of her beloved Texas
Longhorns’ football season. I know she
is looking forward to attending UT
games this fall, along with her husband
Stan and perhaps her son Kyle and his
wife Brittney. I know for sure she will
enjoy spending more time at her fam-
ily’s ranch in the Texas Hill Country.
I come to the Senate floor to publicly
express my appreciation, as well as
that of my entire staff and I would dare
say every single Texan who ever met
her, and to thank Sandy Edwards for
the lives she has touched and made bet-
ter. I say, thank you, Sandy, and I wish
you a well-deserved next chapter in
your life.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). The Senator from Louisiana.
ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, $1
million a minute—not $1 million an
hour or a day or week, $1 million a
minute. That is how much we borrow
every minute to operate the Federal
Government. It is $1.4 billion—that is
nine zeros—a day. That is how much
more we spend than we take in. Some
people have said—I have heard Ameri-
cans say this—that we spend money
like a drunk sailor. That is not accu-
rate because a drunk sailor stops when
he runs out of money. We just borrow.
We don’t just print this money. We
issue Treasury notes and Treasury
bonds and Treasury securities. We bor-
row it. Some Americans loan it to us.
Some folks in other countries like
Japan and China, they expect to be
paid back, and we do have to pay them
back. In a couple of years, we are going
to be spending more in our budget on
interest on our debt than we are spend-
ing on defense.
Now we are in the middle of putting
together a budget for the American
people. The first thing we had to do
was agree on how much money we are
going to spend. They call that the
topline number, but that just means
how much money we are going to spend
for the next 2 years. You will not be
surprised to learn we are going to
spend more.
I think it was a bad deal. I voted
against it. Our agreement on what we
are going to spend in the budget we are
putting forward now, according to the
CBO, is going to add to our $22 tril-
lion—that is 12 zeros—deficit. In fact,
what we just agreed to, the additional
spending, is going to add, according to
our Congressional Budget Office, $12
trillion over the next 10 years.
I voted against it. I lost. The major-
ity rules. Now we are trying to put to-
gether a budget with all this extra
money, and our challenge is or ought
to be: How do we spend the money the
American people are going to give us in
an efficient way? I think every single
Member of the Senate wants to do
that.
I want to talk for a few minutes
about an issue that is going to come
up. It is going to come up through the
subcommittee I chair. It has to do with
elections, and it has to do with money.
Russia tried to interfere with our
election. You can write that down and
take it home to mama. It is true. They
did it. They didn’t change a single
vote, but they did try to influence the
way Americans did vote. To try to pre-
vent that from happening again in 2018,
this Congress gave our States $380 mil-
lion to shore up their election systems.
They haven’t spent all that yet.
This Congress also took other steps.
The Senate has unanimously approved
two bipartisan election security bills. I
think they are both now pending in the
House. We passed the Defending the In-
tegrity of Voting Systems Act. That is
going to make it a Federal crime to
hack any voting system in a Federal
election. We passed the Defending Elec-
tions Against Trolls from Enemy Re-
gimes Act. We call that the DETER
Act. It will bar people who interfere in
our elections or attempt to do so from
entering the United States. Our De-
partment of Homeland Security, very
able women and men, and our cyber se-
curity advisors there, smart people—
they are helping our State and local of-
ficials, on a daily basis, guard against
threats.
We had a classified briefing. By ‘‘we,’’
I mean all Members of the Senate, Re-
publicans and Democrats. ‘‘Classified’’
means it is in our room down in the
basement where foreign agents cannot
listen in. The FBI Director was there.
The Director of National Intelligence
was there. Most senior ranking mem-
bers of our military were there, and the
topic was: How did we do in 2018? We
know the Russians and others took a
run at us in 2016. They didn’t succeed,
but they tried. How did we do in 2018?
Let me tell you, our men and women
at the FBI and in our military and in
Homeland Security, they are on it. Our
2018 election went off without a hitch.
I am not saying some foreign despots
didn’t try to influence how we voted,
but they didn’t change a single vote.
Our people did a great job, and every
Senator, Democratic and Republican,
in that room, in that classified set-
ting—I can’t tell you the details. I wish
I could. If I could, you would be im-
pressed. But everybody walked out of
there and said: Man, we are on it. The
2018 elections went off without a hitch,
and, by God, we are ready for 2020.
We didn’t just do that. I am going to
go back to what I just said. We gave
our States $380 million. They haven’t
even spent all of it yet, but there is
going to be an effort to spend a whole
bunch more to give it to the States. I
don’t know how much, but at least $200
million, maybe $400 million, maybe a
billion. If I thought it was necessary, I
would vote for it.
Some of my colleagues, in perfectly
good faith, think the States need more
money, even though they haven’t spent
what we gave them to begin with and
even though all of our intelligence offi-
cials say we are ready for 2020. Some of
my colleagues, in good faith, think
they need more money, but some of my
colleagues see this as a first step to na-
tionalizing elections, and that is what
worries me.
Do you know what makes our elec-
tions safest of all? You can’t just hack
one system. You have to hack 50. You
have to hack 50 because the States run
elections, and they do a pretty good
job. They do a really good job.
There is an effort—not by all but by
some—to get the Federal Government
in charge of elections. Do you know
how you do that? You don’t just jump
in and grab them. You sneak up on
them. I will tell you how you sneak up
on them. You start giving them money,
and you get them addicted. You give
them a little more money, and you get
them addicted. Then, the next thing
you know, the Feds are running the
elections, and not for all but for some
of my colleagues that is what this is
about.
This country started out as a self-re-
liant, tax-averse Union of States. They
were very skeptical of the Federal Gov-
ernment. Our original States and all
those after them, they insisted on run-
ning their own elections, and it has
worked. We don’t need the Federal
Government in charge of elections.
There are some of my colleagues
coming this time—and, look, I am not
impugning their integrity. They are
entitled to their opinion because this is
America, but I am entitled to mine. In
the effort last year, we were able to
beat it back. I am afraid some of my
friends on this side of the aisle this
time are having second thoughts. I am
hearing all kinds of rumors. It is amaz-
ing what you can pick up around this
place if you just walk around the floor
and keep your mouth shut and your
ears open. You hear all kinds of stuff.
I am here to say, if we do it, we are
going to look back, when the Federal
Government is running our elections
and screwing them up, and say this is
where it began. If you want to put the
U.S. Federal Government in charge of
your elections instead of the States, if
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.012 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5461
September 12, 2019
you think that is a swell idea, I want
you to close your eyes for a minute and
imagine living in a world designed by
the post office because that is what
you are going to get.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RETURN OF PAPERS REQUEST—S. 1790
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, as
if in legislative session, I ask unani-
mous consent that the Secretary of the
Senate be authorized to request from
the House of Representatives the re-
turn of the papers to S. 1790 to provide
for a correction. I further ask that if
the House agrees to the Senate’s re-
quest, upon receipt of the papers from
the House in the Senate, notwith-
standing passage of the bill, the
amendment at the desk be agreed to
and the papers be returned to the
House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the question is, Will
the Senate advise and consent to the
Bowman nomination?
Mr. KENNEDY. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS),
and the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Delaware (Mr.
COONS), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 60,
nays 31, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 280 Ex.]
YEAS—60
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Wicker
Young
NAYS—31
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Van Hollen
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—9
Alexander
Booker
Coons
Harris
Klobuchar
Roberts
Rubio
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Jennifer D. Nordquist, of Vir-
ginia, to be United States Executive
Director of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development for a
term of two years.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Nordquist nomination?
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motions to re-
consider are considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
actions.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the following
nomination, which the clerk will re-
port.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Thomas Peter Feddo, of Vir-
ginia, to be Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury for Investment Security.
(New Position)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
END CHILD TRAFFICKING NOW ACT
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Presi-
dent, this is not the first time I have
come to the floor to discuss a situation
that is on our Nation’s southern border
and the need that we as a country have
for a stronger, more efficient immigra-
tion policy. I have made more than one
trip to South Texas this year, and each
time I have returned, I have found my-
self more motivated to cut through the
noise, and to get something done.
What should be a practical policy dis-
cussion has, unfortunately, turned po-
litical, and very real problems have
compounded into an unprecedented cri-
sis.
Within these Halls, we have debates
over asylum caps and visa require-
ments. They are indeed important
issues, but recent reports on the explo-
sion of human rights violations per-
petrated by cartels, coyotes, and inter-
national gangs have added some much
needed context to these debates.
By now, we have all heard how dan-
gerous the journey to our southern bor-
der can be for those who are being
brought forward by cartels, coyotes,
and international gangs. Traffickers
have really built a big business—a very
big and profitable business—on moving
drugs and desperate human cargo
across the border. Sometimes these in-
dividuals make it, and sometimes the
guides leave their charges to die—to
die alone in the desert. Rumors of
abuse, assault, and gang rape have
manifested and been proven true. Bor-
der Patrol agents at most ports of
entry administer pregnancy tests to
girls as young as 12 years of age.
While we waste time arguing over
talking points, monsters—absolute
monsters—are dragging children into
the crosshairs of an international cri-
sis. While we debate the best way to
amend our loose asylum laws, traf-
fickers are finding ways to exploit
those laws, using children to force
their way back and forth across the
border under the guise of parental le-
gitimacy.
‘‘Child recycling’’ is a crude term but
an accurate term, and we define it as
when a minor is used more than once
by alien adults who are neither rel-
atives nor legal guardians but pose as
family members for the purposes of
crossing the border. How despicable
and how very selfish of them. Child-re-
cycling isn’t a myth, unfortunately. It
is not an urban legend. It is a definite,
well-defined, clear and present danger.
DHS has uncovered more than 5,500
fraudulent asylum claims since May of
2018. I want you to think about that
number—5,500 fraudulent asylum
claims since May of 2018. Customs and
Border Patrol tells us that unaccom-
panied minors are particularly vulner-
able to trafficking and that drug run-
ners and sex predators are rolling the
dice on these fraudulent asylum claims
to move their products—which, bear in
mind, are people and drugs—to move
them more efficiently.
Earlier this year, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement introduced a
pilot program they believed would help
determine how serious the child recy-
cling problem is. They began admin-
istering DNA tests on all adults accom-
panied by minors who claimed a famil-
ial relationship but lacked the paper-
work to prove this relationship. As a
safeguard, all swabs were destroyed,
and no genetic profiles were collected
or stored. The purpose was solely to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.013 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5462 September 12, 2019
prove a DNA match. And thank good-
ness somebody was watching. The re-
sults have been horrifying. One in five
claims of kinship is fraudulent. That
means one in five children who were
brought to the border and then fun-
neled into the pilot program was likely
being exploited.
I ask my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to say that finally we have
had enough and to voice their support
for the End Child Trafficking Now Act.
This act requires the Department of
Health and Human Services, in con-
junction with the Department of
Homeland Security, to administer DNA
tests for all adults accompanied by mi-
nors at a port of entry who claim a fa-
milial relationship without sufficient
legal documentation to prove the con-
nection.
Refusal of the test will be met with
immediate deportation. Fabrication of
family ties or guardianship will carry a
maximum 10-year penalty, and the
child will be processed as an unaccom-
panied minor under current law. Prov-
en family members and guardians,
however, will be allowed to move for-
ward with the immigration process.
The tests themselves are simple—a
quick swab of the cheek and a quick
wait. I say ‘‘quick’’ because we will be
using a new form of genetic testing
that can analyze a DNA sample in
about 90 minutes.
I will tell you that I am aware that
the various factions in this Chamber
have vastly different approaches to im-
migration reform. We should be having
a serious discussion about the funda-
mental flaws in our policies and our
plans to fix them. I welcome these dis-
cussions, and I look forward to the
changes, but I know and my colleagues
know that no one bill or package will
repair what is broken in our current
immigration system. There is no viable
quick fix.
We owe it to this country and we owe
it to the children who are brought here
under duress and under false premises
to do whatever we can to prevent what
experience and pilot testing have
proved we can indeed prevent. Let’s
make certain that children coming to
the southern border are with family
and that they are protected.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO CINDY HASIAK
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, before
we vote, I wish to take a moment to
recognize a lifelong public servant,
Cindy Hasiak, who will be retiring
after 32 years in this Chamber, with
the Sergeant at Arms and with the
Senate doorkeepers.
Cindy came to the Senate in the
spring of 1987. In her time here, she has
seen hundreds of Senators pass through
these doors. When particular Senators
were nowhere to be found, she was usu-
ally the one who would have chased
them down.
There is also so much work in the
Senate that gets done behind the
scenes. So much of it is essential to our
operations, and all of it is performed
flawlessly, quietly, wonderfully by
dedicated staffers who rarely get the
recognition they deserve. Truly, the
Senate would not function without the
quiet dedication and steady excellence
of folks like Cindy.
As her days of chasing down Senators
come to a close, I wish her all the best
as she embarks on a well-earned and
well-deserved retirement where, luck-
ily for her, she will be close to her fam-
ily, friends, and loved ones and far
from the frenetic demands of wrangling
100 Senators with 100 different sched-
ules.
We all thank her for her dedicated
career in public service. She will al-
ways, always, always have the grati-
tude of this grand institution.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Feddo nomination?
Ms. COLLINS. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE),
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON), the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY), the Senator from Kansas
(Mr. MORAN), the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE), the Senator from Kansas
(Mr. ROBERTS), and the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea,’’ the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea,’’ and the Sen-
ator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO) would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Delaware (Mr.
COONS), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 85,
nays 1, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 281 Ex.]
YEAS—85
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—1
Paul
NOT VOTING—14
Alexander
Booker
Coons
Harris
Inhofe
Isakson
Klobuchar
McSally
Moran
Perdue
Roberts
Rubio
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The Senator from Louisiana.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
UNCLAIMED U.S. SAVINGS BONDS
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I am
not going to speak for 10 minutes, but
I do want to call attention to an exam-
ple of breathtaking hypocrisy, and I
am not proud of it.
We all understand in a social con-
tract that the price of living in an or-
ganized society is giving up some of
our hard-earned money. That is why we
pay taxes. Nobody likes paying taxes,
but we understand that taxes are nec-
essary to pay our teachers, build our
roads, defend our country, and help
those who are less fortunate than us.
We set up a pretty good apparatus to
go after you if you don’t pay your
taxes. If you don’t pay your taxes, or
you don’t pay them in the right
amount, or you don’t pay them on
time, they have people trained in the
IRS—I am not criticizing. They are
just doing their job, but they will chase
you like a hound from Hades. So you
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.016 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5463
September 12, 2019
pay. That is the law, and we are all
supposed to abide by it, but what hap-
pens when the Department in which
the IRS is centered will not follow the
same rules? I am talking about the De-
partment of Treasury. The IRS is
under the Department of Treasury.
Now, what is good for the goose is sup-
posed to be good for the gander.
The U.S. Department of Treasury is
sitting on $26 billion—not million, bil-
lion. That is nine zeros of matured, un-
claimed savings bonds that belong to
the people of this country. They have
the names, and they have the address-
es. Do you know what they are doing to
try to contact these Americans? Noth-
ing. Zero. Nada. Zilch. They just sit
there holding on to the money.
We know what a savings bond is. We
couldn’t have won World War II with-
out savings bonds. A lot of Americans
took their hard-earned money, and
they bought savings bonds. You know
how it works. I am just making these
numbers up, but you buy a savings
bond. You give the Federal Govern-
ment 100 bucks. You don’t get anything
every month. You give up 100 bucks,
and in 20 years you go back and redeem
your bond and it is now worth $200. In
the meantime, the Federal Government
gets this loan to use your money. When
that 20 years is up, the bond matures.
It doesn’t pay interest anymore.
Some people lose their bonds. Some
people forget about their bonds. Some
people pass on, and their kids inherit
their bonds. They are lost, but you can
always count on the Department of
Treasury to keep a list of who owns
bonds and which ones have been re-
deemed and which ones haven’t. The
U.S. Department of Treasury has that
list, and there are millions of Ameri-
cans whose names are on that list.
They have names and addresses, and
they don’t do anything to give it back.
They just stand there sucking on the
teat.
Let me give you some examples. We
are talking real money. I will just pick
a couple out: New Jersey, $695 million
belongs to the people of New Jersey—
not the politicians in New Jersey, not
the government, the people—that the
Treasury is holding.
Let me see if I can find—Washington
State, $560 million belongs to the peo-
ple of Washington State—not the big
dogs, not the mayors, not the politi-
cians, the real people who get up every
day and go to work and pay their taxes.
For Hawaii, they have $113 million. In
my State, Louisiana, there is $337 mil-
lion. There is $3 billion belonging to
people in California.
We are going to get up in the morn-
ing, and the IRS—they are just doing
their job. You better pay your taxes.
They will take your firstborn. But
when they have $26 billion of the Amer-
ican people’s money, you can’t find
them with a search party. It is not
right. It is not right.
I sued them when I was State treas-
urer, and I got a bunch of other State
treasurers to sue them too. I don’t like
suing people, but the Department of
the Treasury has spent tens of billions
of dollars fighting the American peo-
ple. They just don’t want to give the
money back—and you wonder why peo-
ple hate the government.
I have a bill to try to do something
about it. It is not personal. I think the
world of our Treasury Secretary. I
would think a whole lot better of him
if he would start writing checks to the
American people. I am not going to
give up on this issue. All we are asking
is that the Treasury Department share
the names with the States. Every State
has an unclaimed property program.
They have a great one in Washington,
a great one in Hawaii. Usually it is a
State treasurer. They know to give
money back to people. They don’t
charge a fee. Right is right, and this is
wrong. The Department of Treasury
needs to give the money back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
f
EMERGENCY FUNDING
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, it is not
a rhetorical flourish to say that Senate
Republicans are being fully obedient to
the President of the United States. The
evidence of the last few days has con-
firmed that Republicans are not stand-
ing up for American institutions when
they are tested, and they will not de-
fend the American people when it
counts the most. Through their silence,
through their legislative actions, and
through their votes, Republicans are
allowing funds appropriated to the De-
partment of Defense—funds that ad-
dress critical military needs in their
own home States—to be stolen in order
to pay for the President’s wall.
Let me explain. The way we do
MILCON, military construction, is
nonpartisan. It is not bipartisan; it is
nonpartisan. That means there is zero
politics involved in selecting military
construction projects for funding.
The process goes like this: The base
commanders decide what projects they
need in order to support their missions
and military communities. These
projects are set up through the chain of
command from the base command to
the installation command. If the in-
stallation command says the project
meets the cut and is important enough
for military readiness, it is sent to the
Service Chief, the Marine Corps Com-
mandant, the Secretary of the Navy,
and so on.
From there, each Service Chief de-
cides what projects to present to the
Office of the Secretary of Defense, and
then the Office of the Secretary of De-
fense racks and stacks these projects.
It is a rigorous process, and not a sin-
gle Member of the U.S. Senate gets to
intervene during this process. They fig-
ure out which ones get addressed in the
fiscal year, and some projects make the
cut and others don’t. The only thing we
get to decide, once the matrix is sent
to us, is how much money we have to
deal with all of our military construc-
tion needs. Again, there is zero polit-
ical involvement—no politicians, no
side deals, no partisan uniforms. So by
the time the Congress receives the
final list of projects from DOD, every
project has been thoroughly vetted. We
recognize that at that point, every
project is essential for the safety and
security of the Nation, and every Sec-
retary of Defense, every Secretary of
the Army, every Secretary of the Navy,
and so on looks us in the eye in the
Senate Armed Services Committee and
in the Defense Appropriations Sub-
committee and says: This is essential.
There is not a penny out of place. We
need this, and we need this badly.
Shame on the Republicans for allow-
ing this argument over whether to
build a border wall to do two things;
first, to infect the institution of the
Department of Defense with politics
and to start to undermine the credi-
bility of the Department and its inter-
actions with the legislative branch;
second, and very importantly, to di-
minish funding for critical military
projects.
What kind of projects are we talking
about? There are 127 projects that are
being raided that we funded. We en-
acted a law, the President declared an
emergency, and the Republicans upheld
that emergency. Now these projects are
being defunded.
Let me give you a couple of examples
out of these 127. This is the form that
comes in. These are the words of the
Department of Defense.
The first project, Fort Bragg, NC,
‘‘Butler Elementary School Replace-
ment.’’ There is a section that is called
‘‘IMPACT IF NOT PROVIDED.’’ In
other words, this is what happens if we
don’t provide this funding. This is what
the Department of Defense says:
The continued use of deficient, inadequate,
and undersized facilities that do not accom-
modate the current student population will
continue to impair the overall educational
program for students. If a new facility is not
provided, the substandard environment will
continue to hamper the educational process
and the school will not be able to support the
curriculum and provide for a safe facility.
Let me take this example of the Ma-
rine Corps Air Station Beaufort, Laurel
Bay, SC. The impact if funding is not
provided:
[Fire and emergency service] personnel as-
signed to Laurel Bay will continue to work
from a significantly undersized and unsafe
facility. Because the structure does not meet
seismic requirements, complete structural
collapse is probable during a seismic event,
causing death or major injury to emergency
personnel, and thus preventing timely re-
sponse to the [Marine Corps] housing com-
munity following the event.
Finally, and this is going to be 3 out
of 127 projects rated: Fort Greely, AK,
‘‘Missile Field #1 Expansion.’’ These
are the ground-based interceptors de-
signed to enhance our missile defense
in the case of an attack from North
Korea, ‘‘IMPACT IF NOT PROVIDED.’’
This one is succinct and scary:
Planned enhancements and capabilities of
the BMDS to meet emerging threats will not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.020 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5464 September 12, 2019
be available for our Nation’s homeland de-
fense.
Those are 3 out of 127 projects.
I just want to ask my Republican col-
leagues: Where do you draw the line? I
understand you can’t stand up to the
President every time or even most of
the time, but my goodness, when they
take funding from military families,
from bases and installations, from mis-
sile defense, from military schools,
can’t you draw the line there? There
has to be a point at which you say
enough is enough. There has to be a
point when you decide that agreeing
with the President under any and all
circumstances—and in this case, the
most extreme of circumstances—is not
how you are going to lead and govern
on behalf of your home State.
Let me say this in closing: I still hold
out hope for a bipartisan solution to
this issue. Democrats and Republicans
may have very different goals, and we
have different ideas about how to reach
them, but there has to be a better way
forward than raiding military funds for
the wall. If there is anything that can
bring the Senate together, it should be
ensuring the safety, security, and well-
being of our Nation’s servicemembers
and their families.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, let me
thank Senator SCHATZ for his com-
ments. I hope every Senator will follow
the points he is making because I think
they are critically important.
First and foremost, we are talking
about the appropriate power of the leg-
islative branch of government. We have
the power to appropriate. We are the
article I branch of government. We
have appropriated money for border se-
curity. We have appropriated money
for military construction. Congress
clearly intended the monies that we
appropriated for military construction
to go to our military installations and
our military families. We made that
conscientious decision.
Now the President is transferring
funds from military construction that
help our service personnel to the bor-
der wall. I say that because it is an un-
constitutional grasp of power. It com-
promises the checks and balances that
are in our Constitution. It is an abuse
of power, but it is also affecting the
quality of life of the men and women
who have voluntarily agreed to join
our military to protect our country.
We can give you many examples.
We are talking about $3.6 billion of
funds that were taken from military
construction that are now being used
by the President to fund the border
wall. It is not Mexico that is paying for
this wall; it is the men and women who
are serving our Nation who are going
to pay for this wall and our military
service. That is outrageous, and every
Member of the Senate should be con-
cerned about that.
Let me talk about my own State of
Maryland and the military construc-
tion projects in Maryland that would
be directly affected. There is a road
project at Fort Meade for $16.5 million.
Fort Meade is just a few miles away
from the Nation’s Capital. For any of
you who have had the opportunity to
travel between Baltimore and Wash-
ington, it is about halfway when you
come to Fort Meade. You will notice
the challenges of trying to get onto
Fort Meade’s base. The mission being
done at Fort Meade is a national secu-
rity priority for this country, and these
roads are critically important for our
national security. It has been backed
up a long time. Now, thanks to the
President—if this goes forward—it will
be backed up a lot longer.
The second cut is $37 million to Joint
Base Andrews for a HAZMAT cargo
path. This is a matter of safety for the
men and women who work at Joint
Base Andrews.
I hope all of you are familiar with
Joint Base Andrews, which is located
just a few miles from here. The Air
Force is there. Many of us go through
that facility. It is critical that they
have the facilities to protect our Na-
tion’s Capital and protect the Members
and personnel who use that facility.
The President, again, is taking away
from the safety of the mission at Joint
Base Andrews.
The one issue I want to talk about
that really highlights the hypocrisy of
this transfer is the cut of $13 million to
a child development center at Joint
Base Andrews. I want to read for my
colleagues the justification given by
the Air Force for this request. I am
quoting:
The existing child development center was
originally constructed as a medical clinic in
1943, renovated to serve many purposes over
the last 74 years and is inadequate for cur-
rent needs. Presently, base child develop-
ment center has over 37 children on a wait-
ing list for enrollment. The existing facility
has suffered from sewage backups, a leaking
roof, HVAC failures, along with mold and
pest management issues. Work orders con-
tinue to pile up despite heavy focus from [en-
gineers], making it more difficult to ensure
accreditation each year. The bathrooms are
constantly flooding and drainage issues in
[the] kitchen result in monthly backups.
The justification continues by saying
that the child development center ‘‘ei-
ther needs to be recapitalized due to
condition, or taken out of service.’’
Then they wrote:
IMPACT IF NOT PROVIDED: Not pro-
viding this facility forces members to use
more expensive, less convenient and poten-
tially lower quality off-base programs. These
off-base child development centers typically
cost $9400 more than on-base, creating a se-
vere financial strain on military personnel.
Quality of life will be severely degraded re-
sulting in impacts to retention and readiness
because Airmen and their families will not
have a safe and nurturing environment for
child care.
This is the Air Force’s justification
for this project. As they point out, it
will cost military families an addi-
tional $10,000 a year. Who is paying for
the wall? Our military families are
paying for the wall, not the Govern-
ment of Mexico. That is what is in-
volved here.
We cannot let this go forward. Every
Member of this body should be aware of
what is happening. I just mentioned
three of the projects that are on that
list of $3.7 billion that are being trans-
ferred to fund the wall that Congress
intentionally provided the money for
military families. That is wrong. We
should stand up for our military fami-
lies.
I enjoy the fact that we all say we
support our military. We are very
proud of their stepping forward to de-
fend us, and now we are telling them
they have to pay an extra $10,000 for
childcare. That is what is involved
here. I hope every Member of this body
will voice their opposition to what the
President is attempting to do.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come
to the Senate floor this afternoon with
my Democratic colleagues to voice my
strong opposition to this administra-
tion’s move to take money away from
our military to fund President Trump’s
wasteful border wall.
I often say that we make a promise
as a nation to take care of our service-
members and their families sacrificing
to defend our freedoms. But the Penta-
gon’s announcement this week that it
plans to move billions of dollars away
from critical military construction
projects across our country is more
than a broken promise to our troops; it
is an egregious abuse of power that un-
dercuts Congress’s constitutional obli-
gation to set our Nation’s budget, and
it compromises critical national secu-
rity priorities.
Earlier today, Democrats on our Ap-
propriations Committee and I sup-
ported an amendment to the Defense
appropriations bill that would prevent
the President from undermining
Congress’s authority. I was very dis-
appointed to vote against that bill be-
cause our colleagues on the other side
of the aisle would not join us to pass
that necessary amendment and stand
up against this outrageous plunder.
This Executive overreach is deeply
disturbing. It is particularly relevant
to my home State of Washington, one
of the States most impacted by the
Pentagon’s reckless decision this week.
We learned that efforts to update the
pier and maintenance facility at Naval
Base Kitsap—a project essential to en-
suring the safety and readiness of our
military’s nuclear submarines—are
now deferred indefinitely because the
nearly $89 million that Congress appro-
priated specifically for that priority
are now being moved to build Trump’s
wall.
As a reminder, this is a wall that the
majority of the American people did
not ask for and do not want and that
President Trump originally claimed
Mexico was going to pay for. It is a
wall that Congress has time and again
decided not to fund on a bipartisan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.021 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5465
September 12, 2019
basis, to the point that President
Trump decided to make a bogus na-
tional emergency declaration and side-
step Congress to raid the Federal cof-
fers for his reckless vanity project.
It is not just Naval Base Kitsap. We
also learned that President Trump and
the Pentagon are more than happy to
fund this wall by slashing other mili-
tary priorities, like strengthening ac-
cess to military childcare, repairing
vital military assets that were dam-
aged by recent natural disasters, and
more that enable our troops and their
families to serve our country as we ask
them to do.
Here is the bottom line: I—and Sen-
ate Democrats—will not stand by while
this President steps over Congress to
build his wall on the backs of our
troops and their families because they
deserve a lot better for this country. I
will not let up until this is made right.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, in
this day and age, it would be easy to
grow cynical and simply tune out the
noise of a 24-hour cable news cycle that
feeds off the latest Trump tweet. From
Donald Trump’s recent decision to in-
vite the Taliban to join him for a re-
treat at Camp David for the weekend of
the anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist at-
tacks to his earlier statements caught
on tape, bragging about sexually as-
saulting women, I fear that too many—
including Members of this Chamber—
have become numb to this repeated de-
basing of the Presidency, numb to a
President who lacks even a hint of re-
morse or shame as he spews lies to the
people he was elected to serve.
We cannot afford to be numb. We
cannot let this become normal. No, we
must hold Donald Trump accountable
for his false promises and for his lies.
We must ask what happened to Mexi-
co’s paying for the wall. Trump prom-
ised every American over and over
again that they wouldn’t have to spend
a dime on his wall, pledging that Mex-
ico would pick up the tab 100 percent.
He even said, ‘‘It’s an easy decision for
Mexico: make a one-time payment of
$5–$10 billion.’’
Of course, it wasn’t so easy, and now
Trump has done a 180, falsely claiming
that he never said Mexico would write
that check, trying to gaslight us all
with every lie that he tells. We simply
can’t let him get away with it.
The truth is that Donald Trump al-
ready revealed whom he really wants
to pay for his wall. He discloses it
every time his administration begs
Congress to spend billions of your tax
dollars building it. He doesn’t care that
many who live on the border believe
building a wall from sea to shining sea
is the least effective and most expen-
sive way to secure the border. Trump
may not care, but that helps explain
Trump’s failure to convince Congress
to fund his vanity project—even when
Republicans controlled both Chambers
for 2 years.
His outrageous response to his failure
revealed another sad truth: The Presi-
dency hasn’t changed Donald Trump
one bit. President Donald Trump is the
very same old Donald Trump whose
true character was revealed on the
leaked ‘‘Access Hollywood’’ tapes.
In Trump’s mind, when you are the
President, you can do anything. Con-
gress didn’t appropriate funds for your
ineffective wall? Well, just grab funds
that Congress authorized for more im-
portant programs. Tired of failing to
convince Congress to spend American
tax dollars on your wall? Well, just de-
clare a fake emergency. Senate Repub-
licans will let you do it.
Listen, Trump’s decision to build his
vanity wall with funds stolen from
military construction projects and
Homeland Security initiatives isn’t
really about border security; it is
about politics. If he actually wanted to
secure our Nation’s border, he wouldn’t
be stripping away funding from the
dedicated men and women who are re-
sponsible for defending it: the U.S.
Coast Guard. Yet that is exactly what
he has done—ripped tens of millions of
dollars away from Coast Guard pro-
grams. He has ignored that his actions
could endanger our national security,
and he has ignored that we are right in
the middle of hurricane season.
As if that were not bad enough, he
has also defunded facilities that are
dedicated to cyber warfare operations
and bomb defusing training. He is
slashing money from schools and
childcare centers for our servicemem-
bers’ children too.
Donald Trump told us over and over
again that Mexico would pay for his
wall. That was a lie. Mexico isn’t pay-
ing for his wall. Our servicemembers
and their families are. The families at
Fort Campbell are, as their children
will now have to keep eating lunch in
their school’s library because President
Trump decided that revving up his po-
litical base was more important than
upgrading an aging military school. My
blood boils when I hear that the chil-
dren of U.S. servicemembers are being
forced to learn in makeshift class-
rooms within classrooms. No child
should have to learn in that kind of en-
vironment. In my view, that is the true
national emergency.
Let me tell you about three other
cases in which the President is stealing
money in order to pay for his wall. One
is at the Channel Islands Air National
Guard Station in California.
The project that is losing funds will
supply the Colorado Air National
Guard with an adequately sized and
properly configured space to support a
Space Control Squadron functions in
accordance with force structure
changes. The facility must provide ade-
quate space to support the squadron’s
operations, maintenance, security,
command and administration, and
storage areas. The facility must have
an unobstructed view of the southern
horizon.
The current situation is that this
Space Control Squadron, most likely
happening at Peterson Air Force Base,
does not currently exist, and there is
no adequate facility located at either
Peterson or Buckley Air Force Base for
this Space Control Squadron.
The only solution that meets all mis-
sion requirements is to construct a new
facility on Peterson Air Force Base. If
this facility is not provided, the squad-
ron will be unable to beddown the
space control mission and equipment,
with operational and strategic mission
impacts due to inadequate facilities.
This is what he is stealing money
from in order to build his vanity wall.
A second project is at Fort Greely,
AK. The impact of taking the money
from this project will mean that Fort
Greely, AK, will not have the enhance-
ments and capabilities for the Ballistic
Missile Defense System.
The mission of the Agency is to de-
velop and field an integrated, layered
Ballistic Missile Defense System to de-
fend the United States, our deployed
forces, allies, and friends against all
ranges of enemy ballistic missiles in
all phases of flight. This expansion
project will provide the BMDS with in-
creased ground-based interceptor capa-
bilities, to allow for operational capa-
bility.
What happens if the funds are not
provided? The planned enhancements
and capabilities of the Ballistic Missile
Defense System to meet the emerging
threats will not be available for our
Nation’s homeland defense.
He is stealing money away from our
Nation’s homeland defense to build his
vanity wall.
Finally, at Fort Huachuca, AZ, the
current situation is that the facilities
do not meet the current mandatory cri-
teria specified for vehicle testing and
maintenance facilities. The current fa-
cilities date back to the 1930s and 1940s
and have surpassed their estimated life
expectancies. The facilities violate cur-
rent antiterrorism/force protection
standards. Existing utility systems,
such as water, sewer, electric, and gas,
require replacement. There are no
other suitable buildings on the instal-
lation that are available in support of
this mission.
If they lose the funding for this
project, the personnel will continue to
work in substandard and unsafe facili-
ties. The motor pool facilities do not
comply with current life, safety build-
ing codes and quality-of-life standards.
The current HVAC, fire suppression,
the existing AT/FP and infrastructure
deficiencies jeopardize the personnel’s
health, security, and safety.
This is what he is taking money from
to build this wall. The Senate could
put a stop to this. It is up to us and our
actions, and this very Chamber will de-
termine whether the children of Fort
Campbell, whether the personnel at
Fort Huachuca, and whether the staff
at Fort Greely, AK, can do their jobs.
We can defend the power of the purse
or we can be complicit in its destruc-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.023 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5466 September 12, 2019
Look, I am not naive. I know some
don’t share my outrage, that some be-
lieve that overcrowded military
schools, a decrease in our national se-
curity defense, and our ability to de-
fend against hostile ballistic missiles
are not a crisis, let alone a national
disgrace. These Trump loyalists cower
to his bullying tactics, and in the com-
ing days, they will try to reward his
abuse of power. They will not stop
Trump and return the stolen taxpayer
dollars. Rather, they will argue that
we should dig even deeper into the Na-
tion’s funds to spend more of your tax
dollars to replace the money Trump
stole. This is wrong. The Constitution
entrusts Congress to authorize and to
appropriate funds, not the President.
I urge all of my colleagues to join me
in condemning this raid of taxpayer
funds. We must block these outrageous
cuts that will harm military readiness,
weaken our border security, and hurt
the families of those who are brave
enough to serve.
I yield the floor.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate having received the papers with re-
spect to S. 1790, notwithstanding the
passage of the bill, amendment No. 938
is agreed to, and the measure will be
returned to the House.
The amendment (No. 938) was agreed
to as follows:
(Purpose: To improve the bill)
In section 6943(a), strike paragraph (2).
After section 6966, insert the following:
Subtitle D—Other Matters
SEC. 6971. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTA-
TION OF GOODS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions authorized
under this title or the amendments made by
this title shall not include the authority or
requirement to impose sanctions on the im-
portation of goods.
(b) GOOD DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
manmade substance, material, supply, or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
f
EMERGENCY FUNDING
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
start by thanking my friend and col-
league the Senator from Illinois, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, for her service to our
country many years ago in the mili-
tary, for her serving in Iraq, and now
for her serving our country in a dif-
ferent capacity; that of standing up in
the U.S. Senate to defend the Constitu-
tion and to defend this institution
against what is clearly an unconstitu-
tional power grab by the President of
the United States.
When I took my oath of office—when
we took our oaths of office—we all
swore to support and defend the Con-
stitution of the United States. Back in
March of this year, 59 Senators kept
that promise when we stood together,
on a bipartisan basis, to say no to a
gross abuse of Executive power—to an
unconstitutional power grab—when we
said: No, Mr. President, you may not
ignore the will of the Congress. You
may not ignore the appropriations that
were passed by both Houses of Congress
and signed by you. You may not ignore
them and rob critical military projects
across the country to fund an unneces-
sary wall.
Now, we can all debate—we have de-
bated many times—the merits of this
wall, but there really should be no de-
bate about the fact that the way the
President has gone about it under-
mines the Constitution and undermines
the powers given in that Constitution
to the Senate and to the House. We
made that statement on a bipartisan
basis back in March—59 Senators.
Mr. President, don’t go robbing mili-
tary construction accounts and defense
accounts to finance the wall.
Yet here we are, 6 months later, and
the President is attempting to do ex-
actly that. He is diverting important
investments in our military in places
across Maryland and around the coun-
try.
As has been pointed out, the Presi-
dent said repeatedly that Mexico was
going to pay for this wall. Instead, tax-
payers are having to pay for this wall,
and service men and women and the
families of service men and women are
bearing the brunt of the President’s
latest raid.
I see the majority leader is on the
floor. Just yesterday, the majority
leader said he was going to fight the
President’s effort to take money away
from a middle school in Kentucky to
build the wall.
I have a question for the majority
leader and all of my colleagues who
want to fight to protect the projects in
their States. Are they willing to stand
up for projects in every State that hurt
military families?
Here is what the Air Force wrote
about a Maryland project. It is one
that is not very far away from here—at
Andrews Air Force Base. It is an air
force base that, I dare say, every Mem-
ber of this Senate has had the occasion
and honor to visit from time to time. I
have in my hand the budget request
from the Air Force for a project at An-
drews to help the service men and
women who work there.
Their article reads:
Not providing this facility forces members
to use more expensive, less convenient and
potentially lower quality off-base programs.
These off-base child development centers
typically cost $9,400 more than on-base, cre-
ating a severe financial strain on military
personnel.
That is what the Air Force writes—
an additional $9,400 a year for military
men and women who we know are not
getting big paychecks.
That is not all the Air Force wrote.
It went on to write in its justification
for this investment: ‘‘Quality of life
will be severely degraded, resulting in
impacts to retention and readiness be-
cause Airmen and their families will
not have a safe and nurturing environ-
ment for childcare.’’
That is from the U.S. Air Force.
I invite all of our colleagues to visit
that base and look at the current con-
ditions there because here are the cur-
rent conditions at the current
childcare center that the Air Force is
seeking to remedy with this invest-
ment.
Again, this is a quote right from the
Air Force:
The existing facility has suffered from sew-
age backups, a leaking roof, HVAC failures,
along with mold and pest management
issues. Work orders continue to pile up . . .
making it more difficult to ensure accredita-
tion each year. The bathrooms are con-
stantly flooding, and drainage issues in the
kitchen result in monthly backups.
That is from the Air Force. Those are
the conditions our men and women at
Andrews are currently facing in the
childcare center. That is why the Air
Force asked for this money that the
President is now trying to take away.
It turns out that when you do the
math and when you look at the cost,
the money being taken away from this
childcare center that would address
these awful conditions that exist would
build about a half a mile of a wall—a
wall that is unnecessary. Yet, even if
you believe we need to build this long
wall, you should agree that we should
not be robbing moneys out of the ac-
counts that help the families of our
service men and women.
That was one of the projects in Mary-
land the President raided. He also raid-
ed two others, including one to address
traffic congestion at Fort Meade,
which is the home to many facilities,
including, of course, the National Secu-
rity Agency. In all, $66 million was
robbed from service men and women in
the State of Maryland.
That was just Maryland. We have
heard about other States. We have also
heard about cuts around the world—
cuts from a program that was origi-
nally known as the European Reassur-
ance Initiative—funds that we were in-
vesting, along with our allies, to deter
Russian aggression in places like
Ukraine. We called it the European Re-
assurance Initiative. I don’t know what
is reassuring now about robbing those
accounts. That will have a direct nega-
tive impact on our national security
and the readiness of the U.S. forces and
those of our allies.
We are going to have a lot of oppor-
tunities in the coming weeks to ad-
dress this issue. I hope we will address
it on a bipartisan basis. I hope we will
address it as U.S. Senators who recog-
nize that the President’s actions here
are a direct assault on article I—that
they are a direct assault on the spend-
ing powers given to Congress under ar-
ticle I.
We have our differences. We had a
markup in the Appropriations Com-
mittee today. Members had a chance to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.024 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5467
September 12, 2019
offer their amendments. Some were ac-
cepted. Some were rejected. It was the
democratic process at work, and that is
the same democratic process we used
to put these investments for our mili-
tary families in place in the first place.
The Senate acted. The House acted.
In fact, the President signed the bill,
and now he comes back to grab that
money through this unconstitutional
power grab.
I will end with this, because I think
all of us recognize the danger and the
precedent that will be set here. We may
agree or disagree with the President’s
decision to build a wall, but beware—
beware, everybody—of a future Presi-
dent—a Republican or Democratic
President or of some other party—
using the same mechanism to under-
mine the Constitution and to under-
mine article I.
Let’s unite as U.S. Senators to stop
that from happening.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 399.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of John Rakolta, Jr., of Michi-
gan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary of the United
States of America to the United Arab
Emirates.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of John Rakolta, Jr., of Michigan, to
be Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of America
to the United Arab Emirates.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Cornyn, John Barrasso, Mike Crapo,
John Thune, Tim Scott, John Hoeven,
Shelley Moore Capito, Kevin Cramer,
John Boozman, Steve Daines, Richard
Burr, James E. Risch, Roy Blunt,
Thom Tillis, Martha McSally.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 288.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Kenneth A. Howery, of Texas,
to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America to the Kingdom of Sweden.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Kenneth A. Howery, of Texas, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of America
to the Kingdom of Sweden.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Cornyn, John Barrasso, Mike Crapo,
John Thune, Tim Scott, John Hoeven,
Shelley Moore Capito, Kevin Cramer,
John Boozman, Steve Daines, Richard
Burr, James E. Risch, Roy Blunt,
Thom Tillis, Martha McSally.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 223.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Robert A. Destro, of Virginia,
to be Assistant Secretary of State for
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Robert A. Destro, of Virginia, to be
Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy,
Human Rights, and Labor.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Cornyn, John Barrasso, Mike Crapo,
John Thune, Tim Scott, John Hoeven,
Shelley Moore Capito, Kevin Cramer,
John Boozman, Steve Daines, Richard
Burr, James E. Risch, Roy Blunt,
Thom Tillis, Martha McSally.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 419.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Brent James McIntosh, of
Michigan, to be an Under Secretary of
the Treasury.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Brent James McIntosh, of Michi-
gan, to be an Under Secretary of the Treas-
ury.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Cornyn, John Barrasso, Mike Crapo,
John Thune, Tim Scott, John Hoeven,
Shelley Moore Capito, Kevin Cramer,
John Boozman, Steve Daines, Richard
Burr, James E. Risch, Roy Blunt,
Thom Tillis, Martha McSally.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 418.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.026 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5468 September 12, 2019
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Brian Callanan, of New Jer-
sey, to be General Counsel for the De-
partment of the Treasury.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Brian Callanan, of New Jersey, to
be General Counsel for the Department of
the Treasury.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Cornyn, John Barrasso, Mike Crapo,
John Thune, Tim Scott, John Hoeven,
Shelley Moore Capito, Kevin Cramer,
John Boozman, Steve Daines, Richard
Burr, James E. Risch, Roy Blunt,
Thom Tillis, Martha McSally.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum calls be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate be
in a period of morning business, with
Senators permitted to speak therein
for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
REMEMBERING MICHAEL BAUER
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I rise
today to pay tribute to my friend Mi-
chael Bauer, who died in late August
after a battle with cancer.
You couldn’t miss Michael—he was
the outspoken, critical ally of scores of
boards and organizations in the LGBTQ
community of Chicago; the first call
they made when they needed an effec-
tive advocate. When the conversation
turned to political friends and foes,
issues of the moment and candidates in
the hunt, he never had a private
thought or waited his turn to share it.
And when the music started, Michael
was the first on the dance floor.
I met Michael more than 20 years ago
as a downstate Congressman running
for the U.S. Senate. After an introduc-
tory dinner with Michael, his partner,
Roger, and my wife Loretta, Michael
gave me a passing grade, but I always
knew he liked Loretta more.
His name was first on the list of
must-calls for political candidates. But
if you only knew the public side of Mi-
chael, you might not have known the
fire inside that drove his life. Over
time we became friends, and that
friendship led to trust between us. Mi-
chael shared with me the private sto-
ries, the journey of his life.
At the center were his parents, sur-
vivors of the Holocaust who spent their
whole lives facing the memories of
friends and family who perished. Mi-
chael knew that they were victims of
forces they did not have the power to
control. He was determined to know
more about the cruelty and hate they
faced. This search took him to the Hol-
ocaust Memorial Museum, where he
carefully reconstructed his family’s ex-
perience. Michael believed that
through these efforts, his mother,
Tema, now 103, was given back the real
story of her life in a war that sent her
to slave labor camps. He said with this
research his mother’s entire memory of
the horror of the Holocaust was vali-
dated. This search for the truth was
personal to Michael as the Jewish son
of a survivor and as a gay man who
knew the Nazis targeted and murdered
homosexuals as well.
Personally facing the massive loss of
life in the Holocaust, I think Michael
felt a special pain with the AIDS crisis.
I remember when he told me that fel-
low members of a board he served on
were still not taking care to protect
themselves. He was truly saddened as
he feared for their fate.
But if life had been cruel to his fam-
ily and the world outside could be per-
ilous, Michael had one constant, one
protector. He talked to me so many
times about Roger, truly the center of
his life, his partner, his love, and ulti-
mately his husband. For me, it was a
personal insight into a loving relation-
ship at a level I had never before wit-
nessed so closely. I could not imagine
Roger without Michael, as now we
must.
When it came to the world of politics,
Michael willingly, frequently shared
his opinion of every candidate and
every issue. No one escaped his pene-
trating, outspoken scrutiny.
But Michael was always ready to
help his friends, often in memorable
ways. In 2000, with Joe Lieberman as
the first Jewish candidate for Vice
President, Michael and Roger made a
point of heading to Los Angeles for the
convention. When they heard I had an
event planned there, they insisted on
giving me a ride from the hotel. When
they arrived in their rented convert-
ible, Michael and Roger were properly
dressed in muscle t-shirts and ready to
drive through Beverly Hills. As we
cruised through Wilshire Blvd and
Rodeo Drive, Michael insisted on
prepping me for the upcoming Gore-
Lieberman campaign—he taught me
valuable Yiddish words and phrases.
Michael was always there with advice
for his friends.
In 1996, we celebrated my first Senate
election night together. I remember his
trademark smile and the tears in his
eyes. After I was elected to the Senate,
Michael wasted no time bringing an
issue to my attention. It was not an
ask for a job or a contract or anything
that would benefit him personally; he
asked if I could find time to visit the
Howard Brown Health Center on Hal-
sted. Of course I agreed—how could you
say no to Michael? The visit led to a
conversation where Michael looked me
in the eye and said the Howard Brown
Center was critical in fighting the
AIDS crisis. He told me of friends who
were afraid of other health venues and
afraid to face the realities of their
lives. Howard Brown was their best
chance and for some, their only chance.
He wanted me to see firsthand the im-
pact of the AIDS crisis in our country.
Michael Bauer used his knowledge
and connections to help others, to pro-
tect others, to fight a deadly crisis
that was burying his friends. In his
heart, Michael was a caring, loving per-
son who used his talents and his access
to help those on the outside of the
halls of power. Loretta and I join
Roger, Tema, Michael’s extended fam-
ily and so many friends in mourning
the loss of Michael.
Farewell, Michael. You will be
missed.
f
REMEMBERING MARGARET
BLACKSHERE
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, Mar-
garet Blackshere was a trailblazer as
the first woman to serve as president of
the nearly 1-million strong Illinois
AFL–CIO. In July, she passed away at
the age of 79, and I rise today to honor
her memory. I share the privilege with
countless others to call her a friend.
Margaret and her sister were raised
by their single mother, Frances, and
Aunt Margie in North Venice, IL. Her
mother made sure her daughters knew
that they could do anything. There
were no boy chores or girl chores; there
were just chores. Laundry and rewiring
a lamp were normal activities.
She started off studying to be a nun,
but she changed course and ended up
studying elementary education at
Southern Illinois University,
Edwardsville. Her religious convictions
remained an essential part of her life,
but education was her calling.
After college, Margaret began teach-
ing in a school in Madison, IL. She and
her fellow teachers were making only
$3,000 a year and weren’t treated with
respect, but they noticed that the
steelworkers and mineworkers in the
area were respected and doing well be-
cause they belonged to a union and
worked together to secure better work-
ing conditions. Margaret and her col-
leagues decided they needed to form a
union and demand adequate pay from
the superintendent. The super-
intendent refused so Margaret took ac-
tion and organized a 5-week strike. One
small issue—because she and the other
teachers were public employees, their
strike was illegal. Margaret and her
colleagues were jailed, but the jail only
had two cells. This meant that every
day, Margaret arrived at the jail with
her children, ages 3 and 5, and every
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.034 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5469
September 12, 2019
night, she went home because there
wasn’t enough space. Her fellow teach-
ers saw her dedication and elected her
president of the teachers’ union in
Madison.
Margaret went back to Southern Illi-
nois University to earn a master’s de-
gree in urban education. She became
focused on issues about children living
in poverty.
Her work with the union and its at-
tempts to earn greater pay for teachers
opened the door to politics. She began
working on local election campaigns.
It wasn’t just about money anymore; it
was about having a voice. With her
hard work, Margaret was elected vice
president of the Illinois Federation of
Teachers, IFT, and chair of its legisla-
tive committee.
Eventually, Margaret reluctantly
gave up teaching, which she loved so
much, and became a lobbyist for the
IFT. She worked in Springfield to im-
prove the salaries and working condi-
tions of teachers. Margaret also began
building networks and alliances. In
1993, the Illinois AFL–CIO needed a sec-
retary-treasurer. Margaret was easily
elected because she was respected by so
many people from her time cam-
paigning and working for the IFT.
In 2000, Margaret became president of
the Illinois AFL–CIO. When Margaret
came into office, she inherited a staff
of 25. None of them was a person of
color. The executive board had no
women on it. Illinois AFL–CIO also
didn’t have health insurance that cov-
ered well-baby care or mammograms.
Margaret brought these benefits into
place. She also transformed the execu-
tive board by making it more diverse.
Before long, seven African Americans,
two Latinos, and eight women had po-
sitions on the board.
Under Margaret’s leadership, the Illi-
nois AFL–CIO helped lead the fight to
raise the State’s minimum wage—not
once but twice. She led efforts to guar-
antee women equal pay for equal work,
to expand healthcare, and to improve
Illinois’ workers’ compensation sys-
tem.
Margaret excelled at bringing people
of different backgrounds together to
achieve goals. She used to say, ‘‘If
you’ve got a good cause, people will
join it.’’ She helped create Transpor-
tation for Illinois with the Illinois
Automobile Asphalt and Pavement As-
sociation, the Chicago Transit Author-
ity, and other businesses, organized
labor, industry, governmental, and
nonprofit organizations to support
strong transportation investments for
Illinois. The groups may have fought
each other on a host of issues, but she
gave them a unified voice for infra-
structure.
Margaret devoted much of her life as
well to charitable organizations and
served on many boards, including the
Illinois branches of United Way and the
American Red Cross, Alliance for Re-
tired Americans, Voices for Illinois
Children, Unemployment Insurance Ad-
visory Board, and the Federal Reserve
Board of Chicago. She served as an in-
spiration to the Illinois Women’s Insti-
tute for Leadership alongside my wife,
Loretta, encouraging and training
women to become effective leaders in
Illinois.
Over the years, Margaret received
more awards and accolades than can be
recounted here. She was delighted to be
the guest of honor for Chicago’s St.
Patrick Day Parade in 2003. Margaret
loved celebrating her Irish heritage.
Loretta and I will miss her great
humor and her willingness to always
wish others well unless they were play-
ing her beloved St. Louis Cardinals.
Margaret is survived by her two sons,
Michael and Thomas; her sister, Patri-
cia; and four grandchildren.
f
FALUN GONG
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, through-
out my years in the Senate, I have met
with people from around the world who
have been persecuted by their own gov-
ernments, but the stories I have heard
from survivors and family members of
the victims of China’s efforts to silence
and eliminate religious minorities con-
tinue to shock me. The Chinese Gov-
ernment systematically brutalizes mil-
lions of people, including Tibetan Bud-
dhists, Uyghur Muslims, and Falun
Gong practitioners.
Those who practice Falun Gong use
meditation and are guided by a philos-
ophy of truthfulness, compassion, and
tolerance, but because the Chinese
Communist Party fears any organized
religion or association it cannot con-
trol, it views this revival of traditional
Chinese religion as a threat to its sur-
vival.
Falun Gong practitioners recently
marked the 20th anniversary of the be-
ginning of China’s campaign of bru-
tality against their community. On
July 20, 1999, hundreds of Falun Gong
practitioners were arrested in their
homes in the middle of the night. Over
the following week, as many as 50,000
Falun Gong were reportedly detained.
In the years since that initial crack-
down, the Chinese Government has re-
lentlessly continued its repression of
Falun Gong.
Falun Gong practitioners have been
arrested, interred at reeducation
camps, beaten, sleep-deprived, starved,
sexually assaulted, electrocuted, force-
fed, shackled, and had their limbs slow-
ly broken, until they have renounced
their beliefs and practices. They have
been ordered to participate in propa-
ganda vilifying their own community.
They have had their organs harvested
against their will. They have been mur-
dered. We will probably never know
how many innocent people have been
the victims of these atrocities, since
the Chinese Government denies to the
outside world that it is happening,
while justifying it to their own citi-
zens.
The Chinese Government should im-
mediately cease its arbitrary detention
and brutalization of Falun Gong practi-
tioners and other religious and ethnic
minorities. It should release political
prisoners from reeducation centers, de-
criminalize religious and spiritual
practices, and allow international
human rights groups and journalists to
interview survivors. It should commit
to ending the use of torture, organ har-
vesting of prisoners, and propaganda
against minorities.
The plight of these people in China,
the horrors of torture and murder by
the government, can seem very far
away from Washington, DC, and very
far away from my State of Vermont.
Yet Vermonters travel to Washington
to meet with me and my staff, urging
Congress to take action on behalf of
Falun Gong. Vermonters are persistent
people who rightly refuse to let us for-
get about Falun Gong and the other
victims of China’s repression. It is all
too easy to ignore crimes against hu-
manity on the other side of the globe,
when the victims are people we will
never meet, but Vermonters demand
that we pay attention. The Falun Gong
deserve to be remembered, and they de-
serve the international community’s
collective action.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–38 concerning the Air Force’s proposed
Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Gov-
ernment of Morocco for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $209 million. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.005 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5470 September 12, 2019
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–38
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Kingdom of Mo-
rocco.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $187 million.
Other $22 million.
Total $209 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Five thousand eight hundred and ten (5,810)
MK82–1 Bomb (Tritonal).
Three hundred (300) MK84–4 Bomb
(Tritonal).
One hundred and five (105) Joint Direct At-
tack Munitions (JDAM) KMU–572F/B Tail
Kits.
One hundred eighty (180) MXU–651B/B Air
Foil Group (AFG), GBU–10.
Four thousand one hundred twenty five
(4,125) MXU–650C/B AFG, GBU–12.
Four thousand three hundred and five
(4,305) MAU–169L/B Computer Control Group
(CCG), GBU–10,–12,–16.
Five thousand one hundred seventy-eight
(5,178) FMU–152 Fuze.
Non-MDE: Also included are flares M–206,
Flares MJU–7A/B, Impulse Cartridges BBU–
36, Impulse Cartridges BBU–351B, Bomb Sen-
sor DSU–33C/B, chaff, bomb components,
spares, repair parts, support equipment, pub-
lications and technical documentation, engi-
neering technical and support services, and
other related elements of logistics, transpor-
tation, and program support.
(iv) Military Department: Air Force (MO–
D–AAG and MO–D–AAE).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: MO–D–SAY.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
September 11, 2019.
*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Morocco—Additional F–16 Ammunition
The Government of Morocco has requested
a possible sale of five thousand eight hun-
dred and ten (5,810) MK82–1 Bombs (Tritonal);
three hundred (300) MK84–4 Bombs (Tritonal);
one hundred and five (105) Joint Direct At-
tack Munitions (JDAM) KMU–572F/B Tail
Kits; one hundred eighty (180) MXU–651B/B
Air Foil Groups (AFG), GBU–10; four thou-
sand one hundred twenty five (4,125) MXU–
650C/B AFGs, GBU–12; four thousand three
hundred and five (4,305) MAU–169L/B Com-
puter Control Groups (CCG), GBU–10, –12, –16;
and five thousand one hundred seventy-eight
(5,178) FMU–152 Fuzes. Also included are
flares M–206, Flares MJU–7A/B, Impulse Car-
tridges BBU–36, Impulse Cartridges BBU–35/
B, Bomb Sensor DSU–33C/B, chaff, bomb
components, spares, repair parts, support
equipment, publications and technical docu-
mentation, engineering technical and sup-
port services, and other related elements of
logistics, transportation, and program sup-
port. The estimated cost is $209 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security of the United
States by helping to improve the security of
a major Non-NATO ally that continues to be
an important force for political stability and
economic progress in Africa.
The proposed sale will improve Morocco’s
capability to meet current and future
threats of terror from violent extremist or-
ganizations prevalent throughout the region.
Additionally, the additional munitions pro-
vided by this sale will improve interoper-
ability with the United States and other re-
gional allies and enhance Morocco’s ability
to undertake coalition operations, as it has
done in the past in flying sorties against
ISIS in Syria and Iraq. Morocco will have no
difficulty absorbing these additional muni-
tions and services into its armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment will
not alter the basic military balance in the
region.
The principal contractors will be Raytheon
USA, Orbital ATK (USA), General Dynamics,
Kilgore Cheming Groupe (USA), Cheming
Groupe (USA), and Kaman Precision Prod-
ucts (USA). The purchaser typically requests
offsets, however there are no known offset
agreements at this time in connection with
this potential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
not require U.S. Government or contractor
representatives to be assigned to Morocco.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–38
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology.
1. Sensitive and/or classified (up to SE-
CRET) elements of the proposed sale include
munitions and support equipment: MK82–1
Bomb (Tritonal), MAU–169L/B, MXU–651B/B,
MXU–650C/B, Fuzes FMU–152A/B, and JDAM
MK–84 KMU–572 F/B. The hardware, software,
and data identified are classified to protect
vulnerabilities, design and performance pa-
rameters, and other similar critical informa-
tion.
2. GBU–10/12/16/58 Paveway II (PWII), a
Laser Guided Bomb (LGB), is a maneuver-
able, free-fall weapon that guides to a spot of
laser energy reflected off the target. The
LGB is delivered like a normal general pur-
pose (GP) warhead, and the semi-active guid-
ance corrects for many of the normal errors
inherent in any delivery system. Laser des-
ignation for the LGB consists of a Computer
Control Group (CCG) that is not warhead
specific, and a warhead specific Air Foil
Group (AFG) that attaches to the nose and
tail of a GP bomb body. The PWII can use ei-
ther the FMU–152 or FMU–139D/B fuzes. The
overall weapon is CONFIDENTIAL. The
GBU–10 is a 2,000 lb (MK–84 or BLU–117 B/B)
GP bomb body fitted with the MXU–650 AFG,
and MAU–209C/B or MAU–168L/B CCGs to
guide to its laser designated target. MK–82
bomb body’s hardware are UNCLASSIFIED.
3. Joint Direct Attack Munitions (JDAM)
is a Joint Service weapon which uses an on-
board GPS-aided Inertial Navigation System
(INS) Guidance Set with a MK82, MK83,
MK84, BLU–109, BLU–100, BLU–111, BLU–117,
BLU–126 (Navy) or BLU–129 warhead. The
Guidance Set, when combined with a war-
head and appropriate fuze, forms a JDAM
Guided Bomb Unit (GBU). The JDAM Guid-
ance Set gives these bombs adverse weather
capability with improved accuracy. The
JDAM weapon can be delivered from modest
standoff ranges at high or low altitudes
against a variety of land and surface targets
during the day or night. After release, JDAM
autonomously guides to a target using the
resident GPS-aided INS guidance system.
JDAM is capable of receiving target coordi-
nates via preplanned mission data from the
delivery aircraft, by onboard aircraft sensors
(i.e. FLIR, Radar, etc.) during captive carry,
or from a third party source via manual or
automated aircrew cockpit entry. The JDAM
as an All Up Round is UNCLASSIFIED; tech-
nical data for JDAM is classified up to SE-
CRET.
4. Joint Programmable Fuze (JPF) FMU–
152 is a multi-delay, multi-arm and prox-
imity sensor compatible with general pur-
pose blast, frag and hardened-target pene-
trator weapons. The JPF settings are cock-
pit selectable in flight when used with JDAM
weapons.
5. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures that might reduce weapon system
effectiveness or be used in the development
of a system with similar or advanced capa-
bilities.
6. A determination has been made that Mo-
rocco can provide substantially the same de-
gree of protection for the sensitive tech-
nology being released as the U.S. Govern-
ment. This sale is necessary in furtherance
of the U.S. foreign policy and national secu-
rity objectives outlined in the Policy Jus-
tification.
7. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal are authorized for release
and export to the Government of Morocco.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–45 concerning the Army’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Govern-
ment of Morocco for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $776 million. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–45
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Kingdom of Mo-
rocco.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $700 million.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.012 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5471
September 12, 2019
Other $76 million.
Total $776 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Two thousand four hundred and one (2,401)
TOW 2A, Radio Frequency (RF) Missiles
(BGM–71–4B-RF).
Twenty-eight (28) TOW 2A, Radio Fre-
quency (RF) Missiles (BGM–71–4B–RF) Fly-
to-Buy Lot Acceptance Missiles.
Four hundred (400) M220A2 TOW Launchers
and/or four hundred (400) M41 Improved Tar-
get Acquisition System (ITAS) Launchers.
Non-MDE: Also included are missile sup-
port equipment; Government furnished
equipment; technical manuals/publications;
spare parts; tool and test equipment; train-
ing; U.S. Government technical and
logistical support, contractor technical sup-
port, and other associated equipment and
services.
(iv) Military Department: Army.
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: MO–B–USZ.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
September 11, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Morocco—TOW 2A., Radio Frequency (RF)
Missiles (BGM–71–4B–RF)
The Government of Morocco has requested
a possible sale of two thousand four hundred
and one (2,401) TOW 2A, Radio Frequency
(RF) Missiles (BGM–71–4B–RF); and twenty
eight (28) TOW 2A, Radio Frequency (RF)
Missiles (BGM–71–4B–RF), Fly-to-Buy mis-
siles for lot acceptance testing; and Four
hundred (400) M220A2 TOW Launchers and/or
four hundred (400) M41 Improved Target Ac-
quisition System (ITAS) Launchers. Also in-
cluded are missile support equipment; Gov-
ernment furnished equipment; technical
manuals/publications; spare parts; tool and
test equipment; training; U.S. Government
technical and logistical support, contractor
technical support, and other associated
equipment and services. The estimated cost
is $776 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security of the United
States by helping to improve the security of
a major Non-NATO ally that continues to be
an important force for political stability and
economic progress in North Africa.
The proposed sale of the TOW 2A Missiles
and TOW Launchers will advance Morocco’s
efforts to develop an integrated ground de-
fense capability. A strong national defense
and dedicated military force will assist Mo-
rocco to sustain itself in its efforts to main-
tain stability.
The proposed sale of this equipment will
not alter the basic military balance in the
region.
The principal contractors involved in this
program are Raytheon Missile Systems, Tuc-
son, Arizona and McKinney, Texas. There are
no known offset agreements proposed in con-
nection with this potential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
not require the U.S. Government or con-
tractor representatives to travel to Morocco.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–45
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The TOW 2A, Radio Frequency (RF) Mis-
siles (BGM–71–4B–RF) is a direct attack mis-
sile designed to defeat armored vehicles, re-
inforced urban structures, field fortifications
and other such targets. TOW missiles are
fired from a variety of TOW launchers in the
U.S. Army, USMC, and FMS customer forces.
The TOW 2A RF missile can be launched
from the same launcher platforms as the ex-
isting wire-guided TOW 2A missile without
modification to the launcher. The TOW 2A
missile (both wire & RF) contains two track-
er beacons (xenon and thermal) for the
launcher to track and guide the missile in
flight. Guidance commands from the launch-
er are provided to the missile by a RF link
contained within the commands from the
missile case. The hardware, software, and
technical publications provided with the sale
are UNCLASSIFIED. However, the system
itself contains sensitive technology that in-
structs the system on how to operate in the
presence of countermeasures.
2. Improved Target Acquisition System
(ITAS) is designed to fire all existing
versions of the TOW missile and consists of
a Target Acquisition Subsystem (TAS), a
Fire Control Subsystem (FCS), a Li-Ion Bat-
tery Box (LBB), a modified Traversing Unit
(TU) plus the standard launch tube and tri-
pod. The ITAS provides for the integration of
both the direct view optics and a second gen-
eration Standard Advanced Dewar Assembly
(SADA) II thermal sensor into a single hous-
ing; direct view optics that provide viewing
the target scene in daylight and non-ob-
scured conditions; introduction of both pas-
sive and active eye safe laser-ranging; devel-
opment of embedded training and training
sustainment; automatic bore sight which al-
lows the gunner to align the night vision
system with the direct view optics; insertion
of advanced Built-in Test/Built-in Test
Equipment (BIT/BITE) which provides fault
detection and recognition and go/no go sta-
tus for the gunner; and an Aided Target
Tracker (A17) that provides the capability to
process infrared imagery into recognizable
contour features used to assist the gunner’s
aim point.
3. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures that might reduce weapon system
effectiveness or be used in the development
of a system with similar or advanced capa-
bilities.
4. A determination has been made that Mo-
rocco can provide substantially the same de-
gree of protection for the sensitive tech-
nology being released as the U.S. Govern-
ment. This sale is necessary in furtherance
of the U.S. foreign policy and national secu-
rity objectives outlined in the Policy Jus-
tification.
5. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal are authorized for release
and export to the Government of Morocco.
f
FT. HUACHUCA
Ms. SINEMA. Mr. President, I join
my colleagues in opposition to cutting
congressionally mandated support from
critical military construction projects
in Arizona, the United States, and
around the world. This misguided ef-
fort takes $30 million away from Ft.
Huachuca, home to the U.S. Army In-
telligence Center of Excellence, where
all Army intelligence professionals
train at least once in their careers.
The $30 million was set to fund con-
struction of a long-needed, new facility
to protect and maintain equipment
used to replicate the communications
networks and threat displays of our ad-
versaries. This investment is critical to
ensuring our Army intelligence profes-
sionals receive the training they need
to keep our country safe. Backfilling
these cuts will likely delay several
other needed projects at Ft. Huachuca
and may lead to wasted taxpayer dol-
lars as the cost of construction goes up
over time.
I recently saw firsthand how the
training our soldiers receive at Ft.
Huachuca is essential in preparing our
country to respond to threats from
Russia, China, and other bad actors
around the globe. As we continue to
counter terrorism, we must consider
threats our adversaries pose across
multiple domains—notably
disinformation campaigns, cyber war-
fare, and conventional military oper-
ations. Our intelligence training mis-
sion at Ft. Huachuca is critical to our
national security, and our intelligence
soldiers deserve our full support.
Ft. Huachuca is the largest employer
in Cochise County, and the residents of
Sierra Vista and the surrounding com-
munities remain steadfast supporters
of our brave servicemembers and
America’s intelligence mission. They
know personally that taking $30 mil-
lion from the base risks military readi-
ness and our security.
This misguided plan weakens our na-
tional security and will likely cost
American taxpayers more money in the
long-run, which is why I thank my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle who
have rejected taking money away from
these important military projects. We
all support the men and women of our
Armed Forces and must work together
to ensure they have the resources and
support to do their jobs and keep us
safe.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO DEPUTY CODY
CRINER
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Deputy Cody Criner of Sweetgrass
County for his brave action in service
of his community.
On February 6, 2019, Deputy Cody
Criner was performing a routine check
at a rest stop along I-90 near Big Tim-
ber, when he came across a Toyota
Prius. At first, he believed the car to
be abandoned. The car was covered in
snow, and the hood and the exhaust
were completely frozen over. Aban-
doned cars are common along this
stretch of highway; however, Deputy
Criner knew in his gut that something
was wrong.
Deputy Criner approached the vehicle
to inspect the windows, and that is
when he saw the hand of a 33-year-old
man. The man’s eyes were rolled into
the back of his head, and he wasn’t re-
sponding as Criner pounded on the win-
dow. In temperatures 10 degrees below
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.007 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5472 September 12, 2019
freezing, Criner knew time was work-
ing against him.
Criner took quick action and grabbed
a hammer and broke the passenger side
window. He proceeded to cover the man
with as many blankets as he had and
even took the beanie off his own head
to keep the man warm. On that cold
February day, Criner saved a man’s
life.
Deputy Criner’s quick action and
commitment to service is exemplary of
the Montana sprit. I know that Sheriff
Alan Ronneberg and the entire
Sweetgrass community are thankful to
have a faithful public servant in Dep-
uty Cody Criner.
In recognition of Deputy Cody
Criner’s bravery and service, I ask
unanimous consent that his name be
entered into the RECORD and recog-
nized as Montanan of the week.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CAPTAIN NICHOLAS
A. MUNGAS
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, today I
wish to honor CAPT Nicholas A.
Mungas, commodore of Training Air
Wing One, at NAS Meridian, for his 25
years of service to the U.S. Navy.
CAPT Nicholas Mungas grew up in
Kalispell, MT. Following his nomina-
tion, Captain Mungas attended and
graduated from the U.S. Naval Acad-
emy in 1995, with a degree in econom-
ics. Directly following, he attended
flight school and, in November of 1997,
was designated a naval aviator at NAS
Kingsville in Texas.
Captain Mungas’s operational assign-
ments include FA–18 pilot tours with
Strike Fighter Squadron, VFA 105,
USS Enterprise, CVN 65, USS Harry S.
Truman, CVN 75; VFA–195, USS Kitty
Hawk, CV 63; and VFA-136, USS Enter-
prise, CVN 65; completing multiple
Mediterranean and Western Pacific de-
ployments, while supporting Oper-
ations Southern Watch, Deliberate
Forge, Iraqi Freedom, and Enduring
Freedom.
Captain Mungas has excelled in all
areas of the Navy, but most notably as
a naval pilot. Captain Mungas attended
the navy fighter weapons school, better
known as TOPGUN. He also served as
an instructor pilot in the Strike Fight-
er Squadron 106, where he was selected
as the Strike Fighter Wing Atlantic
Fleet Instructor Pilot of the Year in
2004.
After his graduation from the U.S.
Naval Academy, Captain Mungas has
accumulated over 2,900 flight hours and
has preformed 576 carrier arrested land-
ings. His distinguished career includes
the Defense Meritorious Service Medal,
the Meritorious Service Medal, the
Strike Flight Air Medal, and the De-
partment of State Meritorious honor
award.
As well as being a highly qualified
and distinguished pilot, Captain
Mungas has served as the Joint Chiefs
of Staff desk officer and U.S. Africa
Command lead planner, as well as a
military detailee to the U.S. Depart-
ment of State in the Office of the Euro-
Atlantic Security Affairs in the Bureau
of Arms Control, Verification, and
Compliance.
His record of excellence and leader-
ship is an inspiration to all young Mon-
tanans and aspiring naval aviators. I,
along with all of Montana, are grateful
for his life of service to our Nation.
In recognition of CAPT Nicholas A.
Mungas and his personal accomplish-
ments and contributions to his coun-
try, I ask unanimous consent that his
name be entered into the RECORD.∑
f
75TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
YMCA’S YOUTH ASSEMBLY PRO-
GRAM
∑ Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President,
today, I am proud to recognize in the
RECORD an organization that has
meant so much to so many worldwide.
In June, the YMCA celebrated a
major anniversary. Since its creation
175 years ago, the YMCA is now located
in 119 countries and serves 58 million
individuals, including my own family
In Alpharetta, GA; the local YMCA is
named for my father: the ‘‘Ed Isakson/
Alpharetta Family YMCA.’’
Now, the YMCA is celebrating 75
years of an important civic engage-
ment program called Youth Assembly.
Youth Assembly is a high school mock
State legislative program, which I par-
ticipated in as a student myself, serv-
ing as a press delegate in 1962.
At Youth Assembly, students discuss
current issues confronting their State
with other high school students from
across the State, along with educators,
State administrators, and other elected
officials. In Georgia, this program
brings together a diverse group of stu-
dents who come from very different
parts of our State. Students choose
from a range of areas relevant to the
legislative process, including execu-
tive, judicial, legislative, lobbyist, and
media roles. This program is competi-
tion-based, and those delegates who
excel in each of the programs are rec-
ognized during the closing session.
In Atlanta, the program is held annu-
ally at the State capitol, where volun-
teers from State departments act as re-
sources for the students while they de-
bate the issues. These volunteers,
along with State YMCA staff, help
guide students through mock com-
mittee meetings and procedures. Stu-
dents debate and vote on the bills that
their fellow delegates have written and
presented. Bills that pass in committee
are then taken to the floor of the house
or senate for full debate and vote. Par-
ticipants also engage in campaigns and
elections for officers who will serve
during the following year.
Bringing these students together
helps them learn not only the legisla-
tive process but also more about people
from different backgrounds and from
parts of their own State who may not
be as familiar to their upbringing.
For our democracy to survive, it re-
quires citizen participation. Anything
we can do to help students—and all
citizens—to better understand govern-
ment and recognize the importance of
playing a role m its operation is impor-
tant. If everyone were more involved
day-to-day, we might see fewer dis-
agreements, but we would certainly
have a better understanding of how our
country operate, and how opinions can
differ without being disagreeable.
Becoming involved in government
helps us all, and I commend the YMCA
on the 75th anniversary of this mean-
ingful program for our youth.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MARIAN WRIGHT
EDELMAN
∑ Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I wish to
recognize Marian Wright Edelman,
founder and president emerita of the
Children’s Defense Fund, for her power-
ful advocacy for racial justice and on
behalf of children, the poor, and all
marginalized people.
On September 18, the Coalition on
Human Needs will honor Mrs. Edelman
as an extraordinary Human Needs
Hero. Mrs. Edelman’s storied career
spans several epochal chapters of
American history. Her activism and
leadership led to the creation of pro-
grams such as Head Start, federally
funded child care, the Children’s
Health Insurance Program, and tax
credits for low-income families.
Through the Children’s Defense Fund
and in her earlier work, Mrs. Edelman
led in opening doors for children with
disabilities, overhauling child welfare
services, and expanding educational op-
portunities and health care for all chil-
dren. From her early fight to ensure
that nutrition aid reached the poorest
families to her ongoing advocacy to
protect children of color and all chil-
dren from the ravages of poverty, Mar-
ian Wright Edelman has assisted tens
of millions of children living in poverty
and touched countless lives for the bet-
ter.
Mrs. Edelman grew up the daughter
of a Baptist minister, who raised her
with a strong emphasis on the value of
faith, family, and education. These val-
ues would guide her through the chal-
lenges of entering the public sphere as
an African-American woman. Mrs.
Edelman’s advocacy began while she
was a student at Spelman College,
where she was an active participant of
the civil rights movement. Upon grad-
uating from Yale Law School, Mrs.
Edelman became the first African-
American woman admitted to the Mis-
sissippi Bar. In Mississippi, she prac-
ticed with the NAACP Legal Defense
and Education Fund and was an inte-
gral part of the Freedom Summer of
1964. She was instrumental in exposing
the plight of child poverty in the South
and throughout the United States, cul-
minating in Senator Robert Kennedy’s
historic trip to witness the plight of
hungry children in Mississippi.
Subsequently, Mrs. Edelman served
as counsel to the Rev. Martin Luther
King’s Poor People’s Campaign. In 1973,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.010 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5473
September 12, 2019
she founded the Children’s Defense
Fund, an organization that to this day
continues to work tirelessly to ensure
child poverty will one day be a thing of
the past. The CDF’s ‘‘Leave No Child
Behind’’ mission is to ensure every
child ‘‘a Healthy Start, a Head Start, a
Fair Start, a Safe Start, and a Moral
Start in life and successful passage to
adulthood with the help of caring fami-
lies and communities.’’ To that end,
CDF continues the tradition of Free-
dom Schools in 28 States and empowers
outstanding high school students who
have overcome tremendous adversity
through its Beat the Odds program.
Through her work, Mrs. Edelman has
achieved international renown, gar-
nering numerous awards, including the
Presidential Medal of Freedom. She
has authored several books on her life
and our Nation’s shared responsibility
to children.
Mrs. Edelman has been a guiding
voice in much of my own work in Con-
gress, and I know that countless other
Members of Congress would say the
same. This is particularly true with re-
spect to my involvement in the Family
First Prevention Services Act, a law
that changed the way our Nation sup-
ports child welfare services by expand-
ing the largest Federal program—title
IV-E of the Social Security Act which
pays for foster care services—to also
support services for families to help
prevent the need for foster care in the
first place. This legislative victory
simply would not have occurred were it
not for the strong and steady voice of
Mrs. Edelman and her colleagues at the
Children’s Defense Fund.
Marian Wright Edelman will long be
remembered as one of the greatest
champions of children in our Nation’s
history, and so it is my honor and
privilege today to recognize Marian
Wright Edelman.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message from the President of the
United States was communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
REPORT RELATIVE TO THE CON-
TINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
THE TERRORIST ATTACKS ON
THE UNITED STATES OF SEP-
TEMBER 11, 2001—PM 28
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act, 50 U.S.C. 1622(d), provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. Consistent
with this provision, I have sent to the
Federal Register the enclosed notice,
stating that the emergency declared in
Proclamation 7463 of September 14,
2001, ‘‘National Emergency by Reason
of Certain Terrorist Attacks,’’ is to
continue in effect beyond September
14, 2019.
The threat of terrorism that resulted
in the declaration of a national emer-
gency on September 14, 2001, continues.
The authorities that have been invoked
under that declaration of a national
emergency continue to be critical to
the ability of the Armed Forces of the
United States to perform essential mis-
sions in the United States and around
the world to address the continuing
threat of terrorism. For these reasons,
I have determined that it is necessary
to continue in effect the national
emergency declared on September 14,
2001, in response to certain terrorist at-
tacks.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, September 12, 2019.
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:20 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 205. An act to amend the Gulf of Mex-
ico Energy Security Act of 2006 to perma-
nently extend the moratorium on leasing in
certain areas of the Gulf of Mexico.
H.R. 1941. An act to amend the Outer Con-
tinental Shelf Lands Act to prohibit the Sec-
retary of the Interior including in any leas-
ing program certain planning areas, and for
other purposes.
At 12:55 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1146. An act to amend Public Law 115–
97 (commonly known as the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act) to repeal the Arctic National Wild-
life Refuge oil and gas program, and for
other purposes.
At 2:35 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Clerk of the House be
directed to return to the Senate the
bill (S. 1790) to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes, in compli-
ance with a request of the Senate for
the return thereof.
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 205. An act to amend the Gulf of Mex-
ico Energy Security Act of 2006 to perma-
nently extend the moratorium on leasing in
certain areas of the Gulf of Mexico; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
H.R. 1146. An act to amend Public Law 115–
97 (commonly known as the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act) to repeal the Arctic National Wild-
life Refuge oil and gas program, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
H.R. 1941. An act to amend the Outer Con-
tinental Shelf Lands Act to prohibit the Sec-
retary of the Interior including in any leas-
ing program certain planning areas, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2551. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Defense Threat Reduction
Agency Privacy Program’’ (RIN0790–AK64)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 9, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–2552. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report enti-
tled ‘‘The Consumer Credit Card Market’’; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–2553. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a Memorandum of Justification regard-
ing determination pursuant to section 451 of
the Foreign Assistance Act to support Bu-
rundi and Mauritania; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
EC–2554. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘2018 National Healthcare Quality and Dis-
parities Report’’; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2555. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant General Counsel for Regu-
latory Services, Office of Postsecondary Edu-
cation, Department of Education, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Student Assistance General Provi-
sions and Federal Family Education Loan
Program (Institutional Accountability)’’
(RIN1840–AD26) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 10,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2556. A communication from the Pro-
gram Analyst, Office of Managing Director,
Federal Communications Commission, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Assessment and Collection of Reg-
ulatory Fees for Fiscal Year 2019, Report and
Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rule-
making’’ ((MD Docket No. 19–105) (FCC 19–
83)) received in the Office of the President of
the Senate on September 10, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2557. A communication from the Dep-
uty Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Secu-
rity Bureau, Federal Communications Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.019 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5474 September 12, 2019
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Implementing
Kari’s Law and Section 506 of RAY BAUM’S
Act; Inquiry Concerning 911 Access, Routing,
and Location in Enterprise Communications
Systems; Amending the Definition of Inter-
connected VoIP Service in Section 9.3 of the
Commission’s Rules’’ ((PS Docket Nos. 18–261
and 17–239 and GN Docket No. 11–117) (FCC
19–76)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 10, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. ALEXANDER, from the Committee
on Appropriations, without amendment:
S. 2470. An original bill making appropria-
tions for energy and water development and
related agencies for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–102).
By Mr. SHELBY, from the Committee on
Appropriations, without amendment:
S. 2474. An original bill making appropria-
tions for the Department of Defense for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–103).
By Mr. SHELBY, from the Committee on
Appropriations:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Allocation to
Subcommittees of Budget Totals for Fiscal
Year 2020’’ (Rept. No. 116–104).
By Mr. GRAHAM, from the Committee on
the Judiciary, without amendment:
S. 1273. A bill to amend title 17, United
States Code, to establish an alternative dis-
pute resolution program for copyright small
claims, and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–
105).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. BOOKER, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 2469. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to require the use of advanced
leak detection technology for pipelines, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. ALEXANDER:
S. 2470. An original bill making appropria-
tions for energy and water development and
related agencies for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020, and for other purposes;
from the Committee on Appropriations;
placed on the calendar.
By Mr. HEINRICH:
S. 2471. A bill to give middle-class families
access to the maximum Federal Pell Grant,
to increase college transparency, and State
maintenance of efforts, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 2472. A bill to redesignate the NASA
John H. Glenn Research Center at Plum
Brook Station, Ohio, as the NASA John H.
Glenn Research Center at the Neil A. Arm-
strong Test Facility; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. JONES):
S. 2473. A bill to extend certain provisions
of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery
Act until September 30, 2030, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. SHELBY:
S. 2474. An original bill making appropria-
tions for the Department of Defense for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; from the Committee on Ap-
propriations; placed on the calendar.
By Mr. COTTON:
S. 2475. A bill to modify the effective date
for inclusion of certain members of the
Armed Forces serving on active duty in the
Yellow Ribbon G.I. Education Enhancement
Program, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself,
Mr. RUBIO, Mr. ISAKSON, and Mr. GRA-
HAM):
S. 2476. A bill to provide a temporary in-
crease in the limitation on deductible con-
tributions made for relief efforts related to
Hurricane Dorian; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
S. 2477. A bill to establish a National Com-
mission on Fibrotic Diseases; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. BENNET, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. WARREN, Ms. HARRIS,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. JONES, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. LEAHY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. CARDIN):
S. 2478. A bill to designate the Bahamas
under section 244 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to provide temporary protected
status under such section to eligible nation-
als of the Bahamas; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. BROWN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. COONS, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. DURBIN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. JONES, Mr. KAINE, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. UDALL, and Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. Res. 309. A resolution designating Sep-
tember 2019 as ‘‘National Voting Rights
Month’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN):
S. Res. 310. A resolution recognizing the
semiquincentennial of the community of
Wheeling, West Virginia; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
KENNEDY):
S. Res. 311. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of the week of September
11 through September 17 as ‘‘Patriot Week’’;
considered and agreed to.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. KING, Mr. BROWN, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. JONES, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. CASEY, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. HARRIS,
Mrs. MURRAY, Ms. ROSEN, and Mr.
KAINE):
S. Res. 312. A resolution designating the
week beginning September 8, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Direct Support Professionals Recogni-
tion Week’’; considered and agreed to.
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 66
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) and the Senator from
Michigan (Ms. STABENOW) were added
as cosponsors of S. 66, a bill to regulate
assault weapons, to ensure that the
right to keep and bear arms is not un-
limited, and for other purposes.
S. 427
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from Tennessee (Mrs.
BLACKBURN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 427, a bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to enhance activi-
ties of the National Institutes of
Health with respect to research on au-
tism spectrum disorder and enhance
programs relating to autism, and for
other purposes.
S. 430
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 430, a bill to extend the Secure
Rural Schools and Community Self-De-
termination Act of 2000.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 433, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to im-
prove home health payment reforms
under the Medicare program.
S. 511
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 511, a bill to promote
and protect from discrimination living
organ donors.
S. 655
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 655, a bill to impose additional
restrictions on tobacco flavors for use
in e-cigarettes.
S. 668
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH) and the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 668, a bill to amend
title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to waive coinsurance under Medicare
for colorectal cancer screening tests,
regardless of whether therapeutic
intervention is required during the
screening.
S. 803
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 803, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to restore in-
centives for investments in qualified
improvement property.
S. 839
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 839, a bill to extend Federal Pell
Grant eligibility of certain short-term
programs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.022 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5475
September 12, 2019
S. 846
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 846, a bill to amend title 49,
United States Code, to limit certain
rolling stock procurements, and for
other purposes.
S. 851
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 851, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Labor to issue an occupational safe-
ty and health standard that requires
covered employers within the health
care and social service industries to de-
velop and implement a comprehensive
workplace violence prevention plan,
and for other purposes.
S. 894
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 894, a bill to authorize dedi-
cated domestic terrorism offices within
the Department of Homeland Security,
the Department of Justice, and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation to ana-
lyze and monitor domestic terrorist ac-
tivity and require the Federal Govern-
ment to take steps to prevent domestic
terrorism.
S. 947
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
947, a bill to amend the Radiation Ex-
posure Compensation Act to improve
compensation for workers involved in
uranium mining, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 982
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Alaska
(Mr. SULLIVAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 982, a bill to increase intergov-
ernmental coordination to identify and
combat violent crime within Indian
lands and of Indians.
S. 1032
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1032, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the def-
inition of income for purposes of deter-
mining the tax-exempt status of cer-
tain corporations.
S. 1048
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from New Jer-
sey (Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1048, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to provide
for a Reducing Youth Use of E–Ciga-
rettes Initiative.
S. 1107
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1107, a bill to require a re-
view of women and lung cancer, and for
other purposes.
S. 1114
At the request of Mr. KING, the name
of the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
SMITH) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1114, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to eliminate a pro-
vision under the Medicare Advantage
program that inadvertently penalizes
Medicare Advantage plans for pro-
viding high quality care to Medicare
beneficiaries.
S. 1267
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET), the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Sen-
ator from Ohio (Mr. BROWN), the Sen-
ator from Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) and
the Senator from Maryland (Mr. VAN
HOLLEN) were added as cosponsors of S.
1267, a bill to establish within the
Smithsonian Institution the National
Museum of the American Latino, and
for other purposes.
S. 1279
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1279, a bill to reauthorize mandatory
funding programs for historically
Black colleges and universities and
other minority-serving institutions.
S. 1416
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1416, a bill to amend the
Federal Trade Commission Act to pro-
hibit anticompetitive behaviors by
drug product manufacturers, and for
other purposes.
S. 1468
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1468, a bill to support the
successful implementation of the 1991
Paris Peace Agreement in Cambodia,
and for other purposes.
S. 1628
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1628, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the em-
ployer credit for paid family and med-
ical leave, and for other purposes.
S. 1822
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1822, a bill to
require the Federal Communications
Commission to issue rules relating to
the collection of data with respect to
the availability of broadband services,
and for other purposes.
S. 1825
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1825, a bill to impose sanctions
with respect to foreign persons respon-
sible for violations of the human rights
of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender,
and intersex (LGBTI) individuals, and
for other purposes.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1838, a bill to amend the Hong
Kong Policy Act of 1992, and for other
purposes.
S. 1840
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1840, a bill to establish certain re-
quirements for the small refineries ex-
emption of the renewable fuels provi-
sions under the Clean Air Act, and for
other purposes.
S. 1906
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
names of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) and the Senator from Alaska
(Mr. SULLIVAN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1906, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to provide fi-
nancial assistance to eligible entities
to provide and coordinate the provision
of suicide prevention services for vet-
erans at risk of suicide and veteran
families through the award of grants to
such entities, and for other purposes.
S. 1969
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1969, a bill to authorize
the Fallen Journalists Memorial Foun-
dation to establish a commemorative
work in the District of Columbia and
its environs, and for other purposes.
S. 2026
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2026, a bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to
reauthorize the farm to school pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 2080
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) and the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) were added as cosponsors
of S. 2080, a bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to increase the
number of permanent faculty in pallia-
tive care at accredited allopathic and
osteopathic medical schools, nursing
schools, social work schools, and other
programs, including physician assist-
ant education programs, to promote
education and research in palliative
care and hospice, and to support the
development of faculty careers in aca-
demic palliative medicine.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
names of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) and the Senator
from Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2085, a bill to
authorize the Secretary of Education
to award grants to eligible entities to
carry out educational programs about
the Holocaust, and for other purposes.
S. 2160
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 2160, a bill to re-
quire carbon monoxide alarms in cer-
tain federally assisted housing, and for
other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.025 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5476 September 12, 2019
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) and the Senator from
Tennessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2179, a bill to
amend the Older Americans Act of 1965
to provide social service agencies with
the resources to provide services to
meet the urgent needs of Holocaust
survivors to age in place with dignity,
comfort, security, and quality of life.
S. 2203
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING), the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) and the Senator
from Arizona (Ms. SINEMA) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2203, a bill to extend
the transfer of Electronic Travel Au-
thorization System fees from the Trav-
el Promotion Fund to the Corporation
for Travel Promotion (Brand USA)
through fiscal year 2027, and for other
purposes.
S. 2206
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2206, a bill to express the sense of
Congress regarding restoration and
maintenance of the Mardasson Memo-
rial in Bastogne, Belgium.
S. 2229
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) were added as cosponsors
of S. 2229, a bill to protect consumers
from deceptive practices with respect
to online booking of hotel reservations,
and for other purposes.
S. 2322
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) and the Senator from
Maine (Mr. KING) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 2322, a bill to amend the Ani-
mal Welfare Act to allow for the retire-
ment of certain animals used in Fed-
eral research.
S. 2417
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) and the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CORNYN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2417, a bill to provide for
payment of proceeds from savings
bonds to a State with title to such
bonds pursuant to the judgment of a
court.
S. 2463
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2463, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for
regulation and taxation of electronic
cigarettes and alternative nicotine
products.
S. RES. 205
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 205, a resolution ex-
pressing the gratitude of the Senate for
the people who operate or support dia-
per banks and diaper distribution pro-
grams in their local communities.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Michi-
gan (Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from
Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 252, a resolution
designating September 2019 as National
Democracy Month as a time to reflect
on the contributions of the system of
government of the United States to a
more free and stable world.
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 252, supra.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 309—DESIG-
NATING SEPTEMBER 2019 AS
‘‘NATIONAL VOTING RIGHTS
MONTH’’
Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. CARDIN, Mr.
COONS, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN,
Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. JONES,
Mr. KAINE, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
SANDERS, Ms. SMITH, Mr. UDALL, and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 309
Whereas voting is one of the single most
important rights that can be exercised in a
democracy;
Whereas, over the course of history, var-
ious voter suppression laws in the United
States have hindered, and even prohibited,
certain individuals and groups from exer-
cising the right to vote;
Whereas, during the 19th and early 20th
centuries, Native Americans and people who
were born to United States citizens abroad,
people who spoke a language other than
English, and people who were formerly sub-
jected to slavery were denied full citizenship
and prevented from voting by English lit-
eracy tests;
Whereas, since the 1870s, minority groups
such as African Americans in the South have
suffered from the oppressive effects of Jim
Crow laws designed to prevent political, eco-
nomic, and social mobility;
Whereas African Americans, Latinos,
Asian Americans, Native Americans, and
other underrepresented voters were subject
to violence, poll taxes, literacy tests, all-
White primaries, property ownership tests,
and grandfather clauses;
Whereas members of the aforementioned
groups and others are currently, in some
cases, subject to intimidation, voter roll
purges, bans on former prisoners from vot-
ing, and financial barriers that act effec-
tively as modern day poll taxes;
Whereas, in 1965, Congress passed the Vot-
ing Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.)
to protect the right of African Americans
and other traditionally disenfranchised
groups to vote, among other reasons;
Whereas, in 2013, the Supreme Court of the
United States invalidated section 4 of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965, dismantling the
preclearance formula provision in that Act
that protected voters in States and localities
that historically have suppressed the right of
minorities to vote;
Whereas, since the invalidation of the
preclearance formula provision of the Voting
Rights Act of 1965, gerrymandered districts
in many States have gone unchallenged or
have become less likely to be invalidated by
the courts;
Whereas these gerrymandered districts
have been found to have a discriminatory
impact on traditionally disenfranchised mi-
norities through tactics that include ‘‘crack-
ing’’, diluting the voting power of minorities
across many districts, and ‘‘packing’’, con-
centrating minority voters’ power in one dis-
trict to reduce their voting power in other
districts;
Whereas the courts have found the con-
gressional and, in some cases, State legisla-
tive district maps, in Texas, North Carolina,
Florida, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Wisconsin
to be gerrymandered districts that were cre-
ated to favor some groups over others;
Whereas the decision of the Supreme Court
in Shelby County v. Holder, 570 U.S. 529 (2013),
calls on Congress to update the formula in
the Voting Rights Act of 1965;
Whereas some form of a restrictive voting
law has been instituted in 22 States since
2013;
Whereas these restrictive voting laws en-
compass cutbacks in early voting, voter roll
purges, placement of faulty equipment in mi-
nority communities, requirement of photo
identification—the procurement of which
amounts to a modern day poll tax, and the
elimination of same-day registration;
Whereas these changes could outright dis-
enfranchise or make voting much more dif-
ficult for more than 80,000,000 minority, el-
derly, poor, and disabled voters, among other
groups;
Whereas, in 2016, discriminatory laws in
North Carolina, Wisconsin, North Dakota,
and Texas were ruled to violate voters’
rights and overturned by the courts;
Whereas there is much more work to be
done to ensure all citizens of the United
States have the right to vote;
Whereas National Voter Registration Day
is September 25; and
Whereas September 2019 would be an appro-
priate month to designate as ‘‘National Vot-
ing Rights Month’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates September 2019 as ‘‘National
Voting Rights Month’’;
(2) encourages all people in the United
States to uphold the right of every citizen to
exercise the sacred and fundamental right to
vote;
(3) encourages Congress to pass—
(A) the For the People Act of 2019 (S. 949
and H.R. 1 of the 116th Congress), to increase
voters’ access to the ballot, prohibit the use
of deceptive practices to intimidate voters,
end gerrymandering, create automatic voter
registration, limit the power of restrictive
voter identification laws, make critical in-
vestments in election infrastructure and
technology, and address corruption in cam-
paign finance and ethics;
(B) the Voting Rights Advancement Act of
2019 (S. 561 and H.R. 4 of the 116th Congress),
to restore the protections of the Voting
Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.)
that prohibit discriminatory voting prac-
tices, remove barriers to voting, and provide
protections for minority voters in States
with a history of voting discrimination;
(C) the Securing America’s Federal Elec-
tions Act, or the SAFE Act (S. 2238 and H.R.
2722 of the 116th Congress), to provide fund-
ing for States to improve the administration
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.026 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5477
September 12, 2019
of elections, including by enhancing tech-
nology and election security, replacing anti-
quated voting systems, and meeting new
standards for administering elections; and
(D) other voting rights legislation that
seeks to advance voting rights and protect
elections in the United States;
(4) recommends that public schools and
universities in the United States develop an
academic curriculum that educates students
about—
(A) the importance of voting, how to reg-
ister to vote, where to vote, and the different
forms of voting;
(B) the history of voter suppression in the
United States before the passage of the Vot-
ing Rights Act of 1965;
(C) current issues relating to laws passed
after 1965 that restrict the right to vote; and
(D) any actions taken by State and Federal
Government officials since passage of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965 that have created
barriers to the exercise of the right to vote;
(5) encourages the United States Postal
Service to issue a special Fannie Lou Hamer
stamp during the month of September to re-
mind people in the United States that ordi-
nary citizens risked their lives, marched, and
participated in the great democracy of the
United States so that all citizens would have
the fundamental right to vote; and
(6) invites Congress to allocate the req-
uisite funds for public service announce-
ments on television, radio, newspapers, mag-
azines, social media, billboards, buses, and
other forms of media to remind people in the
United States when elections are being held
and to urge people to get out and vote.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 310—RECOG-
NIZING THE SEMI-QUINCENTEN-
NIAL OF THE COMMUNITY OF
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA
Mrs. CAPITO (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 310
Whereas 2019 marks 250 years since the
September in which pioneer Colonel Ebe-
nezer Zane used an axe to notch, girdle, and
strike his name into a gathering of trees,
marking a plot of land through tomahawk
rights;
Whereas, in the spring of 1770, Zane re-
turned with his brothers, Jonathan and
Silas, to inhabit the clearing he created
above the mouth of Wheeling Creek and
they, along with the families who soon fol-
lowed, formed the nucleus of the community
that would become the city of Wheeling;
Whereas, in 1782, Native American and
British forces attacked Fort Henry in Wheel-
ing to drive out colonial settlers;
Whereas the ammunition supply at Fort
Henry was exhausted, and Betty Zane coura-
geously volunteered to retrieve gunpowder
from the Zane family homestead, gathered
the gunpowder in a tablecloth, and safely re-
turned, resulting in a victory for the citizens
of Wheeling;
Whereas, in 1810, Conrad Cotts, an experi-
enced miner from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
opened the first commercial coal mine in the
area that is now West Virginia in Wheeling;
Whereas the territory of Wheeling was
originally part of the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia;
Whereas the First Wheeling Convention
took place from May 13 to May 15, 1861, at
West Virginia Independence Hall, located at
the corner of 16th Street and Market Street;
Whereas, on May 23, 1861, voters in Vir-
ginia ratified the Secession Ordinance to
leave the United States and join the Confed-
eracy;
Whereas, in June 1861, pro-Union Vir-
ginians met for the Second Wheeling Con-
vention and—
(1) declared all State offices in Virginia va-
cant and all acts of the General Assembly to
be null and void, thus creating the Restored
Government of Virginia that sought to re-
build ties with the Union; and
(2) installed Wheeling as the provisional
capital;
Whereas, on October 24, 1861, residents of
the area that is now West Virginia voted to
approve statehood for West Virginia;
Whereas, on April 20, 1863, during the mid-
dle of the Civil War, President Abraham Lin-
coln issued a proclamation on the admission
of West Virginia to the Union;
Whereas the city of Wheeling became the
first capital of the State of West Virginia,
and Wheeling served intermittently as the
capital until Charleston was selected by a
vote of the citizens of the State;
Whereas the city of Wheeling served as an
early transportation epicenter, connecting
the Ohio River with the Potomac River via
the National Road, opening further expan-
sion to the West;
Whereas ‘‘Nail City’’ became an early nick-
name for Wheeling, reflecting the strong
steel industry and the growing manufac-
turing presence of the State in the region;
Whereas the Wheeling Suspension Bridge
was once the longest suspension bridge in
the world, and construction mechanisms of
the Wheeling Suspension Bridge were used
while building the Brooklyn Bridge in New
York;
Whereas, on September 23, 1952, General
Dwight D. Eisenhower telegrammed Senator
Richard M. Nixon, requesting to meet face-
to-face the following day in Wheeling where
General Eisenhower was holding a presi-
dential campaign rally and would ultimately
approve of Senator Nixon as the Republican
nominee for Vice President;
Whereas the Wheeling Jamboree, utilizing
local country music talent, was first aired on
WWVA at 11 p.m. on Saturday, January 7,
1933, revolutionizing the way radio appealed
to listeners;
Whereas participants of the Ogden News-
papers Half Marathon run 13.1 miles on one
of the toughest courses in the United States;
Whereas the Wheeling Nailers, a member
of the East Coast Hockey League and an af-
filiate of the Pittsburgh Penguins, is the old-
est surviving minor league franchise below
the American Hockey League;
Whereas the Winter Festival of Lights at
the Oglebay Resort in Wheeling attracts
more than 1,000,000 visitors annually for one
of the best holiday light shows in the United
States; and
Whereas DiCarlo’s Pizza took advantage of
the post-World War II economic boom and
expanded across the Northern Panhandle of
West Virginia, becoming famous for cold
cheese piled on top of a rectangular pizza
slice: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes the semiquincentennial of
the community of Wheeling, West Virginia;
and
(2) encourages the citizens of Wheeling
to observe and celebrate the semi-
quincentennial with appropriate ceremonies
to commemorate this historic occasion.
SENATE RESOLUTION 311—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF THE WEEK OF
SEPTEMBER 11 THROUGH SEP-
TEMBER 17 AS ‘‘PATRIOT WEEK’’
Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
KENNEDY) submitted the following res-
olution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 311
Whereas the events that led to the signing
of the Constitution of the United States by
the delegates to the Constitutional Conven-
tion on September 17, 1787, have significance
for every citizen of the United States and are
honored in public schools across the United
States on Constitution Day, which is Sep-
tember 17 of each year;
Whereas the rule of law, the social com-
pact, democracy, liberty, equality, and
unalienable human rights are the essential
values upon which the United States flour-
ishes;
Whereas diversity is one of the greatest
strengths of the United States, and the
motto inscribed on the Great Seal of the
United States, ‘‘E pluribus unum’’, Latin for
‘‘out of many, one’’, symbolizes that individ-
uals in the United States from all walks of
life are unified by shared values;
Whereas exceptional, visionary, and indis-
pensable individuals such as Thomas Paine,
Patrick Henry, John Adams, John Marshall,
George Washington, Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
Susan B. Anthony, Rosa Parks, Harriet Tub-
man, Abraham Lincoln, Frederick Douglass,
Martin Luther King, Jr., Thomas Jefferson,
and James Madison founded or advanced the
United States;
Whereas the Declaration of Independence,
the Constitution of the United States, the
Declaration of Sentiments and Resolutions
signed in Seneca Falls, New York, the Get-
tysburg Address, the Emancipation Procla-
mation, and the ‘‘I Have a Dream’’ speech de-
livered by Martin Luther King, Jr., express
sentiments that have advanced liberty in the
United States; and
Whereas the Bennington (’76) flag, the
Betsy Ross flag, the current flag of the
United States, the flag of the women’s suf-
frage movement, the Union (Fort Sumter)
flag, the Gadsden flag, and the flags of the
States are physical symbols of the history of
the United States: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the designation of the week of
September 11 through September 17 as ‘‘Pa-
triot Week’’;
(2) recognizes that understanding the his-
tory of the United States and the first prin-
ciples of the United States is indispensable
to the survival of the United States as a free
people;
(3) acknowledges, in great reverence to the
victims of the September 11, 2001, attacks,
that citizens of the United States should
take time to honor the first principles,
founders, documents, and symbols of their
history;
(4) recognizes that each generation should
renew the spirit of the United States based
on the first principles, historical figures,
founding documents, and symbols of the
United States; and
(5) encourages citizens, schools and other
educational institutions, and Federal, State,
and local governments and their agencies to
recognize and participate in Patriot Week by
honoring, celebrating, and promoting the
study of the history of the United States so
that all people of the United States may
offer the reverence that is due to the free re-
public.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.027 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5478 September 12, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 312—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK BEGINNING
SEPTEMBER 8, 2019, AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL DIRECT SUPPORT PRO-
FESSIONALS RECOGNITION
WEEK’’
Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. KING, Mr. BROWN, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. JONES, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
CASEY, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mrs.
MURRAY, Ms. ROSEN, and Mr. KAINE)
submitted the following resolution;
which was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 312
Whereas direct support professionals, in-
cluding direct care workers, personal assist-
ants, personal attendants, in-home support
workers, and paraprofessionals, are key to
providing publicly funded, long-term support
and services for millions of individuals with
disabilities;
Whereas direct support professionals pro-
vide essential support that ensures that indi-
viduals with disabilities are—
(1) included as a valued part of the commu-
nities in which those individuals live;
(2) supported at home, at work, and in the
communities of the United States; and
(3) empowered to live with dignity;
Whereas all communities have a stake in
ensuring that individuals with disabilities
thrive through the connections of the indi-
viduals to their families, friends, and com-
munities, fostered by the direct support pro-
fessionals of those individuals;
Whereas home and community-based serv-
ices driven by the direct support professional
workforce can result in cost efficiency and
better outcomes relating to support and
services for individuals with disabilities;
Whereas direct support professionals sup-
port individuals with disabilities by helping
those individuals make person-centered
choices that lead to meaningful, productive
lives;
Whereas direct support professionals build
close, respectful, and trusting relationships
with individuals with disabilities;
Whereas direct support professionals pro-
vide a broad range of individualized support
to individuals with disabilities, including—
(1) assisting with the preparation of meals;
(2) helping with medication;
(3) assisting with bathing, dressing, and
other aspects of daily living;
(4) assisting with access to the environ-
ment of the individuals;
(5) providing transportation to school,
work, religious, and recreational activities;
(6) helping with general daily affairs, such
as assisting with financial matters, medical
appointments, and personal interests; and
(7) meeting complex behavioral and med-
ical needs;
Whereas there is a documented critical and
increasing shortage of direct support profes-
sionals throughout the United States;
Whereas direct support professionals are a
critical element in supporting—
(1) individuals who are receiving health
care services for severe chronic health condi-
tions and individuals with functional limita-
tions; and
(2) the successful transition of individuals
from medical events to post-acute care and
long-term support and services;
Whereas many direct support professionals
are the primary financial providers for their
families;
Whereas direct support professionals are
hardworking, taxpaying citizens who provide
an important service to people with disabil-
ities in the United States, yet many con-
tinue to earn low wages, receive inadequate
benefits, and have limited opportunities for
advancement, resulting in high turnover and
vacancy rates that adversely affect the qual-
ity of support, safety, and health of individ-
uals with disabilities;
Whereas the Supreme Court of the United
States, in Olmstead v. L.C., 527 U.S. 581
(1999)—
(1) recognized the importance of the dein-
stitutionalization of, and community-based
services for, individuals with disabilities;
and
(2) held that, under the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S. 12101 et seq.),
a State must provide community-based serv-
ices to persons with intellectual and develop-
mental disabilities if—
(A) the community-based services are ap-
propriate;
(B) the affected person does not oppose
receiving the community-based services;
and
(C) the community-based services can be
reasonably accommodated after the com-
munity has taken into account the re-
sources available to the State and the
needs of other individuals with disabilities
in the State; and
Whereas, in 2019, the majority of direct
support professionals are employed in home-
and community-based settings and that
trend will increase over the next decade:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the week beginning Sep-
tember 8, 2019, as ‘‘National Direct Support
Professionals Recognition Week’’;
(2) recognizes the dedication and vital role
of direct support professionals in enhancing
the lives of individuals with disabilities of
all ages;
(3) appreciates the contribution of direct
support professionals in supporting individ-
uals with disabilities and their families in
the United States;
(4) commends direct support professionals
for being integral to the provision of long-
term support and services for individuals
with disabilities;
(5) encourages the Bureau of Labor Statis-
tics of the Department of Labor to collect
data specific to direct support professionals;
and
(6) finds that the successful implementa-
tion of the public policies affecting individ-
uals with disabilities in the United States
can depend on the dedication of direct sup-
port professionals.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 938. Mr. INHOFE proposed an amend-
ment to the bill S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for military ac-
tivities of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense activi-
ties of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 938. Mr. INHOFE proposed an
amendment to the bill S. 1790, to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes; as
follows:
In section 6943(a), strike paragraph (2).
After section 6966, insert the following:
Subtitle D—Other Matters
SEC. 6971. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTA-
TION OF GOODS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions authorized
under this title or the amendments made by
this title shall not include the authority or
requirement to impose sanctions on the im-
portation of goods.
(b) GOOD DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
manmade substance, material, supply, or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
f
NOTICE OF INTENT TO OBJECT TO
PROCEEDING
I, Senator BILL CASSIDY, intend to
object to proceeding to H.R. 1146, a bill
to amend Public Law 115–97 (commonly
known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act)
to repeal the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge oil and gas program, and for
other purposes, dated September 12,
2019.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I have
3 requests for committees to meet dur-
ing today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, September
12, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing
on the following nominations: Ryan D.
McCarthy to be Secretary of the Army
and Barbara M. Barrett to be Secretary
of the Air Force.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Thursday, September 12, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Thursday,
September 12, 2019, at 2 p.m., to con-
duct a closed hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Kathryn Sul-
livan be given floor privileges for
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNIZING THE SEMI-
QUINCENTENNIAL OF THE COM-
MUNITY OF WHEELING, WEST
VIRGINIA
Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.030 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5479
September 12, 2019
proceed to the consideration of S. Res.
310, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 310) recognizing the
semiquincentennial of the community of
Wheeling, West Virginia.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the resolution
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed
to, and that the motions to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 310) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I am
really pleased to be here with my fel-
low Senator from the State of West
Virginia to talk about a really great
city and very historic city in our State
of West Virginia, and that is to recog-
nize the 250th birthday anniversary of
the city of Wheeling, WV.
In September of 1769, Ebenezer Zane
set out into the great unknown, as
many of our brave earlier settlers did.
He found a place nestled at the mouth
of a river, and he girdled a group of
trees together and carved his family
name into them, claiming his toma-
hawk right, as was the custom of the
time. That clearing that Zane created,
where he built his home and raised his
family, would develop into the city of
Wheeling.
I grew up just 10 miles south of
Wheeling, WV. Wheeling is a city of in-
dustry, good people, and growth. Yes,
there have been ups and downs over the
years, but today it is as vibrant as
ever. As West Virginians, we all take
pride in our State’s progress through
the years, but Wheeling has made a
particularly special mark on our State.
During the Wheeling Convention of
1861, Western Virginians voted to se-
cede from Virginia so that we could re-
main loyal to the Union. They declared
that Virginia officials had abandoned
their posts, and they established a pro-
visional government with Francis
Pierpont as the Governor.
Then, in 1863—something we are very
proud of—President Lincoln issued a
proclamation admitting the State of
West Virginia into the Union and insti-
tuting Wheeling, WV, as our first State
capital.
The bold actions of the men of the
Wheeling Convention opened the gate
for the creation of the State I know we
know and love, the State that we are so
proud to call home and to serve here in
the Senate.
As a matter of fact, we have a statue
to honor our first Governor, Governor
Francis Pierpont, the father of West
Virginia, and it still stands in the Cap-
itol in Statuary Hall today.
As a new State following the Civil
War, West Virginia sought to cement
its place in the recovering Union, and
Wheeling became an early transpor-
tation epicenter. Probably, traveling to
the Presiding Officer’s State, you had
to go right through Wheeling.
With the presence of the National
Road, including the Wheeling Suspen-
sion Bridge, which is still there today,
the city connected the Ohio River with
the Potomac River and offered further
expansion to the west. As a result,
Wheeling, WV, was able to become a
powerhouse in the steel industry. We
have all heard of Wheeling steel. In the
late 19th century, Wheeling was pro-
ducing nearly half of the Nation’s
nails, earning it the nickname ‘‘Nail
City.’’
Today, Wheeling has revived its
downtown, winning the 2019 Great
American Main Street Award.
In the past 3 years, they have opened
37 new small businesses—the backbone
of our State—and the city has opened
tourism to the Ohio River Valley, from
the Victorian Capitol Theater and the
shops and eateries of Centre Market to
one of the best—and, I will say, not one
of the best but the best—holiday light
shows in the country at Oglebay Park,
their Winter Festival of Lights.
Wheeling is historic. It is beautiful,
and it is booming. That is all thanks to
the creative and incredible men and
women who have called it home over
the years.
One of my favorite historic stories
about Wheeling involves one of those
brave men, Major Samuel McColloch.
Back in September of 1777, during the
Revolutionary War, there was a siege
on Fort Henry, which today is Wheel-
ing. As the fort came under attack by
a group of Native Americans, Major
McColloch arrived at the fort with 40
mounted men. They all made it safely
inside the gate except for the major,
who was then forced to flee to a nearby
hill. If you know anything about West
Virginia or Wheeling, WV, we have
plenty of hills.
So when he got to the top, he found
himself surrounded, and his only hope
of escaping was by leaping off of the
edge, which was about a 300-foot drop.
Well, being the bold leader that he was,
Major McColloch took the jump. He
and his horse survived this leap, and
they galloped away.
Today, that spot is marked by an his-
toric marker, and it is called
McColloch’s Leap. I can remember my
parents, when I was a young girl and
we would go to Wheeling, stopping and
explaining this incredible story about
the leap of Major McColloch with his
horse down the 300 feet. You ought to
go see it, because when you look at it,
you go: Whoa, that is a long way.
Of course we cannot forget the
women who also helped to shape
Wheeling’s history. There was another
siege on Fort Henry that took place in
September of 1782. It is often known as
the Last Battle of the Revolutionary
War. Native Americans and British
Rangers had laid siege to the fort, with
some 40 men defending it and pro-
tecting and guarding the women and
children inside.
As the battle raged on, the settlers
knew that they would soon deplete
their ammunition, but they knew of a
stockpile at the nearby Zane home-
stead. So one volunteer, Betty Zane,
Ebenezer’s sister and one of the origi-
nal settlers of Wheeling, stepped up.
She ran to her brother’s cabin at her
own peril, gathered up the gunpowder
in a tablecloth and returned through
enemy fire.
Betty was successful and unharmed,
and with the replenished resources, the
forces were forced to retire, resulting
in a victory for Wheeling and a very
young United States of America.
So, as we gather today, Senator
MANCHIN and I, to honor Wheeling’s
250th birthday, I also honor the indi-
viduals who built the city, from the
first settlers to those who walk down
Market Street today. Together, they
have secured an important place for
Wheeling in our Nation’s history, and
they have made it the success and the
incredible city that it remains today.
I was just in Wheeling last weekend,
where we had a parade celebrating the
250th birthday of Wheeling. With the
amount of young people, music, and
great feeling that exuded all through-
out the city—restaurants full, bands
playing patriotic music—it was a won-
derful day for the entire community to
celebrate that birthday.
In West Virginia, we have little
names for little cities and how we feel.
Wheeling is a place I have frequented
many, many times in my life. I can say
that day, celebrating the 250th birth-
day on Saturday, I definitely had the
‘‘Wheeling feeling.’’ I had the oppor-
tunity to see so many of those in the
northern panhandle celebrate Wheeling
as a vibrant city. I look forward to con-
tinuing to celebrate this vibrant city
and everyone who calls it home for
years to come.
I yield the floor and welcome Senator
MANCHIN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
other Senator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I
thank my colleague Senator CAPITO.
We are very proud West Virginians,
born and raised in West Virginia, as
you can tell by our presentations. It is
a special day where we can say happy
birthday to Wheeling.
Wheeling is an unbelievable histor-
ical city, when you think about it.
When you think about the State of
West Virginia, we were the only State
forged out of the Civil War. Abraham
Lincoln’s handprint was all over our
State, and basically he was involved in
our becoming a State in 1863.
The significance of the formation of
our State—and Wheeling being a major
economic stronghold because of the
river, because of the gateway—can you
believe that in 1949, when the suspen-
sion bridge was built, it was called the
Gateway to the West? It is not that far
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.037 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5480 September 12, 2019
from here, maybe 4 hours’ drive. So
you can see how our country has ex-
panded and how quickly it expanded.
The lessons learned during the con-
struction of the bridge were later used
to build the Brooklyn Bridge. I want to
tell Senator SCHUMER that we helped. I
am sure he would be pleased with that.
In 1933, the Wheeling Jamboree—the
Wheeling Jamboree was the longest.
People will tell you, during World War
II, they would hear—because it was
50,000 watts, they would hear it on the
battleships. It was unbelievable.
The music, the talent, the country
music that came out of there from
some of the most famous artists of the
time and still yet to this day passed
through Wheeling.
These points in time showcase the
importance of the city of Wheeling and
the State of West Virginia throughout
American history.
I keep thinking about the Marsh
Wheeling stogies. Anybody who maybe
liked to smoke a cigar every now and
then—that was 1840, and it is still in
operation. It is unbelievable.
Of course Senator CAPITO talked
about Wheeling Steel. It had a tremen-
dous industrial might there for many,
many years.
As talked about also, the Zane broth-
ers established a settlement in 1769.
Continuing to join the Zane brothers,
people came from all over. A small set-
tlement kept growing and growing like
the country was at that time.
Wheeling’s Fort Henry played a role
in what is considered the last battle of
the Revolutionary War. It was a sig-
nificant strategic point for us.
The Restored Government of Virginia
at that time—Virginia seceded in 1861.
In 1861, there was no Virginia as we
know Virginia today. They moved over
to Western Virginia, which is where
Wheeling is. That was the restored gov-
ernment, and that is where the capital
was. That was all through Arthur
Boreman.
In 1863—we have a statue in the cap-
ital that has Abraham Lincoln walking
at midnight deciding whether he is
going to sign the proclamation. The
country is already divided; now he is
going to divide a State. That had not
been done because basically, up until
then, the Constitution was very clear:
You had to have permission from the
territory you were in or from another
State to secede. But Abraham Lincoln
took it upon himself.
If you see the beautiful, unusual
shape of our State, there are very few
straight lines. Especially when you see
the zoning of the eastern panhandle—it
is an hour-and-10-minute drive from
here—you have Harpers Ferry and John
Brown’s raid in 1859, which kicked off
the Civil War. Then you have the rail-
roads, the confluence of the Shen-
andoah and the Potomac. It is just un-
believable. He knew he needed that ar-
senal.
This is the folklore. I don’t know if it
is true or not, but it is a good story.
The three counties we have over there
are Morgan, Berkeley, and Jefferson. It
was said that after the war, they were
supposed to have a referendum and a
vote to see if it would go back to the
State of Virginia. Well, I am under-
standing that Ulysses S. Grant, who
was then the President—it is said that
he stationed quite a few troops that
had voting rights, and the rest is his-
tory because it is still West Virginia.
There are really some good anecdotes
about that.
Wheeling became the provisional cap-
ital for the split in the western part of
Virginia during the Civil War.
There are so many parts of Wheeling
that I have become so fond of, and the
people. The ‘‘Wheeling feeling’’ is a
saying they have. They have a Wheel-
ing Jamboree. They have a Wheeling
Italian festival. The ethnicity of that
community is unbelievable. It brings
everybody together, and it has brought
everybody together.
Having been raised in Farmington—
SHELLEY was raised about 2 hours
north of me. Back in those days, it was
a good 2-hour drive. I am a little bit
farther in the north-central part of the
State, closer to Fairmont-Morgantown.
But knowing about that—Wheeling was
the hub. It was the place to go. It was
basically the gateway also at that time
into Pittsburgh, and it is still consid-
ered a distant suburb of Pittsburgh to
a certain extent. The economy, the his-
tory, the people—some famous people,
some productive people—a lot of our
leaders come from that area.
When Wheeling became the first cap-
ital—we couldn’t decide where the cap-
ital of West Virginia should be, so they
floated up and down the Ohio River,
back to Charleston and back to Wheel-
ing, Charleston and Wheeling, until it
settled in Charleston, WV.
I am just proud to be standing here
with my colleague today. For those
who live in Wheeling today and those
who have lived in Wheeling at some
time in their lives or have family—be-
cause all the good-quality jobs are
there, good union jobs, well-paying jobs
and benefits—to all of them, there is a
special place in our hearts for Wheel-
ing, WV, a special place in American
history for Wheeling, WV, and a special
place in all of our hearts for the State
of West Virginia.
I say thank you and happy birthday
to a great city of ours and to the great
State of West Virginia. We are proud
this has become a resolution that has
been entered and accepted.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, this
summer, while American families en-
joyed time away from work and from
school, the big pharmaceutical compa-
nies revved up their influence machine
to dismantle bipartisan legislation
aimed at bringing down prescription
drug costs.
In July, the Senate Finance Com-
mittee, on which I am the ranking
Democrat, passed legislation that con-
stitutes the most serious and the most
significant bipartisan effort in recent
memory to lower drug prices. It is the
result of months and months of work
by Members on both sides. With respect
to Chairman GRASSLEY he and I worked
literally every single day for 6 months
with our colleagues to try to bring to-
gether this bipartisan package. Now
the big pharmaceutical companies
want to shred the bipartisan Finance
Committee bill into confetti.
The bill has two particularly impor-
tant proposals. First, it has an out-of-
pocket cap in Medicare that is going to
save senior citizens $27 billion in the
next decade. It will end the era when
prescription drugs forced senior citi-
zens into bankruptcy.
The second key proposal is the one
that really has Big Pharma mobilizing
their lobbyist armies. It is a provision
that stipulates that if big pharma-
ceutical companies are engaged in
price gouging—engaged in price
gouging—they are going to face con-
sequences. They are going to be able to
set the prices, but if they price gouge,
the taxpayer is not going to funnel up
unlimited subsidies any longer. That is
what that provision does that the big
pharmaceutical companies are fight-
ing. It is literally a requirement that
drug companies, big drug manufactur-
ers, when they price gouge, make a
payment to Medicare, a penalty, one
might call it. It is going to save the
Medicare Program $60 billion.
If the drug companies raise prices
faster than inflation, they will have to
pay the difference back to Medicare.
There will be no more unjustifiable
price hikes to please the shareholders
at everybody else’s expense and, par-
ticularly, no more taxpayer subsidies
for price gouging on pharmaceuticals
in America.
For literally years, I have been hear-
ing the big drug companies say that
they didn’t want price controls, that
price controls would be bad for innova-
tion. Nobody—nobody—wants to freeze
innovation, so we went back to the
drawing board, and we said: OK. You
set your price, but if you do price
gouge, if you do hit patients, families,
and consumers in an unfair way, the
taxpayer is not going to ladle out un-
limited subsidies. That is what that
provision of our bill does.
Unfortunately, the big pharma-
ceutical companies would do just about
anything to protect the status quo,
keep the prices climbing up and up and
the profits rolling in.
Their lobbyists are walking the halls
here on Capitol Hill. The pharma-
ceutical company executives are pull-
ing out all the stops from their polit-
ical headquarters to generate support.
Their fear-mongering messages have
spread in op-eds attacking our legisla-
tion, saying that somehow this bill, a
bipartisan bill written by Senator
GRASSLEY, the senior Member of the
Republican Caucus, is somehow a so-
cialist price control.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.038 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5481
September 12, 2019
I already talked about how it is pret-
ty hard to call it price control if the
company gets to set its prices, but it
certainly doesn’t limit subsidies. Ap-
parently, the pharmaceutical compa-
nies will not accept any limits there as
well.
Basically, the pharmaceutical lobby-
ists are calling it inhumane for the
Senate Finance Committee to try to
fix the broken system and bring down
pharmaceutical prices. They basically
say that any effort—any effort—to hold
down prices is socialism.
One op-ed said that the Medicare
drug program would cease ‘‘to function
as a market entirely’’ if drug compa-
nies lost their constitutional right to
limitless—limitless—price increases.
Others have even claimed that drug
prices are falling nationwide, which
millions of seniors can tell you is fic-
tion, based on the trips they take to
the pharmacy window.
I have a bottom line, now that the
Senate has come back after the sum-
mer break. The big pharmaceutical
companies have had just about the
longest winning streak in Washington.
It seems as though they have a couple
of lobbyists for practically every Mem-
ber of Congress. Yet the Finance Com-
mittee voted on a bipartisan basis to
actually act in the face of price
gouging and protect American patients
and families.
We cannot let the big pharmaceutical
companies win this time. We cannot let
them win on that price-gouging pen-
alty in particular. They want it gone.
They know this is going to ripple
through the American economy be-
cause people are going to say: Hey, this
is a pretty fair approach. The compa-
nies can set their prices, but they don’t
have a right to unlimited subsidies.
I personally believe—and the head of
the Congressional Budget Office
touched on this for our committee—
this has the potential to be copied in
the private sector as well. I think that
is a good thing also.
The question for the Senate is going
to be this: Are we going to hand
pharma essentially the power of a line-
item veto, where they can go in and
strike one provision—one provision—
the provision that does the most to
stop drug company price gouging?
Whether pharma gets to comb over our
proposals to strike down anything that
might curtail their price increases or
cut into their profits—that is really
what they are seeking to do. If pharma
can prevent the Senate from taking
even the first basic steps to bring down
drug prices, then the question is, What
is going to come next? Are the drug
company and the drug lobbyists going
to get their own desks here on the floor
of the U.S. Senate? At least then their
influence wouldn’t just be in the shad-
ows of the Nation’s Capitol.
The prices of prescription drugs in
America are out of control. All this
summer I was having townhall meet-
ings at home. I went to small phar-
macies across my State, urban and
rural. Usually, in these meetings, I
would ask if somebody in the audience
knew somebody who had been affected
by high insulin prices. Everybody’s
hand went up. I asked: How many of
you have neighbors who have been af-
fected by high insulin prices?
Everybody’s hand goes up.
The fact is that insulin prices have
gone up thirteenfold in the last few
years, and that drug is not 13 times
better. It is basically the same drug,
basically the same insulin that has
been around for decades.
The reason those prices go up and up
and up constantly is that the big phar-
maceutical companies can get away
with it. Now the Senate Finance Com-
mittee is saying: You aren’t going to
get away with it any longer. The days
when everybody in Congress would just
look the other way and they could
charge anything they want will be
over.
There was one particularly inter-
esting article written over the course
of the summer in which the author,
using AARP data, basically said that if
Senator GRASSLEY and I and bipartisan
members of the Finance Committee
had done this 10 years ago, there
wouldn’t be a crisis with drug prices.
His argument—he went through AARP
data—was, essentially, drugs that had
gone up $5,000 over a few years would
have gone up something like $500—
something much more manageable for
American families and patients.
The Senate Finance Committee is
moving to actually stop this price
gouging. I don’t believe the pharma-
ceutical industry ought to be able to
overrule 19 Senators on the Senate Fi-
nance Committee, Democrats and Re-
publicans. Pharma shouldn’t be able to
gobble up 50 billion Medicare dollars
that our legislation would otherwise
save as part of the effort to stop the
price gouging.
Our legislation gets to the heart of
how drug companies have managed to
manipulate and abuse the broken
healthcare system for far too long.
They have done it with a pretty simple
formula: Just make sure that the U.S.
Senate lets them do anything they
want—no constraints on companies at
all. Keep the seniors on the hook for
huge costs when they are prescribed ex-
pensive drugs.
It is not just a crisis in Medicare. A
recent study showed that nearly one-
third of American adults said that at
some point in the last year, they chose
not to take medication—medication
that was prescribed—because of the
cost. In particular, insulin is cited
again and again as a prime example,
with tragic stories about people who
died after self-rationing the insulin
they needed to manage their diabetes.
Rising drug costs force the people of
this country into impossible choices.
You are robbed of your savings if you
get your prescriptions filled, and you
are robbed of your health if you don’t.
Obviously, that is unacceptable. It
ought to be unacceptable to every
Member of this body, just the way it
was unacceptable to the Senate Fi-
nance Committee on a bipartisan basis.
I did make clear in the Finance Com-
mittee that this was just the begin-
ning. I believe, for example, it is long
overdue for Medicare to have the power
to bargain with drugmakers directly
for lower drug prices. Something like
90 percent of the American people—90
percent of the American people—be-
lieve that it is time to lift the restric-
tion on Medicare so that Medicare
could bargain to hold down the costs of
medicine. We weren’t able to get that
into the bill, but, at a minimum, the
bipartisan legislation the Finance
Committee approved should not be
picked apart by pharma lobbyists, par-
ticularly on the key question of wheth-
er they want to stop pharmaceutical
price gouging.
On this side, my colleagues and I are
going to continue to fight to get this
legislation passed by the full Senate.
For now, it is up to Leader MCCONNELL
to bring our bill to the floor.
My message to every Member of this
body is this: The Americans who are
battling illnesses and struggling to pay
for their medications cannot wait.
These are people who are walking an
economic tightrope. Every month they
balance their food bill against their
fuel bill and their fuel bill against
their medicine bill. These are Ameri-
cans who cannot afford to be shunted
aside while the Senate favors business
as usual for the drugmakers.
Every one of us knows what this cri-
sis is all about and how big it is. Sen-
ators were home for weeks this sum-
mer. They heard from those in their
communities, in grocery stores, in gas
stations, in restaurants, and in Dairy
Queens—everywhere you go. When a
Senator is home, folks come up and tell
them a story about how they feel when
they get their prescription drug bills,
that they have been hit by a wrecking
ball. I held townhall meetings all over
the State. The issue of prescription
drug costs came up at every single one
of them.
I am going to close with this.
Pharma’s winning streak has to end
here, and it has to end now. For the
Senate to cave and allow pharma to
block the price-gouging penalty would
be an outrage. It would be a dereliction
of duty on the part of the Senate.
I am going to keep up this fight, and
I know Chairman GRASSLEY is going to
continue to fight for our bipartisan
bill, and I urge Senators on both sides
of the aisle to stand with us.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.040 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5482 September 12, 2019
TRIBUTE TO CINDY HASIAK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, be-
fore we wrap up today, I call my col-
leagues’ attention to a truly dedicated
staff member who has served the Sen-
ate for decades.
After more than three decades on the
job with the Senate Sergeant at Arms,
Cindy Hasiak is retiring today from
her post as Chamber manager.
A native of Indiana, Cindy first ar-
rived to work in the Capitol back in
1987. She was welcomed with—get
this—a chance to work the Iran-Contra
hearings. Since then, she has been on
the clock for 7 Presidential inaugura-
tions, 32 Presidential addresses and
States of the Union, 6 lying-in-state
ceremonies, and a great many more
normal workdays, or at least what
passes for normal here in the Senate.
More than three decades of landmark
votes, major debates, and all the daily
business that takes place in this Cham-
ber, Cindy has been here helping make
it happen.
To be specific, as one of our door-
keepers, and lately the director of
doorkeepers, Cindy has literally guard-
ed the Senate floor. Talk about a sen-
sitive job.
Alongside the brave men and women
of the Capitol Police, our doorkeepers
control and manage access to this his-
toric institution that attracts the at-
tention of the entire world. They check
credentials, welcome visitors, keep
things running smoothly.
Here on the floor, they keep us safe.
Up in the Galleries, they welcome visi-
tors and give citizens a chance to
watch democracy in action. So it is un-
doubtedly the case that the Senate has
been stronger for Cindy’s attentive
service, but even after 32 years, we
would be foolish to think we could keep
her forever.
After more than her share of long
days, longer weeks, and late nights
that relegated entertaining and family
time to the back burner, Cindy has cer-
tainly earned the chance to spend less
time supervising all of us here and
more time with her loved ones.
I know my colleagues join me in
wishing Cindy good health and happi-
ness as she embarks on a well-deserved
retirement. She will leave with our
deepest gratitude for a job well done. I
might add that given the fact Cindy is
from Indiana, it is appropriate that we
have the Senator from Indiana as the
Chair.
f
VETERANS’ COMPENSATION COST-
OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT ACT OF
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H.R. 1200, which was received
from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 1200) to increase, effective as of
December 1, 2019, the rates of compensation
for veterans with service-connected disabil-
ities and the rates of dependency and indem-
nity compensation for the survivors of cer-
tain disabled veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time and passed and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 1200) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF THE WEEK OF
SEPTEMBER 11 THROUGH SEP-
TEMBER 17 AS ‘‘PATRIOT WEEK’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed, to the immediate consid-
eration of S. Res. 311, which was sub-
mitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 311) expressing sup-
port for the designation of the week of Sep-
tember 11 through September 17 as ‘‘Patriot
Week’’.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I further ask
unanimous consent that the resolution
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed
to, and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 311) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
NATIONAL DIRECT SUPPORT PRO-
FESSIONALS RECOGNITION WEEK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 312, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 312) designating the
week beginning September 8, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Direct Support Professionals Recogni-
tion Week’’.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise
today with my colleagues Senators
COLLINS, KING, BROWN, MARKEY, MUR-
PHY, MENENDEZ, KLOBUCHAR,
BLUMENTHAL, HASSAN, JONES, VAN HOL-
LEN, CASEY, BALDWIN, HARRIS, MURRAY,
ROSEN, and KAINE to recognize the
week beginning September 8, 2019, as
National Direct Support Professionals
Recognition Week. Direct support pro-
fessionals are an invaluable part of our
Nation’s healthcare system, caring for
the most vulnerable Americans, includ-
ing the chronically ill, seniors, and
those living with a disability. Direct
support professionals include, among
others, those whose titles include home
caregiver, personal care assistant,
home care worker, or home health
aide. These varying titles speaks to the
broad areas of support that are integral
to the work of direct support profes-
sionals. With the assistance of direct
support professionals, these individuals
can perform daily activities that many
people take for granted, such as eating,
bathing, dressing, and leaving the
house. The work of direct support pro-
fessionals ensures that these individ-
uals can be active participants in their
communities.
Let me share with you the experience
of Marian Mulbah-Poquee, a direct sup-
port professional who was recognized
this year for her incredible work and
dedication when she was given Mary-
land’s Direct Support Professional of
the Year Award by the American Net-
work of Community Options and Re-
sources, ANCOR. Marian has been de-
scribed as ‘‘a tireless advocate for her
ladies,’’ providing the women she
serves with the space and choice to
lead full and independent lives.
Marian supports her clients by teach-
ing them skills that enable them to
participate in their communities to the
fullest extent possible. For example,
Marian teaches her clients safety
skills, gardening, and basic home care
so they can spend more time living
independently. Marian also encourages
her clients to actively participate in
civic life. This was best exemplified by
a trip her clients took to Annapolis
last year for Developmental Disability
Day. Marian supported her clients as
they met with and engaged their local
representatives to discuss issues that
affect the disability community in
Maryland. Marian’s commitment to si-
multaneously supporting and empow-
ering her clients to actively partici-
pate in the public sphere speaks to the
very core of what defines direct sup-
port professionals.
Marian’s story describes a career
that is fulfilling, but one that often-
times is not easy for Direct support
professionals like her. The hours are
often long, and the wages are low. The
job can be physically laborious, as well
as emotionally draining. The reward
for direct support professionals, how-
ever, is that they are able to improve
the lives of individuals with disabil-
ities and help fulfill the promise of the
Americans with Disabilities Act by
making it possible for these Americans
to participate in their communities to
the fullest extent possible.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12SE6.042 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5483
September 12, 2019
In our country, we are incredibly for-
tunate to have millions of service-ori-
ented individuals who are willing to
rise to the task of becoming a direct
support professional. According to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics, the em-
ployment of DSPs is projected to grow
by an average of 41 percent from 2016 to
2026, compared to a 7 percent average
growth rate for all occupations during
that period. The demand will only con-
tinue to increase over time; the Baby
Boomer generation will result in the
doubling of the population of adults
ages 65 and older by 2050. The increased
demand for direct support professionals
has created shortages in some areas,
which can place strains on patients and
their families or result in medical
issues that could have been avoided.
Unfortunately, direct support profes-
sionals are often forced to leave the
jobs they love due to low wages and ex-
cessive, difficult work hours. Many di-
rect support professionals rely on pub-
lic benefits, and some must work mul-
tiple jobs in order to provide for them-
selves and their families. Now, more
than ever, it is imperative that we
work to ensure that these hardworking
individuals have the income and emo-
tional support they need and deserve.
I urge my colleagues to join me and
Senators COLLINS, KING, BROWN, MAR-
KEY, MURPHY, MENENDEZ, KLOBUCHAR,
BLUMENTHAL, HASSAN, JONES, VAN HOL-
LEN, CASEY, BALDWIN, HARRIS, MURRAY,
ROSEN, and KAINE in expressing our ap-
preciation for the critically important
work of our country’s direct support
professionals, in thanking them for
their commitment and dedication, and
in supporting the resolution desig-
nating the week beginning September
8, 2019, as National Direct Support Pro-
fessionals Recognition Week.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the resolution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is on
agreeing to the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 312) was
agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the preamble be agreed to
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY,
SEPTEMBER 16, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 3 p.m., Monday, Sep-
tember 16; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, and the
time for the two leaders be reserved for
their use later in the day; further, that
following leader remarks, the Senate
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each, until
5 p.m. Finally, I ask unanimous con-
sent that following morning business,
the Senate proceed to executive session
and resume consideration of the
Rakolta nomination and that the clo-
ture motions filed during today’s ses-
sion ripen at 5:30 p.m. on Monday.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY,
SEPTEMBER 16, 2019, AT 3 P.M.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 4:21 p.m., adjourned until Monday,
September 16, 2019, at 3 p.m.
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate September 12, 2019:
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
MICHELLE BOWMAN, OF KANSAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE
SYSTEM FOR A TERM OF FOURTEEN YEARS FROM FEB-
RUARY 1, 2020.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
THOMAS PETER FEDDO, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY FOR INVESTMENT
SECURITY.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
JENNIFER D. NORDQUIST, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT FOR A
TERM OF TWO YEARS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A12SE6.014 S12SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1137
September 12, 2019
HONORING THE LIFE OF SANFORD
MORRIS ‘‘SANDY’’ TREAT, JR.
HON. JOE NEGUSE
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I wish to
express my sincere sorrow for the loss of San-
ford Morris ‘‘Sandy’’ Treat, Jr., a veteran of
World War II, serving with the 10th Mountain
Division and a longtime resident in the Vail
Valley and pillar of the community there.
Sandy was one of the first soldiers at Camp
Hale, which was established during the Sec-
ond World War to train soldiers for winter and
mountain warfare. The skills he honed there
and exposure to the Mountain West would
stay with him through war, future business en-
deavors and raising a family. He returned to
Colorado years later as a master skier, histo-
rian of the 10th Mountain Division, and be-
loved resident.
Sandy’s loss will be felt by so many across
the state of Colorado, military, and snow-
sports communities. An avid ski racer, he
helped to facilitate world renowned races in
Vail and the surrounding areas. He was in-
ducted into the Colorado Snowsports Hall of
Fame—an honor recognizing Sandy’s passion
and dedication to the outdoors as well as the
service of those at Camp Hale. His advocacy
to enact policy that protected public lands are
still having an impact; in the large public lands
bill worked on by many members of Colo-
rado’s Congressional delegation, Camp Hale
is recognized as protected public lands and
would be designated as the first ever National
Historical Landscape.
It was my honor to meet Sandy before his
passing and I will hold that memory close to
my heart as we press forward on the pro-
posals for which he spent so much of his life
advocating. My wife Andrea and I are holding
Sandy’s loved ones and all those who knew
him in our prayers, and hope the nation will
join us in mourning the loss of this tremen-
dously passionate, brave, and skilled indi-
vidual.
f
ON THE OCCASION OF U.S. ARMY
MAJOR MILES MILLER’S COM-
PLETION OF SERVICE IN DECEM-
BER 2019
HON. MAC THORNBERRY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Major Miles Miller, U.S.
Army, to honor his completion of military serv-
ice. Major Miller is departing the Army after
serving our country for more than a dozen
years helping to defend our great nation.
Inspired by his family’s history of military
service and by the attacks of September 11,
Major Miller enlisted in the Army in 2006 to
help fight the Global War on Terrorism. After
completing his Basic Combat Training and Of-
ficer Candidate School, Major Miller joined the
historic 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault) at
Fort Campbell, Kentucky. During his time as a
‘‘Screaming Eagle,’’ he deployed first to Bagh-
dad, Iraq, in support of Operation Iraqi Free-
dom and later to Kandahar, Afghanistan, in
support of Operation Enduring Freedom.
While in Iraq, Major Miller commanded a 55-
Soldier Distribution Platoon and planned, co-
ordinated, and led more than 350 ground-
based throughout resupply operations to for-
ward combat outposts. These successful mis-
sions delivered over one million gallons of fuel
and water and two million tons of ammunition
and supplies supporting uninterrupted life sup-
port sustainment and operations for nearly
1,000 U.S. and Iraqi security force personnel.
In Afghanistan, Major Miller was a key plan-
ner and logistical operations manager for an
800-Soldier deployment to Afghanistan. He led
a 12-Soldier cross-functional team that coordi-
nated the construction and improvements of
six new and existing combat outposts while si-
multaneously procuring nearly ten million dol-
lars of life support and base security contracts
and commodities, which increased logistical
capabilities and operational limits for U.S. and
Afghan security forces.
Following his deployments, Major Miller held
a broad and diverse series of leadership posi-
tions, including commanding the Army’s only
Active Duty Heavy Boat Company, the 97th
Transportation Company, at Fort Eustis, Vir-
ginia. As a result of his exceptional perform-
ance with increasing rank and responsibilities,
Major Miller was selected for the prestigious
Army Congressional Fellowship Program
where he served as a Defense Fellow in my
office and in the Army’s House Liaison Divi-
sion.
During his time as my Defense Fellow,
Major Miller was an invaluable member of my
team. He routinely advised me and my staff
on national defense and veterans’ affairs
issues and priorities for the 2016 National De-
fense Authorization Act. Additionally, he col-
laborated with my district staff and multiple
federal agencies to resolve dozens of veteran
and military-related casework issues while
drafting hundreds of official responses to con-
stituent inquiries.
While serving in the House Liaison Division,
Major Miller helped advance Army interests as
the intermediary for legislative correspond-
ence, policy, and constituent issues between
the Army and 58 offices of the U.S. House of
Representatives. He also facilitated U.S. diplo-
macy abroad and congressional oversight as
the lead planner and escort for over 400 Mem-
bers of Congress and staff during nearly 40
worldwide fact-finding and investigative mis-
sions. Major Miller escorted me on several
overseas visits to military installations that
aided my decision making and priorities as
Chairman of the House Armed Services Com-
mittee.
Throughout his distinguished military career,
Major Miller was recognized and rewarded for
his exceptional performance, including his se-
lection as the Basic Combat Training ‘‘Soldier
of the Cycle’’ in 2007 and his early promotion
to the rank of Major in 2016. He also received
27 individual and unit awards and badges for
military service, including two Bronze Star
Medals awarded for meritorious achievement
and service for combat leadership during both
Operations Iraqi and Enduring Freedom and
the U.S. Army Transportation Corps Honor-
able Order of Saint Christopher Medal.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to recognize
Major Miller for these outstanding achieve-
ments, thank him for his service, and wish him
and his family well with their future endeavors.
f
CONGRATULATING PLYMOUTH, IN-
DIANA, ON BEING NAMED INDI-
ANA COMMUNITY OF THE YEAR
2019
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the City of Plymouth on
being named the 2019 Community of the Year
by the Indiana Chamber of Commerce, and to
thank Mayor Mark Senter for his leadership
and service to his community.
Plymouth, Indiana, has not only gained im-
pressive economic momentum and helped at-
tract businesses that want to grow and hire
more workers, the city has also shown its
commitment to improving the quality of life for
residents. Hoosiers in Plymouth love their city
and their neighbors, a fact that can be seen
clearly in their spirit, compassion, and active
involvement in community events—including
my favorite, the annual Marshall County Blue-
berry Festival.
This accomplishment is a well-deserved rec-
ognition for northern Indiana, a true celebra-
tion of Mayor Senter’s tremendous leadership,
and a result of the hard work of all the public
servants who help make Plymouth a great
place to live. The strong Hoosier values of
commonsense and togetherness help all ships
rise in this community, and it’s a model for cit-
ies and towns across the country.
Madam Speaker, it is an honor to represent
communities like Plymouth in Congress. On
behalf of 2nd District Hoosiers, I want to con-
gratulate the City of Plymouth and Mayor
Senter on the hard work and dedication that
have helped this community thrive.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 100TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF ROBERT S. THURMAN
AMERICAN LEGION POST 13
HON. BILLY LONG
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. LONG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the 100th anniversary of the founding of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K12SE8.001 E12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1138 September 12, 2019
the Robert S. Thurman American Legion Post
13.
In 1919, 100 years ago and shortly after the
conclusion of the first World War, members of
the U.S. Army’s American Expeditionary
Forces founded the American Legion. Over
the past century, the American Legion has
brought veterans in their local communities to-
gether and has been a strong advocate for
veterans issues on Capitol Hill. In its infancy,
only a few posts across the United States
were formed, one of those posts was the Rob-
ert S. Thurman American Legion Post 13 lo-
cated in Joplin, Missouri.
Today, Joplin Post 13 celebrates its 100th
anniversary. It has the honor of being one of
only a handful of American Legion posts to
turn 100. Its 100-year history hasn’t been with-
out its ups and downs. At its peak in the ’50s,
the post had upwards of 500 members. Just a
few years ago, the post’s membership
dropped to fewer than 30 members. Today,
the post is experiencing a resurgence of mem-
bership and currently has about 250 members.
With this resurgence in membership, funds
going to Post 13’s activities have increased.
The post is now able to hold an annual vet-
erans expo, operate an honor guard to attend
the funerals of local veterans, has created an
endowment for nursing students at Missouri
Southern State University and sponsors the
Missouri Boys State program and the Missouri
Cadet Patrol Academy. For 100 years, Post
13 has brought veterans in the Joplin area to-
gether in service to their fellow veterans and
their local community.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you and the rest
of this body join me in congratulating the Rob-
ert S. Thurman American Legion Post 13 on
100 years of fraternity and service to the vet-
erans of southwest Missouri.
f
HONORING ROWAN LITTLE
LEAGUE’S VICTORY IN THE LIT-
TLE LEAGUE SOFTBALL WORLD
SERIES CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Rowan Little League’s victory in the
Little League Softball World Series Champion-
ship. Rowan Little League is based out of the
City of Salisbury, located in North Carolina’s
8th Congressional District.
Rowan Little League defeated Eastbank Lit-
tle League 4–1 on August 14, 2019 in the
championship game at Alenrose Stadium in
Portland, Oregon. This marks Rowan’s fourth
trip to the World Series in the past five sea-
sons and is their second title, an extraordinary
accomplishment for the perennially successful
program.
Under the direction of Coach Steve Yang,
the program has exemplified the very best of
North Carolina through tenacity and persever-
ance. Rowan far exceeded expectations this
summer and enjoyed a perfect 17–0 record,
including 7–0 in World Series play.
I know I speak for our entire community in
offering my most heartfelt congratulations to
the exemplary young women of Rowan Little
League. These young leaders are the heart
and soul of our community and I couldn’t be
more proud.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
celebrating Rowan Little League’s victory in
the Little League Softball World Series Cham-
pionship.
f
CONGRATULATING BEACON COL-
LEGE FOR 30 YEARS OF SERVICE
HON. DANIEL WEBSTER
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Madam Speaker,
I am pleased to congratulate Beacon College
for 30 years of service to students. A quality
education can change a life. It unlocks the
door of opportunity and success and equips
children to achieve their dream.
For thirty years, Beacon College has been a
pioneer in providing students with learning dif-
ferences and disabilities with a high-quality
college experience. It is committed to student
success and provides accredited Associate in
Arts and Bachelor of Arts degree programs to
its students.
Their results are clear with 70 percent on-
time graduation rates and a 1-year average for
students completing their degrees in four
years. This is almost double the 10-year na-
tional average for all students.
Beacon College is the only institution of
higher education nationwide to serve with this
exclusive mission. Under College President,
George Hagerty’s leadership, the faculty and
teachers at Beacon College are passionate
and committed to providing every student with
the specialized attention they need to cultivate
success. Recently, Beacon College was
ranked as Number One on the prestigious
Peterson ranking of the top 20 colleges for
students with learning disabilities.
Beacon College not only equips students
with academic knowledge, they also are dedi-
cated to coaching students in the skills nec-
essary to find and retain employment. It is my
honor to congratulate Beacon College, Dr.
Hagerty and the faculty and staff on reaching
this service milestone. May you continue to
serve these special students and equip them
with the knowledge and skills to achieve their
dreams.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ADRIAN SMITH
OF NEBRASKA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam Speaker, I
was unavoidably detained. Had I been
present, I would have voted NAY on Roll Call
No. 525.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF EMMA BRUTON TERRY
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, today I rise to honor the extraordinary life
and legacy of Emma Bruton Terry, who
passed away on September 8, 2019 at the
age of 92.
After spending her formative years in Win-
ston-Salem, North Carolina, Emma moved to
Buffalo in 1952, and graduated from Bryant
and Stratton College.
Emma then met and married her first love,
the late Isiah Terry. From this union came five
beautiful children, the keystone of her legacy.
She was both a loving spouse and a caring
mother.
No stranger to hard work, Emma was em-
ployed at many local small businesses includ-
ing New York Lerner Shops, the Medical
Records Department at Children’s Hospital,
Saturn Ring Company, and lastly the Buffalo
China Company from which she retired in
1992.
Emma was the epitome of a dedicated
mother, and a true steward of her community.
Throughout her life she garnered many
awards in honor of this yearning penchant to
help.
To those that knew her best, her family and
loved ones, Emma will always be memorial-
ized as a committed parent and a loving
friend. In their hearts she will be remembered
as a Jazzy Stepper, and simply a kind soul.
Madam Speaker, thank you for allowing me
a few moments to honor a woman who was
beloved in my hometown of Buffalo, New
York. May Emma’s memory live on in the
hearts of all who knew and loved her.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, on Sep-
tember 11, 2019, I was unable to attend a
vote because I was attending to official busi-
ness. Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 523.
f
RECOGNIZING JIM BYRUM FOR HIS
SERVICE AS PRESIDENT OF THE
MICHIGAN AGRI-BUSINESS ASSO-
CIATION
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize Jim Byrum for his service
as President the Michigan Agri-Business As-
sociation. Through his exceptional leadership
and steadfast devotion to educational excel-
lence, Jim has become an indispensable part
of the state of Michigan.
Jim grew up on his family’s farm near Onon-
daga and was raised in the same house
where his grandfather was born in 1889.
Throughout his career he stayed close to his
agricultural roots, serving as Executive Direc-
tor of the Michigan Bean Commission and the
State Executive Director of Michigan’s Farm
Service Agency before eventually becoming
the President of the Michigan Agri-Business
Association (MABA)—a nonprofit organization
of approximately 500 members from every
part of the agricultural sector in Michigan.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12SE8.003 E12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1139
September 12, 2019
In its 24 years under Jim’s leadership,
MABA has consistently and exceptionally rep-
resented the interests of the agricultural indus-
try in Michigan, offering important resources to
businesses while working proactively to keep
the industry ahead in the global marketplace.
For instance, MABA’s ‘‘2025’’ project has en-
couraged industry leaders to think about long-
term needs and how Michigan agriculture will
grow in the coming years. Jim has excelled as
a leader and communicator, and his expertise
has made him well-respected by those across
the political spectrum.
Agriculture is the second-largest sector of
Michigan’s economy, contributing more than
$71 billion to the economy annually and sup-
porting one out of every four jobs in the state.
With today’s ever-evolving world, the work of
industry leaders like Jim has been critical in
making Michigan the agricultural hub it is. His
impact on the state of Michigan cannot be
overstated.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to congratu-
late Jim Byrum for his decades of service as
President of the Michigan Agri-Business Asso-
ciation. Michiganders can take great pride in
knowing the First District is home to such a
dedicated leader. On behalf of my constitu-
ents, I wish Jim all the best in his future en-
deavors.
f
HONORING THE SALEM OREGON
ROTARY ON THEIR 100TH ANNI-
VERSARY
HON. KURT SCHRADER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. SCHRADER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor and congratulate the Rotary
Club of Salem, Oregon as they celebrate their
100th year of service to the Salem community.
With nearly 200 members, the Rotary Club of
Salem has established itself as one of the
most distinguished community service organi-
zations in my district.
The Rotary Club of Salem was organized on
September 16, 1919. Over the last 100 years,
the Rotary has strengthened their community
through their mission of providing service to
others, promoting integrity, and advancing
world understanding, goodwill, and peace
through fellowship of business, professional,
and community leaders.
The Rotary Club of Salem gives back to the
community by sponsoring inbound and out-
bound exchange students, distributing diction-
aries to 4th graders in the Salem/Keizer
school district, giving grants to local non-prof-
its and by participating in international projects
annually. To celebrate their 100 years of serv-
ice, the Rotary will be building the Gerry Frank
Amphitheater, a multipurpose amphitheater at
Salem’s Riverfront Park to inspire culture and
encourage community togetherness.
I would like to extend my congratulations to
the Rotary Club of Salem as they celebrate
their 100th anniversary and thank them for
their service to the community of Salem.
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
KAREN WILLIAMS CONNELLY
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Karen Williams Connelly, 68,
of Niles, Ohio, who passed away peacefully at
home, Thursday Sept. 5, 2019, surrounded by
family after a long illness.
Karen was born April 7, 1951, in Warren,
the daughter of her proud parents, Tom and
Luella Knai Williams.
After graduating from Niles McKinley in
1969, Karen attended the Ohio State Univer-
sity and eventually graduated from Youngs-
town State University. Karen earned a bach-
elor’s degree in social work and later a mas-
ter’s degree in counseling. Karen worked in
the mental health field in the Mahoning Valley
until her retirement, helping hundreds of peo-
ple with mental illnesses. She loved her work
and her love for people could be seen in all
aspects of her life.
On Nov. 29, 1980, she married the love of
her life, Tom Connelly, and together they
made a life in Niles. Karen loved to laugh and
enjoyed hosting parties, picnics and events in
her home. Christmas Eve and Memorial Day
were her favorite events and her parties be-
came traditions among family and friends.
Karen loved to cook and bake and was con-
stantly trying new recipes.
She will be dearly missed by her devoted
husband, Thomas R. Connelly; her loving chil-
dren, Thomas and Laura Connelly and Megan
and Brian Gibson; her grandchildren, Lucy
Gibson, Max Gibson and Lily Jones; a sister,
Patty Williams; a brother Bryan (Lisa) Wil-
liams; and many nieces, nephews and friends.
Karen was preceded in death by her parents,
Tom and Luella Williams.
The family would like to extend their heart-
felt gratitude to Karen’s physician, Dr. Zul
Mangalji, and the nurses at Trumbull Memorial
Hospital for their exceptional care and com-
passion during her illness.
I am very blessed to have worked with and
befriended Karen’s husband, Tom, who was
the president of AFSCME Local 2026, which
represents hundreds of nurses at Trumbull
Regional Medical Center. Karen will most cer-
tainly be missed by all the lives she touched.
f
HONORING ‘‘FOOTSTEPS TO YOU:
CHATTEL SLAVERY’’ EXHIBIT
HON. NORMA J. TORRES
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the Footsteps to You:
Chattel Slavery exhibit. This exhibit opened in
San Bernardino in 2018 and featured original
artifacts and documents from the 19th century
to showcase how the institution of slavery has
shaped the United States.
Originally from historian Jerry Gore’s estate,
the collection gives visitors greater insight into
the daily abuses inflicted on the millions
enslaved in America, and the courage that Af-
rican women, men, and children demonstrated
while fighting for their freedom. Guests can
immerse themselves in newspapers, first-per-
son accounts, and objects of the slave trade.
I had the chance to examine up close some
of these documents and was reminded that
slavery was not just an unspoken evil, but one
out in the open, written, and debated in our
country. These slave narratives help spark
questions about how visitors themselves
would have participated in slavery during this
time in history.
The exhibit was one of the San Bernardino
County programs named as part of the 2019
Achievement Awards from the National Asso-
ciation of Counties.
It is my honor to recognize the Footsteps to
You: Chattel Slavery exhibit on the House
floor today. This exhibit provides necessary in-
sights and education into the experience of a
slave in America and has made important con-
tributions to the 35th District that are worthy of
admiration.
f
HONORING ERIC LARSON ON THE
EVENT OF HIS RETIREMENT
FROM THE SAN DIEGO COUNTY
FARM BUREAU
HON. MIKE LEVIN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. LEVIN of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor Eric Larson on the event
of his retirement as Executive Director of the
San Diego County Farm Bureau.
Eric has spent his career dedicated to the
agricultural industry in San Diego County. Dur-
ing his forty-eight-year career, he worked in
cut flower and nursery crop production, was
the General Manager of the California Flori-
culture Growers Association and served as a
board member of the Living Plant Growers As-
sociation, the San Diego County Farm Bureau,
and the San Diego County Flower & Plant As-
sociation.
In 1996, Eric became Executive Director of
the San Diego County Farm Bureau, where he
helped the Bureau launch San Diego Grown
magazine, establish the San Diego Farm &
Nursery Expo, and advocated for the needs of
local farmers. During Eric’s tenure as Execu-
tive Director, the San Diego County Farm Bu-
reau was selected as ‘‘County of the Year’’
three times by the California Farm Bureau.
The San Diego County Farm Bureau would
not be the organization it is today without the
hard work and dedication of Eric Larson. I
thank Eric for his dedication to the farmers of
San Diego County and congratulate him on
his retirement.
f
REMEMBERING DON RODMAN
HON. JOSEPH P. KENNEDY III
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the memory of a good friend,
a leader in business and a titan of philan-
thropy, Don Rodman.
Growing up in a single parent household in
Dorchester during the Great Depression, Don
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12SE8.009 E12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1140 September 12, 2019
knew struggle and he knew sacrifice. He un-
derstood the power of empathy for a neighbor
in need and he felt deeply that you are judged
not by what you create or build, but what you
give back to your community and your neigh-
bors.
A love of automobiles led Don to drop out
of high school and enlist in the U.S. Army as
a mechanic. Upon completion of his service,
he married the love of his life, Marilyn, and
began a career in the auto industry.
His talents, intuition and vision didn’t go un-
noticed for long, as Ford offered him a small
dealership in Foxboro, Massachusetts. Work-
ing closely with his brother Gerry on this new
business, he didn’t let that dealership stay
small for long and quickly grew it to one of the
largest in our Commonwealth.
But if you asked him what he cared about
most in life beyond his family, he wouldn’t
have given it a second thought: it was always
philanthropy and giving back.
As he often said, ‘‘You can give your time.
You can give your shoulder. You can give
your heart.’’
And that’s exactly what Don has done for
decades. After supporting the Robert F. Ken-
nedy Children’s Action Corps, he founded the
Rodman Ride for Kids which has raised nearly
$150 million for at-risk children. Even on the
day he passed away, 150 kids were enjoying
an all-expenses paid trip to Disney World
sponsored by his charitable organizations.
You didn’t have to know Don to know the
impact he had on our Commonwealth and our
country, but knowing him was simply inspiring
and I was lucky to have grown close to him
over the years.
To Don’s five sons, Brett, Gene, Bart, Curtis
and Craig, I thank them for sharing their dad
with us for all of these years. Our thoughts
and prayers are with them.
f
RECOGNIZING SHERIFF DAVE
CROMELL FOR RECEIVING THE
‘‘HUB’’ PERREAULT CITIZENSHIP
AWARD
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize Sheriff Dave Cromell for
receiving the ‘‘Hub’’ Perreault Citizenship
Award from American Legion Post 131 in
Munising, Michigan. Through his exceptional
leadership and steadfast devotion to his com-
munity, Dave has become an indispensable
part of Michigan’s First District.
Born and raised in Munising, Sheriff Cromell
has dedicated decades of his life to the people
of Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. Dave first
joined the Alger County Sheriff’s Office in
1975 as a Deputy Sheriff/Animal Control Offi-
cer. After revamping Alger County’s animal
control system, Dave attended Northern Michi-
gan University’s Police Academy, where he
graduated as a Certified Police Officer. Fol-
lowing the retirement of Sheriff Malone in
1980, Dave was appointed interim Sheriff and
was elected by the people of Alger County
later that year. Sheriff Cromell would eventu-
ally be elected eight consecutive times. Over
the course of his extensive career, Dave im-
proved the county’s EMT and 9–1–1 emer-
gency response services, oversaw the repair
and improvement of the Alger County Jail, and
ensured the continuation of the DARE pro-
gram in area schools—to only name some of
his accomplishments. Sheriff Cromell’s unwav-
ering dedication to the public good is com-
mendable, and the impact of his work for the
people of the Upper Peninsula cannot be
overstated.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to recognize
Sheriff Cromell for his decades of service to
the people of our state and for receiving the
‘‘Hub’’ Perreault Citizenship Award from Amer-
ican Legion Post 131. Michiganders can take
great pride in knowing the First District is
home to such a selfless individual. On behalf
of my constituents, I wish Dave all the best in
his future endeavors.
f
RECOGNIZING ANDREW CONTON
FOR RECEIVING THE MENTEE OF
THE YEAR AWARD FROM THE 100
BLACK MEN IN AMERICA
ORGANIZATON
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Andrew Conton for receiving the
Mentee of the Year Award from the 100 Black
Men in America organization.
Mr. Conton is a member of the Mentor for
Life Program, Central Illinois Chapter. He has
been a member since 2016, when the Central
Illinois Chapter expanded to Peoria. He is the
second individual from Illinois to win this pres-
tigious award. Mr. Conton earned a 3.8 GPA
from Peoria High School and has been in-
volved in a variety of extracurricular programs,
such as the Peoria High marching and concert
bands, the Peoria Jazz All-Stars, the Bradley
University and Eastern Illinois University Hon-
ors Bands, the Solo Ensemble and the Illinois
Music Education Association. Mr. Conton has
a strong passion for science, art, politics and
music. He further plans to use his strengths to
reignite the Peoria community. His determina-
tion and drive have earned him a full ride
scholarship to attend Benedict College in Co-
lumbia, South Carolina. I am proud there is
such young dedication in our community.
It is because of remarkable leaders like An-
drew Conton that I am especially proud to
serve Illinois’ 17th Congressional District.
Madam Speaker, I would like to again formally
congratulate Andrew Conton for receiving the
Mentee of the Year Award from the 100 Black
Men in America organization.
f
RECOGNIZING THE JESSE CLIPPER
AMERICAN LEGION POST NO. 430
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize the 100-year anni-
versary of the Jesse Clipper American Legion
Post No. 430 in Buffalo, NY.
The Jesse Clipper American Legion Post
No. 430 was founded by 15 African American
World War I veterans on September 16, 1919
to honor Corporal Jesse Clipper who was the
first African American soldier from our region
to die during World War I. While fighting on
the front lines in France, he was badly injured,
hospitalized, and unfortunately passed away in
February of 1919 before he could return home
from the war.
Corporal Jesse Clipper and many other
brave African American soldiers who fought
for our country have helped to plant the seeds
for greater equality and respect for African
American soldiers. Their bravery eventually
led to the desegregation of the U.S. Armed
Forces and the Civil Rights Movement. Cor-
poral Jesse Clipper’s willingness to make the
ultimate sacrifice proved he was an American
patriot worthy of honor and respect.
In honor of this trailblazer, members of the
Jesse Clipper Post dedicated the corner of
Michigan and William Streets in the City of
Buffalo as Jesse Clipper Square in honor of all
wars fought by African Americans. This was
the same area that Jesse Clipper lived during
his formative years that helped shape him into
a dedicated and honorable soldier. Later,
members of the Jesse Clipper American Le-
gion Post No. 430 petitioned the Buffalo Com-
mon Council to establish a memorial to Clip-
per and all African American soldiers. Since
the initial dedication of the monument, the
dates of other wars in which African American
soldiers fought have been added to the me-
morial.
As time goes on, we have a duty to remem-
ber and honor all those who fought for our
country regardless of race and we must never
forget the contributions they have made to
protecting the security of our nation. We must
promise to never forget the burden they car-
ried both on the battlefield, and in their hearts
when they returned to a country that did not
treat them like the heroes they were and are,
solely because of the color of their skin.
Thank you to all the members of the Jesse
Clipper Post over the past 100 years who
have helped to ensure that all veterans re-
ceive the honor, respect and benefits that they
deserve.
f
IN HONOR OF THE 15TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF LEGAL SERVICES ALA-
BAMA
HON. TERRI A. SEWELL
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor Legal Services Alabama
on their 15th Anniversary Award Dinner. Legal
Services Alabama provides quality legal serv-
ices to low-income residents of Alabama, fill-
ing a gaping need in a state that does not
offer a statewide public defense program.
So often our legal system, whose creation
and purpose is to maintain equal justice under
the law, regardless of economic factors, con-
nections or other indicators, fails to do so. The
reality is that under-resourced individuals are
provided decreased access to quality legal
counsel, while those who can afford it are
granted superior services. This fundamentally
contradicts the intent of our court system and
undermines the very framework of our country.
The work of Legal Services Alabama is to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12SE8.014 E12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1141
September 12, 2019
right that imbalance, restoring justice not only
to the economically disenfranchised, but to
every Alabamian and American.
Founded on February 1, 2004, Legal Serv-
ices Alabama began as three separate Legal
Services programs, Legal Services Corpora-
tion of Alabama (founded 1977), Legal Serv-
ices of Metro Birmingham (founded 1977) and
Legal Services of North-Central Alabama
(founded 1969). The three regional offices
merged resources to become the statewide
entity Legal Services Alabama which provides
free legal services to low-income Alabamians
across all of the state’s 67 counties. The
merger reflected a nationwide imperative, initi-
ated by the Legal Services Corporation, which
encouraged consolidation in order to provide
improved and more efficient services to those
in need.
Alabama has long been a bastion of grass-
roots activism in pursuit of civil rights and eco-
nomic justice. Alabama is the birthplace of the
civil rights movement of the 1960s and played
a prominent role in Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s
Poor People’s Campaign. Economic inequal-
ities are inextricably tied to racial inequalities
and Alabama has, since our nation’s birth,
been ground zero for some of the worst racial
and economic injustices and the greatest mo-
ments of uprising and activism. Along these
lines, it is impossible to consider the work of
the Legal Services Alabama on behalf of low-
income Alabamians without pointing out the
systems of racial hierarchy that our current
justice system tacitly endorses through its pas-
sivity.
The reality is that the vast majority of those
unable to afford adequate legal representation
in Alabama are African American. It is essen-
tial that organizations like the Legal Services
Alabama do the important work of uplifting
those who have been historically marginalized
and disenfranchised, despite the fact that our
current system is not set up to do so. Just as
we, as a nation, must reflect openly and hon-
estly on the ills of a criminal justice system
that disproportionately jails people of color, we
must commend those organizations like LSA
that have stepped in and addressed an urgent
need.
Legal Services Alabama has eight offices
across the state as well as a centralized call
center in order to provide the best possible
service and access to Alabamians in need.
LSA’s offices are located in Anniston/Gads-
den, Birmingham, Dothan, Huntsville, Mobile,
Montgomery, Selma and Tuscaloosa. Each of
those offices is staffed and equipped to serve
low income people with legal matters and to
promote collaboration in support of providing
solutions to the myriad issues associated with
living in poverty. Currently, Legal Services Ala-
bama is the only non-profit law firm in the
state of Alabama that provides free civil legal
assistance to economically disenfranchised
Alabamians.
In addition to providing free, quality legal
representation to those in need, Legal Serv-
ices Alabama also provides mediation services
to clients, in the hope that they might avoid
the court system entirely. Mediation can often
be prohibitively expensive and many people
may not even know that it is an option avail-
able to them prior to engaging the courts. By
offering mediation, LSA encourages Alabam-
ians, when possible, to seek an alternative
that may ultimately be more beneficial.
Further, Legal Services Alabama practices
‘‘preventative law,’’ working within the commu-
nity to educate members on their rights and
responsibilities in the hope of avoiding poten-
tially devastating legal issues. Legal Services
Alabama develops and distributes informative
literature, legal self-help materials and forms
throughout the community to help educate and
engage those in need. This holistic approach
to providing legal services shows an intrinsic
understanding of the ways in which not only
the criminal justice system but also community
and social situations contribute to cycles of
crime and prosecution and thoughtfully applies
that understanding to a better and more com-
prehensive solution.
I am pleased to be granted this opportunity
to recognize Legal Services Alabama for the
important work they do for those Alabamians
most in need. We as legislators must continue
to work toward correcting our criminal justice
system, but as that work is done, I am grateful
to LSA for doing the important and necessary
work of filling in the missing gaps.
f
RECOGNIZING DAN MUSSER III,
HIS FAMILY, AND THE GRAND
HOTEL
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it is my
honor to recognize Dan Musser III and his
family for their work as owners and stewards
of the Grand Hotel. Through their unwavering
commitment to excellence, the Musser family
and the Grand Hotel have become indispen-
sable parts of Michigan’s First District.
First opened in 1887, the Grand Hotel was
created to serve as a retreat for vacationers
looking to enjoy summer on the Straits of
Mackinac and Lake Huron. Since 1933, the
hotel has been owned and operated by the
Musser family. Under the Mussers’ steward-
ship, the Grand Hotel would grow to become
not only a beloved part of Michigan, but a
prominent feature in popular culture and pre-
mier destination for visitors from around the
world. Its unique design has been widely ac-
claimed, and its world’s-largest 660-foot porch
has been enjoyed by the likes of John F. Ken-
nedy, Gerald Ford, George H.W. Bush, and
Thomas Edison.
In 1989, the National Park Service des-
ignated the hotel as a National Historic Land-
mark, citing its historic architecture and rep-
resentation of the American dream of a ‘‘sum-
mer place.’’ Today, its role as a summer place
remains stronger than ever for the thousands
of guests to Mackinac Island every year.
Dan Musser III started working at the Grand
Hotel while in high school, raking sand traps
on the hotel’s golf course, The Jewel. He
would go on to work as a bellhop, bartender,
front desk clerk, front desk manager, reserva-
tions manager, and Vice President, before fi-
nally being named President in 1989. Just like
his family predecessors, Dan has served as a
hands-on President—present to greet guests
and happy to handle the day-to-day details.
Outside of his own hotel, Dan has served as
the Chairman of the Michigan Hotel, Motel,
and Resort Association, Chairman of the Re-
sort Committee of the American Hotel and
Lodging Association, and was twice appointed
to the Michigan Travel Commission by the
Governor. The impact of his leadership on
Mackinac Island and the state of Michigan
cannot be overstated. While the Musser family
may be passing along the ownership of the
Grand Hotel, the impact of their work will be
felt by Michiganders for generations to come.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the Musser family and honoring
the unique history and cultural significance of
the Grand Hotel. Michiganders can take im-
mense pride in knowing that the First District
is home to such an important landmark and
such a devoted group of leaders. On behalf of
my constituents, I wish Dan and the Grand
Hotel all the best in their future endeavors.
f
IN HONOR OF OAK RIDGE BAPTIST
CHURCH 50TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, today I rise in
celebration of the 50th Anniversary of the Oak
Ridge Baptist Church in the Eighth Congres-
sional District of Texas.
Five families came to Oak Ridge, Texas
from First Baptist Church in Conroe with the
mission of building a sister church. The
Suggs, Greer, Atherton, Pringle, and Allbrights
families founded their church in the Tamina
Community Hall on Robinson Road on Octo-
ber 22, 1967, with only 50 members in attend-
ance.
In just two years, Oak Ridge Baptist Church
grew to 253 members, and in 1969 a building
off I–45 was dedicated to being their new
home. After many wonderful years in that
building, they finally settled into a more-per-
manent church facility on May 6, 2007. The
congregation celebrated this move by march-
ing from their temporary residence at Vogel In-
termediate School to their new home on
Hanna Road.
Fifty years have passed since the opening
of their first building, but Senior Pastor Dr.
Galen Cooper continues to keep the mission
of the original five families alive, by connecting
individuals throughout Oak Ridge, Spring, and
The Woodlands through faith and community.
He works to not only bond families, but to also
create a truly supportive fellowship within the
church.
For the congregation of Oak Ridge Baptist
Church, worship extends well beyond the
walls of their church building. Members are
taught to bring their faith into every aspect of
their lives. Through programs including Fellow-
ship of Christian Athletes, The Gideon’s Inter-
national, Operation Christmas Card, and more,
the congregation strives to better serve and
improve their community based through their
strong faith and welcoming values.
These churchgoers not only support their
brothers and sisters in Christ in Texas, but
around the world. In fact, Oak Ridge Baptist
Church has partnered with the Eastern Baptist
Convention in Cuba to establish churches and
a School of Music. Missionaries are also lay-
ing down Christian roots in Lithuania and Mex-
ico.
This year, Oak Ridge Baptist Church cele-
brates half a century of worship and fellow-
ship, and I am proud to join their congregation
in celebration of their Anniversary. Congratula-
tions on 50 years, and I hope the next 50 will
be just as fruitful.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE8.018 E12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1142 September 12, 2019
HONORING CONSTITUTION WEEK
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I rise in
honor of Constitution Week, which is com-
memorated from September 17–23 annually.
The observance of Constitution Week was es-
tablished by law in 1956 after the Daughters
of the American Revolution petitioned Con-
gress to set aside these days to celebrate the
document which established the framework of
our government and maintained our liberties.
Author Catherine Drinker Bowen called it
the ‘‘Miracle at Philadelphia.’’ In May of 1787,
delegates from several of the thirteen states
met in what we now call Independence Hall.
The representatives included some of the new
country’s greatest luminaries, names we still
know and honor today. Among others, Virginia
sent James Madison, George Mason, George
Wythe, and George Washington, who was
elected as the convention’s president unani-
mously.
Their goal was to revise the Articles of Con-
federation then governing the Union, but soon
a new charter took shape. They met through
the hot Philadelphia summer, thinking, debat-
ing, and compromising about the nature and
particular forms of the government that would
serve the people of the United States. The
Constitution emerged from their months of de-
liberations and was signed on September 17,
1787. Madison and John Blair signed for Vir-
ginia, while Washington signed as the conven-
tion’s president. Mason refrained from signing
it without a Bill of Rights.
Virginia ratified the Constitution in the fol-
lowing year, calling for the Bill of Rights in ex-
change for the Commonwealth’s consent. In
1789 it took effect with Washington as the first
president of the United States under the new
Constitution. With Virginia’s ratification of the
Bill of Rights in 1791, ten amendments were
adopted, and more followed in the centuries
since, but the Constitution endures to this day
as our great charter.
Constitution Week recognizes the anniver-
sary of this document, the ideals that inspired
it, and the men who wrote it. I ask my fellow
Virginians and Americans to join me in observ-
ing this occasion and reaffirm the timeless
principles represented by the Constitution.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DAVID ROUZER
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. ROUZER. Madam Speaker, I missed
votes on September 9, 2019 because I had an
obligation in the state of North Carolina. Had
I been present, I would have voted NAY on
Roll Call No. 516 and YEA on Roll Call No.
515.
PROCLAIMING NOVEMBER 2, 2019
AS SCIENCE EDUCATION AWARE-
NESS DAY IN NEW YORK STATE
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to proclaim November 2, 2019
Science Education Awareness Day in New
York State. The recognition of this day serves
as a reminder of the importance of science
education, at all levels, in the State of New
York.
The Science Teachers Association of New
York State (STANYS) is New York’s first
science teacher organization. Under the lead-
ership of Kenneth Huff, President of STANYS
and a Middle School Teacher at Williamsville
Central School District in the 26th Congres-
sional District, the association is dedicated to
promoting excellence in science education. Its
mission is to work with educators, school dis-
tricts, and communities to provide opportuni-
ties for students to actively participate in
science education. STANYS is a leading voice
in legislative affairs that affect science teach-
ers and the teaching of science. This vital or-
ganization brings the collective concerns and
suggestions of science educators to NYSED
and state government officials. This organiza-
tion also acts as a multi-purpose network for
science educators of many levels and dis-
ciplines.
Science Education Awareness Day 2019 on
November 2nd will fall during STANYS’s An-
nual Conference. This event draws a large
community of Pre-K to University and Informal
Science educators from across the state. The
conference offers workshops for all teaching
levels, information on the newest tools and
technology, and prominent keynote speakers
from the field. The theme for the 2019 con-
ference is Transforming Innovations into Re-
ality in Science. The conference offers 2.5
days of workshops for all science teaching lev-
els and disciplines, renowned panelists, sub-
ject area institutes, receptions and socials,
and vendors with new materials and tech-
nologies. The celebration of Science Edu-
cation Awareness Day will add to the inspiring
and energizing atmosphere of the event.
Madam Speaker, thank you for allowing me
a few moments to proclaim November 2, 2019
Science Education Awareness Day in New
York State. This celebration is a fantastic way
to increase public appreciation for science
education and to showcase its importance in
our schools and communities.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, on Roll Call
No. 525, I mistakenly voted and would like to
correct my vote to a YEA. Had I been present,
I would have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 525.
CONGRATULATING BILL HAMMES
OF SHERRARD, ILLINOIS, WHO
WAS NAMED CONSERVATION
TEACHER OF THE YEAR
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Bill Hammes of Sherrard, Illi-
nois, who was recently named the ‘‘Conserva-
tion Teacher of the Year’’ by the Association
of Illinois Soil and Water Conservation Dis-
tricts, Illinois Department of Natural Resources
and the Illinois Audubon Society.
Bill Hammes is an agriculture teacher at
Sherrard High School where he has dedicated
the last couple decades of his life to agricul-
tural education. Hammes’ work has not gone
unnoticed as his class received the ‘‘Environ-
mental Youth Group Award’’ in the 1980s and
‘‘Iowater Award’’ in the 2000s. Hammes has
supported his students inside and outside of
the classroom, teaching them essential agri-
cultural skills and helping them coordinate a
Cover Crop Tour in 2017. As an FFA mentor,
his students went on to positively impact the
community from cultivating crops, serving local
food pantries and more. Additionally, he has
enriched the local community by developing
an outdoor learning campus which includes a
garden, greenhouse and cropland for Sherrard
students. It makes me immensely proud to
see such dedication to our environment and
community.
Madam Speaker, I want to again formally
congratulate Bill Hammes for being recognized
for his great work. I am hopeful that commu-
nities across the state can learn from
Hammes’ leadership and agricultural success.
f
RECOGNIZING NORMAN R.
VELIQUETTE FOR HIS INDUCTION
INTO THE MICHIGAN FARMERS
HALL OF FAME
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize Norman R. Veliquette for
his induction into the Michigan Farmers Hall of
Fame. Through his unparalleled leadership
and devotion to excellence, Norm has become
an indispensable part of Northern Michigan.
The Michigan Farmer’s Hall of Fame was
created to promote excellence in farming and
recognize those in Michigan who have made
an extraordinary impact on the industry and
their communities. None are more deserving
of this honor than Norm. Over his nearly 50
years of farming, Norm has served as an ac-
tive member of the Michigan Farm Bureau,
Charter President of the Lowell Area Jaycees,
and a founder of CherryKe, Inc., Great Lakes
Packing Company, Cherry Bay Orchards, and
CherrCo, Inc.—to name only some of his en-
deavors. In his long and successful career,
Norm has tackled the challenges of an ever-
evolving industry head-on and proven himself
to be a leader in Michigan’s cherry sector.
In addition to his work for Michigan’s agri-
cultural industry, Norm has a long history of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12SE8.021 E12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1143
September 12, 2019
serving his community through the Elk Rapids
School Board, Sacred Heart Church, Rotary
Club, Northwestern Michigan College, and as
the founder and long-time chairman of the
Meadow Brook Foundation in Antrim County.
He has also participated in multiple Agricul-
tural People-to-People missions in Russia,
Belarus, and Ukraine, and has performed
comedic monologues for the Elk Rapids Ro-
tary Show for the past 35 years. Additionally,
Norm has dedicated himself to public health
through fundraising for the Rotary Foundation
and the World Health Organization’s Global
Polio Eradication Initiative. He has also partici-
pated in multiple missions for India’s polio Na-
tional Immunization Day, and has published
five books recounting his experiences.
Agriculture is the second-largest sector of
Michigan’s economy, and the cherry industry
serves a vital role for the people and commu-
nities of Northern Michigan. With today’s ever-
evolving world, the work of industry and com-
munity leaders like Norm has been critical in
shaping Michigan’s agricultural industry to the
success story it is today. His impact on the
people of Michigan cannot be overstated.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to congratu-
late Norman Veliquette for his decades of
service and his induction into the Michigan
Farmers Hall of Fame. Michiganders can take
great pride in knowing the First District is
home to such a dedicated leader. On behalf of
my constituents, I wish Norm all the best in his
future endeavors.
f
HONORING LILI MARSH AS THE
BAKERSFIELD POLICE ACTIVI-
TIES LEAGUE HOMETOWN HERO
HON. KEVIN McCARTHY
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Lili Marsh, a constituent and
community leader from Bakersfield, California.
Today, Lili is being recognized as the 2019
Bakersfield Police Activities League Home-
town Hero for exemplary service and leader-
ship to the people of Kern County, which I
represent.
Lili earned her Bachelor of Arts from Woos-
ter College and has been a longtime leader in
the Bakersfield community. While she has
committed herself to an impressive number of
civic organizations, her most passionate work
has been in service to Kern County’s vet-
erans. As Executive Director of Honor Flight
Kern County, a chapter of the national organi-
zation she helped start, Lili organizes travel
and accommodations in Washington for Kern
County’s heroes so that they can see the
monuments built in their honor. Many times,
Honor Flight marks the first visit to our nation’s
capital for these veterans, and Lili has been
instrumental in giving these men and women
the hero’s welcome they deserve upon reach-
ing their nation’s capital.
However, Lili’s involvement with our vet-
erans does not end with Honor Flight. Her
most recent community improvement project
has been the Portrait of a Warrior Gallery.
This moving gallery is filled with portraits of to-
day’s generation of men and women in the
Armed Forces who have lost their lives fol-
lowing the 9/11 attacks. The Portrait of a War-
rior Gallery is a project born of passion, love,
and admiration of those who defend America
and her ideals. Having worked with Lili on
Honor Flight and numerous other veterans
issues, she has the uncanny ability to identify
the needs of our veteran community and the
determination to see those needs met.
Along with being a businesswoman and an
entrepreneur, Lili is many things to our com-
munity. But her passion and determination
have enriched the lives of Kern County’s vet-
erans and helped ensure our community con-
tinues to recognize these heroes among us.
I rise today to recognize Lili Marsh as a
Hometown Hero award recipient who con-
tinues to positively influence our county
through her character and leadership. A true
signature of leadership is the generosity of
time and talents that one gives on behalf to
their neighbors and community. Lili exemplifies
this time-honored tradition, and I would like to
thank her and her husband, Troy, for their life-
changing work. On behalf of a grateful com-
munity and the 23rd Congressional district, I
recognize Lili Marsh’s achievements and look
forward to her many future successes.
f
400TH ANNIVERSARY OF FIRST
ENSLAVED AFRICANS BROUGHT
TO AMERICA
SPEECH OF
HON. BARBARA LEE
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Ms. LEE of California. Madam Speaker, I in-
clude in the RECORD the following article from
‘‘The 1619 Project’’ published in The New
York Times Magazine.
[From The New York Times Magazine, Aug.
14, 2019]
THE 1619 PROJECT
(By Nikole Hanna-Jones)
My dad always flew an American flag in
our front yard. The blue paint on our two-
story house was perennially chipping; the
fence, or the rail by the stairs, or the front
door, existed in a perpetual state of dis-
repair, but that flag always flew pristine.
Our corner lot, which had been redlined by
the federal government, was along the river
that divided the black side from the white
side of our Iowa town. At the edge of our
lawn, high on an aluminum pole, soared the
flag, which my dad would replace as soon as
it showed the slightest tatter.
My dad was born into a family of share-
croppers on a white plantation in Green-
wood, Miss., where black people bent over
cotton from can’t-see-in-the-morning to
can’t-see-at-night, just as their enslaved an-
cestors had done not long before. The Mis-
sissippi of my dad’s youth was an apartheid
state that subjugated its near-majority
black population through breathtaking acts
of violence. White residents in Mississippi
lynched more black people than those in any
other state in the country, and the white
people in my dad’s home county lynched
more black residents than those in any other
county in Mississippi, often for such
‘‘crimes’’ as entering a room occupied by
white women, bumping into a white girl or
trying to start a sharecroppers union. My
dad’s mother, like all the black people in
Greenwood, could not vote, use the public li-
brary or find work other than toiling in the
cotton fields or toiling in white people’s
houses. So in the 1940s, she packed up her few
belongings and her three small children and
joined the flood of black Southerners fleeing
North. She got off the Illinois Central Rail-
road in Waterloo, Iowa, only to have her
hopes of the mythical Promised Land shat-
tered when she learned that Jim Crow did
not end at the Mason-Dixon line.
Grandmama, as we called her, found a
house in a segregated black neighborhood on
the city’s east side and then found the work
that was considered black women’s work no
matter where black women lived—cleaning
white people’s houses. Dad, too, struggled to
find promise in this land. In 1962, at age 17,
he signed up for the Army. Like many young
men, he joined in hopes of escaping poverty.
But he went into the military for another
reason as well, a reason common to black
men: Dad hoped that if he served his coun-
try, his country might finally treat him as
an American.
The 1619 Project is a major initiative from
The New York Times observing the 400th an-
niversary of the beginning of American slav-
ery. It aims to reframe the country’s his-
tory, understanding 1619 as our true found-
ing, and placing the consequences of slavery
and the contributions of black Americans at
the very center of the story we tell ourselves
about who we are. Read all the stories.
The Army did not end up being his way
out. He was passed over for opportunities,
his ambition stunted. He would be dis-
charged under murky circumstances and
then labor in a series of service jobs for the
rest of his life. Like all the black men and
women in my family, he believed in hard
work, but like all the black men and women
in my family, no matter how hard he
worked, he never got ahead.
So when I was young, that flag outside our
home never made sense to me. How could
this black man, having seen firsthand the
way his country abused black Americans,
how it refused to treat us as full citizens,
proudly fly its banner? I didn’t understand
his patriotism. It deeply embarrassed me.
I had been taught, in school, through cul-
tural osmosis, that the flag wasn’t really
ours, that our history as a people began with
enslavement and that we had contributed lit-
tle to this great nation. It seemed that the
closest thing black Americans could have to
cultural pride was to be found in our vague
connection to Africa, a place we had never
been. That my dad felt so much honor in
being an American felt like a marker of his
degradation, his acceptance of our subordi-
nation.
Like most young people, I thought I under-
stood so much, when in fact I understood so
little. My father knew exactly what he was
doing when he raised that flag. He knew that
our people’s contributions to building the
richest and most powerful nation in the
world were indelible, that the United States
simply would not exist without us.
In August 1619, just 12 years after the
English settled Jamestown, Va., one year be-
fore the Puritans landed at Plymouth Rock
and some 157 years before the English colo-
nists even decided they wanted to form their
own country, the Jamestown colonists
bought 20 to 30 enslaved Africans from
English pirates. The pirates had stolen them
from a Portuguese slave ship that had forc-
ibly taken them from what is now the coun-
try of Angola. Those men and women who
came ashore on that August day were the be-
ginning of American slavery. They were
among the 12.5 million Africans who would
be kidnapped from their homes and brought
in chains across the Atlantic Ocean in the
largest forced migration in human history
until the Second World War. Almost two mil-
lion did not survive the grueling journey,
known as the Middle Passage.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE8.026 E12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1144 September 12, 2019
Before the abolishment of the inter-
national slave trade, 400,000 enslaved Afri-
cans would be sold into America. Those indi-
viduals and their descendants transformed
the lands to which they’d been brought into
some of the most successful colonies in the
British Empire. Through backbreaking
labor, they cleared the land across the
Southeast. They taught the colonists to
grow rice. They grew and picked the cotton
that at the height of slavery was the nation’s
most valuable commodity, accounting for
half of all American exports and 66 percent
of the world’s supply. They built the planta-
tions of George Washington, Thomas Jeffer-
son and James Madison, sprawling properties
that today attract thousands of visitors from
across the globe captivated by the history of
the world’s greatest democracy. They laid
the foundations of the White House and the
Capitol, even placing with their unfree hands
the Statue of Freedom atop the Capitol
dome. They lugged the heavy wooden tracks
of the railroads that crisscrossed the South
and that helped take the cotton they picked
to the Northern textile mills, fueling the In-
dustrial Revolution. They built vast fortunes
for white people North and South—at one
time, the second-richest man in the nation
was a Rhode Island ‘‘slave trader.’’ Profits
from black people’s stolen labor helped the
young nation pay off its war debts and fi-
nanced some of our most prestigious univer-
sities. It was the relentless buying, selling,
insuring and financing of their bodies and
the products of their labor that made Wall
Street a thriving banking, insurance and
trading sector and New York City the finan-
cial capital of the world.
But it would be historically inaccurate to
reduce the contributions of black people to
the vast material wealth created by our
bondage. Black Americans have also been,
and continue to be, foundational to the idea
of American freedom. More than any other
group in this country’s history, we have
served, generation after generation, in an
overlooked but vital role: It is we who have
been the perfecters of this democracy.
The United States is a nation founded on
both an ideal and a lie. Our Declaration of
Independence, approved on July 4, 1776, pro-
claims that ‘‘all men are created equal’’ and
‘‘endowed by their Creator with certain
unalienable rights.’’ But the white men who
drafted those words did not believe them to
be true for the hundreds of thousands of
black people in their midst. ‘‘Life, Liberty
and the pursuit of Happiness’’ did not apply
to fully one-fifth of the country. Yet despite
being violently denied the freedom and jus-
tice promised to all, black Americans be-
lieved fervently in the American creed.
Through centuries of black resistance and
protest, we have helped the country live up
to its founding ideals. And not only for our-
selves—black rights struggles paved the way
for eve1y other rights struggle, including
women’s and gay rights, immigrant and dis-
ability rights.
Without the idealistic, strenuous and pa-
triotic efforts of black Americans, our de-
mocracy today would most likely look very
different—it might not be a democracy at
all.
The very first person to die for this coun-
try in the American Revolution was a black
man who himself was not free. Crispus
Attucks was a fugitive from slavery, yet he
gave his life for a new nation in which his
own people would not enjoy the liberties laid
out in the Declaration for another century.
In every war this nation has waged since
that first one, black Americans have
fought—today we are the most likely of all
racial groups to serve in the United States
military.
My father, one of those many black Ameri-
cans who answered the call, knew what it
would take me years to understand: that the
year 1619 is as important to the American
story as 1776. That black Americans, as
much as those men cast in alabaster in the
nation’s capital, are this nation’s true
‘‘founding fathers.’’ And that no people has a
greater claim to that flag than us.
In June 1776, Thomas Jefferson sat at his
portable writing desk in a rented room in
Philadelphia and penned these words: ‘‘We
hold these truths to be self-evident, that all
men are created equal, that they are en-
dowed by their Creator with certain
unalienable Rights, that among these are
Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.’’
For the last 243 years, this fierce assertion of
the fundamental and natural rights of hu-
mankind to freedom and self-governance has
defined our global reputation as a land of lib-
erty. As Jefferson composed his inspiring
words, however, a teenage boy who would
enjoy none of those rights and liberties wait-
ed nearby to serve at his master’s beck and
call. His name was Robert Hemings, and he
was the half brother of Jefferson’s wife, born
to Martha Jefferson’s father and a woman he
owned. It was common for white enslavers to
keep their half-black children in slavery.
Jefferson had chosen Hemings, from among
about 130 enslaved people that worked on the
forced-labor camp he called Monticello, to
accompany him to Philadelphia and ensure
his every comfort as he drafted the text
making the case for a new democratic repub-
lic based on the individual rights of men.
At the time, one-fifth of the population
within the 13 colonies struggled under a bru-
tal system of slavery unlike anything that
had existed in the world before. Chattel slav-
ery was not conditional but racial. It was
heritable and permanent, not temporary,
meaning generations of black people were
born into it and passed their enslaved status
onto their children. Enslaved people were
not recognized as human beings but as prop-
erty that could be mortgaged, traded,
bought, sold, used as collateral, given as a
gift and disposed of violently. Jefferson’s fel-
low white colonists knew that black people
were human beings, but they created a net-
work of laws and customs, astounding for
both their precision and cruelty, that en-
sured that enslaved people would never be
treated as such. As the abolitionist William
Goodell wrote in 1853, ‘‘If any thing founded
on falsehood might be called a science, we
might add the system of American slavery to
the list of the strict sciences.’’
[Listen to a new podcast with Nikole Han-
nah-Jones that tells the story of slavery and
its legacy like you’ve never heard it before.]
Enslaved people could not legally marry.
They were barred from learning to read and
restricted from meeting privately in groups.
They had no claim to their own children,
who could be bought, sold and traded away
from them on auction blocks alongside fur-
niture and cattle or behind storefronts that
advertised ‘‘Negroes for Sale.’’ Enslavers and
the courts did not honor kinship ties to
mothers, siblings, cousins. In most courts,
they had no legal standing. Enslavers could
rape or murder their property without legal
consequence. Enslaved people could own
nothing, will nothing and inherit nothing.
They were legally tortured, including by
those working for Jefferson himself. They
could be worked to death, and often were, in
order to produce the highest profits for the
white people who owned them.
Yet in making the argument against Brit-
ain’s tyranny, one of the colonists’ favorite
rhetorical devices was to claim that they
were the slaves—to Britain. For this duplic-
ity, they faced burning criticism both at
home and abroad. As Samuel Johnson, an
English writer and Tory opposed to Amer-
ican independence, quipped, ‘‘How is it that
we hear the loudest yelps for liberty among
the drivers of Negroes?’’
Conveniently left out of our founding my-
thology is the fact that one of the primary
reasons the colonists decided to declare their
independence from Britain was because they
wanted to protect the institution of slavery.
By 1776, Britain had grown deeply conflicted
over its role in the barbaric institution that
had reshaped the Western Hemisphere. In
London, there were growing calls to abolish
the slave trade. This would have upended the
economy of the colonies, in both the North
and the South. The wealth and prominence
that allowed Jefferson, at just 33, and the
other founding fathers to believe they could
successfully break off from one of the
mightiest empires in the world came from
the dizzying profits generated by chattel
slavery. In other words, we may never have
revolted against Britain if the founders had
not understood that slavery empowered
them to do so; nor if they had not believed
that independence was required in order to
ensure that slavery would continue. It is not
incidental that 10 of this nation’s first 12
presidents were enslavers, and some might
argue that this nation was founded not as a
democracy but as a slavocracy.
Jefferson and the other founders were
keenly aware of this hypocrisy. And so in
Jefferson’s original draft of the Declaration
of Independence, he tried to argue that it
wasn’t the colonists’ fault. Instead, he
blamed the king of England for forcing the
institution of slavery on the unwilling colo-
nists and called the trafficking in human
beings a crime. Yet neither Jefferson nor
most of the founders intended to abolish
slavery, and in the end, they struck the pas-
sage.
There is no mention of slavery in the final
Declaration of Independence. Similarly, 11
years later, when it came time to draft the
Constitution, the framers carefully con-
structed a document that preserved and pro-
tected slavery without ever using the word.
In the texts in which they were making the
case for freedom to the world, they did not
want to explicitly enshrine their hypocrisy,
so they sought to hide it. The Constitution
contains 84 clauses. Six deal directly with
the enslaved and their enslavement, as the
historian David Waldstreicher has written,
and five more hold implications for slavery.
The Constitution protected the ‘‘property’’
of those who enslaved black people, prohib-
ited the federal government from inter-
vening to end the importation of enslaved
Africans for a term of 20 years, allowed Con-
gress to mobilize the militia to put down in-
surrections by the enslaved and forced states
that had outlawed slavery to turn over
enslaved people who had run away seeking
refuge. Like many others, the writer and ab-
olitionist Samuel Bryan called out the de-
ceit, saying of the Constitution, ‘‘The words
are dark and ambiguous; such as no plain
man of common sense would have used, [and]
are evidently chosen to conceal from Europe,
that in this enlightened country, the prac-
tice of slavery has its advocates among men
in the highest stations.’’
With independence, the founding fathers
could no longer blame slavery on Britain.
The sin became this nation’s own, and so,
too, the need to cleanse it. The shameful par-
adox of continuing chattel slavery in a na-
tion founded on individual freedom, scholars
today assert, led to a hardening of the racial
caste system. This ideology, reinforced not
just by laws but by racist science and lit-
erature, maintained that black people were
subhuman, a belief that allowed white Amer-
icans to live with their betrayal. By the
early 1800s, according to the legal historians
Leland B. Ware, Robert J. Cottrol and Ray-
mond T. Diamond, white Americans, whether
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE8.028 E12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1145
September 12, 2019
they engaged in slavery or not, ‘‘had a con-
siderable psychological as well as economic
investment in the doctrine of black inferi-
ority.’’ While liberty was the inalienable
right of the people who would be considered
white, enslavement and subjugation became
the natural station of people who had any
discernible drop of ‘‘black’’ blood.
The Supreme Court enshrined this think-
ing in the law in its 1857 Dred Scott decision,
ruling that black people, whether enslaved
or free, came from a ‘‘slave’’ race. This made
them inferior to white people and, therefore,
incompatible with American democracy. De-
mocracy was for citizens, and the ‘‘Negro
race,’’ the court ruled, was ‘‘a separate class
of persons,’’ which the founders had ‘‘not re-
garded as a portion of the people or citizens
of the Government’’ and had ‘‘no rights
which a white man was bound to respect.’’
This belief, that black people were not mere-
ly enslaved but were a slave race, became the
root of the endemic racism that we still can-
not purge from this nation to this day. If
black people could not ever be citizens, if
they were a caste apart from all other hu-
mans, then they did not require the rights
bestowed by the Constitution, and the ‘‘we’’
in the ‘‘We the People’’ was not a lie.
On Aug. 14, 1862, a mere five years after the
nation’s highest courts declared that no
black person could be an American citizen,
President Abraham Lincoln called a group of
five esteemed free black men to the White
House for a meeting. It was one of the few
times that black people had ever been in-
vited to the White House as guests. The Civil
War had been raging for more than a year,
and black abolitionists, who had been in-
creasingly pressuring Lincoln to end slavery,
must have felt a sense of great anticipation
and pride.
The war was not going well for Lincoln.
Britain was contemplating whether to inter-
vene on the Confederacy’s behalf, and Lin-
coln, unable to draw enough new white vol-
unteers for the war, was forced to reconsider
his opposition to allowing black Americans
to fight for their own liberation. The presi-
dent was weighing a proclamation that
threatened to emancipate all enslaved people
in the states that had seceded from the
Union if the states did not end the rebellion.
The proclamation would also allow the for-
merly enslaved to join the Union army and
fight against their former ‘‘masters.’’ But
Lincoln worried about what the con-
sequences of this radical step would be. Like
many white Americans, he opposed slavery
as a cruel system at odds with American
ideals, but he also opposed black equality.
He believed that free black people were a
‘‘troublesome presence’’ incompatible with a
democracy intended only for white people.
‘‘Free them, and make them politically and
socially our equals?’’ he had said four years
earlier. ‘‘My own feelings will not admit of
this; and if mine would, we well know that
those of the great mass of white people will
not.’’
That August day, as the men arrived at the
White House, they were greeted by the tow-
ering Lincoln and a man named James
Mitchell, who eight days before had been
given the title of a newly created position
called the commissioner of emigration. This
was to be his first assignment. After ex-
changing a few niceties, Lincoln got right to
it. He informed his guests that he had gotten
Congress to appropriate funds to ship black
people, once freed, to another country.
‘‘Why should they leave this country? This
is, perhaps, the first question for proper con-
sideration,’’ Lincoln told them. ‘‘You and we
are different races. . . . Your race suffer very
greatly, many of them, by living among us,
while ours suffer from your presence. In a
word, we suffer on each side.’’
You can imagine the heavy silence in that
room, as the weight of what the president
said momentarily stole the breath of these
five black men. It was 243 years to the month
since the first of their ancestors had arrived
on these shores, before Lincoln’s family, long
before most of the white people insisting
that this was not their country. The Union
had not entered the war to end slavery but to
keep the South from splitting off, yet black
men had signed up to fight. Enslaved people
were fleeing their forced-labor camps, which
we like to call plantations, trying to join the
effort, serving as spies, sabotaging confed-
erates, taking up arms for his cause as well
as their own. And now Lincoln was blaming
them for the war. ‘‘Although many men en-
gaged on either side do not care for you one
way or the other . . . without the institution
of slavery and the colored race as a basis, the
war could not have an existence,’’ the presi-
dent told them. ‘‘It is better for us both,
therefore, to be separated.’’
As Lincoln closed the remarks, Edward
Thomas, the delegation’s chairman, in-
formed the president, perhaps curtly, that
they would consult on his proposition. ‘‘Take
your full time,’’ Lincoln said. ‘‘No hurry at
all.’’
Nearly three years after that White House
meeting, Gen. Robert E. Lee surrendered at
Appomattox. By summer, the Civil War was
over, and four million black Americans were
suddenly free. Contrary to Lincoln’s view,
most were not inclined to leave, agreeing
with the sentiment of a resolution against
black colonization put forward at a conven-
tion of black leaders in New York some dec-
ades before: ‘‘This is our home, and this our
country. Beneath its sod lie the bones of our
fathers . . . . Here we were born, and here we
will die.’’
That the formerly enslaved did not take up
Lincoln’s offer to abandon these lands is an
astounding testament to their belief in this
nation’s founding ideals. As W.E.B. Du Bois
wrote, ‘‘Few men ever worshiped Freedom
with half such unquestioning faith as did the
American Negro for two centuries.’’ Black
Americans had long called for universal
equality and believed, as the abolitionist
Martin Delany said, ‘‘that God has made of
one blood all the nations that dwell on the
face of the earth.’’ Liberated by war, then,
they did not seek vengeance on their oppres-
sors as Lincoln and so many other white
Americans feared. They did the opposite.
During this nation’s brief period of Recon-
struction, from 1865 to 1877, formerly
enslaved people zealously engaged with the
democratic process. With federal troops tem-
pering widespread white violence, black
Southerners sta1ted branches of the Equal
Rights League—one of the nation’s first
human rights organizations—to fight dis-
crimination and organize voters; they headed
in droves to the polls, where they placed
other formerly enslaved people into seats
that their enslavers had once held. The
South, for the first time in the history of
this country, began to resemble a democ-
racy, with black Americans elected to local,
state and federal offices. Some 16 black men
served in Congress—including Hiram Revels
of Mississippi, who became the first black
man elected to the Senate. (Demonstrating
just how brief this period would be, Revels,
along with Blanche Bruce, would go from
being the first black man elected to the last
for nearly a hundred years, until Edward
Brooke of Massachusetts took office in 1967.)
More than 600 black men served in Southern
state legislatures and hundreds more in local
positions.
These black officials joined with white Re-
publicans, some of whom came down from
the North, to write the most egalitarian
state constitutions the South had ever seen.
They helped pass more equitable tax legisla-
tion and laws that prohibited discrimination
in public transportation, accommodation
and housing. Perhaps their biggest achieve-
ment was the establishment of that most
democratic of American institutions: the
public school. Public education effectively
did not exist in the South before Reconstruc-
tion. The white elite sent their children to
private schools, while poor white children
went without an education. But newly freed
black people, who had been prohibited from
learning to read and write during slavery,
were desperate for an education. So black
legislators successfully pushed for a uni-
versal, state-funded system of schools—not
just for their own children but for white chil-
dren, too. Black legislators also helped pass
the first compulsory education laws in the
region. Southern children, black and white,
were now required to attend schools like
their Northern counterparts. Just five years
into Reconstruction, every Southern state
had enshrined the right to a public education
for all children into its constitution. In some
states, like Louisiana and South Carolina,
small numbers of black and white children,
briefly, attended schools together.
Led by black activists and a Republican
Party pushed left by the blatant recal-
citrance of white Southerners, the years di-
rectly after slavery saw the greatest expan-
sion of human and civil rights this nation
would ever see. In 1865, Congress passed the
13th Amendment, making the United States
one of the last nations in the Americas to
outlaw slavery. The following year, black
Americans, exerting their new political
power, pushed white legislators to pass the
Civil Rights Act, the nation’s first such law
and one of the most expansive pieces of civil
rights legislation Congress has ever passed.
It codified black American citizenship for
the first time, prohibited housing discrimi-
nation and gave all Americans the right to
buy and inherit property, make and enforce
contracts and seek redress from courts. In
1868, Congress ratified the 14th Amendment,
ensuring citizenship to any person born in
the United States. Today, thanks to this
amendment, every child born here to a Euro-
pean, Asian, African, Latin American or
Middle Eastern immigrant gains automatic
citizenship. The 14th Amendment also, for
the first time, constitutionally guaranteed
equal protection under the law. Ever since,
nearly all other marginalized groups have
used the 14th Amendment in their fights for
equality (including the recent successful ar-
guments before the Supreme Court on behalf
of same-sex marriage). Finally, in 1870, Con-
gress passed the 15th Amendment, guaran-
teeing the most critical aspect of democracy
and citizenship—the right to vote—to all
men regardless of ‘‘race, color, or previous
condition of servitude.’’
For this fleeting moment known as Recon-
struction, the majority in Congress seemed
to embrace the idea that out of the ashes of
the Civil War, we could create the multira-
cial democracy that black Americans envi-
sioned even if our founding fathers did not.
But it would not last.
Anti-black racism runs in the very DNA of
this country, as does the belief, so well ar-
ticulated by Lincoln, that black people are
the obstacle to national unity. The many
gains of Reconstruction were met with fierce
white resistance throughout the South, in-
cluding unthinkable violence against the for-
merly enslaved, wide-scale voter suppres-
sion, electoral fraud and even, in some ex-
treme cases, the overthrow of democrat-
ically elected biracial governments. Faced
with this unrest, the federal government de-
cided that black people were the cause of the
problem and that for unity’s sake, it would
leave the white South to its own devices. In
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE8.029 E12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1146 September 12, 2019
1877, President Rutherford B. Hayes, in order
to secure a compromise with Southern
Democrats that would grant him the presi-
dency in a contested election, agreed to pull
federal troops from the South. With the
troops gone, white Southerners quickly went
about eradicating the gains of Reconstruc-
tion. The systemic white suppression of
black life was so severe that this period be-
tween the 1880s and the 1920 and ’30s became
known as the Great Nadir, or the second
slavery. Democracy would not return to the
South for nearly a century.
White Southerners of all economic classes,
on the other hand, thanks in significant part
to the progressive policies and laws black
people had championed, experienced substan-
tial improvement in their lives even as they
forced black people back into a quasi slav-
ery. As Waters McIntosh, who had been
enslaved in South Carolina, lamented, ‘‘It
was the poor white man who was freed by the
war, not the Negroes.’’
Georgia pines flew past the windows of the
Greyhound bus carrying Isaac Woodard home
to Winnsboro, S.C. After serving four years
in the Army in World War II, where Woodard
had earned a battle star, he was given an
honorable discharge earlier that day at
Camp Gordon and was headed home to meet
his wife. When the bus stopped at a small
drugstore an hour outside Atlanta, Woodard
got into a brief argument with the white
driver after asking if he could use the rest-
room. About half an hour later, the driver
stopped again and told Woodard to get off
the bus. Crisp in his uniform, Woodard
stepped from the stairs and saw the police
waiting for him. Before he could speak, one
of the officers struck him in his head with a
billy club, beating him so badly that he fell
unconscious. The blows to Woodard’s head
were so severe that when he woke in a jail
cell the next day, he could not see. The beat-
ing occurred just 41⁄2 hours after his military
discharge. At 26, Woodard would never see
again.
There was nothing unusual about
Woodard’s horrific maiming. It was part of a
wave of systemic violence deployed against
black Americans after Reconstruction, in
both the North and the South. As the egali-
tarian spirit of post-Civil War America evap-
orated under the desire for national reunifi-
cation, black Americans, simply by existing,
served as a problematic reminder of this na-
tion’s failings. White America dealt with
this inconvenience by constructing a sav-
agely enforced system of racial apartheid
that excluded black people almost entirely
from mainstream American life—a system so
grotesque that Nazi Germany would later
take inspiration from it for its own racist
policies.
Despite the guarantees of equality in the
14th Amendment, the Supreme Court’s land-
mark Plessy v. Ferguson decision in 1896 de-
clared that the racial segregation of black
Americans was constitutional. With the
blessing of the nation’s highest court and no
federal will to vindicate black rights, start-
ing in the late 1800s, Southern states passed
a series of laws and codes meant to make
slavery’s racial caste system permanent by
denying black people political power, social
equality and basic dignity. They passed lit-
eracy tests to keep black people from voting
and created all-white primaries for elections.
Black people were prohibited from serving
on juries or testifying in court against a
white person. South Carolina prohibited
white and black textile workers from using
the same doors. Oklahoma forced phone com-
panies to segregate phone booths.
Memphis had separate parking spaces for
black and white drivers. Baltimore passed an
ordinance outlawing black people from mov-
ing onto a block more than half white and
white people from moving onto a block more
than half black. Georgia made it illegal for
black and white people to be buried next to
one another in the same cemetery. Alabama
barred black people from using public librar-
ies that their own tax dollars were paying
for. Black people were expected to jump off
the sidewalk to let white people pass and call
all white people by an honorific, though they
received none no matter how old they were.
In the North, white politicians implemented
policies that segregated black people into
slum neighborhoods and into inferior all-
black schools, operated whites-only public
pools and held white and ‘‘colored’’ days at
the country fair, and white businesses regu-
larly denied black people service, placing
‘‘Whites Only’’ signs in their windows.
States like California joined Southern states
in barring black people from marrying white
people, while local school boards in Illinois
and New Jersey mandated segregated schools
for black and white children.
This caste system was maintained through
wanton racial terrorism. And black veterans
like Woodard, especially those with the au-
dacity to wear their uniform, had since the
Civil War been the target of a particular vio-
lence. This intensified during the two world
wars because white people understood that
once black men had gone abroad and experi-
enced life outside the suffocating racial op-
pression of America, they were unlikely to
quietly return to their subjugation at home.
As Senator James K. Vardaman of Mis-
sissippi said on the Senate floor during
World War I, black servicemen returning to
the South would ‘‘inevitably lead to dis-
aster.’’ Giving a black man ‘‘military airs’’
and sending him to defend the flag would
bring him ‘‘to the conclusion that his polit-
ical rights must be respected.’’
Many white Americans saw black men in
the uniforms of America’s armed services
not as patriotic but as exhibiting a dan-
gerous pride. Hundreds of black veterans
were beaten, maimed, shot and lynched. We
like to call those who lived during World
War II the Greatest Generation, but that al-
lows us to ignore the fact that many of this
generation fought for democracy abroad
while brutally suppressing democracy for
millions of American citizens. During the
height of racial terror in this country, black
Americans were not merely killed but cas-
trated, burned alive and dismembered with
their body parts displayed in storefronts.
This violence was meant to terrify and con-
trol black people, but perhaps just as impor-
tant, it served as a psychological balm for
white supremacy: You would not treat
human beings this way. The extremity of the
violence was a symptom of the psychological
mechanism necessary to absolve white
Americans of their country’s original sin. To
answer the question of how they could prize
liberty abroad while simultaneously denying
liberty to an entire race back home, white
Americans resorted to the same racist ide-
ology that Jefferson and the framers had
used at the nation’s founding.
This ideology—that black people belonged
to an inferior, subhuman race—did not sim-
ply disappear once slavery ended. If the for-
merly enslaved and their descendants be-
came educated, if we thrived in the jobs
white people did, if we excelled in the
sciences and arts, then the entire justifica-
tion for how this nation allowed slavery
would collapse. Free black people posed a
danger to the country’s idea of itself as ex-
ceptional; we held up the mirror in which the
nation preferred not to peer. And so the in-
humanity visited on black people by every
generation of white America justified the in-
humanity of the past.
Just as white Americans feared, World War
II ignited what became black Americans’
second sustained effort to make democracy
real. As the editorial board of the black
newspaper The Pittsburgh Courier wrote,
‘‘We wage a two-pronged attack against our
enslavers at home and those abroad who will
enslave us.’’ Woodard’s blinding is largely
seen as one of the catalysts for the decades-
long rebellion we have come to call the civil
rights movement. But it is useful to pause
and remember that this was the second mass
movement for black civil rights, the first
being Reconstruction. As the centennial of
slavery’s end neared, black people were still
seeking the rights they had fought for and
won after the Civil War: the right to be
treated equally by public institutions, which
was guaranteed in 1866 with the Civil Rights
Act; the right to be treated as full citizens
before the law, which was guaranteed in 1868
by the 14th Amendment; and the right to
vote, which was guaranteed in 1870 by the
15th Amendment. In response to black de-
mands for these rights, white Americans
strung them from trees, beat them and
dumped their bodies in muddy rivers, assas-
sinated them in their front yards,
firebombed them on buses, mauled them
with dogs, peeled back their skin with fire
hoses and murdered their children with ex-
plosives set off inside a church.
For the most part, black Americans fought
back alone. Yet we never fought only for
ourselves. The bloody freedom struggles of
the civil rights movement laid the founda-
tion for every other modern rights struggle.
This nation’s white founders set up a decid-
edly undemocratic Constitution that ex-
cluded women, Native Americans and black
people, and did not provide the vote or equal-
ity for most Americans. But the laws born
out of black resistance guarantee the fran-
chise for all and ban discrimination based
not just on race but on gender, nationality,
religion and ability. It was the civil rights
movement that led to the passage of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act of 1965, which
upended the racist immigration quota sys-
tem intended to keep this country white. Be-
cause of black Americans, black and brown
immigrants from across the globe are able to
come to the United States and live in a coun-
try in which legal discrimination is no
longer allowed. It is a truly American irony
that some Asian-Americans, among the
groups able to immigrate to the United
States because of the black civil rights
struggle, are now suing universities to end
programs designed to help the descendants of
the enslaved.
No one cherishes freedom more than those
who have not had it. And to this day, black
Americans, more than any other group, em-
brace the democratic ideals of a common
good. We are the most likely to support pro-
grams like universal health care and a high-
er minimum wage, and to oppose programs
that harm the most vulnerable. For in-
stance, black Americans suffer the most
from violent crime, yet we are the most op-
posed to capital punishment. Our unemploy-
ment rate is nearly twice that of white
Americans, yet we are still the most likely
of all groups to say this nation should take
in refugees.
The truth is that as much democracy as
this nation has today, it has been borne on
the backs of black resistance. Our founding
fathers may not have actually believed in
the ideals they espoused, but black people
did. As one scholar, Joe R. Feagin, put it,
‘‘Enslaved African-Americans have been
among the foremost freedom-fighters this
country has produced.’’ For generations, we
have believed in this country with a faith it
did not deserve. Black people have seen the
worst of America, yet, somehow, we still be-
lieve in its best.
They say our people were born on the
water.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE8.031 E12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1147
September 12, 2019
When it occurred, no one can say for cer-
tain. Perhaps it was in the second week, or
the third, but surely by the fourth, when
they had not seen their land or any land for
so many days that they lost count. It was
after fear had turned to despair, and despair
to resignation, and resignation to an abiding
understanding. The teal eternity of the At-
lantic Ocean had severed them so completely
from what had once been their home that it
was as if nothing had ever existed before, as
if everything and everyone they cherished
had simply vanished from the earth. They
were no longer Mbundu or Akan or Fulani.
These men and women from many different
nations, all shackled together in the suffo-
cating hull of the ship, they were one people
now.
Just a few months earlier, they had fami-
lies, and farms, and lives and dreams. They
were free. They had names, of course, but
their enslavers did not bother to record
them. They had been made black by those
people who believed that they were white,
and where they were heading, black equaled
‘‘slave,’’ and slavery in America required
turning human beings into property by strip-
ping them of every element that made them
individuals. This process was called sea-
soning, in which people stolen from western
and central Africa were forced, often through
torture, to stop speaking their native
tongues and practicing their native reli-
gions.
But as the sociologist Glenn Bracey wrote,
‘‘Out of the ashes of white denigration, we
gave birth to ourselves.’’ For as much as
white people tried to pretend, black people
were not chattel. And so the process of sea-
soning, instead of erasing identity, served an
opposite purpose: In the void, we forged a
new culture all our own.
Today, our very manner of speaking recalls
the Creole languages that enslaved people in-
novated in order to communicate both with
Africans speaking various dialects and the
English-speaking people who enslaved them.
Our style of dress, the extra flair, stems back
to the desires of enslaved people—shorn of
all individuality—to exert their own iden-
tity. Enslaved people would wear their hat in
a jaunty manner or knot their head scarves
intricately. Today’s avant-garde nature of
black hairstyles and fashion displays a vi-
brant reflection of enslaved people’s deter-
mination to feel fully human through self-
expression. The improvisational quality of
black art and music comes from a culture
that because of constant disruption could
not cling to convention. Black naming prac-
tices, so often impugned by mainstream soci-
ety, are themselves an act of resistance. Our
last names belong to the white people who
once owned us. That is why the insistence of
many black Americans, particularly those
most marginalized, to give our children
names that we create, that are neither Euro-
pean nor from Africa, a place we have never
been, is an act of self-determination. When
the world listens to quintessential American
music, it is our voice they hear. The sorrow
songs we sang in the fields to soothe our
physical pain and find hope in a freedom we
did not expect to know until we died became
American gospel. Amid the devastating vio-
lence and poverty of the Mississippi Delta,
we birthed jazz and blues. And it was in the
deeply impoverished and segregated neigh-
borhoods where white Americans forced the
descendants of the enslaved to live that teen-
agers too poor to buy instruments used old
records to create a new music known as hip-
hop.
Our speech and fashion and the drum of our
music echoes Africa but is not African. Out
of our unique isolation, both from our native
cultures and from white America, we forged
this nation’s most significant original cul-
ture. In turn, ‘‘mainstream’’ society has cov-
eted our style, our slang and our song, seek-
ing to appropriate the one truly American
culture as its own. As Langston Hughes
wrote in 1926, ‘‘They’ll see how beautiful I
am/And be ashamed—/I, too, am America.’’
For centuries, white Americans have been
trying to solve the ‘‘Negro problem.’’ They
have dedicated thousands of pages to this en-
deavor. It is common, still, to point to rates
of black poverty, out-of-wedlock births,
crime and college attendance, as if these
conditions in a country built on a racial
caste system are not utterly predictable. But
crucially, you cannot view those statistics
while ignoring another: that black people
were enslaved here longer than we have been
free.
At 43, I am part ofthe first generation of
black Americans in the history of the United
States to be born into a society in which
black people had full rights of citizenship.
Black people suffered under slavery for 250
years; we have been legally ‘‘free’’ for just 50.
Yet in that briefest of spans, despite con-
tinuing to face rampant discrimination, and
despite there never having been a genuine ef-
fort to redress the wrongs of slavery and the
century of racial apartheid that followed,
black Americans have made astounding
progress, not only for ourselves but also for
all Americans.
What if America understood, finally, in
this 400th year, that we have never been the
problem but the solution?
When I was a child—I must have been in
fifth or sixth grade—a teacher gave our class
an assignment intended to celebrate the di-
versity of the great American melting pot.
She instructed each of us to write a short re-
port on our ancestral land and then draw
that nation’s flag. As she turned to write the
assignment on the board, the other black
girl in class locked eyes with me. Slavery
had erased any connection we had to an Afri-
can country, and even if we tried to claim
the whole continent, there was no ‘‘African’’
flag. It was hard enough being one of two
black kids in the class, and this assignment
would just be another reminder of the dis-
tance between the white kids and us. In the
end, I walked over to the globe near my
teacher’s desk, picked a random African
country and claimed it as my own.
I wish, now, that I could go back to the
younger me and tell her that her people’s an-
cestry started here, on these lands, and to
boldly, proudly, draw the stars and those
stripes of the American flag.
We were told once, by virtue of our bond-
age, that we could never be American. But it
was by virtue of our bondage that we became
the most American of all.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12SE8.032 E12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1001
Thursday, September 12, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5453–S5483
Measures Introduced: Ten bills and four resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 2469–2478, and
S. Res. 309–312. Page S5474
Measures Reported:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Allocation to Subcommit-
tees of Budget Totals for Fiscal Year 2020’’. (S.
Rept. No. 116–104)
S. 2470, making appropriations for energy and
water development and related agencies for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020. (S. Rept. No.
116–102)
S. 2474, making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of Defense for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2020. (S. Rept. No. 116–103)
S. 1273, to amend title 17, United States Code,
to establish an alternative dispute resolution program
for copyright small claims. (S. Rept. No. 116–105)
Page S5474
Measures Passed:
Wheeling, West Virginia Semiquincentennial:
Senate agreed to S. Res. 310, recognizing the
semiquincentennial of the community of Wheeling,
West Virginia. Pages S5478–80
Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjust-
ment Act: Senate passed H.R. 1200, to increase, ef-
fective as of December 1, 2019, the rates of com-
pensation for veterans with service-connected disabil-
ities and the rates of dependency and indemnity
compensation for the survivors of certain disabled
veterans. Page S5482
Patriot Week: Senate agreed to S. Res. 311, ex-
pressing support for the designation of the week of
September 11 through September 17 as ‘‘Patriot
Week’’. Page S5482
National Direct Support Professionals Recogni-
tion Week: Senate agreed to S. Res. 312, designating
the week beginning September 8, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Direct Support Professionals Recognition
Week’’. Pages S5482–83
National Defense Authorization Act—Agree-
ment: A unanimous-consent agreement was reached
providing that the Secretary of the Senate be author-
ized to request from the House of Representatives
the return of the papers to S. 1790, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, to provide for a correc-
tion; provided further that if the House of Rep-
resentatives agrees to the Senate’s request, upon re-
ceipt of the papers from the House of Representa-
tives in the Senate, notwithstanding passage of the
bill, the amendment at the desk be agreed to and
the papers be returned to the House of Representa-
tives. Page S5466
Subsequently, the Senate having received the pa-
pers with respect to S. 1790, notwithstanding the
passage of the bill, Inhofe Amendment No. 938, of
a perfecting nature, was agreed to and the measure
was returned to the House. Page S5466
Message from the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the continuation of the national emergency with re-
spect to the terrorist attacks on the United States of
September 11, 2001; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services. (PM–28) Page S5473
Rakolta, Jr. Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of John Rakolta, Jr.,
of Michigan, to be Ambassador to the United Arab
Emirates. Page S5467
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Thursday, September 12, 2019, a vote
on cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m., on Monday, Sep-
tember 16, 2019. Page S5467
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5467
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12SE9.REC D12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1002 September 12, 2019
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 5 p.m., on Monday,
September 16, 2019, Senate resume consideration of
the nomination, and that the motions to invoke clo-
ture filed on Thursday, September 12, 2019, ripen
at 5:30 p.m. Page S5483
Howery Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Kenneth A. Howery,
of Texas, to be Ambassador to the Kingdom of Swe-
den. Page S5467
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of John Rakolta, Jr., of Michigan,
to be Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates.
Page S5467
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5467
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5467
Destro Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Robert A. Destro, of
Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for De-
mocracy, Human Rights, and Labor. Page S5467
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Kenneth A. Howery, of Texas,
to be Ambassador to the Kingdom of Sweden.
Page S5467
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5467
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5467
McIntosh Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of Brent James
McIntosh, of Michigan, to be an Under Secretary of
the Treasury. Page S5467
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Robert A. Destro, of Virginia,
to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy,
Human Rights, and Labor. Page S5467
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5467
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5467
Callanan Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Brian Callanan, of
New Jersey, to be General Counsel for the Depart-
ment of the Treasury. Page S5467
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Brent James McIntosh, of
Michigan, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury.
Page S5468
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5467
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5467
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 60 yeas to 31 nays (Vote No. EX. 280),
Michelle Bowman, of Kansas, to be a Member of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
for a term of fourteen years from February 1, 2020.
Pages S5453–61
By 85 yeas to 1 nay (Vote No. EX. 281), Thomas
Peter Feddo, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury for Investment Security. Pages S5461–62
Jennifer D. Nordquist, of Virginia, to be United
States Executive Director of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development for a term of
two years. Page S5461
Messages from the House: Page S5473
Measures Referred: Page S5473
Executive Communications: Pages S5473–74
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5474–76
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S5476–78
Additional Statements: Pages S5471–73
Amendments Submitted: Page S5478
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S5478
Privileges of the Floor: Page S5478
Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today.
(Total—281) Pages S5461, S5462
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 4:21 p.m., until 3 p.m. on Monday, Sep-
tember 16, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S5483.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12SE9.REC D12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1003
September 12, 2019
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Appropriations: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the following business items:
An original bill (S. 2470) making appropriations
for energy and water development and related agen-
cies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020;
An original bill (S. 2474) making appropriations
for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020; and
302(b) subcommittee allocations of budget outlays
and new budget authority allocated to the com-
mittee in H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congres-
sional budget for the United States Government for
fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate
budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nominations of Ryan McCar-
thy, of Illinois, to be Secretary of the Army, and
Barbara McConnell Barrett, of Arizona, to be Sec-
retary of the Air Force, who was introduced by Sen-
ator McSally, both of the Department of Defense,
after the nominees testified and answered questions
in their own behalf.
GLOBAL INSURANCE REGULATORY AND
SUPERVISORY FORUMS
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine develop-
ments in global insurance regulatory and supervisory
forums, after receiving testimony from Steven E.
Seitz, Director, Federal Insurance Office, Department
of the Treasury; Thomas Sullivan, Associate Director,
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
and Eric A. Cioppa, Maine Bureau of Insurance, Au-
gusta, on behalf of the National Association of Insur-
ance Commissioners.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12SE9.REC D12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1004 September 12, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 33 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4295–4327; and 5 resolutions, H.
Con. Res. 62; and H. Res. 553–556, were intro-
duced. Pages H7704–06
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H7707–08
Reports Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H.R. 3356, to provide PreCheck to certain se-
verely injured or disabled veterans, and for other
purposes (H. Rept. 116–203, Part 1). Page H7704
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Reverend Kyle Wright, II, Holy
Cross Lutheran Church and School, Collinsville, Illi-
nois. Page H7769
Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain Protection Act:
The House passed H.R. 1146, to amend Public Law
115–97 (commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act) to repeal the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
oil and gas program, by a recorded vote of 225 ayes
to 193 noes, Roll No. 530. Pages H7671–90
Rejected the Curtis motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on Natural Resources with in-
structions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a yea-and-nay vote
of 189 yeas to 229 nays, Roll No. 529.
Pages H7687–89
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–30, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part C of H. Rept. 116–200, shall
be considered as adopted in the House and in the
Committee of the Whole, in lieu of the amendment
in the nature of a substitute recommended by the
Committee on Natural Resources now printed in the
bill. Page H7680
Rejected:
Young amendment (No. 1 printed in part D of
H. Rept. 116–200) that sought to state that the re-
peal shall not take effect until the Alaska Natives
who live and work closest to the proposed oil and
gas development in the Coastal Plain of ANWR are
thoroughly consulted regarding the effect of the bill
on their quality of life and future (by a recorded vote
of 193 ayes to 230 noes, Roll No. 526);
Pages H7681–82, H7685–86
Gosar amendment (No. 2 printed in part D of H.
Rept. 116–200) that sought to allow the bill to go
into effect when DOI, in consultation with DOL,
certifies that the offshore energy moratorium in the
bill will not kill a substantial number of Native
American, minority and women jobs (by a recorded
vote of 184 ayes to 237 noes, Roll No. 527); and
Pages H7682–83, H7686–87
Gosar amendment (No. 3 printed in part D of H.
Rept. 116–200), as modified, that sought to allow
the bill to go into effect when DOI, in consultation
with DOL, certifies that the bill will not harm Car-
ibou herd populations (by a recorded vote of 187
ayes to 237 noes, Roll No. 528).
Pages H7683–85, H7687
H. Res. 548, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 205), (H.R. 1146), and (H.R.
1941) was agreed to Tuesday, September 10th.
Directing the Clerk of the House of Representa-
tives to provide a copy of the on-the-record por-
tions of the audio backup file of the transcribed
interview of Roger J. Stone Jr. conducted by the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence on
September 26, 2017, to the prosecuting attorneys
in the case of United States of America v. Stone,
No. 1:19–cr–00018–ABJ (D.D.C.): The House
agreed to H. Res. 553, directing the Clerk of the
House of Representatives to provide a copy of the
on-the-record portions of the audio backup file of
the transcribed interview of Roger J. Stone Jr. con-
ducted by the Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence on September 26, 2017, to the prosecuting
attorneys in the case of United States of America v.
Stone, No. 1:19–cr–00018–ABJ (D.D.C.).
Page H7690
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 9 a.m. tomorrow, September 13th, and further
when the House adjourns on that day, it adjourn to
meet at 12 noon on Tuesday, September 17th for
Morning Hour debate. Page H7696
Consensus Calendar: Representative Speier pre-
sented to the clerk a motion to place on the Con-
sensus Calendar the bill H.R. 1773, to award a Con-
gressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the women in
the United States who joined the workforce during
World War II, providing the aircraft, vehicles, weap-
onry, ammunition and other material to win the
war, that were referred to as ‘‘Rosie the Riveter’’, in
recognition of their contributions to the United
States and the inspiration they have provided to en-
suing generations, it having accumulated 290 co-
sponsors. Page H7704
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that the
emergency declared in Proclamation 7463 with re-
spect to the terrorist attacks on the United States of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12SE9.REC D12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1005
September 12, 2019
September 11, 2001 is to continue in effect beyond
September 14, 2019—referred to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs and ordered to be printed (H. Doc.
116–62). Page H7697
Senate Referrals: S. 178 was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on
the Judiciary. Page H7702
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
today appears on page H7696.
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote and
four recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H7685–86, H7686,
H7687, H7689, and H7689–90. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 2:09 p.m.
Committee Meetings
THE FUTURE OF IDENTITY IN FINANCIAL
SERVICES: THREATS, CHALLENGES, AND
OPPORTUNITIES
Committee on Financial Services: Task Force on Artifi-
cial Intelligence held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Future
of Identity in Financial Services: Threats, Challenges,
and Opportunities’’. Testimony was heard from pub-
lic witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
markup on a Resolution for Investigative Procedures.
The Resolution for Investigative Procedures passed,
without amendment.
Joint Meetings
INTERPOL
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Com-
mission concluded a hearing to examine autocratic
abuse of INTERPOL, after receiving testimony from
Alexander Cooley, Columbia University Harriman
Institute for the Study of Russia, Eurasia and Eastern
Europe, New York, New York; Nate Schenkkan,
Freedom House, Washington, D.C.; Bruno Min, Fair
Trials, London, United Kingdom; and Sandra A.
Grossman, Grossman Young and Hammond, Silver
Spring, Maryland.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
SEPTEMBER 13, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12SE9.REC D12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1006 September 12, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, September 16
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: After the transaction of any
morning business (not to extend beyond 5 p.m.), Senate
will resume consideration of the nomination of John
Rakolta, Jr., of Michigan, to be Ambassador to the
United Arab Emirates, and vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the nomination at 5:30 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Friday, September 13
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 9 a.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E1138, E1140, E1141, E1142
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E1141
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E1140, E1142
Griffith, H. Morgan, Va., E1142
Higgins, Brian, N.Y., E1138, E1140, E1142
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E1138
Katko, John, N.Y., E1142
Kennedy, Joseph P., III, Mass., E1139
Lee, Barbara, Calif., E1143
Levin, Mike, Calif., E1139
Long, Billy, Mo., E1137
McCarthy, Kevin, Calif., E1143
Neguse, Joe, Colo., E1137
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E1138
Rouzer, David, N.C., E1142
Ryan, Tim, Ohio, E1139
Schrader, Kurt, Ore., E1139
Sewell, Terri A., Ala., E1140
Smith, Adrian, Nebr., E1138
Thornberry, Mac, Tex., E1137
Torres, Norma J., Calif., E1139
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E1137
Webster, Daniel, Fla., E1138
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Sep 13, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D12SE9.REC D12SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
