Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H8745
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2019 No. 180
House of Representatives
The House met at 2 p.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. BUTTERFIELD).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
November 12, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable G.K.
BUTTERFIELD to act as Speaker pro tempore
on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Dear God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
We ask Your special blessing upon
the Members of the people’s House.
They face difficult decisions in difficult
times, with many forces and interests
demanding their attention.
Give them generosity to enter into
their work. May they serve You in the
work they do as You deserve, give of
themselves and not count the costs,
fight for what is best for our Nation
and not count the political wounds,
toil until their work is done and not
seek to rest, and labor without seeking
any reward other than knowing that
they are doing Your will and serving
the people of this great Nation.
Bless them, O God, and be with them
and with us all this day and every day
to come. May all that is done be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, pursuant to clause 1, rule I, I
demand a vote on agreeing to the
Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I object to the vote on the
ground that a quorum is not present
and make the point of order that a
quorum is not present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Washington (Mr. LAR-
SEN) come forward and lead the House
in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. LARSEN of Washington led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
EX-IM REAUTHORIZATION
(Mr. LARSEN of Washington asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, today I rise to express my
support for H.R. 4863, the United States
Export Finance Agency Act, which re-
authorizes the Ex-Im Bank’s charter
for 10 years. The Ex-Im Bank is a prov-
en job-creating success story.
For years, I have met with small- and
medium-sized manufacturers in north-
west Washington State who rely on the
Ex-Im Bank to compete in the global
marketplace. Since 2014, companies,
suppliers, and other manufacturers in
my district who rely on the Ex-Im
Bank have generated nearly $24 billion
in total export value.
Vista Clara Inc. in Mukilteo is a
small, veteran-owned business which
used Ex-Im funds to develop and manu-
facture advanced nuclear magnetic res-
onance, NMR, geophysical instruments
for groundwater, environmental, and
energy resources investigations.
The Ex-Im Bank levels the inter-
national playing field for U.S. export-
ers and workers, enabling them to re-
spond to foreign competition when it is
backed by export credit agency sup-
port. It also supports large manufac-
turers like Boeing, America’s largest
exporter.
I represent nearly 18,000 current em-
ployees at Boeing’s Everett plant,
which depends upon the Ex-Im Bank to
support millions of dollars in total in-
sured shipments, guaranteed credit, or
disbursed loans.
The U.S. can be an attractive alter-
native to China by employing a stra-
tegic approach combining development
assistance, ensuring protections for the
environment and worker rights, and
supporting good governance and the
rule of law.
Mr. Speaker, I look forward to voting
for H.R. 4863 this week to provide
much-needed certainty for the Nation’s
manufacturers, and I urge my col-
leagues’ support.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 5 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.000 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8746 November 12, 2019
b 1605
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. FRANKEL) at 4 o’clock and
5 minutes p.m.
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States were commu-
nicated to the House by Miss Kaitlyn
Roberts, one of his secretaries.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
PROTECT THE GI BILL ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4625) to amend title 38,
United States Code, to require that
educational institutions abide by cer-
tain principles as a condition of ap-
proval for purposes of the educational
assistance programs of the Department
of Veterans Affairs, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4625
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Protect the GI Bill Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Clarification of educational assist-
ance for individuals who pursue
an approved program of edu-
cation leading to a degree while
on active duty.
Sec. 3. Verification of enrollment for pur-
poses of receipt of Post-9/11
Educational Assistance bene-
fits.
Sec. 4. Clarification regarding the depend-
ents to whom entitlement to
educational assistance may be
transferred under the Post 9/11
Educational Assistance Pro-
gram.
Sec. 5. Expansion of reasons for which a
course of education may be dis-
approved.
Sec. 6. Oversight of educational institutions
subject to Government action
for purposes of the educational
assistance programs of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 7. Additional requirement for approval
of educational institutions for
purposes of the educational as-
sistance programs of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 8. Clarification of accreditation for law
schools for purposes of the edu-
cational assistance programs of
the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs.
Sec. 9. Clarification of grounds for dis-
approval of a course for pur-
poses of the educational assist-
ance programs of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 10. Requirements for educational insti-
tutions participating in the
educational assistance pro-
grams of the Department of
Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 11. Overpayments to eligible persons or
veterans.
Sec. 12. Improvements to limitation on cer-
tain advertising, sales, and en-
rollment practices.
Sec. 13. Additional limitation on certain ad-
vertising, sales, and enrollment
practices of educational insti-
tutions.
Sec. 14. Charge to entitlement to edu-
cational assistance for individ-
uals who do not transfer credits
from certain closed or dis-
approved programs of edu-
cation.
SEC. 2. CLARIFICATION OF EDUCATIONAL AS-
SISTANCE FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO
PURSUE AN APPROVED PROGRAM
OF EDUCATION LEADING TO A DE-
GREE WHILE ON ACTIVE DUTY.
Section 3313(e) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the heading, by inserting ‘‘FOR A PE-
RIOD OF MORE THAN 30 DAYS’’ after ‘‘ACTIVE
DUTY’’;
(2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘for a pe-
riod of more than 30 days’’ after ‘‘active
duty’’; and
(3) in paragraph (2), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘for a
period of more than 30 days’’ after ‘‘active
duty’’.
SEC. 3. VERIFICATION OF ENROLLMENT FOR
PURPOSES OF RECEIPT OF POST-9/11
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE BENE-
FITS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3313 of title 38,
United States Code, as amended by section 2,
is further amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(l) VERIFICATION OF ENROLLMENT.—(1) The
Secretary shall require—
‘‘(A) each educational institution to sub-
mit to the Secretary verification of each in-
dividual who is enrolled in a course or pro-
gram of education at the educational institu-
tion and is receiving educational assistance
under this chapter for each month during
which the individual is so enrolled and re-
ceiving such educational assistance; and
‘‘(B) each individual who is enrolled in a
course or program of education and is receiv-
ing educational assistance under this chap-
ter to submit to the Secretary verification of
such enrollment for each month during
which the individual is so enrolled and re-
ceiving such educational assistance.
‘‘(2) Verification under this subsection
shall be in an electronic form prescribed by
the Secretary.
‘‘(3) If an individual fails to submit the
verification required under paragraph (1)(B)
for two consecutive months, the Secretary
may not make a monthly stipend payment
to the individual under this section until the
individual submits such verification.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
August 1, 2020.
SEC. 4. CLARIFICATION REGARDING THE DE-
PENDENTS TO WHOM ENTITLEMENT
TO EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE MAY
BE TRANSFERRED UNDER THE POST
9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3319(c) of title 38,
United States Code, is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(c) ELIGIBLE DEPENDENTS.—
‘‘(1) TRANSFER.—An individual approved to
transfer an entitlement to educational as-
sistance under this section may transfer the
individual’s entitlement to an eligible de-
pendent or a combination of eligible depend-
ents.
‘‘(2) DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE DEPENDENT.—
For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘el-
igible dependent’ has the meaning given the
term ‘dependent’ under paragraph (2) of sec-
tion 1072 of title 10.’’.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—The amendment made
by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to
educational assistance payable under chap-
ter 33 of title 38, United States Code, before,
on, or after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 5. EXPANSION OF REASONS FOR WHICH A
COURSE OF EDUCATION MAY BE DIS-
APPROVED.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3672(b)(2) of title
38, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by inserting or
‘‘or (D)’’ after ‘‘subparagraph (C)’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(D) A program that is described in sub-
paragraph (A)(i) of this paragraph and of-
fered by an educational institution that is at
risk of losing accreditation shall not be
deemed to be approved for purposes of this
chapter. For purposes of this subparagraph,
an educational institution is at risk of losing
accreditation if that educational institution
has received from the relevant accrediting
agency or association a notice described in
section 3673(e)(2)(D) of this title.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date that is 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
SEC. 6. OVERSIGHT OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITU-
TIONS SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENT
ACTION FOR PURPOSES OF THE
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PRO-
GRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3673 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(e) NOTICE OF GOVERNMENT ACTION.—(1)(A)
If the Secretary receives notice under para-
graph (2), or otherwise becomes aware of an
action or event described in paragraph (3),
with respect to an educational institution,
the Secretary shall transmit such notice or
provide notice of such action or event to the
State approving agency for the State where
the educational institution is located by not
later than 30 days after the date on which
the Secretary receives such notice or be-
comes aware of such action or event. A State
approving agency shall perform a risk-based
oversight survey to the educational institu-
tion by not later than 60 days after receiving
notice under this subparagraph.
‘‘(B) If a State approving agency receives
notice as described in paragraph (2), or oth-
erwise becomes aware of an action or event
described in paragraph (3), with respect to an
educational institution, the State approving
agency shall perform a risk-based oversight
survey to the educational institution by not
later than 60 days after receiving such notice
or otherwise becoming aware of such action
or event.
‘‘(2) Notice under this paragraph is any of
the following:
‘‘(A) Notice from the Secretary of Edu-
cation of an event under paragraph (3)(A).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.003 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8747
November 12, 2019
‘‘(B) Notice of an event under paragraph
(3)(B).
‘‘(C) Notice from a State of an action take
by that State under paragraph (3)(C).
‘‘(D) Notice provided by an accrediting
agency or association of an action described
in paragraph (3)(D) taken by that agency or
association.
‘‘(E) Notice that the Secretary of Edu-
cation has placed the educational institution
on provisional status.
‘‘(3) An action or event under this para-
graph is any of the following:
‘‘(A) The receipt by an educational institu-
tion of payments under the heightened cash
monitoring payment method pursuant to
section 487(c)(1)(B) of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094).
‘‘(B) Final punitive action taken by the At-
torney General, the Federal Trade Commis-
sion, or any other Federal department or
agency against an educational institution re-
lating to misconduct or misleading mar-
keting practices, as defined by the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs.
‘‘(C) Final punitive action taken by a State
against an educational institution.
‘‘(D) The loss, or risk of loss, by an edu-
cational institution of an accreditation from
an accrediting agency or association, includ-
ing notice of probation, suspension, an order
to show cause, or revocation of accredita-
tion.
‘‘(E) The placement of an educational in-
stitution on provisional status by the Sec-
retary of Education.
‘‘(4) If a State approving agency dis-
approves or suspends an educational institu-
tion, the State approving agency shall pro-
vide notice of such disapproval or suspension
to the Secretary and to the other State ap-
proving agencies.
‘‘(5) This subsection shall be carried out
using amounts made available pursuant to
section 3674(a)(4) of this title as long as such
amounts remain available.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
August 1, 2020.
SEC. 7. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT FOR AP-
PROVAL OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITU-
TIONS FOR PURPOSES OF THE EDU-
CATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3675 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
‘‘(4) The educational institution is ap-
proved and participates in a program under
title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.) or the Secretary has
waived the requirement under this paragraph
with respect to an educational institution
and submits to the Committees on Veterans’
Affairs of the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives notice of such waiver.’’.
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(d) The Secretary shall submit to Con-
gress an annual report on any waivers issued
pursuant to subsection (b)(4) or section
3672(b)(2)(A)(i) of this title. Each such report
shall include, for the year covered by the re-
port—
‘‘(1) the name of each educational institu-
tion for which a waiver was issued;
‘‘(2) the justification for each such waiver;
and
‘‘(3) the total number of waivers issued.’’.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR APPROVAL OF STAND-
ARD COLLEGE DEGREE PROGRAMS.—Clause (i)
of subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) of sub-
section (b) of section 3672 of such title is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(i) Except as provided in subparagraph (C)
or (D), an accredited standard college degree
program offered at a public or not-for-profit
proprietary educational institution that—
‘‘(I) is accredited by an agency or associa-
tion recognized for that purpose by the Sec-
retary of Education; and
‘‘(II) is approved and participates in a pro-
gram under title IV of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.), unless the
Secretary has waived the requirement to
participate in a program under title IV of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1070 et seq.).’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take ef-
fect on August 1, 2020.
SEC. 8. CLARIFICATION OF ACCREDITATION FOR
LAW SCHOOLS FOR PURPOSES OF
THE EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraphs (14)(B) and
(15)(B) of section 3676(c) of title 38, United
States Code, are each amended by striking
‘‘an accrediting agency’’ both places it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘a specialized accred-
iting agency’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
August 1, 2020.
SEC. 9. CLARIFICATION OF GROUNDS FOR DIS-
APPROVAL OF A COURSE FOR PUR-
POSES OF THE EDUCATIONAL AS-
SISTANCE PROGRAMS OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3679(a)(1) of title
38, United States Code, is amended by insert-
ing ‘‘(including failure to comply with a
risk-based survey under section 3673(d) of
this title and secure an affirmation of ap-
proval by the appropriate State approving
agency following the survey)’’ after ‘‘require-
ments of this chapter’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
August 1, 2020.
SEC. 10. REQUIREMENTS FOR EDUCATIONAL IN-
STITUTIONS PARTICIPATING IN THE
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PRO-
GRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3679 of title 38,
United States Code, as amended by section 6,
is further amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(f)(1) Except as provided by paragraph (5),
a State approving agency, or the Secretary
when acting in the role of the State approv-
ing agency, may take an action described in
paragraph (4)(A) if the State approving agen-
cy or the Secretary determines that an edu-
cational institution does not perform any of
the following:
‘‘(A) Prior to the enrollment of a covered
individual in a course of education at the
educational institution, provide the indi-
vidual with a form that contains information
personalized to the individual that de-
scribes—
‘‘(i) the estimated total cost of the course,
including tuition, fees, books, supplies, and
any other additional costs;
‘‘(ii) an estimate of the cost for living ex-
penses for students enrolled in the course;
‘‘(iii) the amount of the costs under clauses
(i) and (ii) that are covered by the edu-
cational assistance provided to the indi-
vidual under chapter 30, 32, 33, or 35 of this
title, or chapter 1606 or 1607 of title 10, as the
case may be;
‘‘(iv) the type and amount of Federal finan-
cial aid not administered by the Secretary
and financial aid offered by the institution
that the individual may qualify to receive;
‘‘(v) an estimate of the amount of student
loan debt the individual would have upon
graduation;
‘‘(vi) information regarding graduation
rates;
‘‘(vii) job-placement rates for graduates of
the course, if available;
‘‘(viii) information regarding the accept-
ance by the institution of transfer of credits,
including military credits;
‘‘(ix) any conditions or additional require-
ments, including training, experience, or ex-
aminations, required to obtain the license,
certification, or approval for which the
course of education is designed to provide
preparation; and
‘‘(x) other information to facilitate com-
parison by the individual of aid packages of-
fered by different educational institutions.
‘‘(B) Not later than 15 days after the date
on which the institution (or the governing
body of the institution) determines tuition
rates and fees for an academic year that is
different than the amount being charged by
the institution, provide a covered individual
enrolled in a course of education at the edu-
cational institution with the form under sub-
paragraph (A) that contains updated infor-
mation.
‘‘(C) Maintain policies to—
‘‘(i) inform each covered individual en-
rolled in a course of education at the edu-
cational institution of the availability of
Federal financial aid not administered by
the Secretary and financial aid offered by
the institution; and
‘‘(ii) alert such individual of the potential
eligibility of the individual for such finan-
cial aid before packaging or arranging stu-
dent loans or alternative financing programs
for the individual.
‘‘(D) Maintain policies to—
‘‘(i) prohibit the automatic renewal of a
covered individual in courses and programs
of education; and
‘‘(ii) ensure that each covered individual
approves of the enrollment of the individual
in a course.
‘‘(E) Provide to a covered individual en-
rolled in a course of education at the edu-
cational institution with information re-
garding the requirements to graduate from
such course, including information regarding
when required classes will be offered and a
timeline to graduate.
‘‘(F) With respect to an accredited edu-
cational institution, obtain the approval of
the accrediting agency for each new course
or program of the institution before enroll-
ing covered individuals in such courses or
programs if the accrediting agency deter-
mines that such approval is appropriate
under the substantive change requirements
of the accrediting agency regarding the qual-
ity, objectives, scope, or control of the insti-
tution.
‘‘(G) Maintain a policy that—
‘‘(i) ensures that members of the Armed
Forces, including the reserve components
and the National Guard, who enroll in a
course of education at the educational insti-
tution may be readmitted at such institution
if such members are temporarily unavailable
or have to suspend such enrollment by rea-
son of serving in the Armed Forces; and
‘‘(ii) otherwise accommodates such mem-
bers during short absences by reason of such
service.
‘‘(H) Designate an employee of the edu-
cational institution to serve as a point of
contact for covered individuals and the fam-
ily of such individuals needing assistance
with respect to academic counseling, finan-
cial counseling, disability counseling, and
other information regarding completing a
course of education at such institution, in-
cluding by referring such individuals and
family to the appropriate persons for such
counseling and information.
‘‘(2) Except as provided by paragraph (5), a
State approving agency, or the Secretary
when acting in the role of the State approv-
ing agency, may take an action described in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.003 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8748 November 12, 2019
paragraph (4)(A) if the State approving agen-
cy, the Secretary, or the Federal Trade Com-
mission, determines that an educational in-
stitution does any of the following:
‘‘(A) Carries out deceptive or persistent re-
cruiting techniques, including on military
installations, that may include—
‘‘(i) misrepresentation (as defined in sec-
tion 3696(e)(2)(B) of this title) or payment of
incentive compensation;
‘‘(ii) during any one-month period making
three or more unsolicited contacts to a cov-
ered individual, including contacts by phone,
email, or in-person; or
‘‘(iii) engaging in same-day recruitment
and registration.
‘‘(B) Pays inducements, including any gra-
tuity, favor, discount, entertainment, hospi-
tality, loan, transportation, lodging, meals,
or other item having a monetary value of
more than a de minimis amount, to any indi-
vidual or entity, or its agents including third
party lead generators or marketing firms
other than salaries paid to employees or fees
paid to contractors in conformity with all
applicable laws for the purpose of securing
enrollments of covered individuals or obtain-
ing access to educational assistance under
this title, with the exception of scholarships,
grants, and tuition reductions provided by
the educational institution.
‘‘(3) A State approving agency, or the Sec-
retary when acting in the role of the State
approving agency, may take an action de-
scribed in paragraph (4)(A) if the State ap-
proving agency or the Secretary determines
that an educational institution is the subject
of a negative action made by the accrediting
agency that accredits the institution, includ-
ing any of the following:
‘‘(A) A show cause order.
‘‘(B) Accreditor sanctions.
‘‘(C) Accreditation probation.
‘‘(D) The loss of accreditation or candidacy
for accreditation.
‘‘(4)(A) An action described in this subpara-
graph is any of the following:
‘‘(i) Publishing a warning on the internet
website of the Department described in sec-
tion 3698(c)(2) of this title, or such other
similar internet website of the Department,
that describes how an educational institu-
tion is failing to meet a requirement under
paragraph (1) or (2).
‘‘(ii) Prohibiting the pursuit by an indi-
vidual of a course of education at an edu-
cational institution under chapter 30, 32, 33,
or 35 of this title during the period beginning
on the date of such prohibition and ending
on a date specified by the State approving
agency, in consultation with the Secretary,
or the Secretary when acting in the role of
the State approving agency, unless the indi-
vidual was enrolled at the institution before
such period.
‘‘(B) The Secretary shall establish guide-
lines to ensure that the actions described in
subparagraph (A) are applied in a propor-
tional and uniform manner by State approv-
ing agencies, or the Secretary when acting in
the role of the State approving agency.
‘‘(5)(A) The Secretary may waive the re-
quirements of paragraph (1) or waive the re-
quirements of paragraph (2) with respect to
an educational institution for a one-aca-
demic-year period beginning in August of the
year in which the waiver is made. A single
educational institution may not receive
waivers under this paragraph for more than
two consecutive academic years.
‘‘(B) To be considered for a waiver under
this paragraph, an educational institution
shall submit to the Secretary an application
prior to the first day of the academic year
for which the waiver is sought.
‘‘(6) On an annual basis, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’
Affairs of the House of Representatives and
the Senate the following reports:
‘‘(A) A report, which shall be made pub-
licly available, that includes the following:
‘‘(i) A summary of each action described in
paragraph (4)(A) made during the year cov-
ered by the report, including—
‘‘(I) the name of the educational institu-
tion;
‘‘(II) the type of action taken;
‘‘(III) the rationale for the action, includ-
ing how the educational institution was not
in compliance with this subsection;
‘‘(IV) the length of time that the edu-
cational institution was not in such compli-
ance; and
‘‘(V) whether the educational institution
was also not in compliance with this sub-
section during any of the two years prior to
the year covered by the report.
‘‘(ii) A summary and justifications for the
waivers made under paragraph (5) during the
year covered by the report, including the
total number of waivers each educational in-
stitution has received.
‘‘(B) A report containing the recommenda-
tions of the Secretary with respect to any
legislative actions the Secretary determines
appropriate to ensure that this subsection is
carried out in a manner that is consistent
with the requirements that educational in-
stitutions must meet for purposes of other
departments or agencies of the Federal Gov-
ernment.
‘‘(7) In this subsection, the term ‘covered
individual’ means an individual who is pur-
suing a course of education at an educational
institution under chapter 30, 32, 33, or 35 of
this title.’’.
(b) APPLICATION DATE.—The amendment
made by this section shall take effect on
June 15, 2020, and shall apply to an edu-
cational institution beginning on August 1,
2020, except that an educational institution
may submit an application for a waiver
under subsection (f)(5) of section 3679 of title
38, United States Code, as added by sub-
section (a), beginning on June 15, 2020.
SEC. 11. OVERPAYMENTS TO ELIGIBLE PERSONS
OR VETERANS.
Subsection (b) of section 3685 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(b) Any overpayment by an educational
institution to a veteran or eligible person
shall constitute a liability of the educational
institution to the United States if—
‘‘(1) the Secretary finds that the overpay-
ment has been made as the result of—
‘‘(A) the willful or negligent failure of an
educational institution to report, as required
under this chapter or chapter 34 or 35 of this
title, to the Department of Veterans Affairs
excessive absences from a course, or dis-
continuance or interruption of a course by
the veteran or eligible person; or
‘‘(B) the willful or negligent false certifi-
cation by an educational institution; or
‘‘(2) the payment is made pursuant to—
‘‘(A) section 3313(h) of this title;
‘‘(B) section 3317 of this title; or
‘‘(C) section 3680(d) of this title.’’.
SEC. 12. IMPROVEMENTS TO LIMITATION ON CER-
TAIN ADVERTISING, SALES, AND EN-
ROLLMENT PRACTICES.
(a) SUBSTANTIAL MISREPRESENTATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section
3696 of title 38, United States Code, is amend-
ed to read as follows:
‘‘(a) The Secretary, or a State approving
agency acting in the role of the Secretary,
shall not approve the enrollment of an eligi-
ble veteran or eligible person in any course
offered by an institution, or by an entity
that owns the institution, engaged in sub-
stantial misrepresentation described in sub-
section (e)(1).’’.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—Such section is further
amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
‘‘(e)(1) Substantial misrepresentation de-
scribed in this paragraph is substantial mis-
representation by an educational institution,
a representative of the institution, or any
person with whom the institution has an
agreement to provide educational programs,
marketing, advertising, recruiting or admis-
sions services, concerning any of the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) The nature of the educational pro-
gram of the institution, including misrepre-
sentation regarding—
‘‘(i) the particular type, specific source, or
nature and extent, of the accreditation of
the institution or a course of education at
the institution;
‘‘(ii) whether a student may transfer
course credits to another institution;
‘‘(iii) conditions under which the institu-
tion will accept transfer credits earned at
another institution;
‘‘(iv) whether successful completion of a
course of instruction qualifies a student—
‘‘(I) for acceptance to a labor union or
similar organization; or
‘‘(II) to receive, to apply to take, or to
take an examination required to receive a
local, State, or Federal license, or a non-
governmental certification required as a pre-
condition for employment, or to perform cer-
tain functions in the States in which the
educational program is offered, or to meet
additional conditions that the institution
knows or reasonably should know are gen-
erally needed to secure employment in a rec-
ognized occupation for which the program is
represented to prepare students;
‘‘(v) the requirements for successfully com-
pleting the course of study or program and
the circumstances that would constitute
grounds for terminating the student’s enroll-
ment;
‘‘(vi) whether the courses of education at
the institution are recommended or have
been the subject of unsolicited testimonials
or endorsements by—
‘‘(I) vocational counselors, high schools,
colleges, educational organizations, employ-
ment agencies, members of a particular in-
dustry, students, former students, or others;
or
‘‘(II) officials of a local or State govern-
ment or the Federal Government;
‘‘(vii) the size, location, facilities, or equip-
ment of the institution;
‘‘(viii) the availability, frequency, and ap-
propriateness of the courses of education and
programs to the employment objectives that
the institution states the courses and pro-
grams are designed to meet;
‘‘(ix) the nature, age, and availability of
the training devices or equipment of the in-
stitution and the appropriateness to the em-
ployment objectives that the institution
states the courses and programs are designed
to meet;
‘‘(x) the number, availability, and quali-
fications, including the training and experi-
ence, of the faculty and other personnel of
the institution;
‘‘(xi) the availability of part-time employ-
ment or other forms of financial assistance;
‘‘(xii) the nature and availability of any
tutorial or specialized instruction, guidance
and counseling, or other supplementary as-
sistance the institution ill provide students
before, during, or after the completion of a
course of education;
‘‘(xiii) the nature or extent of any pre-
requisites established for enrollment in any
course of education;
‘‘(xiv) the subject matter, content of the
course of education, or any other fact related
to the degree, diploma, certificate of comple-
tion, or any similar document that the stu-
dent is to be, or is, awarded upon completion
of the course of education; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.003 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8749
November 12, 2019
‘‘(xv) whether the degree that the institu-
tion will confer upon completion of the
course of education has been authorized by
the appropriate State educational agency,
including with respect to cases where the in-
stitution fails to disclose facts regarding the
lack of such authorization in any advertising
or promotional materials that reference such
degree.
‘‘(B) The financial charges of the institu-
tion, including misrepresentation regard-
ing—
‘‘(i) offers of scholarships to pay all or part
of a course charge;
‘‘(ii) whether a particular charge is the
customary charge at the institution for a
course;
‘‘(iii) the cost of the program and the re-
fund policy of the institution if the student
does not complete the program;
‘‘(iv) the availability or nature of any fi-
nancial assistance offered to students, in-
cluding a student’s responsibility to repay
any loans, regardless of whether the student
is successful in completing the program and
obtaining employment; and
‘‘(v) the student’s right to reject any par-
ticular type of financial aid or other assist-
ance, or whether the student must apply for
a particular type of financial aid, such as fi-
nancing offered by the institution.
‘‘(C) The employability of the graduates of
the institution, including misrepresentation
regarding—
‘‘(i) the relationship of the institution with
any organization, employment agency, or
other agency providing authorized training
leading directly to employment;
‘‘(ii) the plans of the institution to main-
tain a placement service for graduates or
otherwise assist graduates to obtain employ-
ment;
‘‘(iii) the knowledge of the institution
about the current or likely future condi-
tions, compensation, or employment oppor-
tunities in the industry or occupation for
which the students are being prepared;
‘‘(iv) job market statistics maintained by
the Federal Government in relation to the
potential placement of the graduates of the
institution; and
‘‘(v) other requirements that are generally
needed to be employed in the fields for which
the training is provided, such as require-
ments related to commercial driving licenses
or permits to carry firearms, and failing to
disclose factors that would prevent an appli-
cant from qualifying for such requirements,
such as prior criminal records or preexisting
medical conditions.
‘‘(2) In this subsection:
‘‘(A) The term ‘misleading statement’ in-
cludes any communication, action, omission,
or intimation made in writing, visually,
orally, or through other means, that has the
likelihood or tendency to mislead the in-
tended recipient of the communication under
the circumstances in which the communica-
tion is made. Such term includes the use of
student endorsements or testimonials for an
educational institution that a student gives
to the institution either under duress or be-
cause the institution required the student to
make such an endorsement or testimonial to
participate in a program of education.
‘‘(B) The term ‘misrepresentation’ means
any false, erroneous, or misleading state-
ment, action, omission, or intimation made
directly or indirectly to a student, a prospec-
tive student, the public, an accrediting agen-
cy, a State agency, or to the Secretary by an
eligible institution, one of its representa-
tives, or any person with whom the institu-
tion has an agreement to provide edu-
cational programs, marketing, advertising,
recruiting or admissions services.
‘‘(C) The term ‘substantial misrepresenta-
tion’ means misrepresentation in which the
person to whom it was made could reason-
ably be expected to rely, or has reasonably
relied, to that person’s detriment.’’.
(b) REFERRAL.—Subsection (c) of such sec-
tion is amended by striking the last sentence
and inserting the following: ‘‘The findings
and results of any such investigations shall
be referred to the State approving agency, or
the Secretary when acting in the role of the
State approving agency, who shall take ap-
propriate action in such cases not later than
60 days after the date of such referral.’’.
(c) REQUIREMENTS FOR NONACCREDITED
COURSES.—Paragraph (10) of section 3676(c) of
such title is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(10) The institution, and any entity that
owns the institution, does not engage in sub-
stantial misrepresentation described in sec-
tion 3696(e) of this title. The institution shall
not be deemed to have met this requirement
until the State approving agency—
‘‘(A) has ascertained that no Federal de-
partment or agency has taken a punitive ac-
tion, not including a settlement agreement,
against the school for misleading or decep-
tive practices;
‘‘(B) has, if such an order has been issued,
given due weight to that fact; and
‘‘(C) has reviewed the complete record of
advertising, sales, or enrollment materials
(and copies thereof) used by or on behalf of
the institution during the preceding 12-
month period.’’.
(d) APPLICATION DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to an edu-
cational institution beginning on August 1
2020.
SEC. 13. ADDITIONAL LIMITATION ON CERTAIN
ADVERTISING, SALES, AND ENROLL-
MENT PRACTICES OF EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3696(a) of title 38,
United States Code, as amended by section
11, is further amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ before ‘‘The Sec-
retary’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) Not later than 120 days after a State or
Federal department or agency takes final
punitive action against an educational insti-
tution relating to practices described in
paragraph (1), the Secretary or the relevant
State approving agency may—
‘‘(A) take an action described in subsection
(f)(4)(A) of section 3679 of this title; or
‘‘(B) disapprove under such section each
course offered by that educational institu-
tion.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
August 1, 2020.
SEC. 14. CHARGE TO ENTITLEMENT TO EDU-
CATIONAL ASSISTANCE FOR INDI-
VIDUALS WHO DO NOT TRANSFER
CREDITS FROM CERTAIN CLOSED
OR DISAPPROVED PROGRAMS OF
EDUCATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (c) of section
3699 of title 38, United States Code, is amend-
ed to read as follows:
‘‘(c) PERIOD NOT CHARGED.—(1) The period
for which, by reason of this subsection, edu-
cational assistance is not charged against
entitlement or counted toward the applica-
ble aggregate period under section 3695 of
this title shall not exceed the aggregate of—
‘‘(A) the portion of the period of enroll-
ment in the course from which the individual
did not receive credit or with respect to
which the individual lost training time, as
determined under subsection (b)(2); and
‘‘(B) the period by which a monthly stipend
is extended under section 3680(a)(2)(B) of this
title.
‘‘(2)(A) An individual described in subpara-
graph (B) who transfers fewer than 12 credits
from a program of education that is closed or
disapproved as described in subsection (b)(1)
shall be deemed to be an individual who did
not receive such credits, as described in sub-
section (b)(2), except that the period for
which such individual’s entitlement is not
charged shall be the entire period of the indi-
vidual’s enrollment in the program of edu-
cation. In carrying out this subparagraph,
the Secretary, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Education, shall establish proce-
dures to determine whether the individual
transferred credits to a comparable course or
program of education.
‘‘(B) An individual described in this sub-
paragraph is an individual who is enrolled in
a course or program of education closed or
discontinued as described in subsection (b)(1)
during the period beginning on the date that
is 120 days before the date of such closure or
discontinuance and ending on the date of
such closure or discontinuance, as the case
may be.
‘‘(C) This paragraph shall apply with re-
spect to a course or program of education
closed or discontinued before September 30,
2023.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
August 1, 2020.
SEC. 15. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
4625, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 4625, as amended, the Protect the
GI Bill Act.
In 2009, before passage of the Post-9/
11 Veterans Educational Assistance Im-
provements Act of 2010—the Post-9/11
GI Bill—the Department of Veterans
Affairs supplied educational benefits to
over 14,000 veterans and paid schools
over $36 million in educational bene-
fits.
Now, VA provides educational bene-
fits to over 600,000 veterans and pays
institutions of higher learning over $11
billion to cover the tuition, fees, and
books for veterans on an annual basis.
The increased educational benefits
enacted through the Post-9/11 GI Bill
and the Harry W. Colmery Forever GI
Bill of 2017 have made pursuing an edu-
cation a viable path for many veterans
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.003 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8750 November 12, 2019
across the country. Schools across this
country have embraced the influx of
students to their campuses with open
arms; and, in return, veterans have
brought their knowledge, expertise,
and ideas into the classroom and, even-
tually, the workforce.
Since 2010, most institutions of high-
er learning have provided student vet-
erans with a means to upward eco-
nomic mobility through traditional
education and vocational training.
However, a small number of preda-
tory schools have sought to expand
their coffers by targeting veterans for
their educational benefits, providing
subpar educations in return. Not only
do veterans lose precious time and ben-
efits from being misled by these mali-
cious actors, but it also costs tax-
payers millions of dollars each year,
which is why we must pass the Protect
the GI Bill Act today.
The Protect the GI Bill Act would
hold all schools to standards set forth
by the principles of excellence outlined
in Executive Order No. 13607. By codi-
fying the principles of excellence, we
are ensuring that schools can no longer
misrepresent their student outcomes,
job placement rates, and graduation re-
quirements when marketing to vet-
erans and members of the military.
The Protect the GI Bill Act also en-
sures that schools are upfront and hon-
est regarding the cost of attendance,
scholarships available for veterans be-
fore they take loans, and whether addi-
tional training is needed after gradua-
tion to pass State-based licensure or
certification tests. This will allow vet-
erans to make informed choices about
the schools they want to attend to
start their new careers and ensure that
institutions are more accountable to
veterans.
This legislation also includes Con-
gressman BILIRAKIS’ Student Veteran
Empowerment Act, Congresswoman
SUSIE LEE’s Forever GI Bill Class Eval-
uation Act, Congresswoman SUSAN
DAVIS’ Reserve and Guard GI Bill Hous-
ing Fairness Act, and Congressman
FOSTER’s GI Bill Education Fairness
Act.
This bipartisan legislation empowers
State approving agencies to conduct
targeted, risk-based surveys; elimi-
nates waste in the Post-9/11 GI Bill pro-
gram; ensures that spouses of service-
members in the Reserves and Guard are
not penalized when servicemembers are
called to duty; and clarifies that serv-
icemembers can transfer their edu-
cation benefits to stepchildren, foster
and adopted children, and other minor
dependents.
As amended, the Protect the GI Bill
Act also protects veterans by stopping
them from incurring debt from Post-9/
11 GI Bill overpayments. According to
a GAO report, in fiscal year 2014, the
VA paid approximately $10.8 billion in
education assistance through the Post-
9/11 GI Bill and made approximately
$416 million in overpayments to vet-
erans in about 6,000 schools. Approxi-
mately one in four veterans received an
overpayment in fiscal year 2014.
Now, saddling veterans with unex-
pected debt is an injustice that we can-
not perpetuate. This bill delays pay-
ments to schools, mandates that vet-
erans confirm their enrollment each
month, and prohibits late payment
charges to students who are receiving
GI Bill benefits.
The Protect the GI Bill Act would
also allow more veterans to restore
their educational benefits in cases
where schools they attend close, are
disapproved by a State approving agen-
cy, or are discontinued for other rea-
sons outside of their control.
Current law only allows veterans to
restore their education benefits if they
attend schools that close or are dis-
approved by State approving agencies
and if these veterans do not transfer
any credits to another school or insti-
tution.
This requires these veterans to re-
start their education to restore the
benefits, which could erode their moti-
vation and cost taxpayers more money.
There is no reason that veterans should
be forced to repeat basic classes or core
credits in order to regain their edu-
cational benefits.
This bill allows veterans to restore
their education benefits while transfer-
ring up to 12 credits to another school.
The expansion of eligibility in this
bill is retroactive and will allow thou-
sands of veterans to recover their edu-
cational benefits upon the enactment
of this much needed bill.
Madam Speaker, if our goal as a leg-
islative body is to improve veterans’
economic opportunities and end vet-
eran homelessness, we must empower
veterans to develop new and market-
able skill sets in community colleges,
universities, and trade schools.
We must also be good fiduciaries of
taxpayer funds by enacting rigorous
standards and providing adequate over-
sight of institutions who seek to col-
lect funds from veterans’ educational
benefits, which is why I support this
bill.
This bill also has the support of the
Student Veterans of America and Vet-
erans Education Success.
I want to thank Representative
LEVIN for his hard work on this excel-
lent bill. I would also like to thank
Representative BILIRAKIS, Representa-
tive LEE, Representative DAVIS, and
Representative FOSTER for their con-
tributions to this bill, and I urge my
colleagues to support it.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
b 1615
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 4625, as amended, the Pro-
tect the GI Bill Act.
Earlier this year, we celebrated the
75th anniversary of the original World
War II GI Bill that helped launch the
modern middle class. In the past 75
years, the GI Bill has helped millions
of transitioning servicemembers get
the training and education they need
to be successful and help grow our
economy. I used the GI Bill myself
when I got out of the military.
Part of our role on the Veterans’ Af-
fairs Committee is to protect the GI
Bill’s important legacy and ensure that
the incredible benefit the GI Bill pro-
vides remains available for veterans for
generations to come.
The Protect the GI Bill Act would ad-
vance that goal by putting important
protections in place to help student
veterans make the right choice when
using their GI Bill benefits by helping
regulators flag and, if necessary, re-
move bad schools and programs from
being eligible for the GI Bill.
This bill would also double down on
our support for student veterans whose
school has closed before they finish
their program by restoring their GI
Bill entitlement if the student is un-
able to transfer their credits to an-
other institution.
I thank my friend and fellow long-
term committee member, Congressman
GUS BILIRAKIS from Florida, for his
hard work on this bill. GUS is the rank-
ing member of the Subcommittee on
Economic Opportunity, and this bill in-
cludes the text of his bill, H.R. 4085, the
Student Veteran Empowerment Act,
and builds off his work in the 113th
Congress to create the GI Bill Compari-
son Tool.
I would also like to thank Student
Veterans of America, Veterans of For-
eign Wars, and, especially, Veterans
Education Success for their help in
crafting this legislation. Their expert
advice and counsel are critical to en-
suring that we preserve the legacy of
the GI Bill for another 75 years and be-
yond.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. FOSTER), my good friend.
Mr. FOSTER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
I thank Chairman TAKANO, Ranking
Member ROE, and members of the
House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
for their steadfast commitment to the
men and women of our armed services
and for their work on H.R. 4625, the
Protect the GI Bill Act.
Included in this bill is legislation of
mine that I have been working on with
Representative MCMORRIS RODGERS for
some years now to remedy the bureau-
cratic oversight affecting military
families across the country.
Under current law, the Department
of Defense includes wards and foster
children in their definition of an ‘‘eligi-
ble child’’ who is authorized to receive
their parents’ unused GI education ben-
efits. However, the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs does not. Unfortunately,
this misalignment has led to a night-
mare for some members of the armed
services and their families.
This issue first came to my attention
when a constituent, Sergeant First
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.005 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8751
November 12, 2019
Class Angela Dees, and her son, Chris-
topher, reached out to my office to
share their story.
Regrettably, their story is not
unique, and they are not alone. To
date, nearly 100 wards and foster chil-
dren were initially approved by the De-
partment of Defense for the transfer of
GI education benefits, and money was
paid out to their schools. Then,
midsemester, the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs revoked their benefits.
The students and their families were
notified that they would have to repay
tuition expenses.
These families now face unexpected
and crippling debts. They aren’t just
stuck with bigger loan payments but
with outstanding bills. In many cases,
the students even had to drop out of
school.
Children of the men and women who
serve honorably should not be denied
the benefits that they were promised
because of bureaucratic oversight.
These servicemen and -women have
honored the promise that they made to
serve our country, and we need to
honor the promises we make to them.
This legislation would correct this
discrepancy and prevent this situation
from happening in the future. Doing so
would allow foster children and wards
like Christopher, who were approved
for GI education benefits only to have
them revoked, to receive the education
funding that they were promised.
I urge my colleagues to join me and
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this critical piece of leg-
islation.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentleman from Florida (Mr. BILI-
RAKIS), my good friend, a tireless work-
ing member of the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee. I know of no one on our
committee who works harder for vet-
erans, whether it is on PTSD or the
benefits they have earned, than GUS
BILIRAKIS.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I
thank the ranking member and the
chairman. I appreciate them working
with us on this very good bill. Also,
Chairman LEVIN, who is not here at the
time, does an outstanding job, and I
look forward to working with him on
many more bills.
Madam Speaker, as Ranking Member
ROE just mentioned, one of the most
important jobs of the House Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs is defending and
protecting programs like the GI Bill
that continue to provide life-changing
education and training benefits to our
Nation’s veterans and servicemembers.
I am proud that provisions in H.R. 4625
will continue this goal and are a by-
product of several bipartisan hearings
that I have led with Chairman LEVIN to
improve oversight of the GI Bill.
I am also pleased that this package
includes all the provisions from my
bill, H.R. 4085, the Student Veteran
Empowerment Act. My bill is designed
to limit overpayment of GI Bill funds
to students and schools, improve over-
sight of the GI Bill program by VA and
State approving agencies, and, most
importantly, extend the restoration of
entitlement for student veterans im-
pacted by school closures.
This last section extends benefits we
originally provided to a limited num-
ber of students in the Forever GI Bill
to all students. It extends to all stu-
dents; that is important. It is critical
to ensure that a student’s entitlement
is not lost when a school closes or is
disapproved before the student com-
pletes their education.
My provisions in this bill would
make important structural improve-
ments regarding GI Bill oversight and
accountability. These changes are im-
portant so that we can do all we can to
prevent unnecessary school closures
and ensure that a student’s hard-
earned benefits are used on training
and education programs that will set
up the veteran for long-term economic
success.
Again, like Dr. ROE, I thank the vet-
erans service organizations for their
advice and suggestions, especially Vet-
erans Education Success.
I also thank the bill’s sponsor, as I
said before, the chairman of the Eco-
nomic Opportunity Subcommittee, my
friend from California, MIKE LEVIN. It
has been my distinct pleasure, as the
ranking member, to work with him on
this bill and on other issues that come
before our subcommittee. He is a
thoughtful legislator, and I thank him
for including the provisions of my bill
in this legislation before us.
I urge passage of this great bill, H.R.
4625.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Let me just say that this bill, the
Protect the GI Bill Act, contains so
many elements offered by both sides of
the aisle. I have to point out, for the
RECORD, the coincidence of having the
interests of foster children being pro-
tected by a man named BILL FOSTER.
There are not enough people in here to
get that joke, but I thought that was
worth pointing out.
The language in this bill also con-
tains enhancements to the authorities
of State approving agencies. One of the
broken parts of how our schools, our
for-profit schools or all schools, get ap-
proved, get their programs approved, is
because our State approving agencies
lack sufficient authority to intervene
when they know that a certain for-
profit operation that has had a shady
history is about to open in their State.
This legislation would allow a State
approving agency to act before a bad-
acting for-profit school is actually
charged, formally charged.
Madam Speaker, I have no further
speakers, and I am prepared to close. I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, I have no further
speakers, and I, too, am ready to close.
I yield myself the balance of my time.
I do want to say that this bill is in-
dicative of how, when we work to-
gether, we can solve problems. You
heard various issues from both sides of
the aisle that were brought to bear and
worked in the subcommittee and com-
mittee to solve these problems for con-
stituents all across the country.
Madam Speaker, I encourage all
Members to support this bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
I urge all of my colleagues to join me
in passing H.R. 4625, as amended. In-
deed, both sides of the aisle worked
carefully together, and I am pleased to
recommend that we pass this bill on
suspension. I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, I rise in sup-
port of H.R. 4625, the Protect the GI Bill Act,
which restores education benefits for veterans
impacted by recent for-profit school closures
and provides the VA additional tools to keep
schools who violate the terms of their GI Bill
funding accountable.
For the past 75 years, the VA estimates the
GI Bill has helped more than 25 million vet-
erans and their families nationwide including
the Marianas achieve their educational and
career goals.
In recent years however, closures of several
for-profit schools have left many veterans with
degrees and credits that are not recognized or
transferable and facing serious hardships from
diminished GI Bill funds that also help pay for
housing and other living expenses.
The Protect the GI Bill Act would help the
victims of school closures by reinstating lost
benefits and barring schools who do not meet
quality standards for receiving GI Bill funds.
Under H.R. 4625, schools would also be re-
quired to inform veterans of the actual cost of
attendance including how much their benefits
cover, as well as graduation and job place-
ment rates. The bill requires VA and State Ap-
proving Agencies to take swift action on
schools in violation of GI Bill requirements in-
cluding suspension of new enrollments as well
as bans on deceptive practices like automatic
re-enrollment without the veteran’s permission.
Passage of H.R. 4625 is critical to pre-
venting future victims of school closures and
ensuring veterans and their eligible family
members receive a quality education for their
hard-earned GI Bill benefits.
I thank the gentleman from California, Mr.
LEVIN, for his leadership on this legislation and
urge my colleagues to support H.R. 4625.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4625, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REDUCING HIGH RISK TO VET-
ERANS AND VETERANS SERV-
ICES ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4477) to direct the Secretary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.007 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8752 November 12, 2019
of Veterans Affairs to submit to Con-
gress a plan to address certain high
risk areas identified by the Comp-
troller General of the United States re-
garding the Department of Veterans
Affairs in the 2019 High-Risk List of
the Government Accountability Office,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4477
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Reducing High
Risk to Veterans and Veterans Services Act’’.
SEC. 2. REPORT AND PLANNED ACTIONS OF THE
SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
TO ADDRESS CERTAIN HIGH-RISK
AREAS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consulta-
tion with the Comptroller General of the United
States, shall submit to the Committees on Vet-
erans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives a report outlining the plan the Sec-
retary has developed and the actions the Sec-
retary has taken to address the areas of concern
identified by the Comptroller General for the
Department of Veterans Affairs in the 2019
High-Risk List of the Government Account-
ability Office (GAO-19-157SP) regarding—
(1) acquisition management; and
(2) managing risks and improving health care.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report under subsection
(a) shall include each of the following:
(1) Root causes of the areas of concern de-
scribed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection
(a).
(2) Corrective actions and specific steps to ad-
dress each root cause, including—
(A) the progress of the Secretary in imple-
menting those actions and steps; and
(B) timelines and milestones the Secretary de-
termines feasible to complete each corrective ac-
tion.
(3) Resources the Secretary determines are
necessary to implement corrective actions, in-
cluding—
(A) funding;
(B) stakeholders;
(C) technology; and
(D) senior officials responsible for imple-
menting the corrective actions and reporting re-
sults.
(4) Metrics for assessing progress in address-
ing the areas of concern described in para-
graphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
(5) Key outcomes that demonstrate progress in
addressing the areas of concern described in
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
(6) Obstacles to implementation of the plan
that the Secretary identifies.
(7) Recommendations of the Secretary regard-
ing legislation or funding the Secretary deter-
mines necessary to implement the plan.
(8) Any other information the Secretary deter-
mines is relevant to understanding the progress
of the Department toward the removal of the
areas of concern from the High Risk List.
(c) ANNUAL UPDATES.—
(1) UPDATE REQUIRED.—Not less than once
each year during the implementation period
under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall submit
to Congress an update regarding implementation
of each element of the plan under subsection
(b).
(2) IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD.—The implemen-
tation period described in this paragraph begins
on the date on which the Secretary submits the
report required under subsection (a) and ends
on the earlier of the following dates:
(A) The date on which the Comptroller Gen-
eral removes the last area of concern for the De-
partment from the most recent High-Risk List of
the Government Accountability Office.
(B) The date that is eight years after the date
on which the Secretary submits the plan re-
quired under subsection (a).
SEC. 3. ANNUAL REPORT BY SECRETARY OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS ON IMPLEMENTA-
TION OF PRIORITY RECOMMENDA-
TIONS OF COMPTROLLER GENERAL
OF THE UNITED STATES PER-
TAINING TO DEPARTMENT OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than 270 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, and not less than once during each of
the subsequent three years, the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on
Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of
Representatives and to the Comptroller General
of the United States a report on the implementa-
tion of priority recommendations of the Comp-
troller General that pertain to the Department
of Veterans Affairs.
(b) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted under
subsection (a) shall include, for the period cov-
ered by the report, the following:
(1) The progress of the Secretary in imple-
menting all open priority recommendations of
the Comptroller General for the Department of
Veterans Affairs.
(2) An explanation for each instance where
the Secretary has decided not to implement, or
has not fully implemented, an open priority rec-
ommendation of the Comptroller General for the
Department.
(3) A summary of the corrective actions taken
and remaining steps the Secretary plans to take
to implement open priority recommendations of
the Comptroller General.
(c) SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT CERTAIN RE-
QUIRED REPORTS OR WRITTEN STATEMENTS.—
The report under this section shall not be con-
strued to supplant any report or written state-
ment required under section 720 of title 31,
United States Code.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
4477, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 4477, as amended, the Reducing
High Risk to Veterans and Veterans
Services Act.
The Government Accountability Of-
fice provides important oversight
across the Federal Government. As
Congress’ investigative arm, GAO au-
dits and examines Department of Vet-
erans Affairs programs and spending.
The Comptroller General and his staff
provide hundreds of recommendations
on how to improve services and bene-
fits. However, too often, GAO rec-
ommendations are ignored by the De-
partment.
H.R. 4477, as amended, is bipartisan
legislation offered by the Sub-
committee on Oversight and Investiga-
tions’ Chairman PAPPAS and Ranking
Member BERGMAN that seeks to ad-
dress, in a systematic manner, GAO’s
most notable and important findings
and recommendations.
The act requires the Department of
Veterans Affairs to develop a plan to
address the two areas within VA iden-
tified as high risk by the Government
Accountability Office. These are the
Veterans Health Administration and
acquisition management.
Every 2 years, the Government Ac-
countability Office releases its High-
Risk List of Federal Government pro-
grams most vulnerable to fraud, waste,
abuse, or mismanagement.
Included in 2015, the Veterans Health
Administration, the largest healthcare
system in the country, remains on
GAO’s 2019 list.
This was the first year that VA ac-
quisition management was placed on
the High-Risk List as a result of ineffi-
cient use of acquisition funding and
staffing resources, as well as numerous
contracting challenges. VA’s acquisi-
tion management is vital to VA’s func-
tioning because of its role in medical
supplies procurement and construction,
both of which relate directly to VA’s
ability to serve veterans and provide
quality medical care.
The Reducing High Risk to Veterans
and Veterans Services Act requires the
Department of Veterans Affairs to de-
velop a plan to address the two areas
within VA identified as high risk by
the Government Accountability Office.
b 1630
This plan will address the root causes
of why these programs are at high risk
and include specific timelines to cor-
rect the problems. VA will report to
Congress on progress and ongoing chal-
lenges. The Department will also pro-
vide their views on whether Congress
needs to take legislative action or pro-
vide additional resources.
This bill has the support of the
American Legion, Veterans of Foreign
Wars, and the DAV. I urge my col-
leagues to support this legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
I rise today in support of H.R. 4477, as
amended, the Reducing High Risk to
Veterans and Veterans Services Act.
This bill was introduced by Congress-
man CHRIS PAPPAS from New Hamp-
shire and my good friend, Congressman
JACK BERGMAN from Michigan, the
chairman and ranking member, respec-
tively, of the Subcommittee on Over-
sight and Investigation.
Every 2 years, the Government Ac-
countability Office, the GAO, publishes
its High-Risk List identifying those ac-
tivities that are considered high risk
due to their vulnerabilities to fraud,
waste, abuse, and mismanagement or
that need transformation. GAO added
managing risks and improving Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs healthcare to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.009 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8753
November 12, 2019
its High-Risk List in 2015, and it re-
mains there today.
Last Congress, the committee held a
roundtable discussion with representa-
tives from VA and GAO to address VA’s
progress towards addressing GAO’s
concerns. While it takes an agency, on
average, 7 years to be removed from
the list, VA has demonstrated little
progress. Additionally, GAO added that
VA Acquisition Management to its 2019
list.
H.R. 4477, as amended, would require
VA to develop a plan of action to ad-
dress deficiencies in acquisition man-
agement and healthcare that led GAO
to place VA on their High-Risk List in
2015 and again in 2017 and again in 2019.
It would also incorporate a provision
under H.R. 698, a bill introduced by
Representative JIM BANKS of Indiana,
to direct VA to report on its efforts to
address GAO’s priority recommenda-
tions and GAO’s top 30 open rec-
ommendations.
Our Nation’s veterans and taxpayers
deserve a VA that is high performing
and that acts quickly to address areas
of concern as they arise. This help will
help ensure that they get it done.
I am grateful to Congressman
PAPPAS and General BERGMAN for spon-
soring this bill, which has my full sup-
port, but I would be remiss if I did not
point out that this is another bill that
did not go through regular order.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
have no further speakers, and I am pre-
pared to close.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, it is my privilege to
yield as much time as he may consume
to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.
BERGMAN), a lieutenant general—and
for those of you all who don’t know
what that is, it is three stars; I only
made it to a major—to describe his bill.
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, ba-
sically, when you have three stars, it
just means you outlasted a lot of folks.
But the point is the honor of being able
to serve among marines, sailors, sol-
diers, airmen, and coastguardsmen is
enough to make us all swell with pride
because, you know, yesterday was Vet-
eran’s Day, and it is a real special day
thanking the veterans of all wars for
their service to our country.
I rise today in support of H.R. 4477, as
amended, the Reducing High Risk to
Veterans and Veterans Services Act, a
bill introduced by Oversight and Inves-
tigations Subcommittee Chairman
CHRIS PAPPAS and co-led by myself.
Every 2 years, GAO publishes its
High-Risk List identifying those ac-
tivities which are considered high risk
due to their vulnerabilities to fraud,
waste, abuse, and mismanagement or
their need for transformation. Some-
times things don’t always stay the
same, and we need to move forward
with the change.
As Ranking Member ROE stated, GAO
added managing risks and improving
VA healthcare to its list in 2015 and
added VA Acquisition Management in
2019. This past May, the Comptroller
General of the United States testified
before the Oversight and Investigations
Subcommittee, where I am proud to
serve as ranking member, concerning
the Department’s efforts to add GAO
recommendations.
Comptroller General Dodaro testified
during the hearing: ‘‘I want to empha-
size hardly any area in the high-risk
area gets off the list without sustained
congressional oversight, as well, and
action by the Congress. The engage-
ment by the Congress is absolutely
critical to the success of agencies com-
ing off the High-Risk List.’’
The intent of this bill is to focus VA
on its efforts to remove these two pro-
grams from GAO’s High-Risk List and
give Congress the information needed
to provide the sustained congressional
oversight the Comptroller General said
was absolutely necessary and needed to
remove programs from the High-Risk
List.
H.R. 4477 was amended in committee
to incorporate provisions of H.R. 698, a
bill introduced by Representative
BANKS, which would require VA to re-
port on its efforts to implement GAO’s
priority recommendations for VA.
I strongly encourage all Members to
support H.R. 4477, as amended.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, I encourage all Mem-
bers to support the bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
urge all my colleagues to join me in
passing H.R. 4477, as amended, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4477, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
VA TELE-HEARING
MODERNIZATION ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4771) to amend title 38,
United States Code, to permit appel-
lants to appear in disability compensa-
tion cases before the Board of Vet-
erans’ Appeals by picture and voice
transmission from locations other than
facilities of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4771
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘VA Tele-Hear-
ing Modernization Act’’.
SECTION 2. HEARINGS BEFORE THE BOARD OF
VETERANS’ APPEALS BY MEANS OF
TELECONFERENCE FROM LOCA-
TIONS OTHER THAN FACILITIES OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 7107(c)(2) of title 38,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or sub-
paragraph (C) of this paragraph’’ after ‘‘sub-
paragraph (B) of such paragraph’’;
(2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘or sub-
paragraph (C) of this paragraph’’ after ‘‘sub-
paragraph (A) of such paragraph’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph (C):
‘‘(C)(i) Upon notification of a Board hearing
under subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph
(1), the appellant may alternatively request a
hearing by picture and voice transmission—
‘‘(I) at a location selected by the appellant;
and
‘‘(II) via a secure internet platform estab-
lished and maintained by the Secretary that
protects sensitive personal information from a
data breach.
‘‘(ii) If an appellant makes a request under
clause (i), the Board shall grant such request.’’.
(b) DEADLINE FOR IMPLEMENTATION.—The
Secretary shall implement the amendments made
by subsection (a) not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c) REPORTING.—
(1) ANNUAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Sec-
tion 7101(d)(2) of such title is amended—
(A) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a semicolon;
(B) in subparagraph (F), by striking the pe-
riod at the ending and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(G) with respect to hearings scheduled under
section 7107(c)(2)(C) of this title—
‘‘(i) the number of hearings scheduled under
such section;
‘‘(ii) the number of hearings under such sec-
tion that were cancelled; and
‘‘(iii) any statistical difference in outcomes be-
tween cases heard under such section and those
held at the principal location of the Board or by
picture and voice transmission at a facility of
the Department.’’.
(2) ONE-TIME REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—The
first report required to be submitted under sec-
tion 7101(d) of title 38, United States Code, shall
include the following information with respect
to hearings scheduled under subparagraph (C)
of paragraph (2) of subsection (c) of section 7101
of such title, as added by subsection (a):
(A) An outline of the outreach the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs plans to conduct to inform
veterans, families of veterans, survivors of vet-
erans, veterans service organizations, military
service organizations, congressional case-
workers, advocates for veterans, and such other
stakeholders as the Secretary considers appro-
priate about hearings scheduled under such
subparagraph, including—
(i) a description of the resources required to
conduct such outreach;
(ii) a timeline for conducting such outreach;
and
(iii) information related to the advantages and
potential technological challenges of conducting
hearings under such subparagraph.
(B) A description of any modifications to the
information technology systems of the Veterans
Benefits Administration and the Board of Vet-
erans’ Appeals required to carry out hearings
under such subparagraph, including cost esti-
mates and a timeline for making such modifica-
tions.
(C) A detailed description of the intra-agency
partnership between the Board of Veterans’ Ap-
peals and the telehealth program of the Vet-
erans Health Administration as the Board con-
ducts hearings under such subparagraph, in-
cluding best practices, a risk assessment over-
view, risk mitigation efforts, and a plan for on-
going collaboration and information sharing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.011 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8754 November 12, 2019
(d) COLLABORATION.—In developing the ca-
pacity and procedures to conduct hearings
under subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) of
subsection (c) of section 7101 of title 38, United
States Code, as added by subsection (a), the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs shall collaborate
with, partner with, and give weight to the ad-
vice of veterans service organizations and such
other stakeholders as the Secretary considers
appropriate.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
4771, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 4771, as amended, introduced by
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. I support this legisla-
tion that creates an easy technological
fix so veterans can quickly and conven-
iently attend their hearings before the
Board of Veterans’ Appeals.
Applying for disability compensation
and benefits through VA can be a long
and confusing ordeal, which is further
complicated in the appeals process.
Currently, veterans often face difficul-
ties traveling to VA regional offices for
their Board hearings, difficulties in-
cluding long wait times, scheduling
challenges, or simply the distance an
elderly or disabled veteran may have to
travel.
Madam Speaker, the VA Tele-Hear-
ing Modernization Act permits vet-
erans to provide testimony before a
veterans law judge via video conference
from a location outside of a VA facil-
ity. This means a veteran could testify
in support of his or her claim from the
comfort of their own home.
Now, VA told us this piece of legisla-
tion could have an especially positive
impact on hearing access for home-
bound or rural veterans. This bill en-
sures veterans have the flexibility to
appeal VA’s decisions in a comfortable,
accessible location without affecting
the security of their personal informa-
tion.
The tele-hearing program is modeled
after the existing telehealth program
at the Veterans Health Administration
and will likely improve hearing attend-
ance and help veterans receive their
benefits. A tele-hearing pilot program
conducted by the Board showed in-
creased participation in hearings as
well as increased efficiency and timeli-
ness of requested hearings.
Under this bill, VA is required to pro-
vide annual reports to Congress with
information about how often the tele-
hearing option is used by veterans and
whether those claimants are as likely
to have their claims granted as vet-
erans using the traditional hearing
methods. This report allows Congress
to ensure this program is working the
way it should.
I thank Representative CUNNINGHAM
for introducing this bill, and I support
this legislation for the step it takes to
simplify the appeals process for our
veterans.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 4771, as amended, the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs Tele-
Hearing Modernization Act. This bill
would expand the Board of Veterans’
Appeals hearing options to include
tele-hearings.
I appreciate my colleagues, Chair-
man ISAKSON, Chairman TAKANO, and
Ranking Member TESTER, for working
with me on this bill to ensure that the
virtual hearing concept included in
this bill represents the input of all four
corners of Congress.
Madam Speaker, we all depend on
and use our smartphones for just about
everything we do these days. This leg-
islation would allow veterans to use
their personal device for a VA hearing.
I am happy that we are moving this
legislation to make hearings more ac-
cessible to veterans, especially those in
rural areas where I live or for whom
travel might be physically challenging.
This bill was amended in committee
to include additional reporting require-
ments that will help Congress monitor
the implementation of this program.
Specifically, the Board would be re-
quired to report on its outreach to vet-
erans and stakeholders on the option
for a tele-hearing, including the advan-
tages and potential technological chal-
lenges of a tele-hearing, the IT modi-
fications needed to conduct tele-hear-
ings, and the partnership between the
Board and the Veterans Health Admin-
istration, VHA, to share lessons
learned from their respective programs
since the tele-hearing program is mod-
eled after the telehealth program that
VA uses to increase access to care for
veteran patients.
The amended bill would also require
VA to collaborate with veteran service
organizations and other stakeholders
to ensure that those who represent vet-
erans at these hearings will have input
into how the program is developed so
that it can best meet the needs of our
veterans.
Madam Speaker, this bill has my full
support, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from
South Carolina (Mr. CUNNINGHAM), my
good friend, member of the Economic
Opportunity Subcommittee, and au-
thor of H.R. 4771.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Speaker,
today I am proud to rise in support of
my bill, the VA Tele-Hearing Mod-
ernization Act, which will make it
easier for our Nation’s veterans to ap-
peal their claims with the Department
of Veterans Affairs.
Currently, the Board of Veterans’ Af-
fairs only conducts tele-hearings from
certain VA locations, meaning vet-
erans have to travel to testify in sup-
port of their claims; and, in many
cases, this forces Lowcountry veterans
to drive all the way to Columbia.
My bill offers a commonsense solu-
tion to this problem by allowing vet-
erans to teleconference into these hear-
ings from the comfort of their own
homes using their personal computers.
Further, this legislation will require
these hearings to take place via a se-
cure platform so that veterans do not
have to sacrifice the security of their
sensitive personal information to take
advantage of this new process. This
change will not only benefit those vet-
erans who may be otherwise unable to
travel for their hearing, but will also
help to expedite the appeals process for
veterans across the board.
With veterans given the freedom to
participate in their appeals hearing
from a place of their own choosing, no-
shows, which add to the appeals back-
log and slow down the process for ev-
eryone, will be significantly reduced,
all with no additional cost to tax-
payers.
b 1645
The VA Tele-Hearing Modernization
Act is exemplary of the sorts of ad-
vances that we can make when both
parties come together for the sake of
our veterans.
Madam Speaker, I thank Congress-
man KATKO for signing on as an origi-
nal cosponsor. I also want to thank
Chairman TAKANO and Ranking Mem-
ber ROE for their leadership on the
committee and for expediting this leg-
islation, as well as their staffs for all
their hard work.
Madam Speaker, I urge all my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
join in supporting this legislation for
our veterans, who have sacrificed too
much to need to jump through hoops
for a fair hearing on their claims.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from South Caro-
lina (Mr. CUNNINGHAM) for his hard
work.
I have no further speakers, and I am
prepared to close.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, I have no further
speakers. I also am prepared to close.
Madam Speaker, I encourage every-
one to support this. This is obviously,
in rural America, how we are going to
have access to healthcare in the future.
It absolutely makes sense. This tech-
nology is available to almost everyone.
It makes no sense to make an infirm
veteran or other patients go miles and
miles and hours. This just makes sense.
We have the technology to do it today,
and I strongly support this and encour-
age my colleagues to do the same.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.006 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8755
November 12, 2019
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
urge all of my colleagues to join me in
passing this important piece of legisla-
tion, H.R. 4771, as amended, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4771, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to permit appel-
lants to appear in cases before the
Board of Veterans’ Appeals by picture
and voice transmission from locations
other than facilities of the Department
of Veterans Affairs, and for other pur-
poses.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
VA OVERPAYMENT
ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4360) to amend title 38,
United States Code, to improve the due
process accorded veterans with respect
to recovery of overpayments made by
the Department and other amounts
owed by veterans to the United States,
to improve the processing of veterans
benefits by the Department of Veterans
Affairs, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4360
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘VA Overpay-
ment Accountability Act’’.
SEC. 2. REPAIR OF CREDIT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 53 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 5320. Correction of erroneous information
submitted to consumer reporting agencies
‘‘(a) CORRECTING ERRORS BY THE DEPART-
MENT.—In any case in which the Secretary
finds that the Department has submitted er-
roneous information to a consumer reporting
agency about the indebtedness of any person
who has been determined by the Secretary to
be indebted to the United States by virtue of
the participation of that person in a benefits
program administered by the Secretary, the
Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) instruct the consumer reporting agen-
cy to remove such erroneous information
from the consumer report of such person or
take such other action as may be required to
ensure that such erroneous information is
not included in the report of such person;
and
‘‘(2) transmit to the consumer reporting
agency such information as the consumer re-
porting agency may require to take such ap-
propriate actions.
‘‘(b) CORRECTING ERRORS BY DEBT COLLEC-
TORS.—In any case in which the Secretary
finds that a debt collector acting on behalf of
the Department has submitted erroneous in-
formation to a consumer reporting agency
about the indebtedness of any person who
has been determined by the Secretary to be
indebted to the United States by virtue of
the participation of that person in a benefits
program administered by the Secretary, the
Secretary shall instruct the debt collector to
request the consumer reporting agency re-
move such erroneous information from the
consumer report of such person or take such
other action as may be required to ensure
such erroneous information is not included
in the report of such person.
‘‘(c) NOTICE.—Not later than 60 days after
the date on which the Secretary issues an in-
struction under subsection (a)(1) or (b) with
respect to a person, the Secretary shall no-
tify the person that the Secretary issued
such instruction.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The terms ‘consumer report’ and ‘con-
sumer reporting agency’ have the meanings
given such terms in section 603 of the Fair
Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a).
‘‘(2) The term ‘debt collector’ has the
meaning given such term in section 803 of
the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (15
U.S.C. 1692a).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 53 of
such title is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:
‘‘5320. Correction of erroneous information
submitted to consumer report-
ing agencies.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
date of the enactment of this Act and shall
apply with respect to deductions made under
section 5314 of such title, administrative
costs under section 5315 of such title, and
suits filed under section 5316 of such title on
or after such date.
SEC. 3. IMPROVED PROCESSING OF BENEFITS BY
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS.
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall im-
prove the information technology of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs (including the
eBenefits system or successor system) as
may be necessary to achieve the following:
(1) NOTIFICATION OF DEBTS INCURRED.—The
Secretary shall provide a notification to a
person who—
(A) is entitled to a payment from the Sec-
retary under a benefits program adminis-
tered by the Secretary;
(B) incurs a debt to the United States
under that benefits program; and
(C) elects to receive such notifications.
(2) REVIEW OF INFORMATION REGARDING DE-
PENDENTS.—A person entitled to a payment
from the Secretary under a benefits program
administered by the Secretary may review
information relating to dependents of that
person.
(3) TRACKING METRICS.—The Secretary
shall be able to track—
(A) the number and amount of payments
made by the Secretary to a person entitled
to a payment from the Secretary under a
benefits program administered by the Sec-
retary who incurs a debt to the United
States under such program;
(B) the average debt to the United States
incurred by a person described in subpara-
graph (A);
(C) how frequently the Secretary approves
and denies applications for relief under sec-
tion 5302(a) of title 38, United States Code;
and
(D) such other metrics the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate.
SEC. 4. AUDIT OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS BY
VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRA-
TION; PLAN OF CORRECTION.
(a) AUDIT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall complete
an audit to determine the following:
(1) The frequency by which the Department
of Veterans Affairs makes an error that re-
sults in a payment to a person by virtue of
such person’s participation in a benefits pro-
gram administered by the Secretary that
such person is not entitled to or in an
amount that exceeds the amount to which
the person is entitled.
(2) Whether and to what degree vacant po-
sitions in the Veterans Benefits Administra-
tion affect such frequency.
(b) PLAN.—Not later than 30 days after the
completion of the audit under subsection (a),
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs
of the Senate and House of Representatives a
plan and description of resources necessary
to align information technology systems to
ensure that errors described in subsection
(a)(1) are not the result of communication or
absence of communication between informa-
tion technology systems.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
4360.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 4360, the VA Overpayment Ac-
countability Act, introduced by Rep-
resentative KIM.
This bill protects veterans by ensur-
ing that the Department of Veterans
Affairs reviews and updates its systems
and policies to minimize overpayments
in the future and mitigate negative ef-
fects on veterans.
Now, under certain circumstances, if
the Department of Veterans Affairs
makes accounting errors that result in
overpayment of benefits, veterans are
left saddled with debt. Then, within a
short period of time, these veterans are
required to pay these overpayments
back to VA, placing an extraordinary
financial burden on them.
The VA can, and sometimes does,
withhold part of veterans’ monthly
benefit checks to recover overpay-
ments, exacerbating these financial
hardships.
In some cases, VA may send these
debts to a debt collection agency,
compounding veterans’ financial stress.
If the information submitted by VA
to a consumer reporting agency is in-
correct either because VA later deter-
mines its payment was not in error or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.015 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8756 November 12, 2019
because VA decides to waive the debt,
veterans may still suffer harm to their
credit. This bill makes sure VA rights
this wrong.
Under this legislation, VA would be
required to instruct the consumer re-
porting agency to remove any erro-
neous information from veterans’ con-
sumer reports. And if VA employs a
debt collection agency and that agency
then reports erroneous information to
a consumer reporting agency, VA must
instruct the debt agency to fix the
error.
Importantly, this bill also requires
VA to maintain future tracking
metrics. This information tracks the
number of VA overpayments, average
amount of overpayment, and how often
VA grants and denies veterans’ re-
quests for relief from this debt.
As we know, VA’s information tech-
nology system hinders its ability to
manage erroneous or duplicate pay-
ments. That is why this legislation re-
quires an audit of overpayments, so
whether it is its staffing shortages or
IT failures, data can guide VA and Con-
gress on where resources should be di-
rected.
I wholeheartedly support this legisla-
tion to financially protect veterans, be-
cause it is an essential step that we
need to take to ensure that veterans
are not forced to face severe con-
sequences due to VA’s mistakes.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, I yield myself as
much time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 4360, the VA Overpayment
Accountability Act.
Veterans receive overpayments for
many reasons. For example, a veteran
may erroneously receive drill pay and
disability compensation at the same
time. A veteran may reduce their
course load after their GI Bill payment
has been sent from the Department of
Veterans Affairs to the school, or a
veterans’ marital status may have
changed, but they continue to receive
additional compensation for depend-
ents. As a result, VA creates a debt
that the veteran must pay back.
In some instances, the veteran may
be aware that he or she had been over-
paid and that VA will most likely ask
them to return the money, but in other
circumstances, they may not.
I am concerned that many overpay-
ments are caused by VA’s negligence,
not the veterans.
Unexpectedly receiving a debt notifi-
cation letter can create big problems
for veterans and their families, espe-
cially if they can’t afford to pay VA
back; therefore, it is critical that the
VA has the tools it needs to effectively
prevent overpayments, and that if cer-
tain types of overpayments are un-
avoidable, VA’s recoupment process is
fair and considerate for veterans.
This bill is sponsored by Congress-
man ANDY KIM from New Jersey and is
intended to ensure that veterans are
not unduly harmed by VA’s debt collec-
tion process.
Madam Speaker, I appreciate his
leadership on this issue, and I urge my
colleagues to support H.R. 4360.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. KIM), my good friend.
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise today because
America’s veterans deserve America’s
best. They deserve the best healthcare
and the best government service.
I introduced this bipartisan VA Over-
payment Accountability Act with Con-
gressman FRENCH HILL, because some-
times our veterans do not receive the
best.
Through several programs, the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs provides
monthly payments to veterans and
other beneficiaries. Because the VA
often relies on outdated systems to
provide those payments, those recipi-
ents sometimes receive overpayments
at no fault of their own. When this hap-
pens, it is the veteran who pays a price.
In order to compensate for their mis-
take, the VA will withhold payment
from veterans.
At a time in which 1.4 million vet-
erans across the United States are
struggling with poverty issues, with-
holding payment can have severe con-
sequences for Americans who earned
these benefits.
Because there is no limit on how
much the VA can ask a vet to repay
and no limit on how far back it can go
to collect the debt, these sums can im-
pact the credit and financial stability
of veterans.
The VA Overpayment Accountability
Act aims to fix these issues by improv-
ing the VA IT systems that are often
the cause of these overpayments. It
also provides credit protection for vet-
erans who are the victims of overpay-
ments and become targets of unfair
practices.
As a grateful Nation, we should aim
to honor our veterans, not send debt
collectors after them because of a fail-
ure at the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs.
Barbara Kim-Hagemann, the State
Commander of the Department of New
Jersey Veterans of Foreign Wars said
in her endorsement remarks of this bill
that it is imperative that Congress
work to correct ‘‘harsh Veterans Ad-
ministration procedures in recouping
benefit overpayments from veterans
who are barely living paycheck to pay-
check.’’
Madam Speaker, on behalf of the
thousands of veterans that Barbara
fights for every day and the millions
across our country who sacrificed in
their service, I call on my colleagues to
join me and Congressman HILL in this
bipartisan effort to make the VA work
and honor our veterans.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Arkansas (Mr. HILL), my
good friend.
He is incredibly committed to our
veterans. I have toured two different
veterans’ medical centers in his home
State of Arkansas.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my friend from Tennessee and
my good friend from California for
their leadership of our Veterans’ Af-
fairs Committee. They are a dynamic
duo. I appreciate the opportunity to be
on the floor to be in support of this list
of good bills tonight.
Mr. Speaker, I particularly want to
thank my friend from New Jersey, Mr.
KIM, for his hard work and collabora-
tion on this important bill for our vet-
erans.
Mr. Speaker, in the last 5 years I
have served in this House, I have had
over 3,200 cases completed and closed
for veterans in my district.
As a former community banker,
when I look at those cases and I listen
to these stories, this too often is a
challenge for our veterans. It is a crazy
challenge. Mr. Speaker, that with-
holding a payment can have severe
consequences for our brave veterans
who are out there just doing their job,
through no fault of their own and
through a computer mess up or an IT
problem, our veterans receive an over-
payment and then suddenly get a letter
a few weeks later saying, ‘‘Oh, hey, we
made a mistake. You owe us $5,000
back.’’
Well, the normal American, Mr.
Speaker, doesn’t have that kind of fi-
nancial planning expertise, and relies
on the quality of our VA services to
not make mistakes like that.
So it is a pleasure to work with Mr.
KIM on this measure to try to improve
that situation and answer the IG’s own
report at the VA that this is a serious
problem affecting over 1.5 million vet-
erans.
This bill tries to tackle this issue by
improving Veterans Administration IT
systems, which are often the cause of
this challenge, and offers veterans that
unknowingly are forced to go without
their earned benefits for extended peri-
ods of time some recourse on being a
victim of an overpayment and have
their credit impaired.
I am proud to represent veterans
from Camp Robinson and Little Rock
Air Force Base in our central Arkansas
area. I am proud to work on something
that rectifies a common problem
across this country.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from
New Jersey for his work and for the
leadership of the committee for bring-
ing this bill to the House floor.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to extend, again,
my gratitude for the insightful and
hard work that the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. KIM) has done with
this legislation to correct an injustice
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.017 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8757
November 12, 2019
which has been occurring. I thank Con-
gressman KIM for this very important
legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I also want to extend
my gratitude to the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. HILL), whose district I
have visited and whose medical center
I have also visited. And I have to say
that he runs a crack operation. That
came out wrong.
He runs, not a crack operation, but
amazing constituent services for his
veterans.
You know, this unfortunate situation
where the VA overpays veterans and
then claws back those payments will be
corrected by this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I want to say I have no
further speakers and I am prepared to
close.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1700
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I don’t know about New
Jersey and California, but a crack op-
eration where we are is a good one, so
I think I would take that as a com-
pliment.
I thank Mr. KIM and my good friend
Mr. HILL for their work on this.
It does create, as the chairman said,
tremendous anxiety and problems for
our veterans. It is needless. Many
times, it is just a bureaucratic mis-
take. I think all of us have suffered
those with the IRS or whomever, so
this is a way to correct that. I thank
these Members for bringing it up.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this
bill, and I urge Members to.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I urge all
of my colleagues to join me in passing
H.R. 4360, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BEYER). The question is on the motion
offered by the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. TAKANO) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 4360.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PROTECTING FAMILIES OF
FALLEN SERVICEMEMBERS ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4356) to amend the Servicemem-
bers Civil Relief Act to allow certain
individuals to terminate contracts for
telephone, multichannel video pro-
gramming, or internet access service,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4356
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protecting
Families of Fallen Servicemembers Act’’.
SEC. 2. TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS FOR TELE-
PHONE, MULTICHANNEL VIDEO PRO-
GRAMMING, OR INTERNET ACCESS
SERVICE BY CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS
UNDER SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RE-
LIEF ACT.
Section 305A(a) of the Servicemembers
Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 3956(a)) is amended
by adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(4) ADDITIONAL INDIVIDUALS COVERED.—For
purposes of this section, the following indi-
viduals shall be treated as a servicemember
covered by paragraph (1):
‘‘(A) A spouse or dependent of a service-
member who dies while in military service or
a spouse or dependent of a member of the re-
serve components who dies while performing
duty described in subparagraph (C).
‘‘(B) A spouse or dependent of a service-
member who incurs a catastrophic injury or
illness (as that term is defined in section
439(g) of title 37, United States Code), if the
servicemember incurs the catastrophic in-
jury or illness while in military service or
performing duty described in subparagraph
(C).
‘‘(C) A member of the reserve components
performing military service or performing
full-time National Guard duty, active Guard
and Reserve duty, or inactive-duty training
(as such terms are defined in section 101(d) of
title 10, United States Code).’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
4356, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4356, as amended, the Protecting Fami-
lies of Fallen Servicemembers Act.
Mr. Speaker, this bill was introduced
by Representative JOSH HARDER from
California, and I thank him for his
work with the committee on the bill. It
expands on the work the committee did
last Congress in partnership with Rep-
resentative BUSTOS to improve the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.
This bill ensures that spouses and de-
pendents of both Active and Reserve
component servicemembers who are
catastrophically injured or pass away
while in service to this Nation have
protections under the Servicemembers
Civil Relief Act, otherwise known as
SCRA. Specifically, the bill allows im-
pacted servicemembers or their fami-
lies to terminate cable, internet, and
phone service.
Servicemembers and families under-
go difficult life transitions because of a
catastrophic injury or death of loved
ones. Families should have the flexi-
bility to be at the servicemember’s side
during recovery. Surviving spouses and
family members of fallen servicemem-
bers should easily be able to move clos-
er to family and friends or other sup-
port networks. Families dealing with
the difficult loss or injury of their
loved ones should not have to worry
about contracts or cancellation fees.
I would like to note that this legisla-
tion unanimously passed the House
last Congress and has been updated to
reflect improvements recommended by
veterans service organizations.
I also thank Dr. WENSTRUP, who
served with us on the committee for
several Congresses, for his focus on the
issue and for working with Mr. HARDER
on this bill.
Finally, I thank the Paralyzed Vet-
erans of America for highlighting the
need to include catastrophically dis-
abled veterans and families in our work
to improve the SCRA.
Mr. Speaker, I applaud the bipartisan
work of Congressman LEVIN and Con-
gressman BILIRAKIS on moving this bill
through committee.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my
colleagues to join me in voting to pass
H.R. 4356, as amended, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 4356, as amended, the Pro-
tecting Families of Fallen Service-
members Act.
Mr. Speaker, this bill would amend
the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to
give a spouse or dependent of a service-
member who experiences a cata-
strophic injury or who dies while in
military service the ability to termi-
nate telephone, multichannel video
programming, or internet service con-
tracts.
This bill would also extend SCRA
protections to members of the National
Guard and Reserve who are executing
Active Duty orders or performing inac-
tive duty training. These are worth-
while protections for our servicemem-
bers and are worthy of our support.
This bill is sponsored by Congress-
man JOSH HARDER from California, and
I appreciate his work.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers, and I am prepared to
close.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. WENSTRUP), my
good friend. Dr. Colonel BRAD
WENSTRUP is a combat veteran of Iraq
who is still on Reserve duty and has
served at both Fort Belvoir Hospital
and Walter Reed Hospital.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Dr. ROE for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 4356, the Protecting Families of
Fallen Servicemembers Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.018 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8758 November 12, 2019
Mr. Speaker, as a member of the
armed services, I know how important
it is to protect the families of those
who serve when tragedy strikes. That
is why I was proud to join Representa-
tive HARDER to introduce this legisla-
tion, which will allow the spouses and
dependents of servicemembers who are
killed or catastrophically injured in
the line of duty to terminate their
phone, internet, and TV contracts
without penalty.
Last year, the Veterans Benefits and
Transition Act of 2018 passed the House
with overwhelming support. That legis-
lation included a number of changes to
existing law to protect our service-
members and our Gold Star families.
However, due to a drafting error, the
bill only allowed servicemembers, not
their spouses and dependents, to end
their phone, internet, and TV contracts
without penalty. This bill corrects that
error and ensures that grieving fami-
lies are able to terminate contracts,
giving them the freedom to relocate
based on the needs of their families.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the House Vet-
erans’ Affairs Committee for advancing
this legislation to the floor, and I urge
all Members to support this bill.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, this is com-
monsense legislation—I talk about this
a lot when I go home—about a grieving
spouse, a husband or wife, who has lost
a family member in combat in service
to our country. I saw many of those
this past weekend, as many of us did,
as we attended veterans events.
I can’t think of anything worse than
being a spouse who is in a city that is
unfamiliar to them, away from family,
and to have these contractual obliga-
tions through our catastrophically in-
jured veteran or a deceased veteran.
It is the right thing to do. Every-
where I go and talk about this through-
out the country, our fellow Americans
want this done.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly encourage
my colleagues to support this much-
needed legislation, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I agree with my friend
and colleague from Tennessee, Ranking
Member ROE. This is commonsense leg-
islation. We should not compound the
suffering of a family, whether they are
caretakers or grieving, with the com-
plications that they may not be aware
of, which are these continuing contrac-
tual agreements for cable, internet, or
other types of contractual agreements
of the sort. This bill addresses a way
for families to easily terminate these
contracts.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to join me in passing H.R. 4356,
as amended, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4356, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
GI BILL PLANNING ACT OF 2019
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4162) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to extend the period under
which an election must be made for en-
titlement to educational assistance
under the All-Volunteer Educational
Assistance Program of Department of
Veterans Affairs, to phase out the use
of such program, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4162
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘GI Bill Plan-
ning Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PERIOD FOR ELECTION TO RECEIVE BEN-
EFITS UNDER ALL-VOLUNTEER EDU-
CATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3011 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘Any
such election shall be made at the time the
individual initially enters on active duty as
a member of the Armed Forces’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Any such election shall be made during
the 90-day period beginning on the day that
is 180 days after the date on which the indi-
vidual initially enters initial training’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ‘‘that
such individual is entitled to such pay’’ and
inserting ‘‘that begin after the date that is
270 days after the date on which the indi-
vidual initially enters initial training’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. PHASE OUT OF ALL-VOLUNTEER EDU-
CATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
Subsection (a)(1)(A) of section 3011 of title
38, United States Code, as amended by sec-
tion 1, is further amended by striking ‘‘after
June 30, 1985’’ and inserting ‘‘during the pe-
riod beginning July 1, 1985, and ending Sep-
tember 30, 2029’’.
SEC. 4. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
4162, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4162, as amended, the GI Bill Planning
Act of 2019.
Mr. Speaker, this bill was introduced
by Representative JACK BERGMAN and
Representative KATHLEEN RICE. Both of
them are great members of our com-
mittee and tireless fighters for vet-
erans. I thank Representative BERGMAN
for his work on this legislation and his
commitment to working with me on
several issues related to veterans edu-
cation and healthcare.
Mr. Speaker, with the enactment of
the Post-9/11 GI Bill, the Montgomery
GI Bill has become a less attractive op-
tion for many servicemembers. In most
cases, the benefits are worse for serv-
icemembers when choosing the Mont-
gomery GI Bill instead of the Forever
GI Bill. The issue is that many service-
members sign up without knowing
what they are signing up for.
For a servicemember to receive bene-
fits through the Montgomery GI Bill,
they must elect to pay into it when
they first enter the military. Often,
this is a chaotic period in a service-
member’s life, to say the least. They
are unable to give the decision much
thought or do not fully understand the
full impact of the decision at the time.
Also, there have been ongoing reports
that some servicemembers are pres-
sured to sign up by instructors at ini-
tial entry training or lose the benefit.
This bill addresses this concern by
moving the date when a servicemember
elects to join the program so they can
better understand and make a better
informed decision.
Many end up signing up for the Mont-
gomery GI Bill benefits only to never
use them and never see them refunded.
This is wrong and a waste of our serv-
icemembers’ money.
The committee will work to ensure
that the Post-9/11 GI Bill is updated to
ensure that future generations who
may have benefited more from the
Montgomery GI Bill than the Post-9/11
GI Bill do not see one bit of a drop-off
in potential benefits. With the work we
are doing to empower State approving
agencies to improve the quality of edu-
cation, now is the time for us also to
improve the quality of benefits for our
servicemembers.
I thank Representative BERGMAN and
Representative RICE for their leader-
ship, and I urge all of my colleagues to
support the passage of H.R. 4162.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.021 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8759
November 12, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 4162, as amended, the GI Bill
Planning Act of 2019.
Mr. Speaker, in order to be eligible
for the Montgomery GI Bill, service-
members automatically have $100 a
month deducted from their paycheck
for the first 12 months of their service
for a total of $1,200. Currently, service-
members have to elect to opt out of
these payments just a few short days
into their basic training or boot camp.
From personal experience, I can say
that is not the time to be making such
an important decision.
This bill would extend the time the
servicemember has to elect out of the
Montgomery GI Bill to a 90-day period
beginning 180 days after the date the
servicemember enters training. It gives
them 6 months to kind of think about
it a little bit and then some time.
b 1715
By delaying the decision to elect out
of that Montgomery GI Bill, service-
members will have more of an oppor-
tunity to research which GI Bill, the
Post-9/11 GI Bill, or the Montgomery
GI Bill is best suited to meet their edu-
cational needs in the future outside of
the pressure and constraints of boot
camp.
In addition, this bill would respon-
sibly sunset the Montgomery GI Bill
benefit for new enlistees in 2029. This
would mean that current servicemem-
bers or anyone who chooses this benefit
before 2029, would not be impacted.
While the legacy of the Montgomery
GI Bill benefit has helped thousands, it
only makes sense to move to the more
generous Post-9/11 GI Bill. This change
would help ease confusion among stu-
dent veterans and make things easier
for the Department of Veterans Affairs
to administer the benefit.
I am also glad that the text of my
bill, H.R. 3608, which would extend in-
state tuition benefits to veterans is
also included in this bill. The 2014
CHOICE Act required that public
schools charge veterans who are within
3 years of their discharge in-state tui-
tion rates regardless of whether they
meet the State’s residency require-
ments in order to be eligible for GI Bill
programs.
That requirement was waivable, but
to date, all States and public schools
are complying with it. Last Congress I
was proud to coauthor the Forever GI
Bill, which, among other improvements
to the Post-9/11 GI Bill, eliminated the
requirement that a veteran’s 36 months
of GI Bill benefits expire 15 years after
their last discharge from Active Duty.
Now that this change has become
law, it makes no sense to require that
the veteran be within 3 years of their
discharge to receive in-state tuition
rates if they have their entire lives to
use their GI Bill benefits.
I want to thank my good friend and
colleague Congressman JACK BERGMAN
from Michigan for all of his hard work
on this bill, and I urge my colleagues
to support the GI Bill Planning Act of
2019.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers and I am prepared to
close. I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. BERGMAN),
to debate his bill. General BERGMAN
served as the chairman of the Sub-
committee on Oversight and Investiga-
tions in the 115th Congress, and he is
now the ranking member.
Mr. Speaker, I didn’t get a chance to
wish the gentleman a belated happy
Veterans Day.
Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his recognition.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of
H.R. 4162. But I would like to rise on
behalf of not only the veterans, but
also, the day before Veterans Day was
the 244th birthday of the United States
Marine Corps.
The point is, all of the members of
the military who serve and have
served, no matter what branch of serv-
ice, we are proudly serving in the cul-
ture that we chose.
That would be, in my case, the Ma-
rine Corps. And we are honored that so
many of our fellow veterans from the
other services have chosen to join us in
the celebration of service to our coun-
try. So it is an honor to be here, but
also it is more of an honor to represent
the veterans on the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee, so ably led by Chairman
TAKANO and Ranking Member ROE.
As far as H.R. 4162, as amended, the
GI Bill Planning Act of 2019, the sup-
port we have gotten across the com-
mittee on this is nothing short of spec-
tacular and bipartisan. I would like to
thank Congresswoman KATHLEEN RICE
for her support in making this happen.
As Ranking Member ROE mentioned,
during the first 2 weeks of boot camp,
recruits are really not focused on mak-
ing any big decisions, other than stay-
ing with the program and making sure
that they get through boot camp. So
they are not only asked to make a
tough decision. They are actually re-
quired to make a very consequential
decision at a time of extreme fatigue.
They must decide whether to opt out
of their Montgomery GI Bill benefit or
pay $1,200 to keep their eligibility for
down the road later on when they are
eligible to use it as a veteran.
Seventy percent of these enlistees
are choosing to pay this relatively
large expense, but few will ever use the
Montgomery GI Bill. Rather, 97 percent
of veterans today are choosing the
newer Post-9/11 GI Bill, which usually
amounts to a higher monetary benefit.
My legislation, the GI Bill Planning
Act, would delay this decision to no
earlier than 6 months after these
young men and women have completed
boot camp and entered service, instead
of that first 2 weeks, again, very crit-
ical in their time for success in boot
camp.
Additionally, this bill would respon-
sibly end new enlistee enrollments in
the outdated Montgomery GI Bill by
October 2029. While the Montgomery GI
Bill has helped millions of veterans
since 1984, it is time to simplify bene-
fits and sunset this bill.
Mr. Speaker, not only can this legis-
lation save enlistees money, but it can
also ensure that they are more in-
formed in their educational benefits
decisions. It is important that these
motivated young men and women know
that we in Congress have their backs
and are thinking of them as they plan
their bright futures in service to our
great Nation.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R.
4162, as amended.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I, too, wish the Marine Corps
a happy birthday, but as usual, they
are behind the Army. Their birthday is
later than the U.S. Army which is
older than the Marine Corps. I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Let me just say, I wish to extend a
belated happy Veterans Day to both of
my colleagues, Dr. ROE and General
BERGMAN. We certainly appreciate
their service. I extend this congratula-
tions and gratitude to all of our serv-
icemembers, and I underscore all of our
servicemembers, whether they be the
Marines, the Army, the Air Force, the
Navy, or the Coast Guard. And I under-
stand the friendly rivalry, but I want
to make sure that everyone knows
whatever service they engaged, that
America appreciates them.
Mr. Speaker, I have no further speak-
ers. I am prepared to close, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I, too, have no further speakers, and
I am prepared to close. I recommend
that all of my colleagues support this
very commonsense legislation, the GI
Bill.
I used the GI Bill in 1975–1976, when I
got out of the Army. It was an amazing
piece of legislation. It helped me then.
I am appreciative to this day that my
country invested $300 a month in me
for 2 years, and that I got to use that.
It really helped me a lot.
This bill that we have now, the For-
ever GI Bill, is a phenomenal benefit
for young people. We know the GI Bill
helped transform a generation after
World War II. I believe this Forever GI
Bill will transform this generation, and
I wholeheartedly encourage my col-
leagues to support it.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I wish to associate myself with the
remarks of the ranking member re-
garding the transformative power of
the GI Bill right after World War II,
what it did for a generation.
I want to also take note that the For-
ever GI Bill was shepherded by Rank-
ing Member ROE when he was the
chairman and it still is an amazing, re-
markable accomplishment that we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.024 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8760 November 12, 2019
have made the GI Bill a lifetime ben-
efit that can be used at any point in a
veteran’s lifetime. And, also, if they
don’t use it, they can transfer it to a
spouse or their children. This is a re-
markable piece of legislation.
It took cooperation of a minority
working in good faith during the last
session of Congress, and I think it is a
remarkable accomplishment.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to join me in passing H.R. 4162,
as amended, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4162, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
VA DESIGN-BUILD CONSTRUCTION
ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 2019
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3996) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for certain re-
quirements relating to the use of the
design-build construction method for
Department of Veterans Affairs con-
struction projects, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3996
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘VA Design-
Build Construction Enhancement Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARD-
ING THE DESIGN-BUILD CONSTRUC-
TION METHOD FOR DEPARTMENT
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS CONSTRUC-
TION PROJECTS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) The Inspector General of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs found that, in the
Aurora, Colorado, replacement medical cen-
ter project, the Department decided to
change its acquisition strategy from tradi-
tional design-bid-build to integrated-design
and construct in the fourth year of the
project, which was too late for the inte-
grated design-construction firm to provide
effective input into the design.
(2) In response to deficiencies in the De-
partment’s management of the Aurora, Colo-
rado, replacement medical center project
and in order to prevent reoccurrence of such
deficiencies in the future, Congress enacted
section 8103 of title 38, United States Code,
which mandates that an appropriate non-De-
partment Federal entity take over manage-
ment of future super construction projects of
the Department, including project design,
acquisition, construction, and contract
changes.
(3) It has been the policy of the Federal
Government since the enactment of the
Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–
106) that design-build shall be used when ap-
propriate circumstances are present.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the unsuccessful use of the integrated-
design and construct acquisition method in
the Aurora, Colorado, replacement medical
center project should not be interpreted to
mean that design-build, as described in sec-
tion 3309 of title 41, United States Code, is
unsuitable for construction projects of the
Department of Veterans Affairs; and
(2) when used properly by adequately
trained acquisition and construction man-
agement personnel and in the appropriate
circumstances, design-build is an effective
construction acquisition method for the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, which has been
demonstrated to reduce change orders, de-
crease the duration between design comple-
tion and beneficial occupancy, and increase
warranty protections.
SEC. 3. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
USE OF DESIGN-BUILD CONSTRUC-
TION METHOD.
(a) USE OF DESIGN-BUILD SELECTION PROCE-
DURES.—Section 8106 of title 38, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(d)(1) If the Secretary seeks to enter into
a contract for the design and construction of
a building or facility, the Secretary shall use
the procedures established in section 3309 of
title 41.
‘‘(2) In the case of a super construction
project for which a non-Department Federal
entity provides project management services
under section 8103(e) of this title, the Sec-
retary shall not discourage the entity from
using the procedures established in section
3309 of title 41.’’.
(b) COVERED CERTIFICATION PROGRAM.—Sec-
tion 8103(g)(6)(A) of such title is amended by
inserting ‘‘, including design-build construc-
tion’’ before the period at the end.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
3996.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
3996, the VA Design-Build Construction
Enhancement Act of 2019. This bipar-
tisan bill encourages VA to use a meth-
od of managing construction projects
termed design-build in appropriate cir-
cumstances.
In addition, this bill incorporates de-
sign-build training into the VA con-
struction management curriculum.
There have been multiple internal VA
and Government Accountability Office
reports that have been very critical,
documenting serious delays in cost
overruns in VA facility construction
and other projects.
At present, both veterans and tax-
payers are suffering from the cum-
bersome VA construction process. I am
confident this piece of legislation will
help deliver state-of-the-art facilities
to our veterans in a more effective and
expeditious manner.
Design-build is a proven way to de-
liver construction projects in a more
efficient and timely manner. This
method is widely used in the private
sector, and it has been used in parts of
the Federal Government for over 20
years.
For those of you who are unfamiliar
with this technique, design-build is a
delivery method for construction
projects that combines the architec-
tural, engineering, and construction
services into a single contract. It is an
innovation from traditional design-bid-
build construction, where design and
construction are sequential and per-
formed by different contractors, thus
creating costly and lengthy timelines
for delivering much-needed sites of
care for our veterans.
Over the years, the Department of
Veterans Affairs has faced numerous
challenges when it comes to managing
construction projects. I am aware that
some of these challenges are caused by
Congress due to the time it takes to
authorize and secure funds for new
builds. However, a good portion of
these construction challenges are self-
inflicted.
This committee is intimately aware
of the Rocky Mountain Regional VA
Medical Center in Aurora, Colorado.
Not only was the opening of the new
state-of-the-art medical center several
years delayed, it was $1 billion over
budget. This is a tragic disservice to
our Nation’s veterans and taxpayers.
Unfortunately, Aurora, Colorado, is
only one of several examples of chal-
lenged VA construction projects. The
VA is currently facing a multimillion-
dollar backlog of construction projects.
I am confident that a shift to design-
build in appropriate circumstances
could tremendously decrease the cost
and shorten the length of time for VA
construction projects.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support H.R. 3996, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 3996, the VA Design-Build Con-
struction Enhancement Act of 2019.
This bill is sponsored by my good
friend Congressman JIM BANKS from In-
diana. Congressman BANKS is a former
chairman and current ranking member
of the Subcommittee on Technology
Modernization and a tireless advocate
for his fellow veterans.
His bill would encourage the use of
the design-build construction method
in the Department of Veterans Affairs
by adding a reference to VA’s construc-
tion statute, to existing government-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.026 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8761
November 12, 2019
wide design-build construction proce-
dures; prohibiting VA from discour-
aging other Federal agencies that man-
age construction projects on VA’s be-
half from using design-build; and incor-
porating design-build into VA’s con-
struction management training cur-
riculum.
Design-build is a construction deliv-
ery method that is characterized by
combining architectural, engineering,
and construction services into a single
contract. Design-build has been used
successfully across the Federal Govern-
ment since the mid-1990s.
When used appropriately, it can ac-
celerate the completion of construc-
tion projects, reduce change orders,
and increase warranty protections.
However, design-build has been used
infrequently by VA, particularly after
it was unfairly blamed for the troubles
that plagued the replacement medical
center construction project in Aurora,
Colorado, which is just outside of Den-
ver, despite not being used until 4
years into that project when the ma-
jority of the design-build had already
been completed.
As the chairman said, that project
was $1 billion over budget. And to put
that in perspective for just regular
folks like me out there where I live,
that is 1,000 million dollars over budg-
et. That is how much a billion is.
b 1730
I believe that VA could have avoided
these excessive change orders and
other issues that caused the delays and
cost overruns that came to charac-
terize the Denver project had they in-
corporated design-build principles
much earlier.
Moving forward, I hope that the De-
partment learns from the difficult les-
sons that Denver taught and does not
shy away from using the design-build
method, when appropriate, to deliver
high-quality construction projects to
serve our Nation’s veterans.
I thank Congressman BANKS for his
work on this bill; and while I wish
Chairman TAKANO had used regular
order to bring it forward, I am pleased
to support its passage today.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers. I am prepared to
close, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Indiana (Mr. BANKS), my
good friend. I have had a chance to
visit his district and VA and talked to
many groups in his district. There is no
more passionate member of our com-
mittee than Congressman BANKS.
Mr. BANKS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of my legislation, H.R. 3996,
the VA Design-Build Construction En-
hancement Act.
I first want to thank Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, my colleague on the other side
of the aisle, for his tireless support and
advocacy for veterans in the Denver
area and beyond and for cosponsoring
this legislation with me.
Design-build has proven itself to be
an innovative and effective method for
managing construction projects in the
private sector and in some key Federal
agencies. The most prominent applica-
tion of design-build was to rebuild the
Pentagon after 9/11, which was com-
pleted in less than 1 year.
VA has a multibillion-dollar backlog
of construction projects but has never
made much use of the design-build
method, despite it being available for
over 20 years. Unfortunately, one of the
few times the VA did use a method
similar to design-build was during the
troubled Aurora, Colorado, replace-
ment medical center project that we
have already heard about today.
And as Dr. ROE noted, the VA only
involved the construction contractor in
the design decisions after the design
was already complete. Design-build
seems to have been given a bad name in
the VA—unfairly—as a result.
My legislation today makes it clear
that design-build is available to the VA
and encourages the Department to use
it when appropriate, as is already stip-
ulated by the law, and incorporates de-
sign-build training into the VA con-
struction management curriculum.
Mr. Speaker, I want to make sure
that the VA is using every available
tool to deliver world-class facilities to
our veterans. When used correctly, de-
sign-build can speed up construction
and minimize costly change orders.
That is exactly what we need in the
VA, and I am committed to making
sure that that happens.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I have no further speakers,
and I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
I think this is commonsense legisla-
tion, and certainly we can avoid what
happened in Denver. That thousand
million dollars could have been spent
on veterans’ healthcare or benefits or
other much-needed projects in the VA.
We don’t have an endless supply of
money.
I certainly appreciate Mr. BANKS’
work on this.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, let me
just say that, as a former community
college trustee that had responsibility
for overseeing many projects that were
undertaken to build out the commu-
nity college district, design-build was
employed in those instances. And
where appropriately used, I agree with
the comments by my friends from the
other side of the aisle that this can
make future VA construction projects
more efficient and more cost-effective
for our taxpayers.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to join me in passing H.R. 3996,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3996.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
FALLEN WARRIOR BATTLEFIELD
CROSS MEMORIAL ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1424) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs permits the display of
Fallen Soldier Displays in national
cemeteries.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1424
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Fallen War-
rior Battlefield Cross Memorial Act’’.
SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION FOR FALLEN SOLDIER
DISPLAYS IN NATIONAL CEME-
TERIES.
Section 2403 of title 38, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(d)(1) Subject to standards established by
the Secretary, the Secretary shall permit
the display of a Fallen Soldier Display in
any national cemetery.
‘‘(2) In this subsection, the term ‘Fallen
Soldier Display’ means a memorial monu-
ment in honor of fallen members of the
Armed Forces that may include a replica of
an inverted rifle, boots, helmets, and identi-
fication tag.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
1424.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1424, the Fallen Warrior Battlefield
Cross Memorial Act, introduced by
Representative ANTHONY GONZALEZ of
Ohio.
This act permits the Secretary of the
VA to allow the Fallen Soldier Display,
also known as the Battlefield Cross Me-
morial, in national cemeteries.
Battlefield crosses honor fallen sol-
diers using symbols of their service.
These symbols have evolved since their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.028 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8762 November 12, 2019
initial use in the American Revolu-
tionary War when they were used as a
crude marker as the position of a fallen
soldier. The cultural position remains
today, as units in theater traditionally
hold a remembrance ceremony in coun-
try to allow the unit to pay last re-
spects to those killed in action.
These displays are meant to honor
those who lost their lives in service by
featuring replicas of inverted rifles,
boots, helmets, and identification tags.
A U.S. Army field manual states: ‘‘The
helmet and identification tags signify
the dead soldier. The inverted rifle
with bayonet signals a time for prayer,
a break in the action to pay tribute to
our comrade. The combat boots rep-
resent the final march of the last bat-
tle.’’
VA’s National Cemetery Administra-
tion currently allows for display of a
cross, but it has not specifically ad-
dressed the Battlefield Cross Memorial.
In fact, in 2017, a Battlefield Cross Me-
morial was removed from the Ohio
Western Reserve National Cemetery.
Though the cemetery ultimately de-
cided to restore the memorial, this leg-
islation would ensure the Battlefield
Cross Memorial would also be per-
mitted at national cemeteries and pre-
vent future misinterpretations.
Mr. Speaker, we recognize the sac-
rifices of the women and men who gave
their lives in service to our Nation and
the right of a community to honor its
fallen heroes. I urge all Members to
support H.R. 1424, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1424, the Fallen Warrior Battle-
field Cross Memorial Act. This bill
would require the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs’ national cemeteries to
allow the display of the battlefield
cross, which is a monument that de-
picts a fallen servicemember by an in-
verted rifle with a helmet and dog tags
on top and a pair of combat boots at
the bottom. We have all seen this.
In 2017, a VA employee misinter-
preted VA policy and removed a battle-
field cross from the Ohio Western Re-
serve National Cemetery, as well as
two other similar memorials in ceme-
teries in Illinois and Michigan. The ob-
jection to the memorials were that
they contained realistic depictions of
firearms.
As one Ohio veteran described, this
image is one that veterans ‘‘have seen
in battlefields, on ships, on aircraft
carriers, wherever we lost men. It’s a
symbol of respect and thanks. . . . It
means a lot to veterans.’’
I could not have said it better myself,
Mr. Speaker; although, I do note that
the battlefield cross is a powerful sym-
bol that is used to honor all of our fall-
en warriors, both men and women.
In response to veterans’ and congres-
sional concerns over the incident, the
Department reinstated the memorial
monuments and clarified that VA
cemeteries can display this image.
However, this bill is necessary to cod-
ify that policy and to ensure that VA
does not ban this image ever again.
This bill has my full support, and I
appreciate Congressman ANTHONY GON-
ZALEZ from Ohio for introducing it and
for his leadership on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers. I am prepared to
close, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. GONZALEZ), the
author of this bill. I appreciate the
gentleman is a new Member, but it
didn’t take him long to jump into gear
and to recognize a wrong and to right
that wrong.
Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio. Mr. Speak-
er, H.R. 1424, the Fallen Warrior Bat-
tlefield Cross Memorial Act is the first
piece of legislation I introduced as a
Member of Congress, and it is fitting
that we discuss it on the floor today,
just one day after Veterans Day.
This bipartisan legislation would pro-
tect the display of these memorials at
our national cemeteries and bar the
Department of Veterans Affairs from
removing these tributes, as they did in
national cemeteries across the Midwest
in 2017. This legislation comes straight
from the veteran community and my
northeast Ohio district.
Over the past several years, Elton
Boyer, the president of the 555th Hon-
ors Detachment, made this bill his mis-
sion as he worked to erect a Battlefield
Cross Memorial at Ohio Western Re-
serve National Cemetery in Seville. He
and the honors detachments at West-
ern Reserve collected the spent brass
from the military funerals they
oversaw at the cemetery with the goal
to someday melt them down and form
them into a heartwarming tribute to
the fallen warriors laid to rest.
When Battlefield Cross Memorials
were removed from the cemetery in the
fall of 2017, Elton’s work was put at
risk. Elton wrote my predecessor, Con-
gressman Jim Renacci, for help, stat-
ing: ‘‘It has been said that the soldier’s
cross is a symbol for caring, honoring,
and remembering. ‘No one is left be-
hind.’’’
Elton passed away last month, but I
know that he is looking upon this
House today, proud of the vote we are
about to take. His efforts were not in
vain.
Battlefield Cross Memorials stand in
cemeteries across our Nation as a trib-
ute to the service of fallen soldiers who
have given their lives for our country.
They depict the soldier’s boots, helmet,
dog tag, and inverted rifle, and have
been a noncontroversial, time-honored
tradition since at least the Civil War.
As Strongsville, Ohio, VFW Com-
mander Tim Zvoncheck told me: ‘‘It’s
imperative that this custom continues
to be displayed for as long as the sons
and daughters of this Nation are will-
ing to give their lives in its defense.’’
Michael Kuhn, a combat veteran
from Massillon, Ohio, explained to me
what this memorial means to him:
The battlefield cross encapsulates so many
of the most important things to a combat
vet: the rifle, the boots, the tags, and, most
of all, the fallen comrade. It’s extremely im-
portant for us to have those things wrapped
up in one memorial for us to kneel to, grieve
with, and talk to our brothers in arms that
have died the ultimate death in laying down
their life for us and their country. As a com-
bat vet, you relate to very little outside of
that world and always feel like an outsider.
Whenever you see that combat cross, it
brings a somber, quiet feeling of peace for
that moment that you have that direct line
to your fallen comrade.
I thank Chairman TAKANO and Rank-
ing Member ROE for bringing H.R. 1424
to the floor today and recognizing how
important this legislation is to our vet-
eran communities, and I urge my col-
leagues to vote in support of the bill,
H.R. 1424.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I have no further speakers. I
am prepared to close, and I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I can think of no other
time better than the day right after
Veterans Day to bring this up and to
vote on this legislation.
I have lost friends in combat in the
Vietnam War and know many families,
as most of us have visited with families
who have lost members.
I also want to say that nowhere in
the country—really, in the world—do
we honor our cemeteries more than the
VA does. The VA does a phenomenal
job in our national cemeteries. And I
have had an opportunity to travel to
Europe and visit those cemeteries in
Normandy, Flanders Field, Chateau-
Thierry, and many others.
It is really a place of sacred honor,
these cemeteries are, and it is only ap-
propriate that we allow and have this
symbol there codified by law.
I thank Congressman GONZALEZ for
his first bill. He can take great pride in
having this bill passed and signed into
law by the President.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of our
Members to support H.R. 1424, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I wish to
associate myself with the remarks of
the ranking member regarding the
beautiful work that our Cemetery Ad-
ministration does for our veteran
cemeteries and the National Battle
Monuments Commission for the work
they do with our cemeteries abroad.
They are truly the pride of our country
and fitting ways to show our gratitude
and respect for those who have fallen
in the service of our country.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative
GONZALEZ for his work on this bill. I
urge my colleagues to join me in pass-
ing H.R. 1424, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
b 1745
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:50 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.031 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8763
November 12, 2019
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1424.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DEBORAH SAMPSON ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3224) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for increased
access to Department of Veterans Af-
fairs medical care for women veterans,
as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3224
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Deborah Sampson Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I—VETERANS HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 101. Office of Women’s Health in the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 102. Expansion of capabilities of women
veterans call center to include
text messaging.
Sec. 103. Requirement for Department of
Veterans Affairs internet
website to provide information
on services available to women
veterans.
Sec. 104. Report on Women Veterans Ret-
rofit Initiative.
Sec. 105. Establishment of environment of
care standards and inspections
at Department of Veterans Af-
fairs medical centers.
Sec. 106. Additional funding for primary
care and emergency care clini-
cians in Women Veterans
Health Care Mini-Residency
Program.
Sec. 107. Establishment of women veteran
training module for non-De-
partment of Veterans Affairs
health care providers.
TITLE II—MEDICAL CARE
Sec. 201. Improved access to Department of
Veterans Affairs medical care
for women veterans.
Sec. 202. Counseling and treatment for sex-
ual trauma.
Sec. 203. Counseling in retreat settings for
women veterans and other indi-
viduals.
Sec. 204. Improvement of health care serv-
ices provided to newborn chil-
dren by Department of Vet-
erans Affairs.
TITLE III—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Reports
Sec. 301. Assessment of effects of intimate
partner violence on women vet-
erans by Advisory Committee
on Women Veterans.
Sec. 302. Study on staffing of Women Vet-
eran Program Manager pro-
gram at medical centers of the
Department of Veterans Affairs
and training of staff.
Sec. 303. Report on availability of prosthetic
items for women veterans from
the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs.
Sec. 304. Study of barriers for women vet-
erans to health care from the
Department of Veterans Af-
fairs.
Sec. 305. Report regarding veterans who re-
ceive benefits under laws ad-
ministered by the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 306. Study on Women Veteran Coordi-
nator program.
Subtitle B—Other Matters
Sec. 321. Anti-harassment and anti-sexual
assault policy of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 322. Support for organizations that
have a focus on providing as-
sistance to women veterans and
their families.
Sec. 323. Gap analysis of Department of Vet-
erans Affairs programs that
provide assistance to women
veterans who are homeless.
Sec. 324. Department of Veterans Affairs
public-private partnership on
legal services for women vet-
erans.
Sec. 325. Program to assist veterans who ex-
perience intimate partner vio-
lence or sexual assault.
Sec. 326. Study and task force on veterans
experiencing intimate partner
violence or sexual assault.
TITLE I—VETERANS HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 101. OFFICE OF WOMEN’S HEALTH IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS.
(a) DIRECTOR OF WOMEN’S HEALTH.—Sub-
section (a) of section 7306 of title 38, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (10) as para-
graph (11); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (9) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(10) The Director of Women’s Health.’’.
(b) ORGANIZATION OF OFFICE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter 73
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end of the following new sec-
tions:
‘‘§ 7310. Office of Women’s Health
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—(1) The Under Sec-
retary for Health shall establish and operate
in the Veterans Health Administration the
Office of Women’s Health (hereinafter in this
section referred to as the ‘Office’). The Office
shall be located at the Central Office of the
Department of Veterans Affairs.
‘‘(2) The head of the Office is the Director
of Women’s Health (hereinafter in this sec-
tion referred to as the ‘Director’). The Direc-
tor shall report to the Under Secretary for
Health.
‘‘(3) The Under Secretary for Health shall
provide the Office with such staff and other
support as may be necessary for the Office to
carry out effectively its functions under this
section.
‘‘(4) The Under Secretary for Health may
reorganize existing offices within the Vet-
erans Health Administration as of the date
of the enactment of this section in order to
avoid duplication with the functions of the
Office.
‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The functions of the Office
include the following:
‘‘(1) To provide a central office for moni-
toring and encouraging the activities of the
Veterans Health Administration with re-
spect to the provision, evaluation, and im-
provement of women veterans’ health care
services in the Department.
‘‘(2) To develop and implement standards
of care for the provision of health care for
women veterans in the Department.
‘‘(3) To monitor and identify deficiencies in
standards of care for the provision of health
care for women veterans in the Department,
to provide technical assistance to medical
facilities of the Department to address and
remedy deficiencies, and to perform over-
sight of implementation of standards of care
for women veterans’ health care in the De-
partment.
‘‘(4) To monitor and identify deficiencies in
standards of care for the provision of health
care for women veterans provided through
the community pursuant to this title, and to
provide recommendations to the appropriate
office to address and remedy any defi-
ciencies.
‘‘(5) To oversee distribution of resources
and information related to women veterans’
health programming under this title.
‘‘(6) To promote the expansion and im-
provement of clinical, research, and edu-
cational activities of the Veterans Health
Administration with respect the health care
of women veterans.
‘‘(7) To provide, as part of the annual budg-
eting process, recommendations with respect
to the amount of funds to be requested for
furnishing hospital care and medical services
to women veterans pursuant to chapter 17 of
this title, including, at a minimum, rec-
ommendations that ensure that such amount
of funds either reflect or exceed the propor-
tion of veterans enrolled in the patient en-
rollment system under section 1705 of this
title who are women.
‘‘(8) To provide recommendations to the
Under Secretary for Health with respect to
modifying the Veterans Equitable Resource
Allocation system to ensure that resource
allocations under such system reflect the
health care needs of women veterans.
‘‘(9) To carry out such other duties as the
Under Secretary for Health may require.
‘‘(c) RECOMMENDATIONS.—If the Under Sec-
retary for Health determines not to imple-
ment any recommendation made by the Di-
rector with respect to the allocation of re-
sources to address the health care needs of
women veterans, the Secretary shall notify
the appropriate congressional committees of
such determination by not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Under Secretary
for Health receives the recommendation.
Each such notification shall include the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) The reasoning of the Under Secretary
for Health in making such determination.
‘‘(2) An alternative, if one is selected, to
such recommendation that the Under Sec-
retary for Health will carry out to fulfill the
health care needs of women veterans.
‘‘(d) STANDARDS OF CARE.—In this section,
the standards of care for the provision of
health care for women veterans in the De-
partment shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
‘‘(1) Requirement for—
‘‘(A) at least one designated women’s
health primary care provider at each med-
ical center whose duties include, to the ex-
tent practicable, providing training to other
health care providers of the Department
with respect to the needs of women veterans;
and
‘‘(B) at least one designated women’s
health primary care provider at each com-
munity-based outpatient clinic of the De-
partment who may serve female patients as
a percentage of the total duties of the pro-
vider.
‘‘(2) Other requirements as determined by
the Under Secretary for Health.
‘‘(e) OUTREACH.—The Director shall ensure
that—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.033 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8764 November 12, 2019
‘‘(1) not less frequently than biannually,
each medical facility of the Department
holds a public forum for women veterans
that occurs outside of regular business
hours; and
‘‘(2) not less frequently than quarterly,
each medical facility of the Department con-
venes a focus group of women veterans that
includes a discussion of harassment occur-
ring at such facility.
‘‘(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘appropriate congressional
committees’ has the meaning given that
term in section 7310A of this title.
‘‘(2) The term ‘facility of the Department’
has the meaning given the term in section
1701(3).
‘‘(3) The term ‘Veterans Equitable Re-
source Allocation system’ means the re-
source allocation system established pursu-
ant to section 429 of the Departments of Vet-
erans Affairs and Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, and Independent Agencies Appro-
priations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104–204; 110
Stat. 2929).
‘‘§ 7310A. Annual reports on women’s Health
‘‘(a) ANNUAL REPORTS.—Not later than De-
cember 1 of each year, the Director of Wom-
en’s Health shall submit to the appropriate
congressional committees a report con-
taining the matters under subsections (b)
through (g).
‘‘(b) OFFICE OF WOMEN’S HEALTH.—Each re-
port under subsection (a) shall include a de-
scription of—
‘‘(1) actions taken by the Office of Women’s
Health in the preceding fiscal year to im-
prove the Department’s provision of health
care to women veterans;
‘‘(2) any identified deficiencies related to
the Department’s provision of health care to
women veterans and the standards of care es-
tablished in section 7310 of this title, and the
Department’s plan to address such defi-
ciencies;
‘‘(3) the funding and personnel provided to
the Office and whether additional funding or
personnel are needed to meet the require-
ments of such section; and
‘‘(4) other information that would be of in-
terest to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees with respect to oversight of the De-
partment’s provision of health care to
women veterans.
‘‘(c) ACCESS TO GENDER-SPECIFIC SERV-
ICES.—Each report under subsection (a) shall
include an analysis of the access of women
veterans to gender-specific services under
contracts, agreements, or other arrange-
ments with non-Department medical pro-
viders entered into by the Secretary for the
provision of hospital care or medical services
to veterans. Such analysis shall include data
and performance measures for the avail-
ability of gender specific services, includ-
ing—
‘‘(1) the average wait time between the vet-
eran’s preferred appointment date and the
date on which the appointment is completed;
‘‘(2) the average driving time required for
veterans to attend appointments; and
‘‘(3) reasons why appointments could not
be scheduled with non-Department medical
providers.
‘‘(d) LOCATIONS WHERE WOMEN VETERANS
ARE USING HEALTH CARE.—Each report under
subsection (a) shall include an analysis of
the use by women veterans of health care
from the Department, including the fol-
lowing information:
‘‘(1) The number of women veterans who
reside in each State.
‘‘(2) The number of women veterans in each
State who are enrolled in the system of pa-
tient enrollment of the Department estab-
lished and operated under section 1705(a) this
title.
‘‘(3) Of the women veterans who are so en-
rolled, the number who have received health
care under the laws administered by the Sec-
retary at least one time during the one-year
period preceding the submittal of the report.
‘‘(4) The number of women veterans who
have been seen at each medical facility of
the Department during such year.
‘‘(5) The number of appointments that
women veterans have had at each such facil-
ity during such year.
‘‘(6) If known, an identification of the med-
ical facility of the Department in each Vet-
erans Integrated Service Network with the
largest rate of increase in patient population
of women veterans as measured by the in-
crease in unique women veteran patient use.
‘‘(7) If known, an identification of the med-
ical facility of the Department in each Vet-
erans Integrated Service Network with the
largest rate of decrease in patient population
of women veterans as measured by the de-
crease in unique women veterans patient
use.
‘‘(e) MODELS OF CARE.—Each report under
subsection (a) shall include an analysis of
the use by the Department of general pri-
mary care clinics, separate but shared
spaces, and women’s health centers as mod-
els of providing health care to women vet-
erans. Such analysis shall include the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) The number of facilities of the Depart-
ment that fall into each such model,
disaggregated by Veterans Integrated Serv-
ice Network and State.
‘‘(2) A description of the criteria used by
the Department to determine which such
model is most appropriate for each facility
of the Department.
‘‘(3) An assessment of how the Department
decides to make investments to modify fa-
cilities to a different model.
‘‘(4) A description of what, if any, plans the
Department has to modify facilities from
general primary care clinics to another
model.
‘‘(5) An assessment of whether any facili-
ties could be modified to a separate but
shared space for a women’s health center
within planned investments under the stra-
tegic capital investment planning process of
the Department.
‘‘(6) An assessment of whether any facili-
ties could be modified to a separate or shared
space, or women’s health center with minor
modifications to existing plans under the
strategic capital investment planning proc-
ess of the Department.
‘‘(7) An assessment of whether the Depart-
ment has a goal for how many facilities
should fall into each such model.
‘‘(f) STAFFING.—Each report under sub-
section (a) shall include an analysis of the
staffing of the Department relating to the
treatment of women, including the fol-
lowing, disaggregated by Veterans Inte-
grated Service Network and State (except
with respect to paragraph (4)):
‘‘(1) The number of women’s health cen-
ters.
‘‘(2) The number of patient aligned care
teams of the Department relating to wom-
en’s health.
‘‘(3) The number of full- and part-time gyn-
ecologists of the Department.
‘‘(4) The number of designated women’s
health care providers of the Department,
disaggregated by facility of the Department.
‘‘(5) The number of health care providers of
the Department who have completed a mini-
residency for women’s health care through
Women Veterans Health Care Mini-Resi-
dency Program of the Department during the
one-year period preceding the submittal of
the report, and the number that plan to par-
ticipate in such a mini-residency during the
one-year period following such date.
‘‘(6) The number of designated women’s
health care providers of the Department who
have sufficient female patients to retain
their competencies and proficiencies.
‘‘(g) ACCESSIBILITY AND TREATMENT OP-
TIONS.—Each report under subsection (a)
shall include an analysis of the accessibility
and treatment options for women veterans,
including the following:
‘‘(1) An assessment of wheelchair accessi-
bility of women’s health centers of the De-
partment, including, with respect to each
such facility, an assessment of such accessi-
bility for each kind of treatment provided at
the center, including with respect to radi-
ology and mammography, that addresses all
relevant factors, including door sizes, hoists,
and equipment.
‘‘(2) The options for women veterans to ac-
cess female mental health providers and pri-
mary care providers.
‘‘(3) The options for women veterans at
medical facilities of the Department with re-
spect to clothing sizes, including for gowns,
drawstring pants, and pajamas.
‘‘(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘appropriate congressional
committees’ means—
‘‘(A) the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate; and
‘‘(B) the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate.
‘‘(2) The term ‘gender-specific services’
means mammography, obstetric care, gyne-
cological care, and such other services as the
Secretary determines appropriate.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for such chapter is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section
7309A the following new items:
‘‘7310. Office of Women’s Health.
‘‘7310A. Annual reports on women’s Health.’’.
(c) INITIAL REPORT.—The Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs shall submit the initial report
under section 7310A of title 38, United States
Code, as added by subsection (b), by not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act.
SEC. 102. EXPANSION OF CAPABILITIES OF
WOMEN VETERANS CALL CENTER TO
INCLUDE TEXT MESSAGING.
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ex-
pand the capabilities of the Women Veterans
Call Center of the Department of Veterans
Affairs to include a text messaging capa-
bility.
SEC. 103. REQUIREMENT FOR DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS INTERNET
WEBSITE TO PROVIDE INFORMA-
TION ON SERVICES AVAILABLE TO
WOMEN VETERANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs shall survey the internet
websites and information resources of the
Department of Veterans Affairs in effect on
the day before the date of the enactment of
this Act and publish an internet website that
serves as a centralized source for the provi-
sion to women veterans of information about
the benefits and services available to them
under laws administered by the Secretary.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The internet website pub-
lished under subsection (a) shall provide to
women veterans information regarding all of
the services available in the district in
which the veteran is seeking such services,
including, with respect to each medical cen-
ter and community-based outpatient clinic
in the applicable Veterans Integrated Serv-
ice Network—
(1) the name and contact information of
each women veterans program manager;
(2) a list of appropriate staff for other ben-
efits available from the Veterans Benefits
Administration, the National Cemetery Ad-
ministration, and such other entities as the
Secretary considers appropriate; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.011 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8765
November 12, 2019
(3) such other information as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
(c) UPDATED INFORMATION.—The Secretary
shall ensure that the information described
in subsection (b) that is published on the
internet website required by subsection (a) is
updated not less frequently than once every
90 days.
(d) OUTREACH.—In carrying out this sec-
tion, the Secretary shall ensure that the out-
reach conducted under section 1720F(i) of
title 38, United States Code, includes infor-
mation regarding the internet website re-
quired by subsection (a).
(e) DERIVATION OF FUNDS.—Amounts used
by the Secretary to carry out this section
shall be derived from amounts made avail-
able to the Secretary to publish internet
websites of the Department.
SEC. 104. REPORT ON WOMEN VETERANS RET-
ROFIT INITIATIVE.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to
the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs and the
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate
and the House of Representatives a report on
requirements to retrofit existing medical fa-
cilities of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs with fixtures, materials, and other out-
fitting measures to support the provision of
care to women veterans at such facilities.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An assessment of how the Secretary
prioritizes retrofitting existing medical fa-
cilities to support provision of care to
women veterans in comparison to other re-
quirements.
(2) A five-year plan for retrofitting medical
facilities of the Department to support the
provision of care to women veterans.
SEC. 105. ESTABLISHMENT OF ENVIRONMENT OF
CARE STANDARDS AND INSPEC-
TIONS AT DEPARTMENT OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL CENTERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs shall establish a policy under
which the environment of care standards and
inspections at medical centers of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs include—
(1) an alignment of the requirements for
such standards and inspections with the
women’s health handbook of the Veterans
Health Administration;
(2) a requirement for the frequency of such
inspections;
(3) delineation of the roles and responsibil-
ities of staff at the medical center who are
responsible for compliance;
(4) the requirement that each medical cen-
ter submit to the Secretary and make pub-
licly available a report on the compliance of
the medical center with the standards; and
(5) a remediation plan.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committees on
Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of
Representatives certification in writing that
the policy required by subsection (a) has
been finalized and disseminated to Depart-
ment all medical centers.
SEC. 106. ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR PRIMARY
CARE AND EMERGENCY CARE CLINI-
CIANS IN WOMEN VETERANS
HEALTH CARE MINI-RESIDENCY
PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs $1,000,000 for each fiscal year for the
Women Veterans Health Care Mini-Resi-
dency Program of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs to provide opportunities for
participation in such program for primary
care and emergency care clinicians.
(b) TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS.—The amounts
authorized to be appropriated under sub-
section (a) shall be in addition to amounts
otherwise made available to the Secretary
for the purposes set forth in such subsection.
SEC. 107. ESTABLISHMENT OF WOMEN VETERAN
TRAINING MODULE FOR NON-DE-
PARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall es-
tablish and make available to community
providers a training module that is specific
to women veterans.
(b) COMMUNITY PROVIDER DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘community provider’’
means a non-Department of Veterans Affairs
health care provider who provides health
care to veterans under the laws administered
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
TITLE II—MEDICAL CARE
SEC. 201. IMPROVED ACCESS TO DEPARTMENT
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL
CARE FOR WOMEN VETERANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter
17 of title 38, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following new sec-
tion:
‘‘§ 1720J. Medical services for women vet-
erans
‘‘(a) ACCESS TO CARE.—The Secretary shall
ensure that women’s health primary care
services are available during regular busi-
ness hours at every medical center and com-
munity based outpatient clinic of the De-
partment.
‘‘(b) STUDY ON EXTENDED HOURS OF CARE.—
The Secretary shall conduct a study to as-
sess—
‘‘(1) the use of extended hours as a means
of reducing barriers to care;
‘‘(2) the need for extended hours based on
interviews with women veterans and employ-
ees; and
‘‘(3) the best practices and resources re-
quired to implement use of extended hours.
‘‘(c) ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not
later than September 30 of each year, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of
Representatives a report on compliance with
subsection (a).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such chapter is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to section 1720I the following new item:
‘‘1720J. Medical services for women vet-
erans.’’.
SEC. 202. COUNSELING AND TREATMENT FOR
SEXUAL TRAUMA.
Section 1720D of title 38, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘active
duty, active duty for training, or inactive
duty training’’ and inserting ‘‘duty, regard-
less of duty status or line of duty determina-
tion (as that term is used in section 12323 of
title 10)’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘active
duty, active duty for training, or inactive
duty training’’ and inserting ‘‘duty, regard-
less of duty status or line of duty determina-
tion (as that term is used in section 12323 of
title 10)’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘veteran’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘former member of the
Armed Forces’’;
(3) by striking ‘‘veterans’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘former members of the
Armed Forces’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(g) In this section, the term ‘former mem-
ber of the Armed Forces’ includes the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) A veteran described in section 101(2) of
this title.
‘‘(2) An individual not described in para-
graph (1) who was discharged or released
from the Armed Forces under a condition
that is not honorable but not—
‘‘(A) a dishonorable discharge; or
‘‘(B) a discharge by court-martial.’’.
SEC. 203. COUNSELING IN RETREAT SETTINGS
FOR WOMEN VETERANS AND OTHER
INDIVIDUALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 17 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 1712C the following new section:
‘‘§ 1712D. Counseling in retreat settings for
women veterans and other individuals
‘‘(a) PROGRAM.—(1) Commencing not later
than January 1, 2021, the Secretary shall
carry out, through the Readjustment Coun-
seling Service of the Veterans Health Admin-
istration, a program to provide reintegration
and readjustment services described in sub-
section (b) in group retreat settings to cov-
ered individuals, including cohorts of women
veterans who are eligible for readjustment
counseling services under section 1712A of
this title.
‘‘(2) The participation of a covered indi-
vidual in the program under paragraph (1)
shall be at the election of the individual.
‘‘(b) COVERED SERVICES.—The services pro-
vided to a covered individual under the pro-
gram under subsection (a)(1) shall include
the following:
‘‘(1) Information on reintegration into the
family, employment, and community of the
individual.
‘‘(2) Financial counseling.
‘‘(3) Occupational counseling.
‘‘(4) Information and counseling on stress
reduction.
‘‘(5) Information and counseling on conflict
resolution.
‘‘(6) Such other information and counseling
as the Secretary considers appropriate to as-
sist the individual in reintegration into the
family, employment, and community of the
veteran.
‘‘(c) BIENNIAL REPORTS.—Not later than
December 31, 2022, and each even-numbered
year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit
to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
a report on the program under subsection
(a)(1).
‘‘(d) COVERED INDIVIDUAL DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘covered individual’
means—
‘‘(1) Any veteran who is enrolled in the sys-
tem of annual patient enrollment under sec-
tion 1705 of this title.
‘‘(2) Any survivor or dependent of a veteran
who is eligible for medical care under section
1781 of this title.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such chapter is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to section 1712C the following new item:
‘‘1712D. Counseling in retreat settings for
women veterans and other indi-
viduals.’’.
SEC. 204. IMPROVEMENT OF HEALTH CARE SERV-
ICES PROVIDED TO NEWBORN CHIL-
DREN BY DEPARTMENT OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) EXPANSION.—Section 1786 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘seven
days’’ and inserting ‘‘14 days’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(f) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 60
days after the end of each fiscal year, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of
Representatives a report on the health care
services provided under subsection (a) during
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.011 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8766 November 12, 2019
such fiscal year, including the number of
newborn children who received such services
during such fiscal year.’’.
(b) AUTHORITY TO FURNISH MEDICALLY NEC-
ESSARY TRANSPORTATION FOR NEWBORN CHIL-
DREN OF CERTAIN WOMEN VETERANS.—Such
section is further amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter before paragraph (1)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘and transportation nec-
essary to receive such services’’ after ‘‘de-
scribed in subsection (b)’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, except as provided in
subsection (e),’’ after ‘‘14 days’’;
(B) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘or’’;
(C) in paragraph (2), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) another location, including a health
care facility, if the veteran delivers the child
before arriving at a facility described in
paragraph (1) or (2).’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by inserting before
the period at the end the following: ‘‘, in-
cluding necessary health care services pro-
vided by a facility other than the facility
where the newborn child was delivered (in-
cluding a specialty pediatric hospital) that
accepts transfer of the newborn child and re-
sponsibility for treatment of the newborn
child’’; and
(3) by inserting before subsection (f), as
added by subsection (a), the following new
subsections:
‘‘(c) TRANSPORTATION.—(1) Transportation
furnished under subsection (a) to, from, or
between care settings to meet the needs of a
newborn child includes costs for either or
both the newborn child and parents.
‘‘(2) Transportation furnished under sub-
section (a) is transportation by ambulance,
including air ambulance, or other appro-
priate medically staffed modes of transpor-
tation—
‘‘(A) to another health care facility (in-
cluding a specialty pediatric hospital) that
accepts transfer of the newborn child or oth-
erwise provides post-delivery care services
when the treating facility is not capable of
furnishing the care or services required; or
‘‘(B) to a health care facility in a medical
emergency of such nature that a prudent
layperson reasonably expects that delay in
seeking immediate medical attention would
be hazardous to life or health.
‘‘(3) Amounts paid by the Department for
transportation under this section shall be de-
rived from the Medical Services appropria-
tions account of the Department.
‘‘(d) REIMBURSEMENT OR PAYMENT FOR
HEALTH CARE SERVICES OR TRANSPOR-
TATION.—(1) Pursuant to regulations the Sec-
retary shall prescribe to establish rates of
reimbursement and any limitations thereto
under this section, the Secretary shall di-
rectly reimburse a covered entity for health
care services or transportation services pro-
vided under this section, unless the cost of
the services or transportation is covered by
an established agreement or contract. If such
an agreement or contract exists, its nego-
tiated payment terms shall apply.
‘‘(2)(A) Reimbursement or payment by the
Secretary under this section on behalf of an
individual to a covered entity shall, unless
rejected and refunded by the covered entity
within 30 days of receipt, extinguish any li-
ability on the part of the individual for the
health care services or transportation cov-
ered by such payment.
‘‘(B) Neither the absence of a contract or
agreement between the Secretary and a cov-
ered entity nor any provision of a contract,
agreement, or assignment to the contrary
shall operate to modify, limit, or negate the
requirements of subparagraph (A).
‘‘(3) In this subsection, the term ‘covered
entity’ means any individual, transportation
carrier, organization, or other entity that
furnished or paid for health care services or
transportation under this section.
‘‘(e) EXCEPTION.—Pursuant to such regula-
tions as the Secretary shall prescribe to
carry out this section, the Secretary may
furnish more than 14 days of health care
services described in subsection (b), and
transportation necessary to receive such
services, to a newborn child based on medical
necessity if the child is in need of additional
care, including a case in which the newborn
child has been discharged or released from a
hospital and requires readmittance to ensure
the health and welfare of the newborn
child.’’.
(c) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN EXPENSES AL-
READY INCURRED.—Pursuant to such regula-
tions as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
shall prescribe, the Secretary may provide
reimbursement under section 1786 of title 38,
United States Code, as amended by sub-
section (a), health care services or transpor-
tation services furnished to a newborn child
during the period beginning on May 5, 2010,
and ending on the date of the enactment of
this Act, if the Secretary determines that,
under the circumstances applicable with re-
spect to the newborn, such reimbursement
appropriate.
TITLE III—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Reports
SEC. 301. ASSESSMENT OF EFFECTS OF INTIMATE
PARTNER VIOLENCE ON WOMEN
VETERANS BY ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE ON WOMEN VETERANS.
Section 542(c)(1) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as
subparagraph (D); and
(3) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following new subparagraph (C):
‘‘(C) an assessment of the effects of inti-
mate partner violence on women veterans;
and’’.
SEC. 302. STUDY ON STAFFING OF WOMEN VET-
ERAN PROGRAM MANAGER PRO-
GRAM AT MEDICAL CENTERS OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS AND TRAINING OF STAFF.
(a) STUDY.—The Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs shall conduct a study on the use of the
Women Veteran Program Manager program
of the Department of Veterans Affairs to de-
termine—
(1) if the program is appropriately staffed
at each medical center of the Department;
(2) whether each medical center of the De-
partment is staffed with a Women Veteran
Program Manager; and
(3) whether it would be feasible and advis-
able to have a Women Veteran Program Om-
budsman at each medical center of the De-
partment.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 270 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of
Representatives a report on the study con-
ducted under subsection (a).
(c) TRAINING.—The Secretary shall ensure
that all Women Veteran Program Managers
and Women Veteran Program Ombudsmen
receive the proper training to carry out their
duties.
SEC. 303. REPORT ON AVAILABILITY OF PROS-
THETIC ITEMS FOR WOMEN VET-
ERANS FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS.
Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate
and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of
the House of Representatives a report on the
availability from the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs of prosthetic items made for
women veterans, including an assessment of
the availability of such prosthetic items at
each medical facility of the Department. The
report shall—
(1) address efforts on research, develop-
ment, and employment of additive manufac-
ture technology (commonly referred to as
‘‘3D printing’’) to provide prosthetic items
for women veterans; and
(2) include a survey with a representative
sample of 50,000 veterans (of which women
shall be overrrepresented) in amputee care
program on satisfaction with prosthetics fur-
nished or procured by the Department that
replace appendages or their function.
SEC. 304. STUDY OF BARRIERS FOR WOMEN VET-
ERANS TO HEALTH CARE FROM THE
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—The Secretary of
Veterans Affairs shall conduct a comprehen-
sive study of the barriers to the provision of
comprehensive health care by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs encountered by
women who are veterans. In conducting the
study, the Secretary shall—
(1) survey women veterans who seek or re-
ceive hospital care or medical services pro-
vided by the Department of Veterans Affairs
as well as women veterans who do not seek
or receive such care or services;
(2) administer the survey to a representa-
tive sample of women veterans from each
Veterans Integrated Service Network; and
(3) ensure that the sample of women vet-
erans surveyed is of sufficient size for the
study results to be statistically significant
and is a larger sample than that of the study
referred to in subsection (b)(1).
(b) USE OF PREVIOUS STUDIES.—In con-
ducting the study required by subsection (a),
the Secretary shall build on the work of the
studies of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs titled—
(1) ‘‘National Survey of Women Veterans in
Fiscal Year 2007–2008’’; and
(2) ‘‘Study of Barriers for Women Veterans
to VA Health Care 2015’’.
(c) ELEMENTS OF STUDY.—In conducting the
study required by subsection (a), the Sec-
retary shall conduct research on the effects
of the following on the women veterans sur-
veyed in the study:
(1) The barriers associated with seeking
mental health care services, including with
respect to provider availability, telehealth
access, and family, work, and school obliga-
tions.
(2) The effect of driving distance or avail-
ability of other forms of transportation to
the nearest medical facility on access to
care.
(3) The effect of access to care in the com-
munity.
(4) The availability of child care.
(5) The acceptability of integrated primary
care, women’s health clinics, or both.
(6) The comprehension of eligibility re-
quirements for, and the scope of services
available under, hospital care and medical
services.
(7) The perception of personal safety and
comfort in inpatient, outpatient, and behav-
ioral health facilities.
(8) The gender sensitivity of health care
providers and staff to issues that particu-
larly affect women.
(9) The effectiveness of outreach for health
care services available to women veterans.
(10) The location and operating hours of
health care facilities that provide services to
women veterans.
(11) The perception of women veterans re-
garding the motto of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.011 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8767
November 12, 2019
(12) Such other significant barriers as the
Secretary considers appropriate.
(d) DISCHARGE BY CONTRACT.—The Sec-
retary shall enter into a contract with a
qualified independent entity or organization
to carry out the study and research required
under this section.
(e) MANDATORY REVIEW OF DATA BY CER-
TAIN DEPARTMENT DIVISIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall en-
sure that the head of each division of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs specified in
paragraph (2) reviews the results of the study
conducted under this section. The head of
each such division shall submit findings with
respect to the study to the Under Secretary
for responsibilities relating to health care
services for women veterans.
(2) SPECIFIED DIVISIONS.—The divisions of
the Department of Veterans Affairs specified
in this paragraph are the following:
(A) The Under Secretary for Health.
(B) The Office of Women’s Health.
(C) The Center for Women Veterans estab-
lished under section 318 of title 38, United
States Code.
(D) The Advisory Committee on Women
Veterans established under section 542 of
such title.
(f) REPORT.—Not later than 30 months after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress a report
on the study required under this section. The
report shall include recommendations for
such administrative and legislative action as
the Secretary considers appropriate. The re-
port shall also include the findings of the
head of each division of the Department
specified under subsection (e)(2) and of the
Under Secretary for Health.
SEC. 305. REPORT REGARDING VETERANS WHO
RECEIVE BENEFITS UNDER LAWS
ADMINISTERED BY THE SECRETARY
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall publish a
report regarding veterans who receive bene-
fits under laws administered by the Sec-
retary, including the Transition Assistance
Program under sections 1142 and 1144 of title
10, United States Code.
(b) DATA.—The data regarding veterans
published in the report under subsection
(a)—
(1) shall be disaggregated by—
(A) sex;
(B) minority group member status; and
(C) minority group member status listed
by sex.
(2) may not include any personally identi-
fiable information.
(c) MATTERS INCLUDED.—The report under
subsection (a) shall include—
(1) identification of any disparities in the
use of benefits under laws administered by
the Secretary; and
(2) an analysis of the cause of such dispari-
ties and recommendations to address such
disparities.
(d) MINORITY GROUP MEMBER DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘minority group mem-
ber’’ has the meaning given that term in sec-
tion 544 of title 38, United States Code.
SEC. 306. STUDY ON WOMEN VETERAN COORDI-
NATOR PROGRAM.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of
Representatives and the Senate a report con-
taining a study on the Women Veteran Coor-
dinator program of the Veterans Benefits
Administration of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs. Such study shall identify the
following:
(1) If the program is appropriately staffed
at each regional benefits office of the De-
partment.
(2) Whether each regional benefits office of
the Department is staffed with a Women
Veteran Coordinator.
(3) The position description of the Women
Veteran Coordinator.
(4) Whether an individual serving in the
Women Veteran Coordinator position con-
currently serves in any other position, and if
so, the allocation of time the individual
spends in each such position.
(5) A description of the metrics the Sec-
retary uses to determine the success and per-
formance of the Women Veteran Coordi-
nator.
Subtitle B—Other Matters
SEC. 321. ANTI-HARASSMENT AND ANTI-SEXUAL
ASSAULT POLICY OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter 5
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 533. Anti-harassment and anti-sexual as-
sault policy
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of
Veterans Affairs shall establish a com-
prehensive policy to end harassment and sex-
ual assault, including sexual harassment and
gender-based harassment, throughout the
Department of Veterans Affairs. This policy
shall include the following:
‘‘(1) A process for employees and contrac-
tors of the Department to respond to re-
ported incidents of harassment and sexual
assault committed by any non-Department
individual within a facility of the Depart-
ment, including with respect to account-
ability or disciplinary measures.
‘‘(2) A process for employees and contrac-
tors of the Department to respond to re-
ported incidents of harassment and sexual
assault of any non-Department individual
within a facility of the Department.
‘‘(3) A process for any non-Department in-
dividual to report harassment and sexual as-
sault described in paragraph (1), including an
option for confidential reporting, and for the
Secretary to respond to and address such re-
ports.
‘‘(4) Clear mechanisms for non-Department
individuals to readily identify to whom and
how to report incidents of harassment and
sexual assault committed by another non-
Department individual.
‘‘(5) Clear mechanisms for employees and
contractors of the Department to readily
identify to whom and how to report inci-
dents of harassment and sexual assault and
how to refer non-Department individuals
with respect to reporting an incident of har-
assment or sexual assault.
‘‘(6) A process for, and mandatory report-
ing requirement applicable to, any employee
or contractor of the Department who wit-
nesses harassment or sexual assault de-
scribed in paragraph (1) or (2) within a facil-
ity of the Department, regardless of whether
the individual affected by such harassment
or sexual assault wants to report such har-
assment or sexual assault.
‘‘(7) The actions possible, including dis-
ciplinary actions, for employees or contrac-
tors of the Department who fail to report in-
cidents of harassment and sexual assault de-
scribed in paragraph (1) or (2) that the em-
ployees or contractors witness.
‘‘(8) On an annual or more frequent basis,
mandatory training for employees and con-
tractors of the Department regarding how to
report and address harassment and sexual as-
sault described in paragraphs (1) and (2), in-
cluding bystander intervention training.
‘‘(9) On an annual or more frequent basis,
the distribution of the policy under this sub-
section and anti-harassment and anti-sexual
assault educational materials by mail or
email to each individual receiving a benefit
under a law administered by the Secretary.
‘‘(10) The prominent display of anti-harass-
ment and anti-sexual assault messages in
each facility of the Department, including
how non-Department individuals may report
harassment and sexual assault described in
paragraphs (1) and (2) at such facility and
the points of contact under subsection (b).
‘‘(11) The posting on internet websites of
the Department, including the main internet
website regarding benefits of the Department
and the main internet website regarding
health care of the Department, of anti-har-
assment and anti-sexual assault banners spe-
cifically addressing harassment and sexual
assault described in paragraphs (1) and (2).
‘‘(b) POINTS OF CONTACT.—The Secretary
shall designate, as a point of contact to re-
ceive reports of harassment and sexual as-
sault described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
subsection (a)—
‘‘(1) at least one individual, in addition to
law enforcement, at each facility of the De-
partment (including Vet Centers under sec-
tion 1712A of this title), with regard to that
facility;
‘‘(2) at least one individual employed in
each Veterans Integrated Service Network,
with regards to facilities in that Veterans
Integrated Service Network;
‘‘(3) at least one individual employed in
each regional benefits office;
‘‘(4) at least one individual employed at
each location of the National Cemetery Ad-
ministration; and
‘‘(5) at least one individual employed at
the Central Office of the Department to
track reports of such harassment and sexual
assault across the Department,
disaggregated by facility.
‘‘(c) ACCOUNTABILITY.—The Secretary shall
establish a policy to ensure that each facil-
ity of the Department and each director of a
Veterans Integrated Service Network is re-
sponsible for addressing harassment and sex-
ual assault at the facility and the Network.
Such policy shall include—
‘‘(1) a remediation plan for facilities that
experience five or more incidents of sexual
harassment, sexual assault, or combination
thereof, during any single fiscal year; and
‘‘(2) taking appropriate actions under chap-
ter 7 or subchapter V of chapter 74 of this
title.
‘‘(d) DATA.—The Secretary shall ensure
that the in-take process for veterans at med-
ical facilities of the Department includes a
survey to collect the following information:
‘‘(1) Whether the veteran feels safe at the
facility and whether any events occurred at
the facility that affect such feeling.
‘‘(2) Whether the veteran wants to be con-
tacted later by the Department with respect
to such safety issues.
‘‘(e) WORKING GROUP.—(1) The Secretary
shall establish a working group to assist the
Secretary in implementing policies to carry
out this section.
‘‘(2) The working group established under
paragraph (1) shall consist of representatives
from—
‘‘(A) veterans service organizations;
‘‘(B) State, local, and Tribal veterans agen-
cies; and
‘‘(C) other persons the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate.
‘‘(3) The working group established under
paragraph (1) shall develop, and the Sec-
retary shall carry out—
‘‘(A) an action plan for addressing changes
at the local level to reduce instances of har-
assment and sexual assault;
‘‘(B) standardized media for veterans serv-
ice organizations and other persons to use in
print and on the internet with respect to re-
ducing harassment and sexual assault; and
‘‘(C) bystander intervention training for
veterans.
‘‘(f) REPORTS.—The Secretary shall submit
to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.011 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8768 November 12, 2019
the Senate and the House of Representatives
an annual report on harassment and sexual
assault described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
subsection (a) in facilities of the Depart-
ment. Each such report shall include the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) Results of harassment and sexual as-
sault programming, including the End Har-
assment program.
‘‘(2) Results of studies from the Women’s
Health Practice-Based Research Network of
the Department relating to harassment and
sexual assault.
‘‘(3) Data collected on incidents of sexual
harassment and sexual assault.
‘‘(4) A description of any actions taken by
the Secretary during the year preceding the
date of the report to stop harassment and
sexual assault at facilities of the Depart-
ment.
‘‘(5) An assessment of the implementation
of the training required in subsection (a)(7).
‘‘(6) A list of resources the Secretary deter-
mines necessary to prevent harassment and
sexual assault at facilities of the Depart-
ment.
‘‘(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘non-Department individual’
means any individual present at a facility of
the Department who is not an employee or
contractor of the Department.
‘‘(2) The term ‘sexual harassment’ has the
meaning given that term in section 1720D of
this title.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such chapter is
amended by adding after the item relating to
section 532 the following new item:
‘‘533. Anti-harassment and anti-sexual as-
sault policy.’’.
(c) DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.—
Section 1720D(f) of such title is amended by
striking ‘‘repeated,’’.
(d) DEADLINE.—The Secretary shall com-
mence carrying out section 533 of such title,
as added by subsection (a), not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 322. SUPPORT FOR ORGANIZATIONS THAT
HAVE A FOCUS ON PROVIDING AS-
SISTANCE TO WOMEN VETERANS
AND THEIR FAMILIES.
Section 2044(e) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(4) There is authorized to be appropriated
$20,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 to provide,
under subsection (a), financial assistance to
organizations that have a focus on providing
assistance to women veterans and their fam-
ilies.’’.
SEC. 323. GAP ANALYSIS OF DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS PROGRAMS
THAT PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO
WOMEN VETERANS WHO ARE HOME-
LESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs shall complete an analysis of
programs of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs that provide assistance to women vet-
erans who are homeless or precariously
housed to identify the areas in which such
programs are failing to meet the needs of
such women.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 270 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of
Representatives a report on the analysis
completed under subsection (a).
SEC. 324. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP ON
LEGAL SERVICES FOR WOMEN VET-
ERANS.
(a) PARTNERSHIP REQUIRED.—The Secretary
of Veterans Affairs shall establish a partner-
ship with at least one nongovernmental or-
ganization to provide legal services to
women veterans.
(b) FOCUS.—The focus of the partnership
established under subsection (a) shall be on
the 10 highest unmet needs of women vet-
erans as set forth in the most recently com-
pleted Community Homelessness Assess-
ment, Local Education and Networking
Groups for Veterans (CHALENG for Vet-
erans) survey.
SEC. 325. PROGRAM TO ASSIST VETERANS WHO
EXPERIENCE INTIMATE PARTNER
VIOLENCE OR SEXUAL ASSAULT.
(a) PROGRAM REQUIRED.—The Secretary of
Veterans Affairs shall carry out a program
to assist former members of the armed forces
who have experienced or are experiencing in-
timate partner violence or sexual assault in
accessing benefits from the Department of
Veterans Affairs, including coordinating ac-
cess to medical treatment centers, housing
assistance, and other benefits from the De-
partment.
(b) COLLABORATION.—The Secretary shall
carry out the program under subsection (a)
in collaboration with—
(1) intimate partner violence shelters and
programs;
(2) rape crisis centers;
(3) State intimate partner violence and
sexual assault coalitions; and
(4) such other health care or other service
providers that serve intimate partner vio-
lence or sexual assault victims as deter-
mined by the Secretary, particularly those
providing emergency services or housing as-
sistance.
(c) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.—In carrying
out the program under subsection (a), the
Secretary may conduct the following activi-
ties:
(1) Training for community-based intimate
partner violence or sexual assault service
providers on—
(A) identifying former members of the
Armed Forces who have been victims of inti-
mate partner violence or sexual assault;
(B) coordinating with local service pro-
viders of the Department; and
(C) connecting former members of the
Armed Forces with appropriate housing,
mental health, medical, and other financial
assistance or benefits from the Department.
(2) Assistance to service providers to en-
sure access of veterans to intimate partner
violence and sexual assault emergency serv-
ices, particularly in underserved areas, in-
cluding services for Native American vet-
erans (as defined in section 3765 of title 38,
United States Code).
(3) Such other outreach and assistance as
the Secretary determines necessary for the
provision of assistance under subsection (a).
(d) INTIMATE PARTNER VIOLENCE AND SEX-
UAL ASSAULT OUTREACH COORDINATORS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to effectively as-
sist veterans who have experienced intimate
partner violence or sexual assault, the Sec-
retary may establish local coordinators to
provide outreach under the program required
by subsection (a).
(2) LOCAL COORDINATOR KNOWLEDGE.—The
Secretary shall ensure that each coordinator
established under paragraph (1) is knowl-
edgeable about—
(A) the dynamics of intimate partner vio-
lence and sexual assault, including safety
concerns, legal protections, and the need for
the provision of confidential services;
(B) the eligibility of veterans for services
and benefits from the Department that are
relevant to recovery from intimate partner
violence and sexual assault, particularly
emergency housing assistance, mental
health care, other health care, and disability
benefits; and
(C) local community resources addressing
intimate partner violence and sexual assault.
(3) LOCAL COORDINATOR ASSISTANCE.—Each
coordinator established under paragraph (1)
shall assist intimate partner violence shel-
ters and rape crisis centers in providing serv-
ices to veterans.
SEC. 326. STUDY AND TASK FORCE ON VETERANS
EXPERIENCING INTIMATE PARTNER
VIOLENCE OR SEXUAL ASSAULT.
(a) NATIONAL BASELINE STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in con-
sultation with the Attorney General, shall
conduct a national baseline study to exam-
ine the scope of the problem of intimate
partner violence and sexual assault among
veterans and spouses and intimate partners
of veterans.
(2) MATTERS INCLUDED.—The study under
paragraph (1) shall—
(A) include a literature review of all rel-
evant research on intimate partner violence
and sexual assault among veterans and
spouses and intimate partners of veterans;
(B) examine the prevalence of the experi-
ence of intimate partner violence among—
(i) women veterans;
(ii) veterans who are minority group mem-
bers (as defined in section 544 of title 38,
United States Code, and including other mi-
nority populations as the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate);
(iii) urban and rural veterans;
(iv) veterans who are enrolled in a program
under section 1720G of title 38, United States
Code;
(v) veterans who are in intimate relation-
ships with other veterans; and
(vi) veterans who are described in more
than one clause of this subparagraph;
(C) examine the prevalence of the perpetra-
tion of intimate partner violence by vet-
erans; and
(D) include recommendations to address
the findings of the study.
(3) REPORT.—Not later than 30 days after
the date on which the Secretary completes
the study under paragraph (1), the Secretary
shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’
Affairs of the House of Representatives and
the Senate a report on such study.
(b) TASK FORCE.—Not later than 90 days
after the date on which the Secretary com-
pletes the study under subsection (a), the
Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney
General and the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, shall establish a national
task force (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Task Force’’) to develop a comprehensive
national program, including by integrating
facilities, services, and benefits of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs into existing
networks of community-based intimate part-
ner violence and sexual assault services, to
address intimate partner violence and sexual
assault among veterans.
(c) CONSULTATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS.—In
carrying out this section, the Task Force
shall consult with—
(1) representatives from veteran service or-
ganizations and military service organiza-
tions;
(2) representatives from not fewer than
three national organizations or State coali-
tions with demonstrated expertise in inti-
mate partner violence prevention, response,
or advocacy; and
(3) representatives from not fewer than
three national organizations or State coali-
tions, particularly those representing under-
served and ethnic minority communities,
with demonstrated expertise in sexual as-
sault prevention, response, or advocacy.
(d) DUTIES.—The duties of the Task Force
shall include the following:
(1) To review existing services and policies
of the Department and develop a comprehen-
sive national program to address intimate
partner violence and sexual assault preven-
tion, response, and treatment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.011 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8769
November 12, 2019
(2) To review the feasibility and advis-
ability of establishing an expedited process
to secure emergency, temporary benefits, in-
cluding housing or other benefits, for vet-
erans who are experiencing intimate partner
violence or sexual assault.
(3) To review and make recommendations
regarding the feasibility and advisability of
establishing dedicated, temporary housing
assistance for veterans experiencing inti-
mate partner violence or sexual assault.
(4) To identify any requirements regarding
intimate partner violence assistance or sex-
ual assault response and services that are
not being met by the Department and make
recommendations on how the Department
can meet such requirements.
(5) To review and make recommendations
regarding the feasibility and advisability of
providing direct services or contracting for
community-based services for veterans in re-
sponse to a sexual assault, including through
the use of sexual assault nurse examiners,
particularly in underserved or remote areas,
including services for Native American vet-
erans.
(6) To review the availability of counseling
services provided by the Department and
through peer network support, and to pro-
vide recommendations for the enhancement
of such services, to address—
(A) the perpetration of intimate partner vi-
olence and sexual assault; and
(B) the recovery of veterans, particularly
women veterans, from intimate partner vio-
lence and sexual assault.
(7) To review and make recommendations
to expand services available for veterans at
risk of perpetrating intimate partner vio-
lence.
(e) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
not less frequently than annually thereafter
by October 1 of each year, the Task Force
shall submit to the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs and Congress a report on the activities
of the Task Force, including any rec-
ommendations for legislative or administra-
tive action.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘Native American veteran’’
has the meaning given that term in section
3765 of title 38, United States Code.
(2) The term ‘‘State’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 101 of title 38,
United States Code.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
3224, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
3224, the Deborah Sampson Act, intro-
duced by Representative JULIA
BROWNLEY, the chairwoman of the Vet-
erans Affairs’ Health Subcommittee.
This bill comprises 15 bipartisan bills
that transform and improve com-
prehensive access to healthcare, bene-
fits, and other resources for America’s
2 million women veterans.
This bill is named after Deborah
Sampson, a Revolutionary War veteran
from Massachusetts who served in the
Continental Army for 17 months and
was wounded in battle more than once.
Deborah Sampson was neither the
first nor the only woman to serve in
the Continental Army, nor was she the
first woman to be granted a pension by
Congress, but she was the most per-
sistent.
Over 38 years, Congress granted her a
pension, backpay, and ultimately her
husband was granted a survivor’s pen-
sion after her death.
Mr. Speaker, it is because of the
similar persistence of women warriors
who followed in Deborah Sampson’s
footsteps that we are now considering
this bill today.
The Deborah Sampson Act creates an
Office of Women’s Health that reports
directly to the Undersecretary of
Health. This office will be responsible
for internal oversight and resource al-
location, including inputs to the an-
nual budgeting process.
Currently, 10 percent of VA facilities
do not have gender-specific care for
women. H.R. 3224, as amended, also in-
creases staffing and training for wom-
en’s health primary care providers so
that every single woman veteran has
access to gender-specific care at her
nearest VA facility.
Mr. Speaker, 75 percent of women
veterans do not use VA care, often be-
cause they don’t realize that they are
eligible. This legislation seeks to ex-
pand communication outreach capa-
bilities of the department to connect
more women to VA benefits and
healthcare.
Mr. Speaker, the Deborah Sampson
Act also authorizes counseling in re-
treat settings, expands counseling at
vet centers for members of the Reserve
and National Guard who are survivors
of military sexual trauma, and im-
proves resources for veterans experi-
encing intimate-partner violence and
women veterans facing homelessness.
Throughout this Congress we have
addressed the issue of widespread sex-
ual harassment and assault at VA fa-
cilities. At least one in four women
veterans experience sexual and gender
harassment at VA facilities, and that
must end.
No veteran, caregiver, employee, con-
tractor, or other public visitor should
experience sexual harassment or as-
sault at VA.
H.R. 3224, as amended, requires that
VA develop a comprehensive policy
that includes bystander intervention,
mandatory reporting mechanisms for
employees, confidential reporting
mechanisms for veterans, and holds
leadership accountable for addressing
sexual harassment and assault at VA
facilities.
Today, nearly one in four new re-
cruits joining the military is a woman.
Women veterans are the fastest grow-
ing demographic in the veterans’ com-
munity, and VA must be prepared to
welcome them.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support H.R. 3224, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 3224, as amended, the Deborah
Sampson Act.
For as long as the United States has
been a reality, brave women have been
stepping up to serve on behalf of her
and defending her from her enemies.
This bill is named after one of those
amazing women, Deborah Sampson,
who so believed in the ideals of the
American Revolution that she dis-
guised herself as a man so that she
could join in the fight for freedom and
independence.
Deborah Sampson’s spirit of bravery,
patriotism, and commitment to service
are still very much alive in the ap-
proximately 2 million women veterans
in the United States today and the al-
most 400,000 women serving on Active
Duty or in the Guard and Reserves.
Those women have fought in defense
of the American Dream—on the
frontlines, in the Pentagon, and every-
where in between, in every branch of
the armed services. And, once they
leave the military, they are, increas-
ingly, seeking care from the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs. In fact, the
number of women using the VA
healthcare system has more than tri-
pled since 2001 and is expected to con-
tinue rising significantly in the years
ahead.
VA leaders have been working to
make the department more welcoming
to women veterans, but the fact re-
mains that the VA healthcare system
was designed for men.
That is, perhaps, most upsettingly
evidenced by the VA study published
last December that found that a full
quarter of the women veterans who
seek care from the VA are subjected to
inappropriate or unwanted comments
from male veterans on VA grounds.
That is tragic and unacceptable, just
like it is anytime the VA falls short of
providing the high-quality care, bene-
fits, and services that women veterans
have earned and certainly deserve,
which still, sadly, happens all too
often.
The Deborah Sampson Act is legisla-
tion introduced by Congresswoman
JULIA BROWNLEY from California—and
she is to be applauded for that—the
chairwoman of the Subcommittee on
Health and the bipartisan Women Vet-
erans Task Force that would help put
an end to this.
The bill would create an Office of
Women’s Health within the VA, require
VA to establish an environment of care
standards for women veterans and en-
sure that VA medical facilities are ret-
rofitted to meet those standards, re-
quire and fund VA programs to train
providers in VA medical facilities and
in the community on women’s health,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.011 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8770 November 12, 2019
and improve access to care for women
veterans and their newborn children.
It also includes provisions that would
help all veterans, women and men
alike, who experience military sexual
trauma, intimate-partner violence,
sexual assault, or sexual harassment to
get the support and care that they
need.
Mr. Speaker, there have been a lot of
allegations made by Chairman TAKANO,
and I make the following remarks with
a heavy heart.
There have been a lot of allegations
made by Chairman TAKANO and others
in the 2 weeks since the Deborah Samp-
son Act was marked up in the com-
mittee about how I and my Republican
colleagues feel about this legislation
and about the women that it is in-
tended to serve.
So let me be crystal clear. I stand
here in strong support of the Deborah
Sampson Act and all the good it would
do for the millions of women veterans
that it would serve.
I intend to call for a recorded vote on
this bill, and I fully expect the vote to
prove that there is overwhelming bi-
partisan support for this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, when I left the Army in
1974, I returned home to Tennessee to
finish my residency in obstetrics and
gynecology and spend the better part
of my life caring for women in private
practice.
My dedication to ensuring that
women, whether they be civilian or
veteran, have the care that they need
is personal, deeply felt, and informed
by three decades of direct action on be-
half of the women who are my patients,
my friends, my family, my neighbors,
my colleagues, and my fellow veterans.
That is why it is so disappointing
that, when my Republican colleagues
and I walked out of the committee
markup where this bill was being con-
sidered in protest to the chairman’s ac-
tions surrounding it, he decided to
launch a baseless, identity-politics
fueled attack on me and other Repub-
lican members of the committee by al-
leging that we were walking out on
women veterans.
Nothing can be further from the
truth. The chairman knows full well
that our decision to leave that markup
had nothing to do with our support for
the Deborah Sampson Act, much less
our support for women veterans, and
everything to do with the unprece-
dented partisanship that he displayed
when this bill was being considered by
our committee.
So I would like to take this oppor-
tunity this afternoon to correct the
record.
Chairman TAKANO has called this bill
historic and monumental, yet, during
the committee’s consideration of it, he
allowed one Democrat member, Con-
gresswoman BROWNLEY, exactly 4 min-
utes to talk about it before cutting off
all debate for every other member in
the room by invoking a procedural tac-
tic that hadn’t been used by our com-
mittee in more than a decade.
And I will say this: I never used this
when I was chairman, nor did Chair-
man MILLER.
He did that to avoid debate on cer-
tain Republican amendments that he
erroneously characterized as toxic and
partisan. They were offered in good
faith to address barriers to care for
veteran women and men across the
country that we have been requesting
the chairman to act on for the better
part of a year.
One of the amendments that the
chairman refused to debate or vote on
was offered by Congressman ANDY
BARR from Kentucky to prevent those
charged with a serious crime, including
violent or sexual crimes against chil-
dren, from caring for children while
their veteran parent is receiving care
from VA until their case has been fa-
vorably resolved.
The lack of childcare services is a se-
rious barrier to care for veterans, in-
cluding many women veterans, as the
chairman himself has mentioned many
times.
Our committee rightly acted on a
bill, H.R. 840, which passed the House
in February, to break down that bar-
rier by authorizing VA to provide
childcare for veterans who are engaged
in VA treatment. But if the veterans
cannot rest assured that their children
are safe in the VA childcare program,
they won’t use it—they won’t use the
care—and the lack of childcare services
will continue to prevent veterans from
getting the care that they need.
Congressman BARR’s amendment
would close a loophole in that bill that
would allow an individual charged with
a serious offense—like child molesta-
tion—but who is awaiting his or her
day in court to be responsible for car-
ing for a veteran’s child in a VA
childcare program while their case is
pending before the courts.
Mr. Speaker, I know that there are a
lot of things that we cannot agree on,
but protecting vulnerable children
should never be one of those things.
Yet Chairman TAKANO has repeatedly
refused to address this issue and em-
ployed a rarely used procedural tactic
in our committee to disallow debate
and votes on it twice in recent months.
He has also failed to even respond to
11 committee members who wrote him
in July asking for a legislative hearing
on Congressman BARR’s legislation. It
defies understanding.
Another amendment that the chair-
man has repeatedly refused to allow
our committee to debate was offered by
Congressman CHIP ROY from Texas to
prohibit VA from sending the name of
a veteran or other beneficiary to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Na-
tional Instant Criminal Background
Check System, NICS, solely because
VA has determined that a person has a
service-connected disability or solely
because a fiduciary has been appointed
on their behalf, without the order or
finding of a judge, a magistrate, or
other judicial authority that the per-
son is a danger to themselves or others.
Infringing on a law-abiding American
citizen’s constitutionally protected
rights should never occur in a free soci-
ety unless a very high bar has been
met. For example, criminals must be
convicted in a court of law before their
names are provided to the NICS list;
but, under current practice, VA sends
veterans’ names to the NICS list if
they have been appointed a fiduciary to
help manage their compensation bene-
fits.
This is because, once VA decides that
an individual needs help with their fi-
nances, even though there may be no
evidence the individual is a danger to
themselves or anyone else, a VA bu-
reaucrat sends that person’s name to
the FBI to be added to the NICS list
and the veteran loses their second
amendment right to own a firearm.
And these are the very people who gave
us those rights, protected those rights.
Legislation that the House passed on
a party-line vote earlier this year, H.R.
1112, would compound this injustice by
requiring VA to also report a veteran
or beneficiary to the NICS if they have
been adjudicated by VA as having a
mental illness when the veteran files
for a disability claim—for example,
PTSD or depression.
I have personally heard from vet-
erans across the country—and I mean
from Long Island to Los Angeles—who
tell me that they don’t seek VA care
and benefits that they have earned
through their hard-fought service for
our country because they fear they will
lose their Second Amendment rights if
they do so.
This is unacceptable at any time and
is particularly unacceptable during a
national suicide crisis when we know
that 14 of the 20 veteran and service-
member suicide deaths per day already
occur among those who are not en-
gaged in VA care prior to their deaths.
Veterans risk their lives to protect
our rights. The least we can do for
them is to protect theirs. But Chair-
man TAKANO has once again refused to
do that, despite making a public vow 8
months ago before the American Le-
gion that he would act, as chairman, to
protect the Second Amendment rights
of our Nation’s veterans.
He also, once again, failed to respond
to 12 committee members who wrote
him in July asking for a legislative
hearing to discuss veterans’ Second
Amendment issues.
There are precious few avenues avail-
able to the minority party in Congress
to influence the legislative agenda of
the majority party.
b 1800
Since February, my Republican col-
leagues and I have been asking Chair-
man TAKANO, publicly and privately, to
address these issues in our committee.
Our requests have been ignored. Our
letters have gone unanswered.
The only remaining option we have
left is to attempt to amend bills being
marked up by the committee so that
we can have an open debate and an up-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.035 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8771
November 12, 2019
or-down vote on these issues. If we win,
we win. If we lose, we lose.
We attempted to amend the Deborah
Sampson Act with these amendments 2
weeks ago, on the advice of the Parlia-
mentarian about the appropriateness of
these particular amendments, which
address serious issues facing female
and male veterans alike in each one of
our States and districts, to this par-
ticular bill. But the chairman denied
us even this opportunity.
That kind of partisanship has never
been how this committee has operated
as long as I have been there. Under the
8 previous years of Republican chair-
men, debate was never cut off when
Democratic members offered difficult
amendments during committee mark-
ups. We allowed our Democratic col-
leagues the opportunity to have their
say, and we took tough votes when we
needed to.
Mr. Speaker, I wish that we could
have had such a different conversation
today, the day after Veterans Day,
than this one. But I would be remiss in
my duty as ranking member if I did not
call out this behavior and ways in
which it fails our Nation’s veterans.
Chairman TAKANO has spoken mov-
ingly about how he wants us to use his
chairmanship to stand up for the rights
of minority veterans, and I commend
him for that and have stood alongside
him in doing that work, including in
May, when we stood side-by-side to
launch the bipartisan Women Veterans
Task Force.
Yet, I urge him now, in carrying out
that commitment, not to spurn the his-
torical bipartisan traditions of the Vet-
erans’ Affairs Committee, not to
trounce on the rights of the minority
members of that committee, not to cut
corners in favor of expediency over
doing our due diligence, and not to cast
aspersions against me or any other
member of our committee when we
could be debating the issues at hand
like our constituents sent us here to
do.
Despite our deep disagreements here,
I consider Chairman TAKANO a friend,
and I know him to be a good and fair
man who is motivated by a sincere de-
sire to do the right thing for the mil-
lions of veterans and their families who
have sacrificed so much for this great
Nation. That desire is shared by me
and every member of our committee,
Republican and Democrat alike. I do
not doubt that for a second.
I also do not doubt our ability, under
the chairman’s leadership, to put this
unfortunate recent chapter of the com-
mittee’s history behind us and return
to the productive bipartisan tradition
that our committee has known and re-
spected throughout the United States
Congress and the Nation. In doing so,
we will, once again, live up to the ex-
ample that our Nation’s veterans, in-
cluding Deborah Sampson herself, have
set.
I thank the chairman in advance for
that. I stand ready to assist him how-
ever I can, as ranking member and as
his friend.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I appreciate the final comments that
the ranking member made, I believe in
good faith and sincerity, and they were
words of generosity. But I have to
rebut some of the claims that he has
made.
While I spent 6 years of my time in
Congress in the minority, and in the
minority on this committee, I can tell
you that the minority staff and I, and
other members of the minority, did
offer amendments in good faith, but we
never did so in order to derail or to ob-
struct passage of important and mean-
ingful legislation. Therefore, the rank-
ing member, while he was chairman,
can point to many great pieces of legis-
lation, including the Forever GI Bill
and numerous other bills. It was a very
productive Congress in the last Con-
gress because the minority worked
with him.
Look, bipartisan spirit means that
the minority also works in good faith.
Ms. BROWNLEY, in order to bring the
Deborah Sampson Act to the floor
under suspension, made some signifi-
cant concessions, for which there was
nothing offered in return.
Mr. BARR’s amendment on crimes
against children has been offered on
the floor as a motion to recommit, in-
teresting enough, to Ms. BROWNLEY’s
bill on childcare on the floor. That bill
was voted down. It was voted down on
the House floor, and I can only believe
that this very same legislative lan-
guage was offered as an amendment to
the Deborah Sampson bill in defiance
of the House already expressing its will
on that bill.
I refute the contention that it was of-
fered in good faith before we brought
Ms. BROWNLEY’s legislation on the
Deborah Sampson Act in committee.
The ranking member fails to mention
that three of the amendments related
to antilabor legislation, which was hos-
tile to labor. To say that this was of-
fered in good faith when he knows that
the legislation we were bringing for-
ward was intended to be suspension
legislation, normally, the majority and
the minority come to an agreement for
a very expeditious legislative hearing
when it comes to suspension bills.
Finally, I will mention that I
watched the ranking member try to
subvert the landmark H.R. 8, the uni-
versal background checks bill, by rais-
ing this issue of the NICS list and try-
ing to whip up opposition by our vet-
erans service organizations, so I have
seen him act in a different context
against H.R. 8.
Why he sought in committee to at-
tach legislation related to guns to a
women’s health bill and to expanding
opportunities for women veterans to
utilize fully the benefits they have
earned, I cannot fully comprehend that
attempt.
I can say, in many instances, I re-
sponded to the ranking member’s re-
quests to actually go outside of regular
order for the minority’s benefit.
Let me say that I want to use this
time now to yield 3 minutes the gentle-
woman from California (Ms.
BROWNLEY), the author of this truly
historic legislation, chairwoman of our
Subcommittee on Health, and also the
author of the legislation.
Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the chairman for
bringing my bill, the Deborah Sampson
Act, to the floor. And I thank the rank-
ing member for his support as well.
In 1782, Deborah Sampson disguised
herself as a man so she could serve in
the Revolutionary War to protect and
defend our democracy. She was wound-
ed in that war. Her forehead had a gash
from a sword, and she was shot in the
leg. But serving as a man made her in-
visible.
Too many decades later, Congress fi-
nally granted her petitions for the ben-
efits she deserved, and she became one
of the first American women recog-
nized for her military service.
Women have served on land, air, and
sea in every conflict in our Nation’s
history, yet their remarkable and
brave service is often overlooked.
Through my work as chair of the
Women Veterans Task Force, I have
met with countless women veterans
across the country who, like Deborah
Sampson, feel invisible. Their service
often goes unnoticed, while veteran
men around them are always thanked.
Sadly, women veterans are often har-
assed when they go to the VA for help.
This denies them the equitable access
to the benefits and care they have
earned and deserve.
On a recent visit to VA’s only
women-centric residential substance
abuse rehabilitation program, an Army
veteran told me the program saved her
life. When women-focused resources
exist, women veterans use them, and
they thrive.
That is why this bill is vital for
America’s 2 million women veterans. It
will ensure that women have con-
sistent access to comprehensive, gen-
der-specific care and services. It will
help stop harassment and ensure that
women veterans are fully recognized
for their service.
In 1836, John Quincy Adams stood on
the House floor and called Debra
Sampson’s ‘‘heroism, fidelity, and
courage’’ of the ‘‘very highest and no-
blest order.’’ Congress recognized
Debra Sampson’s service and, in doing
so, ensured that she was no longer in-
visible.
To America’s women veterans of
today, I stand here to say: We see you,
and you are invisible no longer.
I would like to thank Representa-
tives Allred, Brindisi, Correa,
Cunningham, Delgado, Levin, Lee,
Pappas, Rose, Underwood, Velazquez,
and Wild, who contributed to this legis-
lation.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R.
3224 to fully recognize and honor
women veterans’ service.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.037 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8772 November 12, 2019
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, may I in-
quire as to how much time I have re-
maining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from California has 91⁄2 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from Ten-
nessee has 61⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Lexington, Kentucky (Mr.
BARR), my good friend who is a member
of our Veterans’ Affairs Committee. He
has been a tireless supporter of vet-
erans. I have been in his district on
several occasions, and the veterans
have no better friend than Congress-
man BARR.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
good friend, Dr. ROE. I wish the gen-
tleman a happy belated Veterans Day,
and I hope he had a good weekend. I
certainly did back home in Lexington,
Kentucky, at Veterans Park with the
Veterans Park Elementary School
choir singing to our great veterans
back home.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 3224, as amended, the
Deborah Sampson Act.
As my colleagues before me have al-
ready pointed out, women have served
our country since the very earliest
days of the American Revolution. But
as the fastest growing segment of our
veteran population, they are only now
starting to get the recognition that
they deserve.
I am proud to be here today to sup-
port this bill that will ensure that the
Department of Veterans Affairs pro-
vides them the care and benefits that
their service and their sacrifices have
entitled them to.
And I commend the gentlewoman
from New York for her leadership on
this important legislation.
I do have to say, Mr. Speaker, how-
ever, that any characterization that
my Republican colleagues on the Vet-
erans’ Affairs Committee and I feel
anything less than pride in the many
women who have served and the many
women who continue to serve today,
and a steadfast commitment to support
them and to meet their needs, is sim-
ply untrue. Had my colleagues or I
been allowed to speak on this bill in
committee, that would have been very
evident to any Member of this House.
What my colleagues and I do object
to are the overly partisan tactics that
were deployed by the majority when
this important bill was being consid-
ered.
I am new to the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee in this Congress, but I
know that the committee has a long
tradition of bipartisanship, where
Members check their party affiliations
at the door and do not shy away from
debates or disagreements in the spirit
of living up to the very democratic
ideals that our veterans fought to de-
fend. Unfortunately, we seem to have
lost sight of that great tradition this
year.
As Dr. ROE referenced in his com-
ments earlier, I have been trying since
February to address an unintended
consequence of a House-passed bill that
could allow an accused child molester
who is awaiting prosecution to care for
a veteran’s child in a VA childcare pro-
gram.
I do not know any parent in any po-
litical party who would want one of
their own children to be cared for by
someone who has been charged with a
serious crime, like a sexual assault
against a minor, before they have been
fully cleared. Yet, the majority has
twice used parliamentary procedures
rarely if ever seen in the Veterans’ Af-
fairs Committee to refuse to allow our
committee to consider my legislation
to prevent that from happening to the
child of one of our Nation’s veterans.
Most recently, the majority did that
when this bill, the Deborah Sampson
Act, was being considered. Their ac-
tions were so unexpected that my col-
leagues and I left the markup when it
became clear that the chairman was
not going to allow us, or any other
Member, the opportunity to speak,
much less offer amendments, and de-
clared that we were done voting on the
bill.
I resent the comment that this
amendment was not offered in good
faith.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield the gentleman from
Kentucky another 30 seconds.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I can assure
you, as the former president of Prevent
Child Abuse Kentucky, this amend-
ment was offered very much in good
faith.
It is disappointing, and it is deeply
ironic, given that lack of childcare,
while certainly not solely a woman’s
issue, is a well-known barrier to care
for many women veterans, as my
Democratic colleagues have pointed
out over this past year.
b 1815
Given that, it continues to astound
me that the chairman would not allow
us to even discuss my amendment—
much less vote on it—and then imme-
diately send a press release out after
the markup accusing me and my fellow
Republicans of walking out on the
women veterans that my amendment
would have helped to better serve.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, it is the
essence of bad faith to stand on this
floor and imply that Democrats do not
want or care about the safety of our
children.
Let’s be clear that the gentleman
from Tennessee offered this as a mo-
tion to recommit, this language, to Ms.
BROWNLEY’s bill and then, after fer-
vently arguing why it was so necessary
to be included in Ms. BROWNLEY’s bill,
turned around and voted with every
other Member of this Chamber for Ms.
BROWNLEY’s bill. I cite that as evidence
that there are some crocodile tears
being cried here.
I now yield 2 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Illinois (Ms. UNDERWOOD),
my good friend and a member of the
House Veterans Affairs’ Subcommittee
on Health.
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in strong support of H.R.
3224, the Deborah Sampson Act.
This past Sunday, our office honored
over 200 Vietnam war period veterans
in my district in northern Illinois at a
pinning ceremony to show our appre-
ciation for their service to our country.
Today, the day after Veterans Day, I
am so proud to be on the House floor to
continue our work on behalf of vet-
erans.
I would first like to thank Represent-
ative BROWNLEY and my other col-
leagues who have worked so hard to
compile this important bill in the
House.
In addition to providing better access
to resources and benefits offered by the
VA, the Deborah Sampson Act contains
several provisions to ensure that
women veterans have equitable access
to high-quality, gender-specific health-
care.
I am proud that my bill, the Caring
for Our Women Veterans Act, is in-
cluded in the Deborah Sampson Act.
We know that the VA is committed
to providing care to all veterans, but
many VA facilities are not sufficiently
equipped to provide comprehensive
care to women veterans. The Caring for
Our Women Veterans Act, now sections
305 to 307 of the Deborah Sampson Act,
will empower the VA to fulfill its mis-
sion to honor all veterans.
The legislation requires VA to report
locations where gender-specific serv-
ices are used, how facilities can be im-
proved, and where specialty staff is
most needed to effectively care for
women veterans.
This legislation will provide VA with
the data it needs to effectively upgrade
clinics and hospitals; to hire, train, and
retain staff; and, most importantly, to
provide earned healthcare to women
veterans. These changes are long over-
due, and it is now even more pressing
that this legislation is passed.
Women have served honorably in the
Armed Forces since the founding of
these United States, and women vet-
erans are the fastest growing group
within the veteran population.
We have a collective responsibility to
care for our veterans when they return
home, and the Deborah Sampson Act
helps achieve that by removing bar-
riers that women veterans face on a
daily basis. I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to support my
bill, the Caring for Our Women Vet-
erans Act, and the underlying Deborah
Sampson Act.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. CORREA), my good friend.
Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 3224, the Deborah
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:00 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.038 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8773
November 12, 2019
Sampson Act, as amended. I am proud
to join my colleague, Representative
BROWNLEY of California, in support of
this most important bill to improve
the healthcare provided for America’s
more than 2 million women veterans.
I thank the chairwoman of the House
Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on
Health for including my bipartisan bill,
Improving Oversight of Women Vet-
erans’ Care Act.
In 2016, the Government Account-
ability Office reported that the Vet-
erans Health Administration had lim-
ited information on the VA medical
centers’ compliance with certain
health standards for women veterans
and access to gender-specific care pro-
vided by non-VA doctors.
In response, this legislation requires
an annual report on the access of gen-
der-specific services provided under
community care contracts, including
the average wait and driving times.
This bill is also directing the VA to
establish a report on facilities’ compli-
ance with environment of care stand-
ards.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 20 seconds to the gentleman
from California.
Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I urge my
colleagues to pass H.R. 3224.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Penn-
sylvania (Ms. WILD), my good friend.
Ms. WILD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in strong support of this bill.
Today, in my community and across
our country, far too many Americans
lack adequate access to fair housing,
quality healthcare, and simple legal
services, and too many of those Ameri-
cans are veterans.
Today, women continue to take on
new roles and responsibilities in every
branch of our armed services. Accord-
ing to Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans
of America, more than 345,000 women
have deployed since 9/11.
When these women return home,
they face different challenges than
their male counterparts, and they are
disproportionately affected by crises
that affect veterans of both genders,
like homelessness, with women vet-
erans making up the fastest growing
portion of the homeless vet population.
Last week, I had the privilege of
speaking with women veterans in my
district about these issues and other
issues, and I heard how critical these
problems are for them.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 20 seconds to the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania.
Ms. WILD. That is why I am so proud
to have introduced the Improving
Legal Services for Female Veterans
Act, which is included in the Deborah
Sampson Act.
The very least that our men and
women in uniform should be able to ex-
pect once they come home is that they
won’t have to fight for basic dignity,
support, and opportunity after they put
their lives on the line for our country.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers, and I am prepared to
close. I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Mr. Speaker, certainly I think, on
our side of the aisle, we are going to
call for a recorded vote on this. This
bill will pass overwhelmingly, and I
congratulate Congresswoman
BROWNLEY, who is a good friend, for
bringing this legislation forward. She
has worked tirelessly for this, and I
think you are going to see great sup-
port. The VA has a long way to go in
doing this.
I will say this. If I am privileged
enough to get reelected to this body
and to be placed on the Veterans’ Af-
fairs Committee again and to chair this
committee, I will make this statement
right here on the floor now: I will not
treat the minority the same way we
have been treated.
The only way we have been able to
bring legislation up on this floor when
we are shut out is the amendment
process, and we can debate it and vote
it up or down. That is what Americans
do.
We should bring these bills up, and if
they don’t float on their merit in the
majority, I am a big boy, I understand
that. If you lose, you lose, and if you
win, you win. But we should be allowed
to be heard.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to
hear that the ranking member rec-
ommends to his colleagues and all
Members of the House that they sup-
port this excellent legislation by Rep-
resentative BROWNLEY.
The minority knew in committee
that this was excellent legislation. I
am sorry to see that they chose proce-
dural games to play politics with an
excellent piece of legislation that they
now say they are supporting, and I am
very pleased that they are going to
support this legislation.
I urge my colleagues to pass this ex-
cellent bill. We worked hard to put this
legislation in the form that would be
acceptable to all Members of the
House, and that is why we are moving
this legislation under suspension of the
rules.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to support this bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. SABLAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support
of H.R. 3224, the Deborah Sampson Act,
which removes barriers faced by women vet-
erans accessing health care and benefits from
the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Our country has more than 2 million women
veterans who live in every Congressional dis-
trict, including the Northern Mariana Islands.
And the number of women veterans seeking
VA health care has doubled since 2000.
While the women veteran population con-
tinues to grow, the VA has not kept up in pro-
viding the care and services tailored to their
unique health care needs.
The Deborah Sampson Act, which I cospon-
sored, improves women’s care at the VA by
requiring at least one designated women’s
health provider in each VA facility, retrofitting
existing medical facilities to improve privacy
and environmental care conditions, and ex-
panding access to newborn care. The bill also
increases funding for legal and support serv-
ices to focus on unmet needs among women
veterans, like prevention of eviction and fore-
closure and child support issues.
Passage of H.R. 3224 is critical to ensuring
the VA has the capacity and resources to
meet the current and future needs of women
veterans.
I thank the gentlelady from California, Ms.
BROWNLEY, for her leadership on this legisla-
tion and urge my colleagues to support H.R.
3224.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3224, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker,
on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
CONTINUATION OF NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
IRAN—MESSAGE FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–79)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to Iran
declared in Executive Order 12170 of
November 14, 1979, is to continue in ef-
fect beyond November 14, 2019.
Our relations with Iran have not yet
normalized, and the process of imple-
menting the agreements with Iran,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.040 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8774 November 12, 2019
dated January 19, 1981, is ongoing. For
this reason, I have determined that it
is necessary to continue the national
emergency declared in Executive Order
12170 with respect to Iran.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, November 12, 2019.
f
CONTINUATION OF NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
PROLIFERATION OF WEAPONS
OF MASS DESTRUCTION—MES-
SAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC.
NO. 116–80)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice, stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
proliferation of weapons of mass de-
struction that was declared in Execu-
tive Order 12938 of November 14, 1994, is
to continue in effect beyond November
14, 2019.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, November 12, 2019.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on motions to
suspend the rules previously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
H.R. 4162,
H.R. 3224, and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
GI BILL PLANNING ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4162) to amend title 38,
United States Code, to extend the pe-
riod under which an election must be
made for entitlement to educational
assistance under the All-Volunteer
Educational Assistance Program of De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, to phase
out the use of such program, and for
other purposes, as amended, on which
the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 408, nays 0,
not voting 22, as follows:
[Roll No. 610]
YEAS—408
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—22
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
Gabbard
Gonzalez (TX)
Hurd (TX)
Kelly (IL)
Loudermilk
Marchant
McEachin
Olson
Pocan
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Sherman
Smucker
Thornberry
Timmons
Turner
Visclosky
Waters
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
b 1859
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DEBORAH SAMPSON ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
BROWNLEY of California). Pursuant to
clause 8 of rule XX, the unfinished
business is the vote on the motion to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3224) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for increased
access to Department of Veterans Af-
fairs medical care for women veterans,
as amended, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:00 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.015 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8775
November 12, 2019
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 399, nays 11,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 611]
YEAS—399
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—11
Amash
Biggs
Buck
Davidson (OH)
Gosar
Harris
Hice (GA)
Hunter
Massie
Norman
Taylor
NOT VOTING—20
Bishop (NC)
Davis, Danny K.
Gabbard
Gonzalez (TX)
Hurd (TX)
Kelly (IL)
Loudermilk
Marchant
McEachin
Pocan
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Sherman
Smucker
Thornberry
Timmons
Turner
Visclosky
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
b 1909
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
AFFORDABLE DRUG COSTS
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to praise my colleagues in this
Chamber for the support of the Lower
Drug Costs Now Act.
This bill will make it easier for elder-
ly and disabled citizens to get the life-
saving and life-preserving medications
they need at prices they can afford.
It would finally give Medicare the
power to negotiate directly with the
drug companies to get these prices
lower. Once they agree on a new price,
this bill would make that price avail-
able to the American people with pri-
vate insurance as well as those with
Medicare. Then it would take some of
the savings from these lowered prices
and use it to find new cures for cancer
and other diseases through NIH.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud of this bill
and my party’s continued commitment
to people over profits.
f
b 1915
HONORING OUR VETERANS
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, on Saturday, we marked the
30th anniversary of the fall of the Ber-
lin Wall. This momentous day marks a
turning point in history.
I am thankful for the leadership of
President Ronald Reagan with Pope
John Paul II and Prime Minister Mar-
garet Thatcher for this triumph.
Veterans worked to put their vision
of democracy into action with victory
over communism by peace through
strength. U.S. military veterans can
cite that we have more countries today
living in freedom and democracy than
in the history of the world.
Yesterday, we observed Veterans
Day, an opportunity to recognize free-
dom is not free. From tearing down the
Berlin Wall 30 years ago to the recent
operation in Syria to remove the mur-
derous leader of ISIS, the continued re-
solve our servicemembers have to pro-
tect American families is steadfast. We
will honor these sacrifices and veterans
and military families, and they shall
always be appreciated.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
CAREER COUNSELORS
(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, in
schools across my home State of Rhode
Island and across the country, career
counselors provide students with the
guidance they need to navigate their
academic and career pathways. It is
therefore critical that these counselors
have up-to-date information about all
the options available to their students,
including career and technical edu-
cation, or CTE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.046 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8776 November 12, 2019
When counselors ensure students are
aware of high-quality CTE programs
and local workforce trends, they can
make informed choices about their fu-
tures, whether that means pursuing a
bachelor’s degree or an apprenticeship.
That is why, during National Career
Development Week, I am proud to in-
troduce the Counseling for Career
Choice Act with my good friend and
CTE Caucus co-chair, ‘‘GT’’ THOMPSON.
Our bipartisan bill would encourage
States to develop career counseling
frameworks with the input of edu-
cators, businesses, and other commu-
nity leaders to provide counselors with
the resources and training to best sup-
port their students. That will ulti-
mately help lead to them reaching
their career goals in life.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
cosponsor our legislation.
f
VETERANS DAY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize
and honor our Nation’s veterans, the
men and women who have made the de-
cision to commit their lives to service
and to defend our great Nation, among
America’s most courageous.
This past July, I had the honor and
privilege of traveling to Fort Drum,
New York, to attend the final reenlist-
ment and promotion of my son, Logan,
to sergeant first class of the United
States Army. My wife, Penny, and I
could not be more proud.
There are more than 20 million vet-
erans living in the United States
today, and, as elected officials, we have
the opportunity and responsibility to
equip them to succeed while they are
defending our Nation and to ease their
burdens when they return to civilian
life.
Our men and women in uniform have
committed their lives to protecting
this great Nation, and we are forever
indebted to them for their service and
their sacrifice.
f
CELEBRATING THE 550TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE BIRTH OF
GURU NANAK SAHIB
(Mr. SUOZZI asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to extend my greeting to my
friends in the Sikh community who are
celebrating the 550th anniversary of
the birth of Guru Nanak Sahib, the
founder of the Sikh religion.
‘‘Sat Sri Akal.’’
According to Sikh tradition, Guru
Nanak’s birth and many events in his
life demonstrate that he had been
marked with divine grace. During his
life, he traveled to many places pro-
claiming the message of one God who
dwells in each and every one of his cre-
ations and constitutes eternal truth.
Guru Nanak set up a unique spir-
itual, social, and political platform
based upon equality, fraternal love,
goodness, and virtue—attributes we
could use more of in our world today.
The anniversary of Guru Nanak’s
birth is the perfect time to reflect on
the contributions of the Sikh commu-
nity to world peace and understanding.
The strength of the United States
lies in our rich diversity. We are truly
blessed with the people of many faiths
and cultures, including the Sikhs, who
have contributed so much to the fabric
of our American communities and the
entire world.
Mr. Speaker, ‘‘Waheguru ji ka
Khalsa, Waheguruji ki Fateh.’’ Purity
belongs to the Creator, all victory be-
longs to Him.
f
HABERSHAM SCHOOL STATE
CHAMPION VOLLEYBALL TEAM
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize the
Habersham School for winning the
State volleyball championship in Geor-
gia on October 19, 2019. I could not be
more proud of their excellent represen-
tation of the First Congressional Dis-
trict of Georgia. Now a powerhouse
team in the Georgia Association of Pri-
vate and Parochial Schools has won
back-to-back titles.
In the championship match this year,
a number of Habersham players rose to
the challenge on the State’s largest
stage: Krista Poppell had 33 assists and
10 digs; Jordan Christy chipped in 28
kills; Makenzie Sparks had 5 kills; and
Anna Thompson included 4 kills.
The team had an overall 32–6 record
for the year.
Congratulations to every member of
the volleyball team at Habersham
School.
f
FREEDOM, DEMOCRACY, AND JUS-
TICE FOR POLITICAL PRISONERS
IN TURKEY
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
this past weekend, we honored the men
and women of the United States mili-
tary, the veterans that we so much ad-
mire and respect.
I had the privilege of attending a
number of veterans’ commemorations,
and that is why I intend to reintroduce
my Battle Buddy bill, called the New
Battle Buddy bill, to ensure that those
leaving the Armed Forces and those al-
ready veterans have a buddy to assist
them in times of crisis.
They are freedom loving, and we are
reminded of the words of President
John F. Kennedy who said: The price of
freedom is high, but Americans are
willing to pay the price.
That is why I also congratulate free-
dom-loving Turkish Americans and ex-
press my sadness and disappointment
that the President of Turkey now
comes to the United States, where, in
his own country, freedom is not real.
The locking up of political opposition,
journalists and others, the question is:
Why would he be extended an invita-
tion for a state visit?
It is important for the United States
to stand for her values of freedom, de-
mocracy, and justice. It is time to free
the political prisoners in Turkey and,
as well, to respond to the devastation
of the Kurds.
f
BEVERLY HURD, VETERAN OF THE
MONTH
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to share the inspiring story of a
World War II veteran from my district.
At 102 years young, Beverly Hurd is a
unique personification of what heroism
is about.
In 1944, Bev put her teaching career
on hold and enlisted in the U.S. Navy.
While stationed at Corry Field in Pen-
sacola, Florida, she was able to apply
her teaching skills as a ground school
instructor. During her time there, she
developed critical classified reconnais-
sance films that were used in troop
training.
Once discharged, Bev used her GI Bill
to earn her teaching degree and return
to the classroom. She went from serv-
ing in uniform to serving at home and,
for nearly 40 years, educated genera-
tions of great minds.
Beverly Hurd modeled selflessness
and sacrifice at a time when the doors
were barely open for females to do so,
and she played a critical role, both in
protecting democracy and in expanding
the role of women in our military serv-
ice.
I thank Bev for her service, her sac-
rifice, and for being a great role model
for generations of younger American
women.
f
30TH ANNIVERSARY OF FALL OF
BERLIN WALL
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, this
week, freedom lovers around the world
celebrate the 30th anniversary of the
fall of the Berlin Wall.
Constructed in 1961, the infamous
Berlin Wall symbolized Soviet bru-
tality and forced separation between
liberty and tyranny. Yet, no wall could
contain the persistent surge for liberty
by the captive people of Central and
Eastern Europe.
In Poland’s shipyards, a workers’ sol-
idarity movement, led by visionary and
valiant labor leader Lech Walesa,
brought democracy to the Polish peo-
ple and millions of others as the Soviet
Union collapsed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.049 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8777
November 12, 2019
In Leipzig, Germany, 100,000
protestors and their peaceful dem-
onstrations led to the once-unimagi-
nable reunification of a civilized Ger-
many.
Yet, as democracy spread, many as-
sumed liberty’s work in the region was
done and that the roots of democracy
were firmly entrenched.
Tragically, yet again, maligned Rus-
sian influence haunts the region as
Putin wages his illegal war in Ukraine,
today’s scrimmage line for liberty on
the European continent. Outmoded
ethno-national narratives are being fed
that, in the past, led to centuries of
bloody conflict.
Mr. Speaker, now more than ever,
democratic nations must unite so that
liberty, justice, and equality is for all
people across our globe.
f
HIRE VETS MEDALLION
(Mr. CLINE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, yesterday
was Veterans Day, and while we were
all back in our district and while we
should thank our veterans every day
for standing in defense of our Nation,
November 11 is a day when we all can
join together as Americans to thank
these courageous heroes.
I rise today to congratulate one spe-
cific business, Tactical and Survival
Specialties, Incorporated, of Harrison-
burg for being awarded the U.S. De-
partment of Labor’s HIRE Vets Medal-
lion.
This prestigious honor is the only
program within the Federal Govern-
ment that recognizes the meaningful
and verifiable efforts undertaken by
job creators to hire and retain our vet-
erans.
Tactical and Survival Specialties, In-
corporated, was founded by retired U.S.
Navy Senior Chief Petty Officer Bill
Strang in 1980, and the business is one
of the oldest tactical equipment sup-
pliers in the United States. TSSi is
committed to providing state-of-the-
art equipment to military, law enforce-
ment, and disaster response profes-
sionals all over the world.
I applaud TSSi on being one of a se-
lect few awardees across the Nation,
and I thank all the employers who have
demonstrated outstanding efforts to
hire, train, and retain our veterans.
f
AMERICAN LEGION POST 469,
LONGPORT, NEW JERSEY
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, I am
here today to thank the American Le-
gion Post 469 of Longport, south Jer-
sey, for their work to honor our wound-
ed veterans and their families with
their annual Wounded Warrior Week in
south Jersey.
During the week, the Legion hosts a
wounded warrior and their family with
an all-expenses-paid vacation to south
Jersey that includes a parade with a
police escort and numerous preplanned
outings that include: fishing trips, days
at the beach, and nights on the famous
Ocean City, New Jersey, boardwalk.
All of this is a celebration that
brings together the south Jersey com-
munity to honor our heroes in the mili-
tary and to display the gratitude the
citizens of the United States have for
the many sacrifices of our soldiers and
the many sacrifices that they make.
I thank the American Legion Post
469 for their continuous efforts to up-
lift our heroes in the Armed Forces and
for having a positive impact on the
south Jersey community.
I also thank Joseph Hahn for being a
hero and thank the wonderful commu-
nity that has hosted this year after
year. And may God bless them and may
God bless our heroes.
f
b 1930
COMMEMORATING NATIONAL
APPRENTICESHIP WEEK
(Mr. GROTHMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, as
some of our other Members have, I rise
to commemorate the observance of Na-
tional Apprenticeship Week.
Whether you are talking to people
who are manufacturers, whether you
are talking to people in the medical
community, you know that one of the
biggest problems we have in America
today is we don’t have enough people
to fill the vital jobs that are necessary
for our economy and necessary for the
health of our citizens.
To a certain extent, this is because
the educational system has let people
down, allowing them to spend tens of
thousands of dollars and go tens of
thousands of dollars in debt without
getting the skills needed in these two
vital areas.
For too long, we have just focused on
a vague 4-year degree path, but we are
right now in a position in which we are
ruining people’s lives or putting them
in a very difficult position as they be-
come 30 years old, 35 years old, and
still don’t have a job commensurate
with repaying these loans.
Apprenticeships are good for employ-
ers, good for workers, and good for our
country.
As Members of Congress, people on
the Education Committee and others
must do more to expand and promote
the apprenticeship program.
f
DACA BEFORE THE SUPREME
COURT
(Mr. ENGEL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is with
great frustration that I rise today to
speak on the Supreme Court hearing
arguments today in three cases relat-
ing to former President Obama’s DACA
policy.
President Trump’s decision to re-
scind DACA has thrust fear into hun-
dreds of thousands of Dreamers. These
individuals are active members of our
society who pay taxes, create jobs, and
help drive our Nation forward. To sub-
ject these individuals to the threat of
deportation is absolutely wrong.
I have heard directly from many con-
stituents who depend on DACA, and I
am heartbroken by the trauma and
fear they now face.
My colleagues and I did our job ear-
lier this year in passing H.R. 6, the
American Dream and Promise Act;
however, Senator MCCONNELL has
failed to consider this important legis-
lation. As a result, we are now depend-
ent on the Supreme Court offering a fa-
vorable decision that upholds DACA.
I urge Senator MCCONNELL to bring
H.R. 6 for a vote and hope the Supreme
Court will give a favorable decision on
these cases.
f
CALLING FOR THE RELEASE OF
AUSTIN TICE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
MORELLE). Under the Speaker’s an-
nounced policy of January 3, 2019, the
gentlewoman from the District of Co-
lumbia (Ms. NORTON) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the ma-
jority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the sub-
ject of this Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia?
There was no objection.
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I want to
recognize my equal partner in this Spe-
cial Order, my very good friend from
Texas, Representative AL GREEN.
Representative GREEN represents the
parents and, for that matter, the place
where Austin Tice, the person about
whom we are speaking today, was born.
He and I have partnered because Aus-
tin Tice, though born in Texas, moved
to the District of Columbia. Like many
in the House and Senate, we have grave
concerns about Austin Tice and want
to express those concerns and call upon
those who are keeping him in Syria to
let him go.
Mr. Speaker, I can’t say enough
about how strongly bipartisan this
matter is—bipartisan, yes—and bi-
cameral. There are dozens upon dozens
of Members of the House and the Sen-
ate who have written the President to
ask him to do all he can to bring Aus-
tin Tice home from what we believe is
captivity in Syria.
Despite the difficulties our country is
having, as I speak, with Syria, this, we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.051 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8778 November 12, 2019
believe, is not a lost cause. In fact, we
are encouraged that there are Ameri-
cans who Syria has let come home.
Sam Goodwin is one. Canadian Kristian
Baxter is another.
So we do more than hold out hope
that we can bring Austin Tice home.
So, let me explain who Austin Tice is
and why he has attracted such concern
and interest in the House of Represent-
atives and in the Senate.
First of all, I want to pay tribute to
his mother and father, Marc and Debra
Tice, who have never lost hope that
they can bring their son home, have
visited Members of the House and Sen-
ate, and have never stopped seeking his
return to the United States.
Let me tell you why he is of special
concern to me. Austin Tice not only
lived in the District of Columbia and
will continue to live here when he re-
turns; Austin Tice was a U.S. marine.
He served in the Armed Forces of the
United States.
When he came home, he enrolled in
Georgetown Law school and had only a
year to go when he left the law school,
because he so yearned to be a reporter,
and went to Syria in the early days of
the civil war.
Now, because he didn’t speak to a
lawyer first, he entered Syria without
a visa. That is why he is being held. It
is not the kind of reason you would ex-
pect someone to be held in a foreign
country.
After all, Syria holds more American
hostages, than any country in the
world or any group that is holding peo-
ple—we think about half a dozen.
You wouldn’t think that not having a
valid visa could be anything but easily
corrected, but he has been there, we be-
lieve—now he will turn 38, or he may
have turned 38 by now—for 7 years with
no word from him.
And that is why we come to the floor
of the House tonight, because we are
very concerned because we cannot be in
touch with him. Despite working
through the appropriate intermediary,
the Czechoslovakian embassy, we have
not been able to receive word.
Austin Tice left for Lebanon, by car,
from Damascus. Then he fell into rebel
hands and was detained at the check-
point. That is the last we have heard of
him.
January 3, the very first day of the
116th Congress, my partner and I intro-
duced a resolution for Syria to return
Austin Tice, and that was as soon as
the House commenced this session.
Frankly, I am concerned that, as I
note in our House resolution, that
there has been a video clip on
YouTube. That clip shows Austin Tice
blindfolded and being prodded up a hill-
side by masked militants.
You can imagine, since we haven’t
heard from him since, why we are on
the floor this evening.
The Syrian Government has not ac-
knowledged that they are even detain-
ing Austin Tice or his whereabouts. Of-
ficials of the United States, however,
believe that Austin Tice is alive, and
they believe that he is being held ei-
ther by the government of Bashar al-
Assad or by some group affiliated with
that government.
The FBI has offered a $1 million re-
ward for information leading to the re-
turn of Austin Tice, and we are pleased
that so many journalism organizations
are working for his return.
It is important to note that Austin
Tice was anything but a combatant. He
was a journalist. He only went to Syria
because he wanted to talk with the
people who were living through an
awful civil war. He was freelance, so he
wasn’t working through any powerful
media, and his concern and his interest
in journalism is what drove him, not
any undermining of Syria or even
views on the Syrian Government. He
was acting as a journalist to find out
what was happening.
Now, we recognize that Syria does
not have a policy of never releasing
American citizens. We refer to Sam
Goodwin, 30 years old, who also made a
mistake. He crossed—just like Austin
Tice, he just made a mistake. He
crossed the border from Iraq into
northeast Syria without a visa because
he was trying to visit every country in
the world, all the innocence of that.
And it was that kind of innocence that
I think we should assign to Austin Tice
because he is much like Sam Goodwin
in that regard.
We call upon the Syrian Government
to understand Austin Tice in that con-
text, the naivete of a young man with-
out legal advice, simply seeking knowl-
edge, not seeking to undermine a gov-
ernment or to in any way interfere
with the government.
There are others who have been held
and who are believed to be in custody
whose families are beginning to speak
out. It is important to note that many
families whose relatives are held in
Syria do not speak out because they
are concerned that, in doing so, they
will be acting against the best inter-
ests of the family member held.
So, you can see how concerned the
parents of Austin Tice must be that
they have felt they had to speak out
after 7 years.
Bear in mind that the United States
has leverage with Syria, because this
country is the largest single humani-
tarian donor to Syria. We are providing
or have provided more than $8 billion
in humanitarian assistance for those
displaced inside of Syria and the region
since the start of that crisis in Syria.
The U.S. Government itself is sup-
porting emergency food assistance,
shelter, safe drinking water, urgent
medical care, humanitarian protection
activities, and other urgent relief. And
I believe, if the Syrian Government un-
derstands or considers humanitarian
aid from the United States, they will
see that they have nothing to lose by
freeing this American citizen.
Last month, the President told re-
porters that he himself was interested
in working on securing the release of
hostages in Syria. However, we do not
know what action the President has
taken and call upon him to become in-
volved, as he said he would.
The only intervention we know of is
his intervention into the captivity in
North Korea of Otto Warmbier, but by
the time he got home, it was too late,
and he died shortly after being re-
leased.
However, we believe that this Austin
Tice is alive and can, in fact, come
home safe to us.
We believe that, in any negotiations
with Syria, the fate of our hostages
should be front and center. We are
pleased that Senator LINDSEY GRAHAM
has indicated exactly that as well,
again showing the bipartisan and bi-
cameral concern about those being held
in Syria.
On August the 11th of this year, Aus-
tin Tice’s parents wrote an op-ed that
appeared in papers around the country
on the birthday of Austin Tice. They
said: ‘‘We wish we could remind him of
how glad we are he was born, how
blessed we are to be his parents, and
how truly we believe the world is a bet-
ter place for having him in it.’’
Those are the words of his parents.
We are on the floor of the House
today to speed Austin Tice home.
b 1945
Mr. Speaker, I want to ask my part-
ner to come to the floor now, Rep-
resentative AL GREEN, who, of course,
is the Representative from the home
State of Austin Tice’s parents and
where Austin Tice was born and raised.
I yield to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GREEN).
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for more than
her kind words. I thank her for her
many years of service here in the
House of Representatives. She has ac-
quitted herself as a Congressperson par
excellence: Yale, M.A.; Yale, L.L.B.; in
Congress for, lo, these many years, yet
not able to vote as other
Congresspeople do.
Mr. Speaker, I believe that the gen-
tlewoman and I will see the day that
she will cast that first vote. I thank
her for all of her endeavors. I especially
thank her for what she is doing for
Austin Tice.
The Tice family, Marc and Debra, are
the equivalent of family with me. I
have known them for many years now.
I know how sincere they are with the
efforts to bring their son home.
I know of their trips to Lebanon. I
know that they have corresponded with
people that some of us might not find
suitable for such correspondence. But
because they want their son, they are
willing to talk to anyone who has in-
telligence that might lead to his re-
turn.
I know that they have made a dif-
ference in the lives of others who have
friends, relatives, children, if you will,
captured because they have worked
with the State Department to help
fashion protocols. They have worked
with two Presidents. They want their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.060 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8779
November 12, 2019
son home, but they also want to see
justice for all persons who are being
held captive.
Their son, Austin, is an all-American
lad, at 38 years of age now. I am 71.
Anybody under 71 is young to me.
He is an all-American person, if you
will. Yes, he has served his country in
the military. Yes, he was an Eagle
Scout. Yes, he did attend Georgetown,
Georgetown Law, as a matter of fact.
Yes, he was a freelance journalist.
He was one of those persons who
would dare to go to distant places, dare
to risk life and limb so that we might
know the truth about circumstances in
places where the eyes of cameras do
not pierce.
Yes, he was a person who had the
courage, intestinal fortitude, to go into
Syria without the consent of the gov-
ernment. I wish he hadn’t done it, but
I understand why he did it. I under-
stand that he wanted to let people
know about the conditions.
I am not sure that he went with pre-
conceived notions, but I am sure of
this: that he would tell the truth, that
he would present the truth, that we
would know the truth, whatever that
truth might be.
I regret that he has been held captive
now for some 7 years. He truly is a
great American.
But more than this, for me, he rep-
resents the son I never had. I have no
children. But if I had a son, I would
want him to be like Austin Tice. I
would want my son to have the courage
to not measure his life by days and
years, not measure his life by heart-
throbs, passions, and tears. I would
want my son to use the truest measure
under God’s Sun, and that is, what for
others in your lifetime have you done?
Austin Tice was trying to help some-
body. He wasn’t there to help himself.
He wanted to help others. That is the
kind of son I would like to have, a cou-
rageous person who would dare to go
where others dare not, a person who
understood the risk but also under-
stood the need.
Sometimes people like this have to
stand alone, but they know that it is
better to stand alone than not stand at
all.
He is a hero. I miss him. His parents
miss him. This country misses him.
I would ask that those who can reach
the proper authorities in Syria—per-
haps it is the President. Perhaps there
are people who can get to the Presi-
dent. But I would ask that you would
send this message: As a gesture of
goodwill, let Austin Tice come home.
As a gesture of an attempt to span
some chasms that have been created,
let us bring Austin Tice back.
This could be the genesis of some-
thing bigger than we know, giving Aus-
tin Tice his freedom.
I can tell you this: There are some
Members of Congress who will be ap-
preciative. There are American people
who won’t forget it. And there is an op-
portunity available to mend some
fences.
I pray that this word will get to the
appropriate authorities.
Mr. President, if this word gets to
you, I would have you know that I am
the kind of Congressperson who is will-
ing to come to Syria. I am willing to
come and be there to thank you and to
welcome Austin Tice back into the
hands of an agent of the United States
Government.
This is a great opportunity. I beg
that we take advantage of it.
Mr. and Mrs. Tice, I want you to
know that we have not given up. We
will not give in. We want Austin re-
turned, and we will do everything, and
we will leave no stone unturned, until
this takes place.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for the time.
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I don’t
think there could have been a more el-
oquent statement than the statement
we have just heard from my good
friend, AL GREEN.
I am inclined to believe that if the
Syrian authorities were listening, even
they could not resist the eloquence, the
depth of Representative GREEN’s very
intelligent but heartfelt statement.
I know that statement is much ap-
preciated by Austin Tice’s parents, who
have had to go these 7 years alone,
with only your help as their Member of
Congress.
I am also grateful to the Members of
Congress who, after all, don’t nec-
essarily represent anyone connected
with Austin Tice, as AL GREEN and I
do, for their generosity in coming to
the floor. I would like to call upon Rep-
resentative LORI TRAHAN from Massa-
chusetts to ask her to say a few words
at this time.
I yield to the gentlewoman from Mas-
sachusetts (Mrs. TRAHAN).
Mrs. TRAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from the District of
Columbia (Ms. NORTON) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN) for
their dedication to the Tice family.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to call at-
tention to an issue of critical impor-
tance for our country. Our fellow
American, Austin Tice, is in his eighth
year of captivity in Syria, where we be-
lieve he was unjustly detained and is
reported to be held by the Syrian Gov-
ernment or its affiliates.
Austin was risking his health and
safety as a freelance reporter, endeav-
oring to shed light on the suffering of
the Syrian people for the world to see.
His reporting has appeared in The
Washington Post, McClatchy, and
other news outlets.
As a fellow graduate of Georgetown’s
School of Foreign Service, Austin was
also a former Marine Corps captain
who served tours in Iraq and Afghani-
stan. Austin was no stranger to risk.
Regardless, he knew the importance
of the work he was undertaking. His
dedication to service represents the
very best our country has to offer.
There is every reason for us to be-
lieve that Austin is still alive, and I
have joined with my colleagues to call
on our administration to use the full
resources of the United States Govern-
ment to bring Austin home.
I had the privilege of meeting Aus-
tin’s parents, Marc and Debra, a couple
of months ago. I am awestruck by their
hope, their perseverance, and their
commitment to seeing their son re-
turned home once and for all.
I am comforted that there is strong
bipartisan support behind this effort. I
know we can get this done if we work
together.
I again thank the gentlewoman from
the District of Columbia. I appreciate
so much her organizing this Special
Order and a coalition of bipartisan leg-
islators to keep focus on this very im-
portant issue. We won’t stop until we
bring Austin Tice home.
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my good friend from Massachusetts
whose relationship with Austin Tice—
she didn’t know him, but there is a
school tie there.
It shows you that people, when they
hear about Austin Tice’s captivity, are
inclined to the eloquence of Mrs.
TRAHAN, who just spoke about him,
spoke about him without knowing him,
spoke with such enviable and praise-
worthy remarks.
I thank her so much. I know that I
speak for his parents in thanking her
as well.
Mr. Speaker, I now want to introduce
one of my good friends from the region.
We were so pleased to welcome her into
our delegation, and I am anxious to
hear what she has to say because she,
too, is neither from Texas nor the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and yet, with self-
lessness, she has asked to express her
views on the captivity of Austin Tice.
I yield to the gentlewoman from Vir-
ginia (Ms. SPANBERGER), my good
friend, at this time.
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Congresswoman HOLMES NORTON
for organizing this Special Order. I am
grateful for the comments that she has
made.
To the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
GREEN), his passionate plea to see Aus-
tin Tice freed was moving, and I am
proud to associate myself with many of
his comments.
I rise today because Austin Tice has
been in captivity for 2,647 days. Those
have been 2,647 days of fear and an-
guish for his parents, his friends, his
classmates, and his community. They
have also represented 2,647 days of Aus-
tin’s remarkable life and his deter-
mination and his will to live despite
his captivity.
Austin is a journalist with a deep
sense of service. He is also a veteran.
Seven years ago, he traveled to Syria
to report on the plight of Syria’s chil-
dren. He wanted to shed light on the
consequences of a complex and unre-
lenting war on the youth of Syria. And
in Syria, he was abducted. It was that
2,647 days ago that he was abducted.
He remains held in Syria, and we
have every reason to believe that Aus-
tin is still alive. He is being held in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.054 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8780 November 12, 2019
Syria. In September, I joined a letter
sent by Republicans and Democrats di-
rectly to the President of the United
States. In that letter, we called on the
administration to use every diplomatic
tool in our toolbox to secure Austin’s
safe return home.
b 2000
Austin’s parents have been among his
strongest advocates. They have made
countless trips to Washington, D.C.,
and across the Middle East working to
secure his release. They have been pil-
lars of strength as they have fought to
bring their son home.
I had the opportunity and the honor
to meet Marc when he was in Wash-
ington, D.C.; and to see the tenacity
and strength and devotion to his child
was awe inspiring. It also makes me
understand how he could be a parent to
a young man who would go out and
seek adventure and seek truth and seek
information as a journalist.
It is my hope that we can come to-
gether as a body to bring Austin Tice
home. I never met Austin Tice, but I
am in awe of his story as an adven-
turer, as a journalist, as a veteran, as
someone who has traveled the world
seeking information and stories.
I have been compelled to take part in
this event tonight, and I thank my col-
leagues for their tireless efforts on be-
half of Austin Tice, their work to bring
him home, their work to bring a voice
to his story and knowledge of his con-
tinued capture and detainment in
Syria. I thank them for their work, and
I look forward to continuing, in small
part, to work with them where I am
able, where I can be of aid to bring in-
formation and light to Austin’s story
and to continue to be an advocate to
bring him home.
It is my hope that in some days we
will be able, here on the House floor, to
celebrate the homecoming of an Amer-
ican, of a veteran, of a journalist, of a
man who sought to tell the story of
children in Syria.
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I cer-
tainly want to thank my good friend,
Representative SPANBERGER, for those
compelling remarks. Once again, we
are hearing from a Member who, as she
says, did not know Austin Tice.
I hope that Debra and Marc Tice,
when they see Representative
SPANBERGER give such eloquent and in-
telligent and deeply felt remarks, are
comforted to know that they are not
alone in seeking the release of their
son.
Mr. Speaker, there are a number of
Members, not to mention all of the
many Members of the House and Sen-
ate, who have signed on letters to the
President for help with Austin Tice,
but it is worth noting again that, on
the very first day of Congress, Rep. AL
GREEN introduced H. Res. 17.
That resolution, introduced with
Representative AL GREEN, sought, from
the very beginning of the 116th Con-
gress, to draw attention to Austin
Tice, and we will not cease drawing
just that kind of attention until we
have learned where Austin Tice is and
when he is coming home.
The resolution that we introduced
expressed concern over the detention of
Austin Tice and laid out many of the
factual matters that the Members have
offered here today. In that resolution,
we not only expressed our concern re-
garding the detention of Austin Tice,
we asked the State Department and
the intelligence community and the
interagency Hostage Recovery Fusion
Cell to jointly continue investigations
and to pursue all information. We have
every reason to believe that that is
being done by our agencies.
We encouraged, in our resolution, the
State Department and the Special
Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs
to engage directly with Syrian officials
to facilitate Austin’s safe release. In
our resolution, we encourage the State
Department to work with foreign gov-
ernments known to have diplomatic in-
fluence with the Government of Syria,
and we request the State Department
and the intelligence community to
continue to work with and to inform
Congress and Austin Tice’s family re-
garding his safe release and his condi-
tion at this time.
We, I think, in bringing this very
young man to the attention of the
American people, we have shown our
concern and have shown that we re-
main hopeful.
In this case, no word is good word; it
is word, that he is alive, we believe.
The best word would be word to the
parents, Debra and Marc Tice, that he
is on his way home safe and sound.
Let me pledge on behalf of the many
Members of the House and Senate who
have written the President, let me as-
sure these parents, Marc and Debra
Tice: This Special Order devoted to
your son, Austin Tice, is not the end of
the work we will continue to do until
we bring your son, Austin Tice, home.
We appreciate the devotion you have
shown as parents, and we mean to
honor that devotion by continuing to
do all we can in the Congress to make
sure that Austin Tice is returned to
you safe and sound.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank the gentlelady from the District of Co-
lumbia, the Honorable ELEANOR HOLMES NOR-
TON, for leading this special order today on the
life of Austin Tice.
In November 2016, I had the privilege of
meeting for the first time, Austin Tice’s mother,
Debra. It was at the Newseum, where Report-
ers Without Borders and the Newseum were
launching a campaign that ran a banner on
the Newseum’s facade featuring Austin.
The banner was showing on the Inter-
national Day to End Impunity for Crimes
Against Journalists. The banner had a simple
message next to a photo of Austin’s face,
‘‘Held captive for being a journalist since Au-
gust 2012.’’
Austin Tice is the only American journalist
being held captive in Syria. The banner at the
Newseum is supposed to continue to run until
he is safely returned home to his family.
Today, November 12, 2019, Austin remains
in captivity. I had the privilege of meeting his
parents Marc and Debra Tice in September.
They brought me up-to-date on Austin’s cap-
tivity, and the many efforts to press for his
freedom.
Austin Tice is a graduate of the Georgetown
School of Foreign Service and many of
Georgetown’s students and faculty have taken
up his cause. He served as a Marine officer
and returned home to study at the George-
town School of Law. But when he saw the car-
nage inside Syria, he felt a calling to report on
the Syrian human crisis. Working as a free-
lance journalist and photographer for
McClatchey newspapers, his images, inter-
views and reports soon appeared in the
Washington Post, McClatchey, Agence
France-Presse and other news media.
He intended to leave Syria after his 31st
birthday, on August 11, 2012, after he filed his
last story. On August 14th, he left for Lebanon
by car from Damascus. Shortly after, we know
that he was stopped and detained at a check-
point, most likely in rebel control. Five weeks
later, a video was posted on a pro-government
website by people who appeared to be
Islamist militants. There has been no contact
with his captors.
Marc and Debra continue their efforts to find
and release their son. The State Department
believes that he is still alive. Other countries
have offered their services as intermediaries.
And national and international campaigns
have been mounted to support him, his family,
and the many other journalists from many na-
tions who are in captivity or held hostage
around the world.
Congress has sent several letters, intro-
duced bills, and like today, taken to the floor
of the House of Representatives to raise his
case and declare our sympathy and solidarity
with his family, friends and colleagues.
We will not stop until Austin is free and re-
united with his family.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (at the
request of Mr. HOYER) for today.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 7 minutes p.m.),
under its previous order, the House ad-
journed until tomorrow, Wednesday,
November 13, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morn-
ing-hour debate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K12NO7.056 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8781
November 12, 2019
h
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 4625, the Protect the GI Bill Act, as amended, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 4625
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2020–
2024
2020–
2029
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ........................................................................................................................................................................ 7 32 37 10 ¥10 ¥16 ¥14 ¥15 ¥16 ¥17 77 0
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 4162, the GI Bill Planning Act of 2019, as amended, for printing in the
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 4162
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2020–
2024
2020–
2029
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ........................................................................................................................................................................ ¥6 6 12 11 11 ¥4 ¥4 ¥5 ¥10 ¥11 34 0
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2881. A letter from the Administrator, Ag-
ricultural Marketing Service, Dairy Pro-
gram, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Estab-
lishment of a Milk Donation Reimbursement
Program [Doc. No.: AMS-DA-19-0001] (RIN:
0581-AD87) received November 7, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Agriculture.
2882. A letter from the Deputy Chief Finan-
cial Officer, Department of Energy, trans-
mitting a letter reporting violations of the
Antideficiency Act by the Department of En-
ergy, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1517(b); Public
Law 110-161, Sec. 1517(b); (121 Stat. 2285); to
the Committee on Appropriations.
2883. A letter from the Under Secretary of
Defense, Personnel and Readiness, Depart-
ment of Defense, transmitting a letter au-
thorizing Vice Admiral Charles A. Richard,
United States Navy, to wear the insignia of
the grade of admiral, pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
777a(b)(4); Public Law 111-383, Sec. 505(a)(1);
(124 Stat. 4208); to the Committee on Armed
Services.
2884. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Personnel and Readiness, Department of De-
fense, transmitting the Department’s report
on Career Progression Tracks of the Armed
Forces for Women in Combat Arms Units,
pursuant to Public Law 114-328, Sec. 597; (130
Stat. 2154); to the Committee on Armed
Services.
2885. A letter from the Chief, Law Enforce-
ment Division, Department of the Army, De-
partment of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Military Police In-
vestigation [Docket ID: USA-2018-HQ-0023]
(RIN: 0702-AB01) received November 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
2886. A letter from the Acting Principal Di-
rector, Defense Pricing and Contracting, De-
fense Acquisition Regulations Systems, De-
partment of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Defense Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation Supplement: Repeal of
DFARS Provision Related to Disclosure of
Information for Litigation Support (DFARS
Case 2019-D021) [Docket: DARS-2019-0065]
(RIN: 0750-AK58) received November 1, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
2887. A letter from the Acting Principal Di-
rector, Defense Pricing and Contracting, De-
fense Acquisition Regulations System, De-
partment of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Defense Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation Supplement: Nonmanu-
facturer Rule for 8(a) Participants (DFARS
Case 2019-D004) [Docket: DARS-2019-0015]
(RIN: 0750-AK39) received November 1, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
2888. A letter from the Acting Principal Di-
rector, Defense Pricing and Contracting, De-
fense Acquisition Regulations Systems, De-
partment of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Defense Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation Supplement: Reli-
ability and Maintainability in Weapon Sys-
tem Design (DFARS Case 2019-D003) [Docket:
DARS-2019-0026] (RIN: 0750-AK38) received
November 1, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
2889. A letter from the Acting Principal Di-
rector, Defense Pricing and Contracting, De-
fense Acquisition Regulations System, De-
partment of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Defense Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation Supplement: Modifica-
tion of DFARS Clause ‘‘Obligation of the
Government’’ (DFARS Case 2018-D046) [Dock-
et: DARS-2019-0029] (RIN: 0750-AK11) received
November 1, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
2890. A letter from the Acting Principal Di-
rector, Defense Pricing and Contracting, De-
fense Acquisition Regulations Systems, De-
partment of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Defense Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation Supplement: Modifica-
tion of DFARS Clause ‘‘Protection Against
Compromising Emanations’’ (DFARS Case
2019-D015) [Docket: DARS-2019-0061] (RIN:
0750-AK52) received November 1, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Armed Services.
2891. A letter from the Assistant to the
Board, Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System, transmitting the Board’s
Major final rule — Changes to Applicability
Thresholds for Regulatory Capital and Li-
quidity Requirements [Regulations Q, WW;
Docket No.: R-1628] (RIN: 7100-AF21) received
November 4, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
2892. A letter from the Administrator,
Wage and Hour Division, Department of
Labor, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Authorizing Electronic Payments of
Civil Money Penalties (RIN: 1235-AA28) re-
ceived November 7, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
2893. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Pen-
sion Benefit Guaranty Corporation, trans-
mitting the Department’s final rule — Bene-
fits Payable in Terminated Single-Employer
Plans; Interest Assumptions for Paying Ben-
efits received November 4, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
2894. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the Department’s Coun-
try Reports on Terrorism 2018, pursuant to
Sec. 140 of the Foreign Relations Authoriza-
tion Act for FY 1988 and 1989, as amended (22
U.S.C. 2656f); to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
2895. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-132, ‘‘School Sunscreen Safety
Temporary Amendment Act of 2019’’, pursu-
ant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
2896. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-134, ‘‘Primary Date Alteration
Amendment Act of 2019’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
2897. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-155, ‘‘Al and Mary Arrighi Way
Designation Act of 2019’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
2898. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-156, ‘‘Educational Research Prac-
tice Partnership Technical Temporary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.014 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8782 November 12, 2019
Amendment Act of 2019’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
2899. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-152, ‘‘Joy Evans Therapeutic Cen-
ter Designation Act of 2019’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
2900. A letter from the Auditor, Office of
the District of Columbia Auditor, transmit-
ting a final report: BEGA Mishandled Whis-
tleblower Complaint on Housing Procure-
ment, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
455(d); (87 Stat. 803); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
2901. A letter from the Auditor, Office of
the District of Columbia Auditor, transmit-
ting a final report: D.C. Department of
Health Has Systems to Monitor Nursing
Homes But Some Risks Remain, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 455(d); (87 Stat. 803);
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
2902. A letter from the National President,
Women’s Army Corps Veterans’ Association,
transmitting the Association’s annual audit
from MDA Professional Group, PC for the
year ending June 30, 2019, pursuant to 36
U.S.C. 3111; Public Law 98-584, Sec. 12; (98
Stat. 3099); to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
2903. A letter from the Secretary, Judicial
Conference of the United States, transmit-
ting the Electronic Public Access Fee Sched-
ule, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1913 note; Public
Law 102-140, Sec. 303(b); (105 Stat. 810); to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
2904. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0404; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
007-AD; Amendment 39-19754; AD 2019-20-01]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received November 1, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2905. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Acquisition and Sustainment, Department of
Defense, transmitting the Department’s
Small Business Strategy, October 2019, pur-
suant to 10 U.S.C. 2283 note; Public Law 115-
232, Sec. 851(b)(2)(A); (132 Stat. 1884); jointly
to the Committees on Armed Services and
Small Business.
2906. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, Department of Health and Human
Services, transmitting the Department’s
Major final rule and interim final rule —
Medicare Program; CY 2020 Revisions to Pay-
ment Policies under the Physician Fee
Schedule and Other Changes to Part B Pay-
ment Policies; Medicare Shared Savings Pro-
gram Requirements; Medicaid Promoting
Interoperability Program Requirements for
Eligible Professionals; Establishment of an
Ambulance Data Collection System; Updates
to the Quality Payment Program; etc..
[CMS-1715-F and IFC] (RIN: 0983-AT72) re-
ceived November 5, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees on En-
ergy and Commerce and Ways and Means.
2907. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Center for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, Department of Health and Human
Services, transmitting the Department’s
Major final methodology — Basic Health
Program; Federal Funding Methodology for
Program Years 2019 and 2020 [CMS-2407-FN]
(RIN: 0938-ZB42) received November 5, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the
Committees on Energy and Commerce and
Ways and Means.
2908. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, Department of Health and Human
Services, transmitting the Department’s
Major final rule — Medicare Program:
Changes to Hospital Outpatient Prospective
Payment and Ambulatory Surgical Center
Payment Systems and Quality Reporting
Programs; Revisions of Organ Procurement
Organizations Conditions of Coverage; Prior
Authorization Process and Requirements for
Certain Covered Outpatient Department
Services; Potential Changes to the Labora-
tory Date of Service Policy; etc. [CMS-1717-
FC] (RIN: 0938-AT74) received November 5,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly
to the Committees on Energy and Commerce
and Ways and Means.
2909. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, Department of Health and Human
Services, transmitting the Department’s
Major final rule — Medicare Program; End-
Stage Renal Disease Prospective Payment
System, Payment for Renal Dialysis Serv-
ices Furnished to Individuals With Acute
Kidney Injury, End-Stage Renal Disease
Quality Incentive Program, Durable Medical
Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics and Sup-
plies (DMEPOS) Fee Schedule Amounts,
DMEPOS Competitive Bidding Program
(CBP) Amendments, Standard Elements for a
DMEPOS Order, etc. [CMS-1713-F] (RIN: 0938-
AT70) received November 5, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees
on Energy and Commerce and Ways and
Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi: Committee
on Homeland Security. H.R. 3699. A bill to
codify the Transportation Security Adminis-
tration’s responsibility relating to securing
pipelines against cybersecurity threats, acts
of terrorism, and other nefarious acts that
jeopardize the physical security or cyberse-
curity of pipelines, and for other purposes
(Rept. 116–279). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ: Committee on Small
Business. H.R. 1615. A bill to transfer the re-
sponsibility of verifying small business con-
cerns owned and controlled by veterans or
service-disabled veterans to the Small Busi-
ness Administration, and for other purposes;
with an amendment (Rept. 116–280, Pt. 1). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 3224. A bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to provide for increased
access to Department of Veterans Affairs
medical care for women veterans; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–281). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Ms. WATERS: Committee on Financial
Services. H.R. 3141. A bill to limit the collec-
tion of annual premiums under the FHA pro-
gram for mortgage insurance for single fam-
ily housing, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–282). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 1615 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr.
CASE, and Mr. GROTHMAN):
H.R. 5032. A bill to amend chapter 73 of
title 38, United States Code, to direct the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a
rural recruitment office within the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to recruit health
care professionals, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BYRNE:
H.R. 5033. A bill to expand the eligibility of
veterans for hospital care and medical serv-
ices provided by non-Department of Veterans
Affairs medical providers under the Veterans
Choice Program; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. BONAMICI, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. WILD, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of
Illinois, and Ms. NORTON):
H.R. 5034. A bill to amend the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act to prohibit debt col-
lectors from collecting, or attempting to col-
lect, on a debt of a consumer with respect to
which the statute of limitations has expired,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 5035. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to extend expiring provi-
sions relating to the retransmission of sig-
nals of television broadcast stations, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. PAPPAS (for himself, Ms. LEE
of California, Mrs. HAYES, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. NAD-
LER, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. RUSH, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mr. WELCH, Ms. TLAIB, Ms. SHALALA,
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. SPEIER, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Ms. DELAURO, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. DEGETTE,
Mr. RYAN, Ms. MENG, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Ms. DELBENE, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mrs. FLETCHER,
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
SIRES, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
COOPER, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. FOSTER,
Ms. SCHRIER, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. SHERMAN,
Ms. BASS, Mr. PAYNE, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. KUSTER
of New Hampshire, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY of New York, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Mr. BRENDAN
F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. LAR-
SEN of Washington, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Ms. SHERRILL, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mrs. LOWEY,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L12NO7.000 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8783
November 12, 2019
Ms. WEXTON, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr.
LOEBSACK, Mr. KEATING, Ms.
PLASKETT, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. HIGGINS of New York,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. LEVIN of Michi-
gan, Mr. RASKIN, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. CRIST,
Mr. MCNERNEY, Mrs. TRAHAN, and
Mr. KILDEE):
H.R. 5036. A bill to prohibit the Secretary
of Health and Human Services from taking
any action to implement, enforce, or other-
wise give effect to the final rule, entitled
‘‘Protecting Statutory Conscience Rights in
Health Care; Delegations of Authority’’; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina (for
himself, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. HOLD-
ING, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Ms.
FOXX of North Carolina, Mr. WALKER,
Mr. ROUZER, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. BISHOP
of North Carolina, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr.
MEADOWS, Ms. ADAMS, and Mr. BUDD):
H.R. 5037. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
3703 North Main Street in Farmville, North
Carolina, as the ‘‘Walter B. Jones, Jr. Post
Office’’; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. SIMP-
SON, Mr. NADLER, Mr. DIAZ-BALART,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. AMODEI, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mr. BAIRD, Mr. COSTA, Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. HARDER of
California, Mr. COLE, Mr. BRINDISI,
Mr. CURTIS, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Mrs. RODGERS of Wash-
ington, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. MITCHELL,
Mr. CORREA, Mr. NUNES, Ms. TORRES
SMALL of New Mexico, Mr. REED, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. STIVERS,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. UPTON, Mr.
SCHRADER, Mr. YOUNG, Ms. CRAIG, Mr.
WALDEN, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr.
VELA, Mrs. TORRES of California, Ms.
SCHRIER, Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. TIPTON, and Mr. CROW):
H.R. 5038. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to provide for terms and
conditions for nonimmigrant workers per-
forming agricultural labor or services, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees
on Ways and Means, Education and Labor,
and Financial Services, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 5039. A bill to lower the prices of ex-
cessively costly life-sustaining prescription
drugs under part D of the Medicare program
by requiring the Secretary of Health and
Human Services to negotiate their prices,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committee on Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CURTIS (for himself and Mr.
HUFFMAN):
H.R. 5040. A bill to direct the Director of
the Bureau of Land Management to study
the effects of drone incursions on wildfire
suppression, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Agriculture, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. MCBATH (for herself, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. COLE, and Mr. KATKO):
H.R. 5041. A bill to amend the Family Vio-
lence Prevention and Services Act to make
improvements; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. CLYBURN (for himself, Ms.
ADAMS, and Mr. CLAY):
H.R. 5042. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to reform rules related to
qualified opportunity zones; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mr. PA-
NETTA, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY):
H.R. 5043. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to impose a surtax on high
income individuals; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. BOST (for himself, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. BANKS,
Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. COX of California, and
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 5044. A bill to grant a Congressional
Gold Medal, collectively, to the men and
women of the United States Armed Forces
and Merchant Marine, as well as citizen and
non-citizen civilians who served honorably
with the U.S. military, who were surren-
dered, captured, or abandoned to become
prisoners of war (POWs) of Imperial Japan
throughout the Japanese Empire in the Pa-
cific Theater of World War II from December
7, 1941 to September 2, 1945; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on House Administra-
tion, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. KILMER, Ms. NOR-
TON, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY):
H.R. 5045. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to provide child care assistance
to veterans receiving certain training or vo-
cational rehabilitation, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. CROW (for himself, Mr. GALLA-
GHER, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
BACON, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. WALTZ, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
GOLDEN, Mr. MAST, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
BAIRD, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
STEUBE, Mr. LAMB, Mr. TAYLOR, Mr.
ROSE of New York, Mr. LOUDERMILK,
Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. KINZINGER, Mrs. LURIA,
Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr.
YOUNG, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. STEWART,
Mr. GUTHRIE, and Mr. BANKS):
H.R. 5046. A bill to authorize the location
of a memorial on the National Mall to com-
memorate and honor the members of the
Armed Forces that served on active duty in
support of the Global War on Terrorism, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself and Ms.
TITUS):
H.R. 5047. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of General Services to conduct an an-
nual audit of properties leased to private
parties, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. DELGADO (for himself, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. MAST):
H.R. 5048. A bill to amend title 38, Unites
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to provide aid to counties
for establishment, expansion, and improve-
ment of veterans’ cemeteries; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
QUIGLEY, and Ms. TITUS):
H.R. 5049. A bill to secure Federal access to
scientific literature and other subscription
services by requiring Federal agencies and
legislative branch research arms to make
recommendations on increasing agency li-
brary access to serials, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois (for himself,
Mr. GROTHMAN, Ms. GARCIA of Texas,
and Mr. GREEN of Texas):
H.R. 5050. A bill to amend the Truth in
Lending Act to extend the consumer credit
protections provided to members of the
Armed Forces and their dependents under
title 10, United States Code, to all con-
sumers; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio:
H.R. 5051. A bill to increase transparency
and accountability with respect to World
Bank lending for China, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. LUJÁN (for himself, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. YOUNG, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Ms. NORTON, Mr. RASKIN,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY):
H.R. 5052. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to include local government
minimum wage requirements in determining
the hourly minimum wage applicable for
purposes of the work-study allowance under
the educational assistance programs admin-
istered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. SCANLON (for herself, Mr.
ARMSTRONG, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr.
KATKO, and Mr. JEFFRIES):
H.R. 5053. A bill to exempt juveniles from
the requirements for suits by prisoners, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. WALDEN, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, and Mr. DEFAZIO):
H.R. 5054. A bill to ensure that United
States Government personnel, including
members of the Armed Forces and contrac-
tors, assigned to United States diplomatic
missions are given the opportunity to des-
ignate next-of-kin for certain purposes in the
event of the death of the personnel; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself and Mr.
ZELDIN):
H.R. 5055. A bill to amend the Congres-
sional Budget and Impoundment Control Act
of 1974 to prohibit the use of guarantee fees
as offsets; to the Committee on Rules, and in
addition to the Committee on the Budget,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. STEUBE (for himself, Mr. ROSE
of New York, and Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 5056. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to allow individuals who are en-
titled to Post-9/11 educational assistance to
use such assistance to repay Federal student
loans; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. TONKO (for himself and Mr.
MCKINLEY):
H.R. 5057. A bill to clarify the treatment of
pass-through status under the Medicare out-
patient payment system for certain drugs; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L12NO7.100 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8784 November 12, 2019
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. FRANKEL (for herself, Ms. LEE
of California, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. NORTON, Ms. WILD, Mr.
PAPPAS, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Ms. TITUS, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Ms. DEGETTE, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. COHEN, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
KENNEDY, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Mr. WELCH, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. KEATING, and Mr. BROWN
of Maryland):
H. Res. 688. A resolution recognizing 25
years since the 1994 International Conference
on Population and Development (ICPD) in
Cairo, Egypt and reaffirming the goals and
ideals of the ICPD Programme of Action, in-
cluding comprehensive sexual and reproduc-
tive health and rights; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr.
COSTA, Ms. STEVENS, Ms. LOFGREN,
Ms. SPANBERGER, and Mr. COOK):
H. Res. 689. A resolution recognizing the
significance of the 550th birth anniversary of
Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, to Sikh
Americans and Sikhs worldwide; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for her-
self and Ms. KELLY of Illinois):
H. Res. 690. A resolution commending Alice
Allison Dunnigan for her barrier-breaking
career in journalism; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Mr. YOHO, Mr. ENGEL, and Mr.
SUOZZI):
H. Res. 691. A resolution honoring the ac-
complishments and charitable contributions
of Peter Morgan Alonso of the New York
Mets upon his being named the National
League Jackie Robinson Rookie of the Year;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. LOEBSACK (for himself, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. LEE
of California, Mr. MOULTON, and Mr.
SOTO):
H. Res. 692. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of the week beginning on
November 11, 2019, as ‘‘National School Psy-
chology Week’’; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Mr. DOGGETT introduced A bill (H.R. 5058)
for the relief of Alirio Palacios Gamez, Hilda
Veronica Ramirez Mendez, and Jayro Ivan
Juarez Ramirez; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII ofthe
Rules of the House of Representatives,
the following statements are submitted
regarding the specific powers granted
to Congress in the Constitution to
enact the accompanying bill or joint
resolution.
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 5032.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, clause 2 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. BYRNE:
H.R. 5033.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S.
Constitution: The Congress shall have Power
to make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government
ofthe United States, or in any Depa11ment or
Officer thereof
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 5034.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8, clause 3 (relating to
the power to regulate foreign and interstate
commerce).
By Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 5035.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 ofthe Constitution: the
Congress shall have Power ‘‘to regulate Com-
merce with foreign Nations, and among the
several State, and with the Indian Tribes.’’
By Mr. PAPPAS:
H.R. 5036.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 10 provides Con-
gress with the power ‘‘to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government ofthe United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina:
H.R. 5037.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 7 of the United
States Constitution, known as the Postal
Clause, empowers Congress to ‘‘establish
Post Offices and Post Roads’’
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 5038.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 4 provides Con-
gress with the power to establish a ‘‘uniform
rule of Naturalization.’’
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 5039.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3.
By Mr. CURTIS:
H.R. 5040.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article VI, Section 3, Clause 2
By Mrs. MCBATH:
H.R. 5041.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Commerce Clause (Article 1, Section 8,
Clause 3 ofthe U.S. Constitution): Congress
has the power ‘‘to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian Tribes.’’
By Mr. CLYBURN:
H.R. 5042.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 5043.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8: The Congress shall
have Power to lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and
provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States; but all Duties,
Imposts and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States.
By Mr. BOST:
H.R. 5044.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. CORREA:
H.R. 5045.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
(1) The U.S. Constitution including Article
1, Section 8.
By Mr. CROW:
H.R. 5046.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 17—
To exercise exclusive Legislation in all
Cases whatsoever, over such District (not ex-
ceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession
of particular States, and the Acceptance of
Congress, become the Seat of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and to exercise
like Authority over all Places purchased by
the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be, for the Erection
of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards,
and other needful Buildings
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 5047.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, Clause 3, and
Clause 18 of the Constitution.
By Mr. DELGADO:
H.R. 5048.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 5049.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois:
H.R. 5050.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio:
H.R. 5051.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. LUJÁN:
H.R. 5052.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. SCANLON:
H.R. 5053.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. SCHRADER:
H.R. 5054.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. 1, § 1; and
U.S. Const. art. 1, § 8, cl. 18.
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 5055.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
[Page H1084]
By Mr. STEUBE:
H.R. 5056.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L12NO7.100 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8785
November 12, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes;
To establish an uniform Rule of Natu-
ralization, and uniform Laws on the subject
of Bankruptcies throughout the United
States;
To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof,
and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of
Weights and Measures;
To provide for the Punishment of counter-
feiting the Securities and current Coin of the
United States;
To establish Post Offices and Post Roads;
To promote the Progress of Science and
useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to
Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to
their respective Writings and Discoveries;
To constitute Tribunals inferior to the su-
preme Court;
To define and punish Piracies and Felonies
committed on the high Seas, and Offenses
against the Law of Nations;
To declare War, grant Letters of Marque
and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning
Captures on Land and Water;
To raise and support Armies, but no Appro-
priation of Money to that Use shall be for a
longer Term than two Years;
To provide and maintain a Navy;
To make Rules for the Government and
Regulation of the land and naval Forces;
To provide for calling forth the Militia to
execute the Laws of the Union, suppress In-
surrections and repel Invasions;
To provide for organizing, arming, and dis-
ciplining, the Militia, and for governing such
Part of them as may be employed in the
Service of the United States, reserving to
the States respectively, the Appointment of
the Officers, and the Authority of training
the Militia according to the discipline pre-
scribed by Congress;
To exercise exclusive Legislation in all
Cases whatsoever, over such District (not ex-
ceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession
of particular States, and the acceptance of
Congress, become the Seat of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and to exercise
like Authority over all Places purchased by
the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be, for the Erection
of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards,
and other needful Buildings; And
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 5057.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 5058.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Mrs. DINGELL and Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 20: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina and
Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 38: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 141: Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 172: Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 180: Ms. FUDGE.
H.R. 230: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 309: Mr. FOSTER, Ms. SPEIER, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. TAKANO, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. MUCARSEL-POW-
ELL, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, MR. VARGAS, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. KILDEE, and Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN.
H.R. 350: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 554: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 557: Mr. VELA.
H.R. 587: Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 763: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia and Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 836: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 912: Mr. MULLIN and Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 934: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 935: Ms. Sánchez, Mr. LARSON of Con-
necticut, Mr. SUOZZI, and Ms. BROWNLEY of
California.
H.R. 943: Mr. JORDAN and Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia.
H.R. 945: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 962: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 1002: Mr. CORREA, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms.
PINGREE, Ms. SCHRIER, and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 1003: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 1011: Mr. TED LIEU of California and
Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 1154: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 1171: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 1228: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 1289: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1367: Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
POCAN, and Mr. MCEACHIN.
H.R. 1398: Mr. FERGUSON, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
OLSON, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1497: Mr. SIRES and Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 1498: Mr. VARGAS and Mr. BLU-
MENAUER.
H.R. 1550: Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota.
H.R. 1597: Mr. CLAY, Mr. FLORES, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, and Mr.
DELGADO.
H.R. 1643: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi and
Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 1688: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 1700: Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 1709: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1767: Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. AMODEI, Ms.
HOULAHAN, Mr. CICILLINE, and Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER.
H.R. 1773: Mr. TAYLOR and Mrs.
RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 1869: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 1873: Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. BERA, Mr.
RICE of South Carolina, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
PENCE, and Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 1878: Ms. FRANKEL and Ms. LEE of
California.
H.R. 1975: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 1981: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 1992: Ms. ESCOBAR and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2014: Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 2086: Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 2137: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 2150: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 2155: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 2207: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 2214: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 2235: Mr. OLSON, Mr. RYAN, and Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 2264: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 2283: Mr. UPTON, Ms. LOFGREN, and
Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2311: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2315: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 2339: Ms. JUDY CHU of California and
Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 2354: Mr. PANETTA and Mr. LEVIN of
California.
H.R. 2382: Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. COLE, and Mr.
GIANFORTE.
H.R. 2402: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 2408: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 2442: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Ms. JUDY
CHU of California.
H.R. 2482: Mrs. LOWEY and Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 2509: Mr. SIMPSON and Mr. STEWART.
H.R. 2517: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 2550: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia and
Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 2571: Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 2584: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois and
Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 2651: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2653: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2731: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi and Mr.
CASTRO of Texas.
H.R. 2747: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ and Ms. LEE of
California.
H.R. 2767: Mr. CROW and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California.
H.R. 2771: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr.
GRAVES of Missouri, and Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 2775: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 2802: Ms. HOULAHAN and Mr. BLU-
MENAUER.
H.R. 2818: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Ms. PIN-
GREE.
H.R. 2846: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 2863: Mr. MALINOWSKI and Mr. THOMP-
SON of Mississippi.
H.R. 2881: Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 2895: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 2896: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2953: Mr. BISHOP of Utah.
H.R. 2975: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 2985: Mr. WILLIAMS and Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 2991: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 3077: Mr. KHANNA, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. HUFFMAN,
and Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 3121: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 3157: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER and Mr.
POCAN.
H.R. 3165: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan and Mr.
LUJÁN.
H.R. 3219: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3224: Mr. DELGADO, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. LAMB, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. BEYER, and Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 3235: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 3303: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 3350: Mr. CONNOLLY and Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 3373: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 3378: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 3381: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 3391: Mr. KHANNA, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mrs. DINGELL, and Mrs. TORRES
of California.
H.R. 3396: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3458: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 3463: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico and Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 3473: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 3495: Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. ROY, Mr.
FLORES, Mr. HAGEDORN, and Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 3497: Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 3509: Mr. GOLDEN and Mr. NORCROSS.
H.R. 3555: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 3593: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 3600: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 3612: Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 3689: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 3735: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 3749: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 3760: Mrs. DEMINGS and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 3762: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. DEFAZIO, and Mr.
MCKINLEY.
H.R. 3796: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania and
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 3824: Ms. UNDERWOOD and Mr.
KINZINGER.
H.R. 3934: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 3951: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 3957: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD and Mr.
SOTO.
H.R. 3961: Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr. TAKANO,
Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. DEGETTE, and Ms. MENG.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:00 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.023 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8786 November 12, 2019
H.R. 3968: Mr. SMITH of Missouri.
H.R. 3975: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Mr.
WOMACK.
H.R. 3977: Mr. HARDER of California and Mr.
O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 4009: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 4052: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 4056: Ms. MCCOLLUM and Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 4073: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 4097: Ms. NORTON and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 4161: Mr. MARCHANT.
H.R. 4187: Mr. BISHOP of Utah.
H.R. 4193: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 4194: Mr. PANETTA and Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 4230: Mr. SIRES and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 4248: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 4280: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. TAKANO, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 4296: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi and
Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 4321: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4331: Mr. YOHO and Mr. TED LIEU of
California.
H.R. 4348: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 4393: Mr. SOTO, Mr. BROOKS of Ala-
bama, and Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 4404: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 4429: Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. MULLIN, and
Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 4477: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 4487: Mr. HARDER of California and Mr.
COOK.
H.R. 4489: Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. HARDER of
California, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. DELBENE, and
Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 4523: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 4540: Mr. FOSTER, Ms. LOFGREN, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 4581: Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 4591: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 4618: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 4625: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 4639: Ms. DEAN and Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi.
H.R. 4674: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois and Mr.
SIRES.
H.R. 4680: Mr. POCAN, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia, Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. MATSUI, and Mr.
TRONE.
H.R. 4681: Mr. CLAY and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 4685: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 4691: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 4694: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 4704: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 4722: Mr. ROUDA, Ms. PRESSLEY, and
Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 4724: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 4754: Mr. GROTHMAN and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 4764: Mr. SWALWELL of California and
Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 4768: Mr. CUELLAR and Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 4795: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4804: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 4810: Mrs. WALORSKI and Mr. BILI-
RAKIS.
H.R. 4820: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 4861: Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 4884: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 4890: Mr. CISNEROS, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 4903: Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. MURPHY of
North Carolina, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. CHABOT,
Mr. WALKER, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, and
Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 4906: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, and Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4913: Mr. WELCH and Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 4914: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 4924: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 4934: Mr. BUCK, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr.
BAIRD, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr. CRAWFORD,
Mrs. LESKO, and Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 4945: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH and Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 4959: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
STEWART, and Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 4980: Mr. DUNN and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 4995: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 5004: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 5006: Mr. ROGERS of Alabama.
H.R. 5011: Mr. CLEAVER and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 5014: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 5017: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 5018: Mr. GAETZ, Mr. HICE of Georgia,
and Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 5021: Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. MEEKS, Mr.
Garcı́a of Illinois, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, and
Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 5026: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Ms. SCAN-
LON.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. PANETTA.
H.J. Res. 78: Mr. NORMAN, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, and Mr. BABIN.
H.J. Res. 79: Mr. PANETTA, Mr. ALLRED, and
Mr. COSTA.
H. Con. Res. 20: Ms. WILD and Mr. BISHOP of
North Carolina.
H. Con. Res. 37: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H. Con. Res. 49: Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia.
H. Res. 23: Ms. TLAIB and Mr. LEWIS.
H. Res. 49: Mr. TRONE and Mr. WATKINS.
H. Res. 152: Ms. SCANLON.
H. Res. 255: Mr. CHABOT.
H. Res. 259: Mr. POCAN.
H. Res. 446: Mr. RASKIN and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H. Res. 517: Mr. AGUILAR, Ms. JAYAPAL, and
Mr. NORCROSS.
H. Res. 672: Mr. TRONE, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, and Mrs. ROD-
GERS of Washington.
H. Res. 673: Mr. HECK, Mrs. BEATTY, and
Mrs. DINGELL.
H. Res. 676: Mr. DUNCAN.
H. Res. 678: Mr. GAETZ, Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. WRIGHT, and Mr. VAN DREW.
H. Res. 686: Mr. GOSAR.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII, petitions
and papers were laid on the clerk’s
desk and referred as follows:
59. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
Mr. Gregory D. Watson, a citizen of Austin,
TX, relative to Urging Congress to propose,
pursuant to Article V, an amendment to the
United States Constitution that would, in
addition to congressional proposal, likewise
allow an identically-worded suggested fed-
eral constitutional amendment, approved by
the legislatures of at least two-thirds of the
several states, as an alternate means of pro-
posing future amendments and that would
further provide for a same-day nationwide
referendum as the exclusive method of rati-
fying any further amendments; etc.; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
60. Also, a petition of City Council of Pitts-
burgh, PA, relative to Resolution No. 526,
imploring the Pennsylvania General Assem-
bly, as well as the Congress of the United
States, to pass within the next 30 days com-
mon-sense safety measures; and to work
across the aisle and enact critical legisla-
tion; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
61. Also, a petition of Legislature of Guam,
relative to Substitute Resolution No. 94-35
(COR), ‘‘Relative to seeking compensation
for cancer and other illnesses caused by ex-
posure to ionizing radiation; and to further
expressing the support of I Mina’trentai
Singko Na Liheslaturan Guahan (the 35th
Legislature) for the passage of S. 947 and
H.R. 3783, the ‘‘Radiation Exposure Com-
pensation Act Amendments of 2019’’, intro-
duced by the U.S. Senate on March 28, 2019,
and the U.S. House of Representatives on
July 16, 2019, which would amend the ‘‘Radi-
ation Exposure Compensation Act’’ to in-
clude Guam as a downwind area’’; jointly to
the Committees on the Judiciary, Education
and Labor, and Energy and Commerce.
62. Also, a petition of City Commission of
Traverse City, MI, relative to a Resolution
urging the United States Congress to enact
the Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend
Act of 2019; jointly to the Committees on
Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, and
Foreign Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:28 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO7.027 H12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6489
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2019 No. 180
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Gracious God, our rock of ages in
life’s shifting sands, give our law-
makers this day the abiding assurance
of Your presence.
May they strive to be Your instru-
ments, accomplishing Your will, living
by Your power, and being used by You
for Your glory. Enable them to experi-
ence Your contentment and peace fac-
ing life’s chaos with quiet hearts and
vibrant faith.
Lord, refresh their spirit, quicken
their thinking, reinforce their judg-
ment, and empower them to fulfill
Your purposes on Earth.
We pray in Your mighty Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa is recognized.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask permission to speak as in morning
business for 3 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
AMERICAN LEGION
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
come to the floor to recognize the ac-
complishments of an organization that
has done great service to communities
and veterans across the United States.
This month marks 100 years since the
American Legion received its charter
from Congress and formally adopted its
constitution. When it was established
in Paris in March of 1919, the American
Legion stated its aims, in part, ‘‘to per-
petuate the principles of justice, free-
dom, and democracy for which we have
fought.’’
The accomplishments of the Amer-
ican Legion since that time are numer-
ous and profound. They include suc-
cessfully lobbying for the creation of
what was then called the Veterans Bu-
reau, which would later become the
VA, the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs.
The American Legion also conducted
pioneering research into PTSD and
drafted the original GI bill that helped
to educate so many World War II vet-
erans after that war and gave a big
boost to the expanding U.S. economy
post-World War II.
American Legion members complete
3.7 million hours of community service
each year. I happen to be a member of
the Sons of the American Legion. As
part of that organization, I am blessed
to have had the American Legion make
a meaningful impact in my life.
When I was a young high school stu-
dent in Iowa, I was proud to participate
in Boys State, where I learned the
rights, privileges, and responsibilities
of citizenship. The American Legion
still does that every year in Iowa and I
suppose in every State. Iowans are for-
tunate to have the enduring presence
of the American Legion in our commu-
nities.
This August, two Iowans were recog-
nized nationally for their dedication to
the American Legion. Bruce Feuerbach
of Keystone was elected national vice
commander of the American Legion,
and Nicole Clapp of Gladbrook was
elected national president of the Amer-
ican Legion Auxiliary.
Many more accomplishments are
sure to come from the American Le-
gion’s Iowa department. I congratulate
the American Legion on its 100th year
of service and thank all members for
their dedication to Iowa and to our Na-
tion.
I want to point out that there was a
Major General MacNider, Mason City,
IA, who was the fourth national com-
mander of the American Legion and
probably one of those who was dedi-
cated to establishing this organization
early on.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA
TRADE AGREEMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I was privileged to spend a good chunk
of the day yesterday with the hard-
working men and women of North
American Stainless in Carroll County,
KY. They are a high-quality stainless
steel manufacturing firm that is actu-
ally the largest fully integrated stain-
less steel producer in the entire United
States.
They produce about one-third of all
U.S. stainless. The company brings
1,500 jobs to its rural community that
is Kentucky’s 8th largest manufacturer
by total employment. I joined them
yesterday to celebrate an important
legislative accomplishment that I was
able to spearhead back in July: the
long overdue Senate ratification of a
bipartisan tax treaty protocol with
Spain. By passing this new protocol, we
cleared away a mess of confusing and
unfair double taxation, the threat of
which had stunted growth and invest-
ment right here at home.
I got to hear again, firsthand, what a
significant difference the approval of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO6.000 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6490 November 12, 2019
this simple bipartisan tax treaty will
make for this American manufacturer.
I was happy to hear the CEO announce
that the company can now move for-
ward with a major $30 million capital
investment in developing its facility
and its workforce as a direct result of
the ratification of that treaty.
It was just another reminder that the
economic policies we vote on here,
often on a bipartisan basis, make an
enormous difference for workers and
job creators in each of our States.
While we applauded the Spain tax
treaty and the new prosperity it will
unlock, it was impossible to overlook
the fact that USMCA is still being
blocked over in the House of Rep-
resentatives. By one analysis, 12 mil-
lion American jobs are dependent upon
trade with Mexico and Canada. To-
gether they make up a $500 billion mar-
ket for U.S. exports. It is no surprise
that updating our trading relationships
with both of our North American
neighbors would stand to have a major
positive effect on our economy.
To be more specific, according to
data from the International Trade
Commission, the USMCA would gen-
erate about 176,000 new American jobs.
It would pump nearly $70 billion into
the U.S. economy, and the already
massive markets for U.S. products
would be expected to grow by tens of
billions more.
For months, Speaker PELOSI and
House Democrats have been claiming
they notionally support this agreement
and want to get to yes, but month after
month, this happy talk has seemingly
led to no tangible progress, just more
heel-dragging. Hard-working Kentuck-
ians, people like our farmers and our
cattlemen, keep writing to me and ask-
ing Congress to pass the USMCA, but
Speaker PELOSI will not make time for
it.
House Democrats have enough time
to continue their 3-year-old obsession
with impeaching the President, but
they cannot find the time to pass a
landmark trade deal that will create
176,000 new American jobs. Just saying
their priorities out loud indicates how
backward they are.
f
HONG KONG
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
now, on a totally different matter,
Hong Kong has been rocked by more vi-
olence as citizens continue resisting
the Chinese Communist Party’s en-
croachment on their autonomy and
freedoms.
On Monday, it appears the local po-
lice shot a 21-year-old protester at
nearly point-blank range. The police
have arrested hundreds of demonstra-
tors, reportedly as young as 12 and as
old as 82. Tear gas, rubber bullets, and
other violent measures have now be-
come standard fare.
A few days earlier, a number of de-
mocracy-supporting Hong Kong legisla-
tors were swept up in a government
crackdown. These elected officials were
either arrested or given summons just
a few weeks before local elections.
These continuing government esca-
lations are inconsistent with the Hong
Kong Basic Law, with international
agreements, and with the will of
Hongkongers. Brutalizing their own
people will not circumvent the core
issue here: Beijing’s insatiable thirst
for control.
I have advocated for Hong Kong since
I wrote our Nation’s Hong Kong Policy
Act back in 1992. I know many of us in
this body now want to extend and ex-
pand that law in a targeted manner
that focuses pressure on the Chinese
Communist Party and its agents who
are responsible for undermining Hong
Kong’s autonomy while minimizing the
collateral economic damage to the
very Hongkongers we want to help.
I am eager to continue working with
colleagues, such as Senator RISCH, Sen-
ator GRAHAM, Senator RUBIO, and oth-
ers, toward a strong and procedurally
workable solution. Meanwhile, I appre-
ciate statements by administration
leaders such as Vice President PENCE
and Secretary Pompeo that show a
clear-eyed perspective on China’s Or-
wellian tactics and bad intentions.
I urge the administration to use the
significant leverage and authorities it
already has, particularly under the
Global Magnitsky Act, to hold individ-
uals accountable.
Hong Kong is not the only recent re-
minder that we live in a dangerous
world in which America’s interests, al-
lies, and ideals are constantly threat-
ened. Press reports this morning indi-
cated that Israel is suffering yet an-
other round of terror, including more
than 160 rocket launches fired against
civilian targets in Israel. This comes
after Israeli forces appear to have
eliminated one high-ranking leader in
the terrorist group Palestinian Islamic
Jihad, in Gaza, and targeted another
PIJ terrorist in Damascus, Syria.
The United States stands with our
ally Israel against PIJ, Hamas, and
Hezbollah terrorists who have long
sought to erase the Jewish State. If
these reports are accurate, it will be no
surprise that one of these terrorist
leaders was holed up in Damascus.
Syria, under Assad, stands alongside
Iran as the chief patron of anti-Israel
terrorism. This is just another re-
minder that the United States and
some of our closest allies have a strong
say in the future of Syria and that a
victory for Assad will be a victory for
Iran and for terrorism.
So every hour seemingly brings more
evidence of our troubled world, but,
just as with the trade agreements, crit-
ical legislation in this area is currently
frozen in place. It is another casualty
of Democrats’ apparent inability to
make headway on anything besides
fighting with the White House.
For the second time in 2 months,
Senate Democrats recently voted once
again to filibuster the annual funding
for our Armed Forces—for our men and
women in uniform—and while Senate
Democrats block appropriations for de-
fense, House Democrats are now slow-
walking the authorizing legislation—
the NDAA. Since the first NDAA was
passed way back in 1961, Congress has
never failed to pass a bipartisan NDAA
by the end of the year—not once. Yet
with House Democrats fixated on im-
peachment, I understand that Chair-
man ADAM SMITH and his fellow Demo-
crats are now dragging their heels on
the conference committee that is need-
ed to complete this bill. These House
Democrats passed a uniquely partisan
NDAA earlier this year, unlike the
Senate’s bipartisan version, and now
they are slow-walking the conference
committee.
These are among our most basic gov-
erning responsibilities: passing an
NDAA and funding our Armed Forces.
The United States of America cannot
operate at less than full strength on
the world stage because Democrats are
too busy—too busy—impeaching the
Commander in Chief.
f
NOMINATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on one final matter, while our Demo-
cratic colleagues continue to block the
Senate from moving forward with de-
fense funding here on the floor, we will
use this time to confirm more of the
President’s well-qualified nominees to
the executive branch and to the Fed-
eral bench.
Later this week we will consider the
nomination of Steven J. Menashi to be
U.S. circuit judge for the Second Cir-
cuit. Mr. Menashi is a graduate of
Dartmouth College and Stanford Uni-
versity Law School. He has accrued an
impressive record in private practice
and earned clerkships on the D.C. Cir-
cuit and the Supreme Court with Jus-
tice Alito.
First, we will consider the nomina-
tion of Chad Wolf to serve in a senior
leadership position post at the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security. Mr. Wolf’s
experience at the Department dates
back to the immediate aftermath of
the September 11th terrorist attacks.
He has had a hand in arranging our Na-
tion’s critical homeland security infra-
structure. The current Acting Sec-
retary of DHS has called him a ‘‘prov-
en, thoughtful, and principled execu-
tive,’’ and a former Assistant Sec-
retary at the Department said, ‘‘Chad
knows the issues cold.’’
I hope my colleagues will join me in
advancing each of these nominations
later this week.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.002 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6491
November 12, 2019
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Chad F. Wolf, of Virginia, to
be Under Secretary for Strategy, Pol-
icy, and Plans, Department of Home-
land Security. (New Position)
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
IMMIGRATION
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
today, the Supreme Court heard oral
arguments in the case against the
President’s decision to cancel DACA,
the program that grants legal status to
over 600,000 Dreamers who were
brought to this country through no
fault of their own, who voluntarily
came forward and registered with the
government in exchange for protected
status, who work in our factories and
our hospitals, who teach and learn in
our schools and serve in our military.
Before the highest Court in the land,
President Trump and his administra-
tion cruelly argued that these Dream-
ers do not belong in America and must
be ripped away from their families and
sent back to countries that many of
them do not even remember.
The President once tweeted: ‘‘Does
anybody really want to throw out good,
educated and accomplished young peo-
ple who have jobs, some serving in the
military? Really!’’ Now the same Presi-
dent is saying some Dreamers are
‘‘very tough, hardened criminals,’’ and
his administration has argued they
should be deported. Donald Trump’s
hypocrisy when it comes to Dreamers
knows no bounds. After flip-flopping
again and again on the issue and after
failing to lead an effort to pass com-
prehensive immigration reform, it is
abjectly shameful that President
Trump is trying to get the Supreme
Court to do his dirty work and put the
Dreamers under threat of mass depor-
tation.
When the DACA Program was estab-
lished in 2012, under a long tradition of
administrative discretion, it changed
the lives of thousands and thousands of
Dreamers for the better, and it made
our country better. Yet, because of
President Trump and his relentless
scapegoating of immigrants—his cyn-
ical use of trying to tell too many of
the American people that the Dreamers
are the reason they are not doing well,
which is despicable—these hard-work-
ing and patriotic Americans are haunt-
ed by the possibility they could be
forced to leave this country at any mo-
ment—be pulled away from their fami-
lies, their jobs, their homes. It is cruel.
It is counterproductive. It undermines
American values and all that America
stands for.
Thankfully, one of the first things
the House Democrats did when they
won the majority was to pass a perma-
nent legislative solution for DACA re-
cipients and TPS holders. It is legisla-
tion I wholeheartedly support. Now it
is up to the Supreme Court to defend
the program. It is up to Majority Lead-
er MCCONNELL to bring the Dream and
Promise Act to the Senate floor.
My good friend Senator DURBIN, who
has been a champion for Dreamers for
as long as I can remember, will ask for
the Senate’s consent this evening to
take up these bills. I thank him for his
moral and continued strong leadership
on this issue. I could not agree more
with what he is trying to do. It is time
to do the right thing for Dreamers and
enshrine DACA into law.
We will see how my Republican
friends respond. After all, the House
has done its job. Where are the Senate
Republicans who claim to stand with
the Dreamers? We will see this evening.
From my home in Brooklyn, I can
see the great lady in the harbor who
welcomed my ancestors many years
ago. If America is to remain the great-
est Nation in the world and a beacon of
hope and freedom for people every-
where—a light among nations—we
must live up to our best values. That
means we must stand totally and
wholeheartedly with the Dreamers and
all 11 million who now live in the shad-
ows.
NOMINATIONS
Madam President, on nominations,
we are here at the beginning of another
week in the Senate. As is the norm
under Leader MCCONNELL, we will not
be debating legislation like the Dream
Act in order to improve the lives of av-
erage Americans. Instead, we will vote
on another slate of controversial
Trump administration nominees.
First up is the nomination of Chad
Wolf to serve as an Under Secretary at
the Department of Homeland Security.
Mr. Wolf has had leadership roles with-
in the DHS through much of Trump’s
Presidency and has troubling ties to
President Trump’s disastrous family
separation policy, the Muslim ban, and
the national emergency declaration at
the southern border. Despite testifying
that he was not involved in the family
separation policy, Mr. Wolf reportedly
suggested the policy in a memo he sent
to then-Attorney General Sessions. He
is ashamed to admit it. He knows it
was wrong, but he did it anyway. This
man does not deserve to be an Under
Secretary at DHS.
The circumstances of Mr. Wolf’s
nomination are also very strange. Wolf
is not only already serving as an Under
Secretary in an acting capacity, but
President Trump has named him as the
incoming Secretary of DHS in an act-
ing capacity. President Trump never
bothered to nominate a replacement
for departing DHS Secretary
McAleenan, who left yesterday. Yet the
Senate is being asked to confirm some-
one to a job he is not even going to per-
form. Indeed, if Mr. Wolf is confirmed,
we may never vote on who will be the
actual Secretary of DHS, which is a
major Cabinet-level department.
This is completely unacceptable. The
administration is having trouble find-
ing people to fill these jobs. They know
the cruelty they will be asked to en-
force, and they know that Donald
Trump will treat them poorly. So he
can’t find anybody to take these posi-
tions. Hence, we have this awkward
game of musical chairs. Rather than
working with Congress to find a DHS
Secretary whom we could support, the
Trump administration is trying a legal
end-around that subverts our constitu-
tional duty to advise and consent.
Regardless of your ideology or views
on immigration, my fellow Senators
should oppose Wolf’s nomination on
constitutional grounds.
After the Senate considers Mr. Wolf,
we will consider the nomination of Ste-
ven Menashi to serve on the Second
Circuit Court of Appeals.
I have rarely met a nominee as low
as Mr. Menashi. He has a troubling
record on race, women’s equality,
LGBTQ rights, and the rights of immi-
grants. His conduct before the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary was insulting,
and recent reports describe how, during
his tenure while working at the De-
partment of Education, he played a
leading role in designing an illegal ef-
fort to deny debt relief to thousands of
students who had been swindled by for-
profit colleges. That is right. The Sen-
ate is going to be asked to confirm
someone, Mr. Menashi, to be a judge
who designed an illegal scheme to deny
debt relief so as to defraud students.
The man has no principles. The man
has no conscience. The man has no
morals. He should not be on the bench.
AGENT ORANGE
Madam President, finally, about our
veterans and Agent Orange, yesterday,
our Nation observed Veterans Day. It
was a chance for all of us to say thank
you to the millions of brave Americans
who have served our country. It was a
day not only to celebrate their achieve-
ments and express a deep and abiding
gratitude for their service but also to
recognize that for many veterans, sac-
rifices have come as a result of mili-
tary service and that those sacrifices
are not yet over. I want to shed light
on one particular issue today.
There are now hundreds of thousands
of veterans who suffer from diseases
that have been linked to Agent Orange,
which is a chemical that was used by
our military during the Vietnam war.
One’s exposure to Agent Orange can
lead to a host of complications—diabe-
tes, leukemia, and more. The VA has
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.003 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6492 November 12, 2019
long provided benefits to veterans who
suffer from these conditions. It has
provided healthcare and compensation
so as to help to defer the hardships vet-
erans have faced from the wounds from
which they still suffer after having
been on the battlefield.
In response to more recent studies, in
2017, VA Secretary Shulkin decided to
add bladder cancer, hypertension, Par-
kinson’s-like symptoms, and
hypothyroidism to the list of Agent Or-
ange-related conditions that are eligi-
ble for benefits, which would have im-
proved the lives of 83,000 vets.
Shockingly, once again, within this
cruel administration—it doesn’t even
care about our veterans—it was re-
ported that OMB Director and White
House Chief of Staff Mulvaney has de-
cided to block benefits for these new
conditions because he is worried about
the cost. It is disgraceful.
Let me repeat.
Despite the recommendation of
President Trump’s VA Secretary and
the recommendation of the National
Academy of Medicine, Mulvaney has
decided to block health benefits to sick
veterans. Many of these veterans are
retired, and many don’t have a steady
income. These benefits could make the
difference between life and death, but
Mick Mulvaney—the same Mick
Mulvaney who thought $1.5 trillion was
an acceptable cost to give billionaires
and corporations in a giant tax cut,
which created a huge deficit—now be-
lieves that the cost of helping 83,000
sick veterans is just too high.
This is incomprehensibly cruel. When
are the American people going to wake
up and see what the Trump administra-
tion is doing? He gives tax breaks to
billionaires but no benefits to veterans
who are suffering from the result of
Agent Orange exposure?
My home State of New York has
240,000 veterans from the Vietnam era.
Many of them were exposed to Agent
Orange without realizing it. Just yes-
terday, the Buffalo News profiled the
life of Vietnam veteran Dick Gabel,
who was drafted into the Army at age
19. In his approximately 2 years of serv-
ice, he was shot in the leg. He recov-
ered and was sent back to the war. He
lost many of his closest friends along
the way. After he came home, for dec-
ades, Dick worked with kids in his
hometown to make Veterans Day an
annual highlight, and he brought to-
gether hundreds of veterans to volun-
teer at local schools. Just last year, he
was diagnosed with leukemia, possibly
because of his exposure to Agent Or-
ange.
There are likely thousands of vet-
erans in New York who are like Dick—
fighting illnesses that are directly
linked to Agent Orange and their mili-
tary service in Vietnam. Yet, because
they got the wrong disease, the Trump
administration is blocking their health
benefits.
So today—a day after millions of
Americans, myself included, marched
in the parades across our country to
honor our vets—I demand that Chief of
Staff Mulvaney reverse this cruel and
unfair decision immediately.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
TURKEY AND SYRIA
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Presi-
dent, I start by thanking the Demo-
cratic leader for his leadership in rais-
ing those important issues before the
Senate this afternoon.
I bring another issue before the Sen-
ate, that being my strong opposition to
President Trump’s shameful decision
to invite Turkish President Erdogan to
the White House tomorrow. It is a deci-
sion that has alarmed our allies and
comforted our adversaries. It is a deci-
sion that undermines our values and
our national security interests, and it
is a decision that sends a terrible mes-
sage to the world about how to get in-
vited to President Trump’s White
House.
In just the last 5 weeks, Turkish
President Erdogan has taken the fol-
lowing actions: No. 1, he has launched
an attack on a key ally of ours—in
fact, the key ally—in our fight against
ISIS terrorists, that being the Syrian
Democratic Forces, led by the Syrian
Kurds. No. 2, President Erdogan and his
forces have killed over 200 in these at-
tacks, displaced over 300,000, and en-
abled the release of over 100 ISIS pris-
oners. No. 3, Erdogan is using jihadi
proxies that include a lot of al-Qaida
elements, and they are committing
gross human rights abuses, including
what the Trump administration has ac-
knowledged as being war crimes. There
are also reports that the Turkish-
backed proxy forces are using the
chemical agent white phosphorus. No.
4, Erdogan and his forces have violated
the so-called safe zone agreement that
was reached by Vice President PENCE
in Ankara a few weeks ago. After
President Erdogan entered into that
agreement with Vice President PENCE,
which has been violated, he turned
around and decided to cut a separate
deal with Putin and Russia, thereby
giving Russia even more leverage than
it already had in Syria.
In addition, Erdogan boasted that he
organized a hit squad to assassinate
the top commander of our Syrian Kurd-
ish allies, General Mazloum. President
Erdogan did that even after President
Trump acknowledged that our Syrian
Kurdish allies had given us important
information that had helped us to kill
ISIS leader Baghdadi. In fact, Erdogan
has compared the military leader of
our Syrian Kurdish allies—those who
bore the brunt of the fight against
ISIS—with the ISIS leader whom we
just killed, Baghdadi. President
Erdogan did all of that in just the last
5 weeks.
What did President Trump do?
Instead of calling upon the House and
the Senate to pass the economic sanc-
tions bill that had been introduced, he
rewarded Erdogan for all of those ac-
tions with a coveted White House
meeting.
That is not the way we should be
treating somebody who has just spent
the last 5 weeks thumbing his nose at
the United States, undermining our in-
terests, endangering our allies,
strengthening Russia, Assad, and Iran,
and increasing threats to our ally
Israel.
It sends a terrible message to the
world: Go ahead and undermine the na-
tional security interests of the United
States, and the President of the United
States will invite you over for dinner.
I have teamed up with Senator GRA-
HAM and others on a bipartisan basis,
and I want to thank the Presiding Offi-
cer for her support on that sanctions
legislation to hold Turkey accountable.
Here is what Senator GRAHAM said
about President Erdogan just 3 weeks
ago: ‘‘If you want to get Erdogan’s at-
tention, you have to treat him like the
thug he is.’’ That is Senator GRAHAM
speaking. Yet Erdogan, time and again
over the last 5 weeks and before, has
essentially spit in the eye of the United
States, and now he is coming to Wash-
ington for a White House meeting. This
is very difficult to explain. I am not
sure any of us has the answer as to why
President Trump is doing this.
The Washington Post had an article
on October 17 headlined ‘‘In Turkey’s
President, Trump seems to have found
a soul mate.’’ If you read through the
article, you can see that President
Trump does seem to have an affinity
for President Erdogan of Turkey, and
clearly President Erdogan likes to get
on the phone with President Trump be-
cause whenever he does, President
Erdogan seems to get his way.
Now he will come for a face-to-face
meeting, and I am sure President
Erdogan expects to get his way again.
Why would he think that? Well, be-
cause the last time they talked, Presi-
dent Erdogan clearly took away from
the conversation that it was just fine
with President Trump if Turkey at-
tacked our Syrian Kurdish allies.
President Erdogan clearly believed he
had the green light. In fact, after they
hung up from that phone call, Presi-
dent Erdogan sent his forces and used
proxy forces to attack our Syrian
Kurdish allies, and President Trump
tweeted that we were withdrawing
some of our Special Forces from the
area—Special Forces that had helped
deter Turkish aggression against our
Syrian Kurdish allies.
It is very rare for retired senior mili-
tary leaders in the United States to
criticize a sitting Commander in Chief,
but the betrayal of our Syrian Kurdish
allies and the terrible message that
sent around the world about the
unreliability of the United States com-
pelled many of those former leaders to
warn about the consequences. I think
it is important for the Senate to hear
some comments from people who are
respected for what they have done for
our country.
ADM William McRaven, former com-
mander of the U.S. Special Operations
Command, who worked with our Syrian
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.006 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6493
November 12, 2019
Kurdish allies in the fight against ISIS,
said: ‘‘He’s’’—referring to President
Trump—‘‘obviously left our allies the
Kurds on the battlefield. . . . We feel
like we’ve betrayed them. He’s under-
mined our NATO allies . . . the inter-
national community has lost faith in
America.’’ That is from Admiral
McRaven.
GEN Joseph Votel, former com-
mander of U.S. Central Command and
also somebody who has personal experi-
ence working alongside our Syrian
Kurdish allies in the fight against ISIS,
said: ‘‘This policy abandonment threat-
ens to undo five years’ worth of fight-
ing against ISIS and will severely dam-
age American credibility and reli-
ability in any future fights where we
need strong allies.’’
General Petraeus, former commander
of U.S. Central Command and former
commander of NATO’s mission in Af-
ghanistan and in Iraq, said: ‘‘Well, I
think we have abandoned our Syrian
Kurdish partners. They took over 10,000
losses as the defeat of the Islamic
State was carried out.’’
Secretary James Mattis, Secretary of
Defense under President Trump and
former commander of U.S. Central
Command, said: ‘‘In this case, if we
don’t keep the pressure on, then ISIS
will resurge.’’
Secretary Mattis made it clear that
by abandoning our Syrian Kurdish al-
lies, we gave more oxygen to ISIS. In
fact, we learned over the weekend that
ISIS was claiming responsibility for
the murder of an Armenian Catholic
priest and his son. Their funeral serv-
ices are today.
Another former high-level U.S. mili-
tary commander who has spoken is
ADM James Stavridis. He is the former
commander of U.S. European Command
and NATO Supreme Allied Commander
in Europe. Here is what he had to say:
‘‘This is heart-rending for anybody who
has shed blood, who has deployed for-
ward. . . . I’m getting so many inputs
from all around the military . . . they
know how this hurts at a very personal
level. . . . It’s not only the betrayal of
the Kurds, it is the way it is going to
allow those embers on the floor of the
forest fire that we thought were out to
kind of re-flash.’’ He is saying, in other
words, giving more oxygen to the ISIS
embers that we were working toward
extinguishing.
Gen. John Allen, former commander
of NATO International Security Assist-
ance Force and U.S. Forces—Afghani-
stan, was even blunter: ‘‘There is blood
on Trump’s hands for abandoning our
Kurdish allies.’’
Those are from former top U.S. mili-
tary leaders, patriots who fought with
our Syrian Kurdish allies in the fight
against ISIS.
There is also a statement from Brett
McGurk. So who is Brett McGurk?
Brett McGurk was the Presidential
Envoy for the Global Coalition to
Counter ISIS. He had that position
under the previous President and for
President Trump for a time. Here is
what Brett McGurk had to say: ‘‘I’ve
worked for three presidents and par-
ticipated in a number of foreign leader
calls. I cannot recall a President that
seems to believe—and then parrots—
whatever a foreign leader tells him on
the phone. Such information is often
false, intended to influence more than
inform.’’ Yet what we saw was that
when President Trump hung up on that
phone call with President Erdogan, he
essentially green-lighted that oper-
ation. That is why President Erdogan
likes to get President Trump on the
phone directly or talk to him directly,
which he is going to get a chance to do
tomorrow.
Probably the most damning of all the
comments I have heard—and this was
not unique, but it was unique in the
way it was characterized—came from
the mother of a cadet at the Naval
Academy. What was interesting is that
she has been a loyal supporter of Presi-
dent Trump. She supported him, she
voted for him, and she stuck with him,
but after the betrayal of our Syrian
Kurdish allies, she said that she no
longer could trust him and that she
worried that her son at the Naval
Academy would essentially be left to
the whims of a Commander in Chief
whom she could no longer trust. That
was all before President Trump invited
President Erdogan to the White House.
What we should be doing is passing
tough economic sanctions. What we
should be doing is holding Turkey and
President Erdogan accountable for un-
dermining our security and helping to
give new oxygen to ISIS. That is why
the House of Representatives passed a
bipartisan sanctions bill by a whopping
veto-proof vote of 403 to 16. That is why
Senator GRAHAM and I have introduced
bipartisan sanctions legislation in the
U.S. Senate, which has more than 14 bi-
partisan cosponsors and growing. I do
want to thank the Presiding Officer for
her efforts to hold President Erdogan
accountable with this legislation.
There is also other legislation intro-
duced by Senator MENENDEZ and Sen-
ator RISCH.
Here is what I know: The most im-
portant thing is that this body, the
Senate, should act right now. We have
the House bill sitting at the desk. We
have the bill introduced by Senator
GRAHAM and me sitting at the desk.
Right now we should just pass those
sanctions bills and send a message to
President Erdogan that while he may
be going to the White House tomorrow,
he does not have support in the Con-
gress.
I have talked about Erdogan’s ac-
tions for the last 5 weeks. I would like
to take us back 5 years from the period
we are in right now. In the fall of that
year, mid-September 2014, ISIS ter-
rorist forces were encircling the Syrian
Kurdish town of Kobani. Kobani is a
town on the Syrian side of the Turkey-
Syria border. ISIS was laying siege to
that town. They had already taken a
lot of the surrounding villages, and
they were closing in on this last Syrian
Kurdish stronghold.
The Syrian Kurds were totally out-
numbered by ISIS, and the Syrian
Kurds asked the United States for help.
It took us a little longer than it should
have—took us weeks, not days—but we
agreed to help supply our Syrian Kurd-
ish allies with weapons and equipment
in the fight against ISIS.
We asked Turkey if they would help
us supply weapons to the Syrian Kurds
because Kobani is right there on the
Syria-Turkey border. Turkey refused.
President Erdogan said no. So the
United States, at greater risk to our
own forces, had to airdrop weapons and
supplies into Iraq from U.S. aircraft,
and with that help, our Syrian Kurdish
forces were able to stop ISIS from tak-
ing over Kobani and began to push
them out and, again with our help, pri-
marily from the air, pushed them out.
In that fight over the last 5 years, the
Syrian Kurds have lost over 11,000 men
and women, soldiers and others. That
is what they have lost in the fight with
us against ISIS.
Turkey, on the other hand, not only
did not lift a finger in that fight, but
for the past 5 years and even more the
years before, they turned a blind eye to
ISIS fighters transiting through Tur-
key, so ISIS was growing stronger as a
result of their negligence.
I want to close by responding to
those who say: Well, you know what,
Turkey is a NATO ally, and so we
should invite President Erdogan over
to the White House.
I see on the floor my friend and col-
league, Senator DURBIN from Illinois,
and he, along with myself and others,
has made this point repeatedly. We
would like Turkey to be a strong NATO
ally. Over the years of NATO alliance,
they have in the past been a good part-
ner, but under President Erdogan’s
leadership, they have taken Turkey in
a very different direction.
The issue is not whether the United
States wants Turkey to be a member of
NATO; the question is, Does Turkey
really want to stay in the alliance? Be-
cause everything they have done shows
they are violating the values and prin-
ciples of our alliance.
President Erdogan decided to pur-
chase the Russian-made S–400 anti-air-
craft system against our strong objec-
tion. This is a system that would have
put our F–35 pilots at risk and under-
mined NATO security. President
Erdogan said he didn’t care. He went
ahead with the S–400 purchase, and
those S–400s are sitting in Turkey right
now.
He was willing to work with Russia,
Iran, Assad to undermine our interests
in the area. We have talked today
about how he attacked our Syrian
Kurdish allies. He has repeatedly
threatened the European Parliament,
European Union, with releasing refu-
gees if they do not cooperate with him
and don’t turn a blind eye to the fact
that he has locked up more journalists
than any other country on earth, in-
cluding Iran, Egypt, North Korea, and
Saudi Arabia.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.007 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6494 November 12, 2019
So, Madam President, the fact that
the President of the United States has
invited Erdogan to the White House,
after everything Erdogan has done to
undermine our values and security, is a
shame on the United States. It will un-
dermine our national security inter-
ests. It has already alarmed our allies
and heartened our adversaries.
It is important that all of us—all of
us in this House and Senate—on a bi-
partisan basis, speak out—as we have
been doing—against the shameful chap-
ter in our American foreign policy and
national security.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The gen-
tleman from Iowa is recognized.
COUNTERFEITERS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Today I am here to
discuss the critical need to protect
American businesses and consumers
from the dangers of counterfeits, par-
ticularly counterfeit goods sold online.
Counterfeits do incredible damage to
our country’s economic competitive-
ness. They harm intellectual property
right holders and the reputation of on-
line marketplaces, undermine the in-
tegrity of our supply chains, and even
threaten the health and safety of con-
sumers. So it is Congress’s responsi-
bility to use its oversight and legisla-
tive authority to identify ways to pre-
vent these illicit goods from entering
our borders.
Over the past year, I have worked
with the Finance Committee Ranking
Member WYDEN to investigate how
counterfeiters use e-commerce to sell
their phony goods to consumers. Last
week, we concluded our investigation
and issued a report detailing our find-
ings.
Based on the information presented
to Senator WYDEN and this Senator by
right holders, trade associations, e-
commerce platforms, and common car-
riers, we made five findings in this re-
port, and we identified two legislative
recommendations for Congress in this
report. I believe these recommenda-
tions will enhance existing efforts
within the Federal Government to pre-
vent the sale of counterfeits online.
I will talk briefly about our findings
today, and I look forward to working
with my colleagues—both Republican
and Democrat—to identify additional
areas for congressional action.
As chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee, I recognize the value of in-
tellectual property rights and their im-
pacts on society and the economy. In-
tellectual property rights allow busi-
nesses to generate new ideas and de-
velop creative solutions to everyday
problems that can make our lives
healthier, safer, and more productive. I
also understand businesses and
innovators rely on those rights to help
drive and recoup their investments.
In my own State of Iowa, intellectual
property represents more than $14.4 bil-
lion in annual exports for the State,
more than 94,000 jobs, and supports
more than 2,000 small businesses with
less than 500 employees. However,
counterfeits are increasingly threat-
ening these achievements and the hard
work of the people that innovate. It
has been estimated that international
trade for counterfeit goods in 2016 ac-
counted for $509 billion of world trade.
Counterfeits are found in both phys-
ical and online marketplaces, and al-
most every industry is affected. Scam
artists target electronics, automotive
parts, and even children’s toys, to rip-
off consumers and to make a profit.
Counterfeits can also harm consumers.
Many consumers do not know that
counterfeits can be dangerous and that
some have been found to contain lead,
excessive small parts, and even unsafe
chemicals.
In 2018, the Government Account-
ability Office—or GAO, as we know it
around Washington—examined how e-
commerce marketplaces are further en-
abling the sale of counterfeits. GAO
found that counterfeiters use online
marketplaces to sell fakes to con-
sumers because they can hide their
identity by using false or incomplete
names. Counterfeiters also post legiti-
mate photos or fake reviews for their
products, which makes it harder for
consumers to determine whether they
are buying a legitimate or fake good.
The Grassley-Wyden investigation
showed that the breadth and variety of
goods sold online makes it nearly im-
possible to prevent the sale of all coun-
terfeits. Right holders also told us that
their enforcement efforts are hindered
in part because the U.S. Customs and
Border Protection shares very lim-
ited—and often heavily redacted—im-
portation information with these right
holders. But right holders need impor-
tation information to identify counter-
feit sellers and report suspected coun-
terfeit listings.
Counterfeits also pose a threat to e-
commerce and to common carriers.
Counterfeits smear the reputation of e-
commerce and threaten the integrity
of the common carrier supply chain
network. As such, these parties are
critical partners in the fight against
the sale of counterfeit goods. However,
Customs and Border Protection does
not have the authority to share impor-
tation information with these parties
when it identifies a counterfeit at our
border.
During our investigation, these par-
ties told us that this information
would give them the ability to better
protect our country’s intellectual prop-
erty and allow them to remove more
counterfeit listings and block counter-
feit sellers. We must look at this prob-
lem holistically and with the under-
standing that right holders, e-com-
merce platforms, and common carriers
are critical partners in the fight
against the sale of counterfeit goods
and those counterfeit goods being sold
online. By sharing more importation
information, these parties can better
protect the intellectual property rights
of our innovators, as well as the health
and safety of e-commerce consumers.
Our investigation is but a first step.
I will continue to use my oversight au-
thority to look for innovative solutions
to protect intellectual property right
holders and consumers from the nega-
tive effects of counterfeits.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). The Senator from Illinois.
IMMIGRATION
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I was
honored today to attend the second
hearing I have attended in the Supreme
Court of the United States. If you
stand right here on the floor of the
Senate and look east through these
glass doors, you can almost see the Su-
preme Court buildings directly across
the street. The Supreme Court is,
many times, the last stop when it
comes to human rights and civil rights.
After all the work that has been done
by the Congress, by the President,
many times, it is the Supreme Court
that has the last word.
In the case of Plessy v. Ferguson,
when the Supreme Court held that seg-
regation was constitutional, that last
word was a disappointment. And
Korematsu v. The United States, when
the Supreme Court upheld the intern-
ment of Japanese Americans during
World War II, that was another dis-
appointment.
But other times, the Supreme Court
has risen to the challenge: The famous
case of Brown vs. Board of Education,
which finally struck down the concept
of separate but equal; Obergefell vs.
Hodges, where the Supreme Court rec-
ognized the right to marriage equality.
Well, today, the Supreme Court faces
another human rights issue involving
another group. Just a few hours ago,
the street between the Capitol and the
Supreme Court was literally filled with
thousands and thousands of demonstra-
tors. The issue before the Court today
was the fate of DACA, the Deferred Ac-
tion for Childhood Arrivals.
This measure, DACA, is one that I
have worked on for many years—many
years. Nineteen years ago, I introduced
the DREAM Act. Before that, the term
‘‘Dreamer’’ was hardly ever applied in
the conversation about immigration,
but now, it has become standard and
really defines this group of Americans,
people living in America.
In their case, they came to the
United States, brought here by their
parents, when they were children. They
may have had legal entry into the
United States, but at some point in
their lives, they no longer were legal.
They became undocumented, in the
words of the law. Most of these young
people never knew that status until
they reached their teenage years and
their parents finally told them the
truth of their legal condition.
They had no control over the deci-
sion of their parents to come to this
country or file the necessary papers.
Frankly, many of them were shocked
to learn that they were undocumented.
They went to school with our kids.
They grew up in our communities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.009 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6495
November 12, 2019
They played on the sports teams. They
probably attended the same churches
and temples and synagogues as our own
kids. They were just part of the group.
But they knew—they privately knew
they were not. They knew that they
were one knock on the door away from
being deported from the United States.
It was because of one of these young
people that I decided to introduce that
DREAM Act legislation 19 years ago.
Her name is Tereza Lee, brought to the
United States at the age of 2 from
Korea by her parents to Chicago. She
grew up in a family that struggled to
make ends meet. Her father wanted to
be a minister, but never quite put that
church together. Her mother worked in
a dry-cleaning establishment to feed
the family. She went to public schools,
and as luck would have it, there was a
program at one of these schools called
the Merit Music program that gave her
a chance to learn how to play the
piano.
She started playing, and she followed
her father around to these churches.
Then she took it seriously, and she be-
came an amazing pianist to the point
where, when she finished the public
high school, she was offered an oppor-
tunity to go on for music education at
the Manhattan Conservatory of Music.
When she filled out her application and
reached the point where they asked her
nationality and citizenship, she asked
her mom: What am I supposed to put
on here? Her mom said: I am not sure.
We better call Senator DURBIN’s office.
They did, and we checked the law,
and the law is very harsh. For Tereza
Lee—who had lived 15 or 16 years in the
United States, beat the odds by fin-
ishing high school and developing this
great talent at the piano—the law told
her that she had to leave the United
States for 10 years and apply to return.
That is the law.
It seemed unfair to me that a young
woman, brought here at the age of 2,
should face that as her only legal
choice, so I introduced the DREAM
Act. It said, if you were brought here
as a child, raised in the United States,
went to school, and had no criminal
record of significance, that you should
be given a chance—the chance to make
it in the United States to earn your
way to legal status and citizenship.
That is what the DREAM Act was all
about. We passed it in the House and in
the Senate, but never in the same Con-
gress, so it is still not the law of the
land. It was 8 years ago when I ap-
pealed to my former colleague in the
Senate, Barack Obama, as President,
to try to help, and he did.
By Executive action, he created
DACA, which said that young people
like Tereza Lee could apply, go
through a criminal background check,
fill out the necessary forms, pay the
filing fee, and be allowed to stay in the
United States for 2 years at a time, re-
newable, not to be deported, and be
able to legally work.
After President Obama came up with
DACA, over 780,000 young people came
forward and became protected by
DACA. It really changed their lives.
For the first time in their lives, they
had some government-recognized sta-
tus. They were no longer just undocu-
mented. Then amazing things hap-
pened. They went on and pursued an
education, a career, a life, a future.
They started realizing their dreams. It
was a good and positive thing all
around.
Then, President Trump came into of-
fice. Initially, he was very complimen-
tary of Dreamers, saying positive
things about them, but, unfortunately,
over a period of time he changed his at-
titude about this issue. On September
5, 2017, President Trump announced he
was going to end the DACA Program,
end the protection for these young peo-
ple.
It was a sad day and a challenge for
us to decide what to do, to try to pass
legislation in the Congress that would
protect these young people, and we
rolled up our sleeves and put together
several bipartisan measures in the Sen-
ate. President Trump rejected every
single one of them. He wasn’t going to
have it. He was opposed to our enacting
legislation that dealt with it.
That repeal of DACA has created un-
certainty for hundreds of thousands. A
lawsuit was filed in an effort to try to
protect them, and the courts said their
protection would continue while the
case was being argued. The case
worked its way through the courts and
ended up, this morning, at the U.S. Su-
preme Court across the street.
I was proud to lead 172 current and
former Members of Congress on a bi-
partisan amicus brief in support of
DACA. Now it is clearly up to the Jus-
tices in the Supreme Court to follow
the law and to reject what I consider to
be President Trump’s illegal repeal of
DACA, but only Congress can provide a
permanent solution for Dreamers.
The U.S. House of Representatives
has responded to President Trump’s
cruel decision to repeal DACA by pass-
ing the Dream and Promise Act on a
strong bipartisan vote of 237 to 187.
This legislation is based on the
DREAM Act I originally introduced 19
years ago. This bipartisan legislation
would give Dreamers a chance to earn
their citizenship. The bill passed the
House. It is here. It is now up to Sen-
ator MITCH MCCONNELL of Kentucky,
the Republican leader, to call the
Dream and Promise Act for a vote in
the U.S. Senate.
Mr. President, I want to make a
unanimous consent request in relation
to that measure and ask for a consent
after we debate my UC request to com-
plete my remarks. I see a Senator on
the floor who I believe is here to ob-
ject. I want to be courteous to her be-
cause she has been in the Chair for a
while. Can I have a unanimous consent
to return to the debate after I make
my unanimous consent request?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H.R. 6
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, for clar-
ity, I ask unanimous consent to bring
to the floor the Dream and Promise
Act for a vote in the Senate—a meas-
ure which would address the very issue
that is before the Supreme Court
today. I am making this on behalf of
Senator SCHUMER, Senator LEAHY, Sen-
ator ROSEN, Senator TIM KAINE, Sen-
ator MENENDEZ, and Senator CARDIN.
As if in legislative session, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 112, H.R. 6; fur-
ther, that the bill be considered read a
third time and passed, and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon table, with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
am reserving the right to object, and I
will object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
would like to articulate the reason for
the objection to the legislation that is
brought forward by my friend the Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Once again, I found it necessary for
the good of the order to object to a
unanimous consent request brought by
our friends in the minority. Once
again, they are attempting to bypass
the Senate’s rules on behalf of a piece
of legislation this body has not had
time to debate, to deliberate, or to con-
sider in committee.
The American Dream and Promise
Act passed the House of Representa-
tives by a near party-line vote;
unsurprising, considering the bill ad-
dresses the contentious issue of immi-
gration law. This bill, supported by the
Senator from Illinois, would offer tem-
porary legal status to 21⁄2 million un-
documented immigrants.
Those affected immigrants have tried
to remain in the United States under
the Deferred Action for Childhood Ar-
rivals, or the DACA Program—a back-
stop made possible by nothing more
than an Executive memo signed by
former President Barack Obama.
I think this is important for us to re-
alize that it was an Executive memo
that put this program in place. It is
not a Federal law. President Trump
ended the DACA Program in 2017, argu-
ing the Obama administration’s at-
tempt to subvert immigration law on
such a massive scale was unlawful and
possibly unconstitutional. Soon after,
President Trump offered a path to le-
galization for DACA recipients, but our
friends in the minority refused to take
him up on that offer.
We have to remember this: There was
a path to legalization for DACA recipi-
ents that was offered by President Don-
ald Trump. Our friends in the minority
said: No; no, we do not want that.
They continued with the issue. I will
tell you, every Dreamer in the country
should be outraged by the minority’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.010 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6496 November 12, 2019
refusal to come to the table and nego-
tiate on an offer that was on the table.
I encourage my friends on the other
side of the aisle to remember that the
Supreme Court affirmed a lower court
decision to maintain an injunction on
the nationwide DAPA Program—a
scheme similar to DACA but aimed at
parents, as opposed to children.
Although that decision set no legal
precedent, it did open up an oppor-
tunity for the new administration—and
for each and every one of us in the Sen-
ate—to rebuild various fixes in our im-
migration system without running
afoul of existing legal barriers.
As my friend the Senator from Illi-
nois likes to point out, Senators from
both sides of the aisle have been work-
ing on this issue—it has been with us
for years—and it is imperative we find
a consensus solution.
If the minority wishes to offer peace
of mind and a path forward to Dream-
ers, they should do it in such a way
that allows the American people to
hold each and every one of us account-
able for repercussions. We should do
this through regular order. I reiterate
my objection to the minority whip’s
motion.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Does the
Senator object?
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President,
yes, I do object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, for the
record, how many pieces of legislation
did we consider in the Senate last
week? None. The week before? None.
How many months has this measure
been sitting in the Senate, the Repub-
lican-controlled Senate? Five months,
and for five months the Republican
leader has not considered it worthy to
even bring it before the Senate for de-
bate.
I don’t control the agenda. Senator
MCCONNELL does. He has decided this
measure is not worth debating on the
floor of the U.S. Senate.
When I come and make a unanimous
consent request to bring this measure
to the floor, it isn’t as if we are taking
away an option, which the Republican
leader is using. He is not. When we
look back to the debate or at least the
effort to find a compromise with Presi-
dent Trump on this issue, it is next to
impossible. He is surrounded by people
who are completely against DACA and
Dreamers. Stephen Miller is a good il-
lustration of one. It used to be Jeff Ses-
sions. He is no longer with the adminis-
tration. Every time the President
starts to lean toward DACA and the
Dreamers, these people intervene and
stop him, and negotiations come to an
end.
It is time for us in the Senate not to
wait for a permission slip from Presi-
dent Trump to pass legislation. I am
prepared to bring this matter to the
floor and to accept the decision on the
amendments on the floor. We are in the
minority. We will lose some of these
amendments. So be it. Let’s let the
Senate be the Senate and deliberate
these measures. To argue that I
shouldn’t be asking to bring it to the
floor because it has to go through reg-
ular order, the obvious question is:
When is Senator MCCONNELL going to
pursue regular order on a measure that
has been sitting here for 5 months?
Let me say a word, if I can, while we
are on the subject, about the people
who are involved. We can talk about
Senate procedure and law all we wish,
but what we should do is discuss the
real people who are involved.
In 1,000 days in office, this President
has issued 11,000 tweets. No surprise, is
it? There are 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 a day. He
issued one this morning about the
young people who are in question here.
I would like to read President Donald
Trump’s tweet from this morning, as
the case was headed to the Supreme
Court. Here is what he tweeted:
Many of the people in DACA, no longer
very young, are far from ‘‘angels.’’ Some are
very tough, hardened criminals. President
Obama said he had no legal right to sign
order, but would anyway. If Supreme Court
remedies with overturn, a deal will be made
with Dems for them to stay!
May I address one particular aspect
of the tweet of the President of the
United States on this subject affecting
the fate of 780,000 young people living
in the United States? Probably the best
thing is not to do it generically but to
talk about specifics.
Let me tell you a story about two
DACA recipients, both attending Loy-
ola University in Chicago—the city I
am honored to represent. They both
came to Washington, DC, today, and
sat in the Supreme Court during the
argument. I am going to leave it up to
my Members and colleagues in the Sen-
ate, as well as those who are following
this debate, to reach their own conclu-
sion about these two whom I am about
to tell the story of. You decide whether
this man is a tough and hardened
criminal. His name is Cesar
Montelongo. He grew up in the State of
New Mexico. He was a pretty good stu-
dent. In fact, he was an excellent stu-
dent. He graduated from high school
with a grade point average of 4.0 and
ranked third in his class. He went on to
New Mexico State University, where he
was a triple major in biology, microbi-
ology, and Spanish, as well as two mi-
nors in chemistry and biochemistry.
Cesar graduated with a 3.9 GPA.
This hardened criminal then went on
to earn a master’s degree in biology,
with a minor in molecular biology,
while working as a teaching assistant.
Then DACA came along. For the first
time in his life, he had a chance to
apply for medical school. He never
thought that could happen. He applied
and was accepted at Loyola Univer-
sity’s Chicago Stritch School of Medi-
cine. It is quite an achievement.
The Presiding Officer, who is also a
medical doctor, I am sure understands
that, but he did one better. He enrolled
in the M.D.-Ph.D. program at Loyola
University. He was just in my office
upstairs, and he told me that in a mat-
ter of 2 or 3 years, he will have com-
pleted his Ph.D. in microbiology, and
then he can go on to complete his med-
ical degree and his residency.
This tough, hardened criminal—ac-
cording to the President—has designs
on becoming a medical researcher in
the United States of America. When he
completes this highly competitive pro-
gram, he will have a medical degree
and a doctorate degree in science.
He is one of dozens of DACA recipi-
ents at the Stritch School. My hat is
off to Loyola University. They have ad-
mitted more DACA students to their
medical school than any other medical
school in the United States. They are
amazing students. I have met them.
Many, if not all of them, have promised
to come back to my State of Illinois,
having had this chance to go to med-
ical school in Chicago, and serve in un-
derserved areas after they have become
practicing doctors. Loyola doesn’t give
them any special treatment in the se-
lection process. They are not eligible
for any Federal financial assistance.
I just want to thank them and say to
the President of the United States: Be-
fore you put out a tweet calling Cesar
Montelongo or people like him hard-
ened criminals, Mr. President, take a
minute and meet these young people.
While you are at it, meet this young
lady too. She was just in my office. Her
name is Fernanda Herrera Vera. When
she was 2 years old, her family brought
her from Mexico to the United States.
When she was 7, her family was forced
to leave Guntersville, AL, when her fa-
ther lost his job due to his immigration
status. The family settled in Gadsden,
AL, where Fernanda attended a private
Catholic school on a scholarship.
When she was 10, her parents opened
a restaurant. Every day after school,
she went to the restaurant to wait ta-
bles and help run the restaurant, doing
her homework in her spare time. Dur-
ing Fernanda’s junior year of high
school, Alabama passed the harshest
anti-immigration law in the country,
which forced her family to close down
their restaurant.
Alabama barred Dreamers from at-
tending even public colleges, but
thanks to DACA, Fernanda was able to
attend a private school, Samford Uni-
versity in Birmingham, AL. Her par-
ents worked hard to pay tuition. She
qualified for no Federal financial as-
sistance. Her dad worked 80 hours a
week at a chicken plant so that she
could go to college. She graduated
from Samford in 2017, and her experi-
ence has driven her to become an im-
migration activist. She worked at the
Alabama Coalition for Immigrant Jus-
tice.
After President Trump repealed
DACA in 2017, Fernanda came to Wash-
ington for a 4-day hunger fast with
other DACA recipients on the Capitol
lawn.
Last year, Fernanda was admitted to
the Loyola University Chicago School
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.011 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6497
November 12, 2019
of Law. But this spring, her mother
was pulled over in Georgia for driving
with a broken taillight. Her mother is
now in deportation proceedings.
It is tough enough to go to school
without Federal financial help. It is
tough enough to work your way
through it. It is tough enough not to
know how the Supreme Court is going
to rule tomorrow or the day after and
whether it will change your fate. It is
tough enough to know that any knock
at the door could mean deportation for
members of your family. Yet she has
persevered.
A hardened criminal, Mr. President?
Fernanda’s dream is to become an
immigration lawyer. She wants to help
people just like her mom.
Without DACA, Cesar Montelongo
will not become a doctor. Fernanda
Herrera Vera will not become an attor-
ney. Will America be a better country
if they are forced to leave, if they are
deported? I don’t think so.
Cesar, Fernanda, and hundreds of
thousands of other Dreamers are
counting on the Supreme Court to do
the right thing and reject President
Trump’s repeal of DACA. They are also
counting on those of us who serve in
the Senate to stop making excuses and
solve this crisis.
A bill has passed the House. I tried to
bring it to the floor of the Senate, and
there was an objection today. It isn’t
because we are overwhelmed with
work. As you can see, we spend a lot of
time making speeches.
Since Senator MCCONNELL refuses to
take any action to address the plight of
the Dreamers, I am going to continue
to make this unanimous consent re-
quest. Next week, I don’t want the ex-
cuse to be that we are not following
regular order, but in the meantime, I
hope the Senate Judiciary Committee
will take up this measure, as they have
so many times over the last 15 years or
so, and bring it to the floor of the Sen-
ate.
Once and for all, could we be the U.S.
Senate for a week? Could we actually
consider a piece of legislation here that
addresses an issue that is critically im-
portant to hundreds of thousands of
people living in the United States of
America?
What a relief it would be to see this
Senate actually as a Senate, to see
Members on the floor debating issues. I
am not going to win every debate.
Every amendment I want is not going
to pass, but I am prepared to accept
the outcome. Let’s do what the Senate
was elected to do.
I am sorry there was an objection
today. As long as I am a U.S. Senator,
I am going to continue to come to the
floor of the Senate to advocate for
Cesar, Fernanda and all of the Dream-
ers. It would be an American tragedy
to deport these two promising young
people.
Now it is in the hands of Senator
MITCH MCCONNELL, the Republican ma-
jority leader, to give the Dream and
Promise Act a vote and to say to those
780,000 who do not know what their fu-
ture will be just days or weeks from
now that there is an answer: We want
you to be part of America.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I know
my friend from Illinois, Senator DUR-
BIN, is sincere in his desire to get some
relief for the DACA recipients, whose
case is now pending before the U.S. Su-
preme Court. I share a desire to give
them some certainty. That is why I
supported what President Trump of-
fered in February of 2018, which was a
pathway to citizenship not only for the
individuals who had applied for and re-
ceived deferred action under President
Obama’s administration but for all
those who were eligible but did not
apply.
What continues to confuse me is how
our Democratic colleagues will rou-
tinely vote against that offer, which
was incredibly generous. I don’t think
any other President in my lifetime
would have had the boldness and the
courage to offer a pathway to citizen-
ship for 1.8 million DACA-eligible
young people, but President Trump did,
and our Democratic colleagues turned
it down. That leads me to wonder
about their sincerity. Do they like this
political issue more than they have a
desire to find a solution to the prob-
lem?
I agree that these young people, who
through no fault of their own came to
the United States because their par-
ents brought them here, are the most
sympathetic and deserving cohort of
immigrants in the country. I wish we
could work together to come up with a
solution. But at some point you have
to wonder whether our Democratic col-
leagues prefer not to solve the problem
but would rather try to portray this as
a political football for partisan advan-
tage in the runup to the next election.
That is tragic—toying with the lives
of these young people, stoking their in-
security, telling them you are on their
side but on the other hand voting
against an offer to provide them a
pathway toward citizenship. I don’t
know how you reconcile those two po-
sitions.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. President, on another matter, I
introduced a bill with our colleague
from Connecticut, Senator
BLUMENTHAL, to address the rising
costs at the pharmacy counter. Sen-
ator BLUMENTHAL is a Democrat. I am
a Republican. He is from Connecticut. I
am from Texas. But we both heard the
same thing from our constituents: Pre-
scription drugs—particularly the out-
of-pocket costs to consumers—are too
high, especially with the huge
deductibles and the huge copays under
the Affordable Care Act.
Over the last several months, we
have dug into the reasons behind those
high costs, and it is safe to say there is
a lot that concerns us.
One of the most egregious forms of
abuse we have seen deals with the pat-
ent system. Under the patent system,
if you come up with a new lifesaving
drug, then you are guaranteed the ex-
clusive right to make and to sell that
drug, and you are protected from any
competition for a period of time. But
after that period of time expires, what
is supposed to happen is that generic
alternatives are supposed to be avail-
able to compete and bring down the
price for consumers. That is the case
for 90 percent of the drugs we take.
Our country offers the most robust
protection in the world for intellectual
property. We know companies are un-
likely to pour extensive time, money,
and resources into developing these
new cures unless, at the end of it, there
is some reward. I get that, and I sup-
port that.
But the patent system is designed to
provide a limited time period during
which the manufacturer can be the sole
seller on the market before generic al-
ternatives can become available and
before competitors can enter the mar-
ket. What is happening is that some
companies are abusing that system and
extending that period of exclusivity by
filing tens—sometimes in excess of 100
patents.
In one case involving a drug called
HUMIRA, which is one of the best sell-
ing drugs in the world, there are four
approved competitors in Europe. In the
United States, HUMIRA has in excess
of 120 separate patents designed to
crowd out and prevent any competition
while maintaining their exclusivity in
the marketplace.
That is what is called the patent
thicketing. It involves using intricate
webs of patents to keep competition at
bay for as long as possible, meaning
that your profits and your exclusive
rights to sell this drug are high.
There is also something called prod-
uct hopping, which occurs when a com-
pany develops a reformulation of an ex-
isting drug about to lose its exclusivity
and then pulls the original product off
the market. This is done not because
the new formula is more effective nec-
essarily but because pulling the origi-
nal drug off the market before it loses
its exclusivity prevents generic com-
petitors. That is called product hop-
ping.
The bill Senator BLUMENTHAL and I
introduced aims to stop these anti-
competitive behaviors, allow competi-
tors to come to market sooner, and
bring down prices for consumers. The
Affordable Prescriptions for Patients
Act streamlines the litigation process
by limiting the number of patents com-
panies can use when they are litigating
their patent rights. Ultimately, we be-
lieve—and I believe it is borne out by
the Congressional Budget Office scor-
ing—this would allow competitors to
resolve patent issues faster and bring
those generic drugs to market sooner.
This is how we improve competition
and lower prices without getting in the
way of lifesaving innovation.
The added benefit to this bill is the
Federal savings it would provide for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.013 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6498 November 12, 2019
taxpayers. The Congressional Budget
Office says that this bill would lower
Federal spending by more than half a
billion dollars over 10 years. That is
not a panacea, but it is a good start.
This is just savings to the Federal Gov-
ernment for Medicare and Medicaid.
There would undoubtedly be more sav-
ings for consumers who get their
health coverage through private health
insurance.
It checks every box. It checks inno-
vation, increases competition, lowers
prices for patients, and saves money
for taxpayers. On top of that, this bill
has a raft of bipartisan cosponsors.
This is not a partisan bill; this is a bi-
partisan bill. In addition to Senator
BLUMENTHAL, five other Democrats
have endorsed the bill, including both
the Democratic whip and the assistant
Democratic leader.
I am sure it comes as no surprise
that this bill sailed through the Judici-
ary Committee without a single Sen-
ator voting against it. It was unani-
mous. During simpler times, it would
have quickly passed the full Senate and
moved on to the House for their consid-
eration and then gone on to the Presi-
dent for his signature. But we all know
things aren’t quite that easy these
days, and even bipartisan bills get
caught up in the political crosshairs.
According to a report in POLITICO,
the minority leader from New York,
Senator SCHUMER, is blocking this bill
from passing in the Senate. He is
blocking one of his own Member’s
bills—and one to lower prescription
drug prices, of all things. While the
American people suffer from the crush
of high costs at the pharmacy, he
stonewalls, and it is to the detriment
of just about everybody—except one
group.
I know there are some drug manufac-
turers that must be thrilled with his
blocking the bill that would reduce
their compensation and increase com-
petition. You see, the army of special
interests who have been fighting my
bill since day one when it was intro-
duced is ecstatic that the Democratic
leader is blocking this bill, but I am
not, and I don’t think the rest of the
Senate is either because this is a non-
controversial, bipartisan bill. The only
thing that Democrats are doing by con-
tinuing to hold up this bill is to carry
water for one of Washington’s most
prominent special interest groups. As
long as they do, it will be to the det-
riment of the American people.
I know this frustration is bipartisan
because my friend Senator
BLUMENTHAL is just as frustrated by
this ridiculous holdup as I am. We have
tried to reason with the minority lead-
er. We have tried to negotiate. We have
tried to get him to allow the bill to
come to the floor, but we have had no
luck so far.
Last week, I came to the Senate floor
to ask unanimous consent to pass this
bill, and what happened next felt like a
scene from a bad made-for-TV political
drama. The minority leader, who was
unwilling to come to the floor and
block the bill himself, tried to have
one of the cosponsors of my bill do it
for him, the Senator from Illinois. He
would rather force his own member to
block a popular bipartisan bill, which
happens to have my name on it, than
allow it to pass on its own.
Well, as you can imagine, that didn’t
go very well. So then it was on to plan
B. They wanted to link the fate of our
bill, which passed unanimously in the
Judiciary Committee, with another bill
that hasn’t even passed out of com-
mittee.
The other bill was introduced by our
friends, Senators Grassley and Durbin,
and aims to provide greater trans-
parency on drug prices, something that
is definitely needed, and I don’t object
to it. But these bills are in very dif-
ferent places in the legislative process,
and some Members on our side have
concerns about a bill coming to the
floor that hasn’t even been through the
committee of jurisdiction.
Now, to the minority leader this is
just another creative way to stop pas-
sage of a noncontroversial bill and at-
tach a free rider onto the bill, which, in
essence, is a poison pill. The result is
the same. Nothing passes.
As I said, the bill Senator
BLUMENTHAL and I have introduced is
bipartisan. It is not controversial. It
went through regular order. Every
member of the Judiciary Committee
had a chance to vote on it, and no one
voted against it. We checked on our
side, and there is no objection. We have
run a hotline on the Democratic side,
only to find that the Democratic leader
is the one himself who is blocking it.
Well, unfortunately, politics, once
again, has overwhelmed our collective
good judgment and good sense. I know
the Democratic leader doesn’t want
any bills to pass that Republicans can
use to tell their constituents that they
are listening to their concerns and act-
ing on those concerns in the run up to
the next election. He doesn’t really
care about the merits of the legislation
or that it would, in fact, help New
Yorkers. It is politically inconvenient,
and that, clearly, is his top priority.
The American people deserve better.
With the House working day and night
to remove the President from office
and the next election less than a year
away, the opportunities for us to pass
any sort of bipartisan legislation are
getting slimmer and slimmer.
I plan to return to the floor later this
week with my colleague from Con-
necticut to ask unanimous consent
that this bill be passed. If the Demo-
cratic leader is going to block the bill,
I want it to be clear to the American
people and the people who would ben-
efit from the passage of the bill being
signed into law. I want them to see him
do it and to hold him accountable for
his misguided politics.
I hope the minority leader will
rethink his decision to block this bill
so that we can all work together to de-
liver bipartisan results for our con-
stituents.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Nevada.
NOMINATION OF CHAD F. WOLF
Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, I rise
today in opposition to this administra-
tion’s nomination of Chad Wolf to be
Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy,
and Plans at the Department of Home-
land Security. I stand here today op-
posed not only to Mr. Wolf’s nomina-
tion but also to the way in which this
administration is circumventing the
constitutional requirement of advice
and consent to make Mr. Wolf the head
of the third largest Department in the
Federal Government.
By the President’s own admission,
Mr. Wolf is slated to immediately be
appointed to serve indefinitely in the
position of Acting Secretary of Home-
land Security. Thus, our votes tonight
and tomorrow are effectively to con-
firm Chad Wolf to be Acting Secretary
of the entire Department of Homeland
Security, despite limited vetting, no
committee vote, and no confirmation
hearing for this position.
But this is about more than just an
egregious attempt to bypass the Sen-
ate’s role of advice and consent for
Cabinet nominees. Rather, this eve-
ning’s vote will advance a nominee who
played an integral role in this adminis-
tration’s cruel family separation pol-
icy, and tonight’s vote is about the re-
fusal of this administration to address
its treatment of detained children.
That is why I was so disappointed to
see cloture filed on Chad Wolf’s nomi-
nation. I placed a hold on Mr. Wolf’s
nomination to be Under Secretary as a
result of the ongoing humanitarian cri-
sis at the southern border, which began
and grew during Mr. Wolf’s tenure as
chief of staff to DHS Secretary Nielsen.
Between July 2017 and June 2018,
while Mr. Wolf held the position of
chief of staff, 2,800 migrant children
were separated from their parents and
held in DHS custody under this admin-
istration’s cruel, so-called ‘‘zero toler-
ance’’ immigration policy.
Even today, we don’t know the ex-
tent of the damage. Just last week, re-
ports identified 1,500 more children who
were separated from their parents dur-
ing that time. We do, however, know
from emails that Chad Wolf played a
leading role in developing, suggesting,
and implementing this inhumane pol-
icy.
When I asked him if he had helped to
develop the administration’s family
separation policy, he said: ‘‘No,
ma’am.’’ When I asked him if he had
concerns with the policy of indefinitely
separating children from their parents,
Mr. Wolf said: ‘‘My job wasn’t to deter-
mine if it was the right or wrong pol-
icy.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.014 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6499
November 12, 2019
When I asked him how he became
aware of the policy, he stated that he
learned about it in April of 2018. Emails
now show that Mr. Wolf had been par-
ticipating in meetings discussing fam-
ily separation as far back as December
of 2017. The emails showed that Mr.
Wolf provided then-Secretary Nielsen a
list of 16 options to limit immigration,
one of which was to separate families.
Even before these emails came to
light, I found Mr. Wolf’s failure to take
responsibility for his direct involve-
ment in the administration’s cruel
family separation policy to be both
misleading and disingenuous, which is
why I voted against his nomination in
committee.
I also placed a hold on both Mr.
Wolf’s nomination and that of DHS
CFO nominee Troy Edgar until the in-
humane and substandard conditions for
children at CBP processing and deten-
tion facilities improved significantly.
Reports from journalists, attorneys,
and advocates detailed ongoing horrific
conditions, making it clear that DHS
was not taking the actions needed to
care for and treat migrant children at
the southern border.
I witnessed these conditions first-
hand. When I toured detention facili-
ties at the border earlier this year,
what I saw was entirely consistent
with the news and DHS inspector gen-
eral reports about the horrific and in-
humane conditions there: children
freezing, scared, and unsure of what
would happen to them next. The chil-
dren didn’t know if they would ever see
their parents again. Even the parents
didn’t know when their next meal
would be, when their next shower
would be, and how long they would be
there. The anxiety and despair was pal-
pable.
Amidst this crisis at the border, I
placed a hold on Mr. Wolf. My requests
of the Department were simple—that
every child under the care of the
United States of America be treated
humanely. I requested that DHS hire
more pediatricians for CBP facilities,
that they bring on child welfare profes-
sionals to care for and provide services
to the children in CBP custody, and
that they increase NGO access to CBP
facilities.
Regarding these specific requests,
DHS has not adequately addressed the
concerns. This is why I maintain my
hold on Mr. Wolf’s nomination and why
my hold on Mr. Edgar will remain until
these conditions improve.
With this in mind, we cannot allow a
nominee like Mr. Wolf to move for-
ward, especially when we know he is
going to be moved right up to Acting
Secretary, a position where the Presi-
dent can keep him indefinitely without
a confirmation hearing and without
the advice and consent of the Senate.
It is an end run around our constitu-
tional role, one of the most important
checks we have on the executive
branch. It is also not the process we
should accept for filling a Cabinet-level
position in the third largest Depart-
ment in the Federal Government, one
charged with the critical job of pro-
tecting our homeland.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to vote against cloture on Mr.
Wolf’s nomination tonight and against
his confirmation tomorrow, and I
pledge to work with all of you and the
administration to identify nominees to
lead the Department whom we can all
support.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wisconsin.
Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I rise
today to ask the Senate to confirm Mr.
Chad Wolf to be the Under Secretary of
the Office of Strategy, Policy, and
Plans at the Department of Homeland
Security.
The Under Secretary of the Office of
Strategy, Policy, and Plans leads an of-
fice of over 150 employees with an an-
nual budget of over $37 million to de-
velop and implement DHS policy, long-
term goals, and strategic plans. Chad
Wolf has extensive experience in home-
land security policy, starting in 2002
working as the chief of staff helping to
stand up the new Transportation Secu-
rity Administration after 9/11 and then
as the Assistant Administrator for that
agency.
He left government and spent over a
decade working on homeland security
policy issues as a consultant in the pri-
vate sector. Mr. Wolf returned to pub-
lic service and the Department of
Homeland Security in 2017, serving as
chief of staff at TSA, chief of staff to
the Secretary, and now as the Assist-
ant Secretary of Strategy, Plans, Anal-
ysis & Risk. Since February of this
year, he has been the senior official
performing the duties of the Under Sec-
retary of the Office of Strategy, Policy,
and Plans, the office for which we are
now considering his nomination.
The Senate Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs ap-
proved his nomination on a bipartisan
basis on July 24. As we all know, the
Department has a number of Senate-
confirmed leadership positions vacant.
Currently, 7 of the 18 DHS offices re-
quiring Senate confirmation are va-
cant. Three of those vacant positions
have nominees that have been lan-
guishing on the Senate floor for
months after being approved by my
committee with bipartisan support.
Mr. Wolf’s nomination has been pend-
ing in the Senate for almost 9 months.
Troy Edgar, the nominee to be the De-
partment’s Chief Financial Officer, has
been pending in the Senate for 8
months, and William Bryan, the nomi-
nee to be Under Secretary for Science
and Technology, has been pending for
over 4 months. All three nominees were
approved by my committee with bipar-
tisan support. We are holding a hearing
to consider Mr. Peter Gaynor as the
President’s nominee to head FEMA
this week.
Dedicated Americans serving at DHS
in acting positions are doing admirable
jobs under oftentimes difficult cir-
cumstances. I trust that Chad Wolf will
do the same if he is asked to step aside
from his role as Under Secretary to
serve temporarily as Acting Secretary
upon Kevin McAleenan’s departure.
I fully expect and I call upon the
President to nominate a permanent
Secretary for the Department of Home-
land Security. When he does, my com-
mittee will consider the nominee expe-
ditiously. We need confirmed leader-
ship at DHS to help direct the Depart-
ment as it works to keep Americans
safe.
We need confirmed leadership at DHS
to help direct the Department as it
works to keep Americans safe. I am
grateful to Chad Wolf for his willing-
ness to serve in this position, and I en-
courage my colleagues to support his
confirmation.
Mr. President, I suggest the absence
of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today, I
rise to oppose the nomination of Chad
Wolf. Officially, we are considering Mr.
Wolf’s nomination to serve as Under
Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and
Plans at the Department of Homeland
Security. In that role Mr. Wolf would
lead the DHS policy office, an impor-
tant but little-known part of the De-
partment.
However, that is not the role that
Mr. Wolf will actually have. We have
recently learned that the President has
much bigger plans for Mr. Wolf. The
President plans to make Mr. Wolf the
next Acting Secretary for the entire
Department of Homeland Security. In-
stead of running the policy office,
which has a staff of about 160 people
and an annual budget of $35 million,
Mr. Wolf will lead all of DHS, the third
largest executive agency, with a
240,000-person workforce and a budget
of over $75 billion.
Let’s be clear, for all intents and pur-
poses, we are essentially about to vote
on the confirmation of a new Secretary
of Homeland Security, a position re-
sponsible for protecting this Nation
from a vast and evolving array of
threats. Despite the importance of this
position and this vote, we have not
been given a full opportunity to mean-
ingfully examine Mr. Wolf’s ability to
take on this profoundly important and
challenging role.
Based on my evaluation of his quali-
fications to serve as Under Secretary, I
do not believe Mr. Wolf has the experi-
ence needed to lead this critical Cabi-
net Department.
I would like to recognize that Mr.
Wolf does have several years of Home-
land Security policy experience. In his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.015 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6500 November 12, 2019
current role within the Department’s
policy office, Mr. Wolf has engaged in
productive dialogue with the Homeland
Security Committee. In particular, I
have personally appreciated his will-
ingness to recognize the growing threat
of domestic terrorism and White su-
premacist violence and the need for the
Department to do more to keep our
communities safe.
However, Mr. Wolf’s tenure as chief
of staff to former DHS Secretary
Nielsen raises serious concerns about
his judgment and, in particular, his in-
volvement in some of this administra-
tion’s most misguided and harmful
policies. As part of the Senate’s con-
stitutional responsibility to provide
advice and consent, I have repeatedly
asked DHS to provide documents di-
rectly related to Mr. Wolf’s time as
Secretary Nielsen’s top adviser. How-
ever, the Department has failed to
comply, leaving Congress without the
information needed to fully and fairly
evaluate Mr. Wolf’s qualifications to
serve as Under Secretary, let alone run
the entire Department of Homeland Se-
curity.
Unfortunately, this disregard for
Congress’s constitutional role as a
check on the executive branch is not
an isolated occurrence. Instead, it ap-
pears to be a defining feature of this
administration.
The Constitution requires that the
President’s nominees to hold key posi-
tions receive the advice and consent of
the Senate. The Framers knew this ar-
rangement was necessary to ensure
that those who hold the most powerful
and influential positions in govern-
ment are accountable not solely to the
President but to Congress and, most
importantly, to the American people.
However, this President has shown a
willingness to abandon the
foundational principle of advice and
consent and to test the limits of his
legal authority to unilaterally install
acting officials of his choosing. This
has resulted in far too many critical
positions going unfilled.
At the Department of Homeland Se-
curity, all three top positions—Sec-
retary, Deputy Secretary, and Under
Secretary for Management have been
vacant for more than 7 months, and the
President has yet to name a nominee
for any of those roles. Other key DHS
components have seen temporary lead-
ers come and go for months—even
years—without a nominee for the Sen-
ate to consider. This President has de-
clared that he prefers ‘‘acting’’ offi-
cials because it ‘‘gives [him] more
flexibility.’’
Leadership turnover and acting offi-
cials are a part of every administra-
tion, but widespread and deliberate re-
liance on temporary leaders defies the
constitutional principle of advice and
consent, harms the Department’s crit-
ical national security missions, and
puts the American people at risk. The
dedicated men and women at DHS who
are working tirelessly to keep our
country safe deserve much better. The
American people deserve much better.
To his credit, I believe Mr. Wolf rec-
ognizes the untenable situation caused
by the President’s refusal to submit
nominees to the Department’s highest
offices. When asked about the impact
of vacancies across the top ranks of
DHS, he stated ‘‘I believe having Sen-
ate-confirmed leaders in the senior lev-
els of any cabinet agency is a benefit to
the morale of the workforce and the
success of the agency.’’
I continue to urge the President to
nominate qualified, principled leaders
to lead the Department of Homeland
Security. I remain committed to work-
ing with my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to carry out our constitu-
tional duty to provide advice and con-
sent by promptly, fairly, and thor-
oughly vetting the President’s nomi-
nees. I am also committed to working
across the aisle in Congress to ensure
that the Department of Homeland Se-
curity has the resources and authori-
ties it needs to keep Americans safe
and to provide oversight—robust over-
sight—of the Department’s actions and
use of taxpayer dollars.
I have sought to fully and carefully
weigh Mr. Wolf’s qualifications for Pol-
icy Under Secretary. Unfortunately,
due to the lack of transparency in Mr.
Wolf’s involvement in very troubling
Department decisions, I cannot support
his current nomination, much less his
elevation to Acting Secretary.
If he is confirmed, I will do my part
to support Mr. Wolf and help him be
successful in an incredibly important
job while also working to hold him ac-
countable. But today, I will be voting
no on his confirmation, and I urge my
colleagues to do the same.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Chad F. Wolf, of Virginia, to be
Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and
Plans, Department of Homeland Security.
(New Position).
Mitch McConnell, Roger F. Wicker, Mike
Rounds, Rick Scott, John Barrasso,
Kevin Cramer, Richard Burr, Steve
Daines, James E. Risch, John Cornyn,
John Boozman, John Hoeven, James
Lankford, Todd Young, David Perdue,
John Thune, Lamar Alexander.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Chad F. Wolf, of Virginia, to be
Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy,
and Plans, Department of Homeland
Security, shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
(Ms. ERNST assumed the Chair.)
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS), and the Senator from
Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) are nec-
essarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 54,
nays 40, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 353 Ex.]
YEAS—54
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—40
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Harris
Reed
Rounds
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas 54, the nays are 40.
The motion is agreed to.
JUDICIAL CONFIRMATIONS
Ms. BLACKBURN. Madam President,
over the past few months, pro-democ-
racy protestors in Hong Kong have cap-
tivated the American consciousness
with one of the most stunning mass
protests in recent memory. Hong Kong
people are no strangers to suppression.
They are used to the censorship, digital
stalking, and persecution embraced by
their overlords in Beijing, and they
have seen firsthand the dangers of tyr-
anny.
Watching these protests play out got
me thinking about the core values that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.017 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6501
November 12, 2019
we as the American people share with
the Hong Kong people and with so
many others around the globe. There is
really an interesting dichotomy at
play: You can turn on the TV right now
and see an entire population fighting
desperately on behalf of free speech,
self-expression, and the right to ques-
tion their leaders’ decisions.
Meanwhile, just a few countries
away, the loudest voices in the news-
room are begging for just the opposite.
Here in the U.S., Americans are con-
stantly being asked if freedom is really
worth the fight. Is it worth the never-
ending battle to maintain it? The an-
swer is absolutely.
When Americans look at the protests
in Hong Kong, they do not see a foreign
policy gray area; they see scores of rev-
olutionaries fighting an evil regime.
They identify with the disrupters, and
they cheer for the underdogs who do
not pull their punches, which is why, in
2016, they sent a disrupter to the White
House.
They watch the hysteria that is cable
news commentary and get the sense
that the people on the screen have
completely missed the point. The fight
is not and never will be about one per-
son or one movement. It is about the
decision to protect liberty or to let lib-
erty die; to protect justice or to let it
die. To dismiss this point is to dispar-
age the most important feature of the
collaborative American psyche. When
asked if freedom is worth fighting for,
the answer will always be yes.
The calculus flows into discussions
on almost every aspect of American
life. Most recently, at home and in this
Chamber, debate has centered on the
ideological makeup of the Federal judi-
ciary. We have repeatedly asked our-
selves: Will the judges we are con-
firming respect and protect the core
values of the American people? The an-
swer is yes, they absolutely will.
This is not the first time the Amer-
ican public has swung back around to
consider our ‘‘first principles.’’ We
talked about them in the early 90s and
again—perhaps more passionately—in
the early 2000s. Last week, I was fortu-
nate enough to attend an event at the
White House celebrating our success in
confirming well-qualified, constitu-
tionalist judges to the Federal bench.
We have filled 158 vacancies since 2017,
and we are far from done.
I am sure, however, that my friends
in the minority wish we would give it
a rest, but we won’t. After all, they
have had to work overtime trying to
convince the American people that our
job is to impose by judicial decree poli-
cies that were rejected at the ballot
box. They want to do this without the
benefit of legislative debate or public
comment, which means that con-
firming constitutionalist judges is far
from being in their best interest.
So here they come, insisting that
‘‘constitutionalist’’ is a dog whistle for
racism, sexism, homophobia, and hold-
ing regressive and extreme ideas.
What a ridiculous strategy. The bi-
partisan nominees this body has con-
firmed proved they are capable of re-
sisting the urge to get creative with
the law when it suits the loudest voices
in the room. Instead, they apply the
same foresight employed by the Found-
ing Fathers. These judges know that
permitting the government more pow-
ers to mold and manipulate society
will give rise to a government that will
never resist the temptation to overstep
its bounds.
Our courts are not courts of public
opinion, and my friends in the minor-
ity would do well to remember the cost
of treating them as such. Constitu-
tionalism is our legacy and our inherit-
ance. I urge my colleagues to remem-
ber this because we are going to vote to
confirm judges who have proven them-
selves committed to defending our core
values and the rule of law in the United
States of America.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that I be recog-
nized as in morning business for such
time as I use.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection.
CHINA
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I am
here today to talk about an important
vote that I took 19 years ago, a vote
about free trade from China. Now, you
might say it is a little out of character,
coming down to the floor and talking
about free trade and China, because
normally I am down here talking about
how China is investing in their mili-
tary at unprecedented rates or how
they are passing us up in terms of our
military, which we saw in the last ad-
ministration.
The reality is that when it comes to
China—which is entirely controlled by
a tyrannical Communist party—you
cannot separate their trade behavior
from their military like you can in a
democratic government. China asserts
its power both economically and mili-
tarily to the detriment of the free
world.
So 19 years ago, I came down to the
Senate floor and took a stand against
the tyrannical regime in China. The
vote was on whether or not to allow
the Chinese Government normalized
trade relationships with the United
States that would pave the way for
China to join the World Trade Organi-
zation.
At that time, it was not popular—it
was not popular for any Member of the
Senate who stood in the way of free
trade agreements, much less a Repub-
lican. But as I saw it then, the vote did
much more than open up trade. It
granted favors to an authoritarian re-
gime, despite their openly predatory
actions, without demanding conces-
sions in return. My colleagues claimed
that opening China to free trade would
cause China to change their behavior.
Clearly, that did not happen, but I will
get to that in a minute.
Filled with the false hope and empty
promises, the trade agreement sailed
through the Senate, 83 to 15, and was
signed by then-President Clinton. Now,
I am the only one of those 15 ‘‘no’’
votes still serving in the United States
Senate. Today, 19 years later, we have
seen the reality of what I thought
would happen. At the time, I said—and
I am quoting from my speech 19 years
ago—‘‘We cannot allow the pursuit of
dollars to blind us to certain realities
about the ruling communist regime in
China, including’’—keep in mind, I am
going to read all eight of these that I
had mentioned 19 years ago—‘‘repeated
threats against the United States and
Taiwan’’—still going on today; ‘‘mas-
sive military modernization and build-
up’’—still going on; ‘‘proliferation of
dangerous weapons to rogue states.
Theft of U.S. nuclear secrets’’—still
going on; ‘‘demonstrated strategy to
exploit commercial relationships to ac-
quire advanced military technology,’’
that is still going on today; ‘‘attempts
to corrupt the U.S. political system.
Violation of international agreements.
Brutal repression of dissidents.’’ We
know that is happening.
I continued: ‘‘To ignore these actions
in the belief that they can be separated
from what we do in our trading rela-
tionship is dangerously misguided. Chi-
na’s trade surpluses are helping to fi-
nance the regime’s military buildup
and aggressive foreign policy, while
strengthening its hold on economic and
political power.’’
I do not take any pride in being
right, because the outcome has been
devastating for the American workers.
China has stolen our technology and
personnel secrets and taken millions of
U.S. jobs over the past two decades.
The facts today show it.
Let’s go through quickly a few of
what we predicted two decades ago and
see where we are today. First, the
threats against the United States and
Taiwan, that is pretty clear. Just look
at China’s reaction to the recent rou-
tine arms sale to Taiwan of tanks and
Stinger missiles. Keep in mind, China
has known since 1979 that we sell arms
to Taiwan to aid in their self-defense.
Everyone knows that.
They threatened that they were pre-
pared to go to war to defend their
‘‘unity and territorial integrity’’—over
a routine arms sale. In the past year
alone, Beijing has frequently threat-
ened to use force against any who op-
posed the Communist Party’s designs
on Taiwan, so despite free trade, China
has not stopped their threatening be-
havior toward the United States and
Taiwan.
Secondly, massive military mod-
ernization and buildup. We know that
is still going on. It is obvious to every-
one that China has not changed their
behavior on this because of free trade.
It has emboldened them. China has be-
come more aggressive as our free trade
system has subsidized their economy.
Some key facts: Over the last decade,
the Chinese Government has grown
their military spending—look at the
chart when I read this—has grown their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.021 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6502 November 12, 2019
military spending by 83 percent. That
is over the last decade. Meanwhile, dur-
ing the last 5 years of the Obama ad-
ministration, we decreased our mili-
tary spending by 25 percent. We de-
creased our military spending while
China had increased theirs by 83 per-
cent.
That is why, today, China is able to
build ships at a faster rate than we are
and is on pace to surpass the number of
vessels by 2030. That is why China is in-
vesting heavily in cyber capabilities,
aviation, artillery, and hypersonic
weapons—hypersonic weapons, the
most sophisticated new weapons they
have, the weapons that move at five
times the speed of sound. Actually, be-
fore the Obama administration, we
were ahead of both China and Russia.
At the end of that administration, we
are behind them, and we are catching
up now. Each capability, if not superior
to ours, has the potential to do us sig-
nificant harm.
In 2018, I visited our allies in South-
east Asia, where I saw the Chinese
military buildup in the South China
Sea for myself.
You remember the islands they cre-
ated. This is not taking over territory;
it is creating territory because those
islands weren’t there. They have is-
lands in the South China Sea. The Chi-
nese, at last count, I believe, were at
seven islands. When you go in and look
at it, you become convinced they are
preparing for a world war III.
China, prior to that time—this is
only 3 years ago—had always done
their military in their home territory.
It has always been in China until they
went in Djibouti—that is the northern
part of Africa—and they started their
own activity there. Now they are all
the way down to Tanzania, in that part
of the world.
The Department of Defense official
expects the Chinese to open more
bases, too, in the Middle East, in
China, in Southeast Asia, and in the
Pacific. They are all strategically im-
portant locations.
When I talked to our allies in the Pa-
cific, they are concerned, and many are
beginning to hedge their bets because
they see what China is doing. We are
talking about the South China Sea. We
are talking about our own allies who
have historically been our allies. All of
a sudden, they are starting to have sec-
ond thoughts. They are seeing what
China is doing, but they don’t see us
doing anything. After 8 years of Presi-
dent Obama’s weak leadership, it is
getting more difficult for us to prove to
them that we are actually interested in
standing up to China’s aggression.
Third, the theft of U.S. secrets—we
know about that. There is an old say-
ing: What China doesn’t have, it steals.
That is even more apparent today than
it was in 2000. China is still actively
pursuing and stealing some of our most
valuable military secrets. Just last
year, China hacked a Navy contractor
and stole massive amounts of classified
data. That practice isn’t new, but it is
still having serious impacts on our
ability to get ahead of China’s mili-
tarily.
We are seeing an alarming rise in
how China steals industrial secrets.
They do it out in the open—for exam-
ple, by forcing any American business
that wants to operate in China to form
a partnership with a Chinese business.
They have been doing that for a long
period of time, and we have been going
along with it. Sadly, these partnerships
are nothing more than a way for the
Chinese Communist Party to access
and steal proprietary ideas and tech-
nology.
They also do it in nefarious ways—
through exploiting educational rela-
tionships on college campuses or steal-
ing biomedical research during the
peer-review process.
This is no small thing. One in five
American companies has been a victim
of Chinese intellectual property theft.
That matters because nearly 80 percent
of our economy is based on intangi-
bles—the very things the Chinese are
stealing.
It is safe to say that this is another
area where the regime in Beijing has
been emboldened by free trade at the
expense of American innovation and
economic growth.
China hasn’t changed its position on
exploiting commercial relationships ei-
ther. For the past two decades, China
has taken advantage of countries—
weaponizing their debt and working to
control ports, infrastructure, and other
territory, posing a very real threat to
U.S. interests. There is no place where
this is more apparent than in Africa,
where I keep hearing: ‘‘America will
tell you what you need; China will
build it for you.’’ Of course, they don’t
follow through and talk about how
they use all Chinese resources to do
this. They use Chinese labor. But it is
of no value to Africa.
I have been to Africa probably more
than any other Member, as I have been
very active in that area and have seen
some of the threats that face us on
that continent, and I have seen the
Chinese debt trap hobble more prom-
ising governments.
But it goes far beyond the developing
world and extends right into our own
backyard. Just look at the recent issue
with the NBA, where the general man-
ager of the Houston Rockets tweeted a
message in support of the Hong Kong
protesters. The backlash was swift.
China stopped airing Rockets games or
streaming them online, and their on-
line retailers pulled merchandise from
online stores.
We have also seen U.S. hotels, avia-
tion companies—even the Gap—being
forced to edit and self-censor to remove
any reference that even tangentially
refers to Taiwan, Tibet, or Hong Kong
not being a part of the People’s Repub-
lic China, all to appease the Com-
munist Party. The jewelry company
Tiffany was pressured to remove an ad-
vertisement of a woman covering her
eye because images of a protester in
Hong Kong with a wounded eye got
international attention.
We live in a democracy, and we don’t
dictate to private businesses what they
should or should not do. This is not the
case in China. Yet, if we continue down
the road of self-censorship, the party’s
demands will escalate, and it will be
harder and harder to exercise freedom
of expression.
Fourth, lastly, brutal repression of
dissidents—that was true 19 years ago,
and it is true today. More than any-
thing, I would like to say this was an
area where free trade had forced the
Chinese Communist Party to change
its behavior. That is what we were all
told would happen, but it didn’t hap-
pen. We know it is not true.
We all know about the atrocities that
are going on in Xinjiang Province,
where the government is forcing a Mus-
lim minority into concentration
camps, although they call them reedu-
cation centers. We all know what is
going on in Hong Kong, where Beijing
is repressing a democratic demonstra-
tion with brutal tactics. I remember
being in Hong Kong at the time China
reasserted what they call their leader-
ship, their ownership, to Hong Kong. It
has been on and off all these years.
Right now, that effort—disagreement
is still taking place.
Outside of the areas that, despite
China’s best efforts, have attracted
international attention, we still know
about the atrocities the Chinese Com-
munist Party quietly inflicts on jour-
nalists and Christian minorities in
house churches and in communities
across China every day.
I have just painted a very bleak pic-
ture of U.S.-China relations and how
unrestricted trade didn’t force the rul-
ing party in Beijing to change its be-
havior, but the good news is, help is fi-
nally on the way. After the trade deal
was enacted—I am talking about Presi-
dent Trump’s trade deal—I kept speak-
ing out against the Chinese Communist
Party, calling attention to their
human rights abuses, their military
buildup, their manipulative trade tac-
tics, and their economic bullying. I
pushed every President until now to
stand up to the economic powerhouse
before it was too late and they out-
matched us. I tried that with Repub-
licans and Democrats alike, and it
didn’t work.
Now we have the first President since
2000 to take China seriously. President
Trump is clear-eyed about the regime
in Beijing. He knows that our trade re-
lations have been unfair and imbal-
anced, and he understands that we need
real and permanent fixes in order to
have any long-term stability. This is
something that has been going on for a
long period of time, and he is now
changing this. He is getting criticized,
obviously.
I have to say this: It hurts our farm-
ers in the State of Oklahoma. However,
I would say that they are very under-
standing that someone is finally will-
ing to take on China.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.022 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6503
November 12, 2019
He has effectively applied tariffs,
both to punish the Chinese Govern-
ment for its manipulative trade prac-
tices and also to support critical indus-
tries in the United States.
The result: China’s economy has
slowed to its lowest point since 1992—
and that is if you believe their official
numbers. These are their numbers. It
has slowed down their economy. That
has not happened before.
The economic pressure brought them
to the table, ready to make a real
deal—one that is fair and accountable.
So far, we have gotten phase 1—a pre-
liminary first deal—and the outcome is
good for farmers in Oklahoma and
across the country. For the first time,
China has agreed to purchase $40 bil-
lion to $50 billion worth of American
agricultural goods. That would be the
highest level since 2012. That is a good
start.
The fight against China’s economic
manipulation and influence is not over.
It can’t just be limited to shrinking
the trade deficit through greater pur-
chases of American goods. Future parts
of any agreement need to be sure to ad-
dress the concerns that Presidents of
both parties neglected for decades, in-
cluding theft of intellectual property
and industrial secrets, forced tech-
nology transfer, reciprocal access to
markets, and subsidies to China’s
state-owned enterprises.
All of this needs to be placed into the
proper context of the Communist Par-
ty’s ambitions on the world stage: to
rewrite the rules of the international
system, to make the world safe for au-
thorities to suppress democracy and
abuse human rights, and to achieve
global military superiority by
midcentury.
President Trump’s stand against
China on trade has provoked a lot of
discussion about our competition with
China. We have to remember that this
is not a competition against China but
a competition for influence—the kind
of influence that decides what kind of
world our kids and grandkids are going
to live in. Next week, my wife and I
will be celebrating our 60th wedding
anniversary. We have 20 kids and
grandkids. They are the ones who will
be living in that world I just described.
In this competition, we can’t afford
to be naive. The Chinese Communist
Party has a very different version of
the world it would like to create, so
even as we keep talking about the tar-
iffs, we have to remember that our val-
ues are still America’s most precious
commodity. It is our values—free peo-
ple and truly free markets—that must
guide us in the competition ahead.
Every part of this speech I gave on
the Senate floor 19 years ago has be-
come a reality, and President Trump
knows this. Maybe we better listen to
him.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I
am going to yield the floor.
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
SMALL REFINERY WAIVERS AND
ETHANOL
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, on
behalf of the corn and soybean farmers
in my State, I object to ‘‘small refinery
relief language’’ in the fiscal year 2020
Interior appropriations bill that sug-
gests that the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, EPA, disregard Depart-
ment of Energy determinations on
small refinery hardships. The provision
encourages EPA to continue allowing
refiners to stop blending biofuels with
no transparency or evidence of hard-
ship.
Fourteen years ago in this Chamber,
I helped enact the renewable fuels
standard, RFS, which required petro-
leum-based vehicle fuels to include a
minimum volume of ethanol and bio-
diesel in them. Both fuels are produced
from corn and soybeans, driving eco-
nomic activity throughout Illinois and
the Midwest.
The law has been a tremendous suc-
cess. We have created new markets for
corn and soybeans and helped supply
motorists with affordable fuel. We have
provided a greener alternative to
MTBE and other additives. And now
the United States is the world’s largest
producer of ethanol, generating com-
merce and creating jobs, both on and
off the farm.
In fact, I can hardly think of a na-
tional policy in this generation that
has achieved greater success for rural
economic growth than biofuels. In the
wake of the gasoline shortages of the
1970s, the farm financial crisis of the
1980s, the clean air discussions of the
1990s, the oil price spikes of the 2000s,
and rural economic conditions of
today, biofuels became part of the solu-
tion. For more than 40 years, farmers
and policymakers built an industry
unique to the heartland of this coun-
try.
Yet in just 2 years, President Trump
has wrestled American biofuels to its
knees. He singlehandedly has delivered
one crippling blow after another. Each
action he has taken contributes to the
gradual dismantling of this enterprise.
With his involvement, or outright ne-
glect, ethanol prices, profits, and
blending are the lowest in history, and
thousands of rural jobs have been lost.
The President claims his support for
ethanol and biodiesel is strong. I say:
believe it when you see it. Because
when this President issues declarations
of victory on biofuels, facilities stay
shuttered and the markets stay stalled.
Congressional frustration on this
topic is bipartisan and growing, al-
though some farm State lawmakers
and interests still stare at their shoes
while a President who shares their po-
litical affiliation burns this industry to
the ground. Long after the alarm bells
were ringing and klaxons were sound-
ing, those who should have known bet-
ter at the outset, whose earlier re-
sponses were accolades, now find them-
selves at path’s end, hoodwinked.
As a member of the Senate Agri-
culture Committee, I pressed the EPA
to approve E15, a 15 percent blend of
ethanol in gasoline, for year-round
sales as soon as possible. And I ap-
plauded that final decision in June. For
Illinois, E15 could boost 14 ethanol fa-
cilities and 20,000 downstate jobs. For
motorists, E15 could save up to 10 cents
per gallon.
But pull back the curtain, and the
President has allowed EPA to issue 85
secret waivers that allow oil refineries
to stop blending biofuels into gasoline.
Economists have confirmed that shat-
ters demand for E15. Waivers mean
that E15 is a fake victory by President
Trump.
After increasing pressure and outcry,
on October 4, President Trump pub-
licized an agreement ostensibly de-
signed to restore the lost ethanol de-
mand caused by his waivers back to the
15 billion gallon floor—even 16 billion
gallons, claimed the President. Ten
days later, the Trump administration
stunned observers by publishing details
that watered down these numbers and
slashed the ethanol deal by half, while
stakeholders were coached that noth-
ing has changed.
The language in the Interior appro-
priations bill suggests that EPA con-
tinue to thumb its nose at corn and
soybean producers while issuing small
oil refinery waivers. Meanwhile, Big
Oil is doing just fine. In May, the De-
partment of Energy reported that net
income for top U.S. oil companies like
Exxon and Chevron has totaled $28 bil-
lion, the most profitable in five years.
For farmers, however, net income has
plummeted 50 percent from its record
highs during the Obama administra-
tion.
For years, farmers and policymakers
of multiple backgrounds and persua-
sions have come together, in good
faith, to carefully build a new industry
that benefits consumers, farmers, and
rural residents. This pioneering inno-
vation is rooted in the heritage of rural
values, all in jeopardy of crumbling be-
cause the void between this President’s
words and acts.
I urge my colleagues to work to sup-
port rural America by ending EPA’s ef-
forts to issue these waivers without
any concern for transparency or eco-
nomic impact.
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I
support the sentiments of my colleague
from Illinois in objecting to the ‘‘small
refinery relief’’ language in the fiscal
year 2020 Interior appropriations bill.
In the past, this language has been in-
voked by the Trump administration’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.025 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6504 November 12, 2019
Environmental Protection Agency,
EPA, to disregard the Department of
Energy’s recommendations regarding
small refinery hardships under the re-
newable fuel standard, RFS, and waive
additional gallons of renewable fuels
from our fuel supply. These actions,
permitted by President Trump, hurt
rural America and our farmers.
The RFS is an important driver of
Michigan jobs and our bio-based econ-
omy. This Administration’s continued
abuse of refinery waivers undermine
the integrity of the RFS program and
hurt our farmers, biofuel producers,
and rural communities in Michigan and
across the country. I strongly oppose
this report language and encourage my
colleagues to support rural America’s
interests by calling to end the Trump
administration’s abuse of small refin-
ery exemptions.
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I would
like to add my support to the state-
ment given by my colleague from Illi-
nois. On behalf of the corn and soybean
farmers in my State and on behalf of
the biofuel industry in my State, I
strongly oppose the ‘‘small refinery re-
lief’’ language in the fiscal year 2020 In-
terior appropriations bill. This ‘‘relief
language’’ will allow the EPA to con-
tinue to exempt refiners from blending
biofuels without any evidence of actual
hardship.
Small refinery waivers from the EPA
are wreaking havoc on our Nation’s
rural economy. Across the country,
ethanol plants and biodiesel plants are
halting production or being forced to
shut down. These biofuel plants often
are the local cornerstone of the com-
munity, supporting thousands of rural
jobs across the country, and serving as
important markets for farmers to proc-
ess millions of bushels of corn, soy-
beans, and other commodities. Farmers
are struggling after years of low prices,
extreme weather and a chaotic trade
agenda, and instead of providing cer-
tainty and relief for our farmers, this
administration chose to destroy more
markets and further harm rural com-
munities.
The problems caused by small-refin-
ery waiver abuse are seen across the
upper Midwest, but they hit the agri-
cultural communities in my state of
Minnesota particularly hard. Two
months ago, the Corn Plus ethanol
plant in Winnebago closed. When I
traveled there, I talked to farmers and
community members and heard di-
rectly about how the loss of that facil-
ity will impact their lives. The Corn
Plus plant closed, but throughout Min-
nesota ethanol plants are idling and
cutting back, impacting workers and
hurting local farmers. For example, a
recent Renewable Fuels Association
analysis of the impact of idling at the
Green Plains plant in Fairmont, MN,
found that local corn prices were re-
duced, leading to an $8.4 million loss
for local farmers who typically sell to
the plant.
Last week, Tim Rudnicki, executive
director for the Minnesota Bio-Fuels
Association traveled to Michigan to
testify at the EPA public hearing on
their wholly inadequate Trump admin-
istration proposed ‘‘fix’’ to the waiver
abuse problems. In Mr. Rudnicki’s re-
marks, he said that the current EPA is
‘‘driving renewable biofuels backwards
and toward the cliff.’’ I couldn’t agree
more. This has to stop, and Congress
needs to make it stop because it has
become clear that the current Adminis-
tration has put big oil ahead of our
farmers and our rural communities.
In the wake of the EPA’s continued
efforts to undercut the integrity of the
RFS by misusing its waiver authority,
I urge my colleagues to support this
country’s rural communities by ending
the EPA’s abuse of the small refinery
exemptions.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
join my colleagues today in expressing
my opposition to the language in the
fiscal year 2020 Interior appropriations
bill related to the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency’s ability to issue small
refinery waivers under the renewable
fuel standard without taking into ac-
count the Department of Energy’s rec-
ommendations.
The Trump administration continues
to undermine the renewable fuel stand-
ard by granting small refinery waivers
to multi-billion-dollar oil companies.
Since the beginning of the administra-
tion, a total of 85 waivers have been
issued, reducing demand for more than
4 billion gallons of renewable fuel.
That is why I have repeatedly called on
the Trump administration to stop
issuing any further waivers, imme-
diately reallocate the remaining gal-
lons, and make public the information
regarding any recipients of these ex-
emptions.
We need more transparency and
openness about the Environmental
Protection Agency’s, EPA, use of small
refinery waivers—who is applying for
and receiving them, how are they docu-
menting their economic hardship, and
how is EPA considering that hardship
in the context of interagency rec-
ommendations. The ‘‘small refinery re-
lief’’ provision in the appropriations
bill will allow EPA to avoid answering
these questions and continue issuing
waivers without providing evidence of
hardship.
It is for this reason that I am op-
posed to the ‘‘small refinery relief’’
language in the fiscal year 2020 Interior
appropriations bill. While the adminis-
tration must cease issuing any further
improper refinery exemptions, as I
have been calling for since these abuses
began, we can start supporting our
farmers and rural communities by re-
moving this harmful provision from
the Interior appropriations bill during
conference negotiations. Especially at
a time when they are facing trade un-
certainty, low prices, and difficult
weather, our farmers deserve better.
f
IMMIGRATION
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, today
the Supreme Court heard arguments in
one of the most consequential immi-
gration cases in modern American his-
tory. The future of more than 700,000
DACA recipients—our Nation’s Dream-
ers—hangs in the balance and their
fate is inherently intertwined with the
fate of the American Dream itself.
Dreamers, by definition, are law-
abiding immigrants brought to the
United States as children—through no
choice of their own—now simply seek-
ing the chance to contribute to the
only country they have ever known as
home. Dreamers, by definition, do not
pose any kind of public safety or na-
tional security threat. They are our
neighbors, our first responders, our de-
fenders, and our teachers. Nearly a
thousand Dreamers serve in our Armed
Forces, risking their lives to preserve
the freedoms of millions of American
citizens. Dreamers are Americans in
every way, except on paper. Americans
know this, and have roundly rejected
the baseless, un-American vitriol
spread by President Trump—yet again
this morning, just hours before the ar-
gument—that some Dreamers are
‘‘hardened criminals.’’
So it is no wonder that the over-
whelming majority of Americans sup-
port providing legal protections to our
Nation’s Dreamers. And it is no sur-
prise that leaders of industry in every
major sector of our economy have
called for providing legal status and a
path to citizenship for Dreamers, rec-
ognizing their enormous contributions
to our economy.
The depth of opposition to President
Trump’s decision to heartlessly termi-
nate DACA is matched only by the
breadth of agreement among courts
that the Trump administration is just
plain wrong on the law. Five out of six
Federal courts that considered the
Trump administration’s effort to end
DACA blocked President Trump from
actually doing so and they have re-
jected the Trump administration’s
laughable argument that its decision
to end DACA is simply unreviewable by
the courts.
I am hopeful that the Supreme Court
sides with the near unanimous con-
sensus among lower courts. I am hope-
ful that it joins the united chorus of
Americans who envision a legally pro-
tected place in our society for this
group of immigrants that embodies the
American dream.
Regardless of how the Supreme Court
rules, Congress is by no means a by-
stander. Congress still has the author-
ity and the responsibility to do what is
right. Just a few months ago, the
House passed a bipartisan bill, the
American Dream and Promise Act,
which would enact critical protections
for Dreamers and provide temporary
safe haven to targeted groups of immi-
grants whose home countries have been
crippled by natural disasters or civil
conflict. The Senate could easily take
up this bill today or it could take up
the bipartisan Senate bill, the Dream
Act of 2019, authored by Senators GRA-
HAM and DURBIN, which would provide
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO6.003 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6505
November 12, 2019
meaningful safeguards to our Dream-
ers. Either way, Senate inaction is sim-
ply not acceptable to the millions of
Americans in both parties who see the
prospect of mass deportations of
Dreamers as antithetical to who we are
as the United States of America.
As we wait for our Nation’s highest
Court to rule on this case, it is essen-
tial for Americans to express their
views about the future of Dreamers to
their elected representatives. This
case, after all, is not just about the
specific Dreamers who would benefit
from DACA’s continued existence, and
it not just about the Trump adminis-
tration’s anti-immigrant impulses and
policies. This is about whether our
proud past as a nation of immigrants
and refugees—a country that became
one out of many—has a bright future.
That future should not be left solely to
the courts nor should it be left to lan-
guish in Majority Leader MCCONNELL’s
legislative graveyard. This future will
be shaped, in part, by what we choose
to do now, in the present and it is be-
yond time for the Senate to come to-
gether and do what is right.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER fol-
lowing statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Mr. REED. Madam President, I was
unavoidably absent for the vote this
evening due to a delayed flight. Had I
been present, I would have voted no on
cloture on the nomination of Executive
Calendar No. 87, Chad F. Wolf to be
Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy,
and Plans, Department of Homeland
Security.∑
f
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President,
today I would like to remember in the
RECORD former U.S. Senator Kay
Hagan of North Carolina.
Senator Hagan and I served together
on the Senate Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions, where
she served both North Carolina and the
United States well during her years in
the Senate. We also worked together
closely on housing issues affecting
Americans as a result of the 2008 eco-
nomic downturn and housing crisis.
Kay and I served as Senate coleaders
of the annual Congressional Civil
Rights Pilgrimage to historic sites of
the civil rights movement in Alabama
in 2013. I was honored to have her by
my side along with U.S. Representative
JOHN LEWIS of Georgia during this
moving event, which culminated with
an emotional crossing of the Edmund
Pettus Bridge in Selma, where Con-
gressman LEWIS was beaten during the
1965 march he led there. Upon return,
Senator Hagan wrote about the mo-
ment Montgomery chief of police Kevin
Murphy personally apologized to Con-
gressman LEWIS on behalf of the Mont-
gomery Police Department for the de-
partment’s failure to protect the Free-
dom Riders while removing his police
badge and presenting it to Congress-
man LEWIS. She shared how this experi-
ence served as an emotional reminder
to her of the oath she took to protect
and serve the people of North Carolina.
That was how Kay worked. That trip,
along with our legislative efforts to-
gether in Washington, cemented the
high respect I have had for her and her
work on many issues affecting the
Southeast.
I honor of Kay Hagan, I was proud to
cosponsor a Senate resolution saluting
her life and service.
I also hope she would have appre-
ciated our vote to advance the Kay
Hagan Tick Act in the Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions Com-
mittee. My older sister died at a very
young age from the fatal results of a
tick bite, and it was tragic to see Sen-
ator Hagan succumb to complications
of the tickborne Powassan virus. This
legislation was named for her to im-
prove research, prevention, diagnostics
and treatment for tick-borne diseases.
I appreciate her service to the coun-
try, and my prayers are with Chip, her
family and all those who loved her. Her
legacy will live on.
f
TRIBUTE TO STAFF SERGEANT
DANIEL P. KELLER
Mr. PAUL. Madam President, I want
to recognize the accomplishments of
SSgt Daniel P. Keller for his heroic ac-
tions while in combat in Afghanistan.
On 16 August 2017, while assigned as a
joint terminal attack controller for
Combined Joint Special Operations Air
Component Afghanistan, Staff Ser-
geant Keller performed his duty to his
country and his teammates with fierce
determination and unquestionable
courage.
While on a mission, his assault force
struck an improvised explosive device
and came under heavy fire from the
enemy. Despite being wounded, Staff
Sergeant Keller used his most potent
weapon, the ability to call in airpower,
to strike enemy positions while simul-
taneously returning fire with his per-
sonal weapon. Most admirably, Staff
Sergeant Keller took direct action to
ensure the successful evacuation of 13
critically wounded casualties while
under continuous enemy fire. Upon
saving his wounded comrades, Staff
Sergeant Keller continued to engage
the enemy and guaranteed follow-on
forces were well prepared to continue
the fight.
For his valiant service, Staff Ser-
geant Keller received the Air Force
Cross, our Nation’s second highest
medal for combat valor. His citation
for this award stated that ‘‘his personal
courage, quick actions and tactical ex-
pertise whilst under fire directly con-
tributed to the survival of the 130
members of his assault force, including
31 wounded in action.’’
I would like to offer my most pro-
found appreciation to Staff Sergeant
Keller for his willingness to go above
and beyond the call of duty to ensure
his mission while saving American
lives. His courage and dedication
should serve as an example to us all
and remind us of our solemn duty to
the men and women who volunteer to
defend our great Nation.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO NANCY J. FLETCHER
∑ Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I rise to
offer a tribute to Nancy J. Fletcher, a
long-serving chief executive of a re-
spected national trade association
whose leadership has benefited Okla-
homa and the Nation.
Nancy Fletcher led the Outdoor Ad-
vertising Association of America, now
known as the Out of Home Advertising
Association of America, for nearly 30
years as president and CEO.
An attorney, Ms. Fletcher shares my
deep respect for property rights, as
spelled out in the takings clause of the
Fifth Amendment: private property
shall not be taken for public use with-
out just compensation.
Ahead of Ms. Fletcher’s retirement, I
recall some of her important contribu-
tions to the Nation and to Oklahoma.
After the terrorist attacks on Sep-
tember 11, 2001, Ms. Fletcher and her
colleagues in the industry immediately
posted messages of national unity and
resolve.
During her long leadership, tech-
nology changed all types of media, in-
cluding out of home media. As some
billboards were converted to digital
electronic displays, Ms. Fletcher pio-
neered partnerships with law enforce-
ment, emergency managers, and the
National Center for Missing & Ex-
ploited Children. These partnerships,
including with the National Weather
Center in Norman, have had positive
benefits for communicating emergency
services, featuring tip lines to locate
fugitives and share information to help
missing children return home.
Please join me in extending con-
gratulations to Nancy Fletcher for her
successful leadership of the Outdoor
Advertising Association of America
and her contributions to the public
good.∑
f
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ALABAMA
AGRICULTURAL & MECHANICAL
UNIVERSITY
∑ Mr. JONES. Madam President, I rise
today to recognize Alabama Agricul-
tural & Mechanical University, AAMU
on their 50th anniversary as a univer-
sity. As an 1890 land-grant institution
and one of Alabama’s 14 historically
Black colleges and universities,
HBCUs, Alabama A&M has long upheld
a legacy of impressive scholarship and
service. It is an honor to celebrate the
achievements of an institution of such
importance to my State.
Alabama A&M first opened its doors
on May 1, 1875, as the Huntsville Nor-
mal School following its founding by a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:00 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO6.005 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6506 November 12, 2019
former slave, Dr. William Hooper
Councill. With just $1,000 in annual ap-
propriations, 61 students, and 2 instruc-
tors in its first year, the institution
evolved throughout multiple iterations
of its 144-year history into what it is
today. Due to its success with indus-
trial education and private funding
from the Slater and Peabody Funds,
the Alabama Legislature authorized a
name change to the ‘‘State Normal and
Industrial School in Huntsville.’’ In
1891, the school became a recipient of
the Federal land-grant fund in order to
further fund training in agricultural
and mechanical arts at the college
level. Following several name changes
and a location move from Huntsville to
Normal, AL, the school became a jun-
ior college in 1919 under the name ‘‘The
State Agricultural and Mechanical In-
stitute for Negroes.’’ Twenty years
later, the school was permitted by the
State board of education to offer work
at a senior college level. In 1941, the
first graduation class since 1920 re-
ceived bachelor degrees. The school be-
came a fully accredited member of the
association in 1963, following a ‘‘Class
A’’ rating by the Southern Association
of Colleges and Secondary Schools in
1946. Alabama Agricultural and Me-
chanical University received its final
name on June 26, 1969, per a resolution
from the Alabama State Board of Edu-
cation.
The campus, situated on The Hill
near downtown Huntsville, has re-
ceived visits from 19 Nobel laureates.
Students at AAMU have access to ad-
vanced degree programs including
Ph.D. degrees in applied physics, food
science, plant and soil science, and
reading and literacy. Alabama A&M
University is one of the leading pro-
ducers of African Americans with PhDs
in physics.
AAMU has also graduated many no-
table alumni from star athletes, to
world class entertainers, to leaders and
pioneers in the civil rights movement.
Jearl Miles-Clark, an Olympic Gold
medalist who competed in the 400 and
800 meter races and the 400 meter
relay, graduated from AAMU in 1989.
NFL legend, John Stallworth, played
football at AAMU and was an All-
Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Con-
ference receiver in 1972 and 1973 before
joining the NFL as a wide receiver for
the Pittsburgh Steelers. Stallworth
went on to compete in four Super
Bowls and was inducted into the Pro
Football Hall of Fame in 2002. Amer-
ican Idol winner and popular R&B art-
ist Ruben Studdard received a football
scholarship to attend AAMU, where he
majored in music education. Joseph
Lowery, a United Methodist minister
and leader in the civil rights move-
ment, also attended AAMU. Lowery
later succeeded Martin Luther King,
Jr, as the third president of the South-
ern Christian Leadership Conference.
Vivian Malone Jones, one of the first
two Black students to enroll at the
University of Alabama, earned her first
bachelor’s degree from AAMU in busi-
ness education. She later went on to
receive the first bachelor’s degree
awarded by the University of Alabama
to a Black student, following her study
of business management. These are
only a handful of the remarkable schol-
ars and activists, AAMU has had a
hand in educating and training.
Under the leadership of its 11th presi-
dent, Dr. Andrew Hugine, Jr., the uni-
versity comprises over 70 buildings on
more than 1,000 acres, is home to more
than 6,000 students, is a designated
‘‘Gold Military Friendly’’ institution
and serves as a regional, State, na-
tional, and international resource
while maintaining its mission of edu-
cating the underserved and uplifting
the people of Alabama, the Nation, and
the world through excellence in edu-
cation.
Please join me in celebrating Ala-
bama A&M on this auspicious occasion
and wishing both their students, fac-
ulty, and administrators future success
in all of their endeavors for another 50
years.∑
f
RECOGNIZING MAC’S VACS
∑ Mr. RISCH. Madam President, as a
member and former chairman of the
Senate Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship, each month I
recognize and celebrate the American
entrepreneurial spirit by highlighting
the success of a small business in my
home State of Idaho. However, in
honor of Veterans Day on November 11,
this month I will honor a veteran-
owned small business for each of the 10
days the Senate is in legislative ses-
sion. The personal sacrifices made by
America’s veterans have protected the
very freedoms and values that give
each of us and our children the ability
to achieve the American dream. The
skills veterans learn as members of the
military are invaluable and undoubt-
edly contribute to Idaho’s flourishing
veteran business community. I am
proud of the sacrifices veterans have
made to protect our country and that
they are choosing Idaho to call home
when they complete their service in
the military.
As your U.S. Senator from the great
State of Idaho, it is my pleasure to rec-
ognize Mac’s Vacs in Lewiston as the
Idaho Small Business of the Day for
November 12, 2019. Mac’s Vacs was
founded in 1950 and is owned and oper-
ated by U.S. Air Force veteran Dennis
Prine. The company first opened in a
garage and has since moved into a local
storefront in the same neighborhood.
After serving in the Air Force, Prine
acquired Mac’s Vacs in the 1980s and
has expanded and improved its services
since.
Mac’s Vacs offers a variety of appli-
ance services for customers, including
vacuum sales and service, central vacu-
um systems, commercial chemicals,
and more. Prine even offers technical
assistance through a YouTube channel.
The company’s mission to provide
quality products, knowledge, and serv-
ice to customers has proven funda-
mental to the success of the business.
Congratulations to Dennis Prine and
all of the employees at Mac’s Vacs for
being selected as the Veteran-owned
Idaho Small Business of the Day for
November 12, 2019. You make our great
State proud, and I look forward to your
continued growth and success.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGES
REPORT RELATIVE TO THE CON-
TINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY THAT WAS ORIGI-
NALLY DECLARED IN EXECU-
TIVE ORDER 12938 OF NOVEMBER
14, 1994, WITH RESPECT TO THE
PROLIFERATION OF WEAPONS
OF MASS DESTRUCTION—PM 36
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice, stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
proliferation of weapons of mass de-
struction that was declared in Execu-
tive Order 12938 of November 14, 1994, is
to continue in effect beyond November
14, 2019.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, November 12, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:00 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO6.011 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6507
November 12, 2019
REPORT RELATIVE TO THE CON-
TINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY THAT WAS ORIGI-
NALLY DECLARED IN EXECUTlVE
ORDER 12170 OF NOVEMBER 14,
1979, WITH RESPECT TO IRAN—
PM 37
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to Iran
declared in Executive Order 12170 of
November 14, 1979, is to continue in ef-
fect beyond November 14, 2019.
Our relations with Iran have not yet
normalized, and the process of imple-
menting the agreements with Iran,
dated January 19, 1981, is ongoing. For
this reason, I have determined that it
is necessary to continue the national
emergency declared in Executive Order
12170 with respect to Iran.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, November 12, 2019.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
S. 2840. A bill to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, and for other pur-
poses.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute:
S. 1877. A bill to establish procedures and
consequences in the event of a failure to
complete regular appropriations (Rept. No.
116–158).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Mr.
BARRASSO):
S. 2830. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to extend the period under
which an election must be made for entitle-
ment to educational assistance under the
All-Volunteer Educational Assistance Pro-
gram of the Department of Veterans Affairs,
to phase out the use of such program, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 2831. A bill to amend title 51, United
States Code, to modify the national space
grant college and fellowship program, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 2832. A bill to assist those subject to po-
litically motivated charges in Turkey, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. REED, and Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN):
S. 2833. A bill to amend the Truth in Lend-
ing Act to extend the consumer credit pro-
tections provided to members of the Armed
Forces and their dependents under title 10,
United States Code, to all consumers; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms.
HIRONO):
S. 2834. A bill to amend the Federal Credit
Union Act to exclude extensions of credit
made to veterans from the definition of a
member business loan; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Mr.
ROBERTS):
S. 2835. A bill to include information re-
garding VA home loans in the Informed Con-
sumer Choice Disclosure required to be pro-
vided to a prospective FHA borrower who is
a veteran, to amend title 10, United States
Code, to authorize the provision of a certifi-
cate of eligibility for VA home loans during
the preseparation counseling for members of
the Armed Forces, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HASSAN,
Ms. HIRONO, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. MARKEY, Mrs. SHAHEEN,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. BROWN, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
SANDERS, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. WARREN, Ms. CANTWELL,
Mr. WYDEN, Mr. MURPHY, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. KAINE, Mr. BENNET, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. SMITH, Ms. STABE-
NOW, and Mr. CARDIN):
S. 2836. A bill to prohibit the Secretary of
Health and Human Services from taking any
action to implement, enforce, or otherwise
give effect to the final rule, entitled ‘‘Pro-
tecting Statutory Conscience Rights in
Health Care; Delegations of Authority’’; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Ms. WARREN, Mr. KING, Mr.
MERKLEY, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 2837. A bill to amend title 51, United
States Code, to require a National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration initiative
on reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
and noise emissions from aircraft, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
ERNST, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, Ms. MURKOWSKI, and Mr.
PERDUE):
S. 2838. A bill to amend the Ted Stevens
Olympic and Amateur Sports Act to improve
the transparency of the United States Center
for Safe Sport, to provide grant account-
ability, and to protect victims of abuse from
retaliation, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 2839. A bill to amend the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956 to regulate industrial
bank holding companies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. INHOFE:
S. 2840. A bill to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, and for other pur-
poses; read the first time.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MURPHY:
S. Res. 417. A resolution commemorating
the 81st anniversary of Kristallnacht, or the
Night of Broken Glass; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. WYDEN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. Res. 418. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate regarding the Govern-
ment of Turkey’s crackdown on dissent re-
lated to its incursion into northeast Syria,
and broader human rights violations; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON):
S. Res. 419. A resolution permitting the
collection of clothing, toys, food, and
housewares during the holiday season for
charitable purposes in Senate buildings; con-
sidered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 225
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 225, a bill to provide for part-
nerships among State and local govern-
ments, regional entities, and the pri-
vate sector to preserve, conserve, and
enhance the visitor experience at na-
tionally significant battlefields of the
American Revolution, War of 1812, and
Civil War, and for other purposes.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
433, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve home
health payment reforms under the
Medicare program.
S. 457
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
457, a bill to require that $1 coins
issued during 2019 honor President
George H.W. Bush and to direct the
Secretary of the Treasury to issue bul-
lion coins during 2019 in honor of Bar-
bara Bush.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:13 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO6.012 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6508 November 12, 2019
S. 514
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 514, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to improve the
benefits and services provided by the
Department of Veterans Affairs to
women veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 525
At the request of Mr. PAUL, the name
of the Senator from North Carolina
(Mr. TILLIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 525, a bill to preserve and protect
the free choice of individual employees
to form, join, or assist labor organiza-
tions, or to refrain from such activi-
ties.
S. 595
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 595, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for the coordination of pro-
grams to prevent and treat obesity,
and for other purposes.
S. 743
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
names of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI), the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY), the Senator from
Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO), the Senator from
South Dakota (Mr. THUNE), the Sen-
ator from Delaware (Mr. CARPER), the
Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD), the Senator from
South Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) and the
Senator from Ohio (Mr. PORTMAN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 743, a bill to
award a Congressional Gold Medal to
the soldiers of the 5307th Composite
Unit (Provisional), commonly known
as ‘‘Merrill’s Marauders’’, in recogni-
tion of their bravery and outstanding
service in the jungles of Burma during
World War II.
S. 846
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 846, a bill to amend title 49,
United States Code, to limit certain
rolling stock procurements, and for
other purposes.
S. 866
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 866, a bill to amend part B of the
Individuals with Disabilities Education
Act to provide full Federal funding of
such part.
S. 879
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from New
York (Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 879, a bill to provide a
process for granting lawful permanent
resident status to aliens from certain
countries who meet specified eligibility
requirements, and for other purposes.
S. 890
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 890, a bill to authorize the Sergeant
at Arms to protect the personal tech-
nology devices and accounts of Sen-
ators and covered employees from
cyber attacks and hostile information
collection activities, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 933
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 933, a bill to improve data collec-
tion and monitoring of the Great
Lakes, oceans, bays, estuaries, and
coasts, and for other purposes.
S. 1172
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1172, a bill to require
full funding of part A of title I of the
Elementary and Secondary Education
Act of 1965 and the Individuals with
Disabilities Education Act.
S. 1268
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1268, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to en-
sure that hospitals receive adequate
payment for the acquisition of
hematopoietic stem cells under the
Medicare program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1399
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1399, a bill to amend title VIII of
the Public Health Services Act to re-
vise and extend nursing workforce de-
velopment programs.
S. 1583
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1583, a bill to amend the Lead-
Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act
to provide for additional procedures for
families with children under the age of
6, and for other purposes.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1590, a bill to amend the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956
to authorize rewards for thwarting
wildlife trafficking linked to
transnational organized crime, and for
other purposes.
S. 1675
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1675, a bill to impose require-
ments on the payment of compensation
to professional persons employed in
voluntary cases commenced under title
III of PROMESA.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING), the Senator from Wyoming (Mr.
BARRASSO), the Senator from Wash-
ington (Ms. CANTWELL), and the Sen-
ator from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1757, a bill to
award a Congressional Gold Medal, col-
lectively, to the United States Army
Rangers Veterans of World War II in
recognition of their extraordinary serv-
ice during World War II.
S. 1804
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1804, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment to issue guidelines relating to the
appropriate inclusion of residential
manufactured homes in Consolidated
Plans, and for other purposes.
S. 1820
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1820, a bill to improve the in-
tegrity and safety of horseracing by re-
quiring a uniform anti-doping and
medication control program to be de-
veloped and enforced by an independent
Horseracing Anti-Doping and Medica-
tion Control Authority.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1838, a bill to amend the
Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, and for
other purposes.
S. 1908
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1908, a bill to amend the
Richard B. Russell National School
Lunch Act to improve the efficiency of
summer meals.
S. 2054
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2054, a bill to posthumously award the
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively,
to Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, J.
Christopher Stevens, and Sean Smith,
in recognition of their contributions to
the Nation.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2085, a bill to authorize the Sec-
retary of Education to award grants to
eligible entities to carry out edu-
cational programs about the Holo-
caust, and for other purposes.
S. 2216
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2216, a bill to require the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to for-
mally recognize caregivers of veterans,
notify veterans and caregivers of clin-
ical determinations relating to eligi-
bility for caregiver programs, and tem-
porarily extend benefits for veterans
who are determined ineligible for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:13 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO6.020 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6509
November 12, 2019
family caregiver program, and for
other purposes.
S. 2327
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2327, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to modify the eli-
gibility requirements for transfer of
unused entitlement to Post-9/11 Edu-
cational Assistance, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2330
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
names of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI), the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. GARDNER) and the Senator
from Michigan (Mr. PETERS) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2330, a bill to
amend the Ted Stevens Olympic and
Amateur Sports Act to provide for con-
gressional oversight of the board of di-
rectors of the United States Olympic
and Paralympic Committee and to pro-
tect amateur athletes from emotional,
physical, and sexual abuse, and for
other purposes.
S. 2346
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2346, a bill to improve the
Fishery Resource Disaster Relief pro-
gram of the National Marine Fisheries
Service, and for other purposes.
S. 2417
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2417, a bill to provide for payment of
proceeds from savings bonds to a State
with title to such bonds pursuant to
the judgment of a court.
S. 2473
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2473, a bill to extend certain provisions
of the Caribbean Basin Economic Re-
covery Act until September 30, 2030,
and for other purposes.
S. 2541
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2541, a bill to amend the Indian
Health Care Improvement Act to au-
thorize advance appropriations for the
Indian Health Service by providing 2-
fiscal-year budget authority, and for
other purposes.
S. 2546
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2546, a bill to amend the
Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 to require a group health
plan or health insurance coverage of-
fered in connection with such a plan to
provide an exceptions process for any
medication step therapy protocol, and
for other purposes.
S. 2602
At the request of Mr. BURR, the name
of the Senator from Michigan (Mr.
PETERS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2602, a bill to exclude vehicles to be
used solely for competition from cer-
tain provisions of the Clean Air Act,
and for other purposes.
S. 2615
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
names of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) and the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. MORAN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2615, a bill to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to
improve the historic rehabilitation tax
credit, and for other purposes.
S. 2630
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Mississippi (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2630, a bill to repeal the wage re-
quirements of the Davis-Bacon Act.
S. 2638
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2638, a bill to amend title 49,
United State Code, to require small
hub airports to construct areas for
nursing mothers, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2671
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2671, a bill to build safer, thriving com-
munities, and save lives by investing in
effective violence reduction initiatives.
S. 2703
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2703, a bill to enhance the
recognition of, and response to, air-
craft failure conditions, and for other
purposes.
S. 2745
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2745, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to prohibit dis-
crimination by abortion against an un-
born child on the basis of Down syn-
drome.
S. 2764
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2764, a bill to amend the
Controlled Substances Act to clarify
how controlled substance analogues
that are imported or offered for import
are to be regulated, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2765
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from Texas (Mr. COR-
NYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2765, a bill to improve Federal fiscal
controls and the congressional budget
process.
S. 2787
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2787, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to require report-
ing for qualified opportunity funds, to
make modifications to opportunity
zones, and for other purposes.
S. 2794
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2794, a bill to provide for the creation
of the Missing Armed Forces Personnel
Records Collection at the National Ar-
chives, to require the expeditious pub-
lic transmission to the Archivist and
public disclosure of Missing Armed
Forces Personnel records, and for other
purposes.
S. RES. 98
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 98, a resolution establishing
the Congressional Gold Star Family
Fellowship Program for the placement
in offices of Senators of children,
spouses, and siblings of members of the
Armed Forces who are hostile casual-
ties or who have died from a training-
related injury.
S. RES. 150
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) and the Senator
from Colorado (Mr. BENNET) were added
as cosponsors of S. Res. 150, a resolu-
tion expressing the sense of the Senate
that it is the policy of the United
States to commemorate the Armenian
Genocide through official recognition
and remembrance.
S. RES. 371
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 371, a resolution re-
affirming the support of the United
States for the people of the Republic of
South Sudan and calling on all parties
to uphold their commitments to peace
and dialogue as outlined in the 2018 re-
vitalized peace agreement.
S. RES. 395
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 395, a resolution rec-
ognizing the 40th anniversary of the
Iran Hostage Crisis, and for other pur-
poses.
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 395, supra.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
KING, Mr. MERKLEY, and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN):
S. 2837. A bill to amend title 51,
United States Code, to require a Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration initiative on reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions and noise
emissions from aircraft, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO6.022 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6510 November 12, 2019
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today, I
am pleased to introduce new legisla-
tion called the Cleaner, Quieter Air-
planes Act. This legislation sets an am-
bitious goal for accelerating the Na-
tional Aeronautics & Space Adminis-
tration’s (NASA) important, ongoing
work on electric aircraft propulsion
and other technologies to be integrated
on new aircraft that are both cleaner
and quieter. It challenges us to bring
about a transformational shift in our
aviation industry to airplanes that
produce less greenhouse gas pollution
and less noise: 50 percent less by 2030
for regional transport aircraft and by
2040 for larger aircraft serving trans-
continental markets.
To achieve this goal, this bill pro-
poses $1.2 billion in funding for NASA
over six years, with a ramp-up and
then a decline in the annual amounts.
This funding will push NASA to accel-
erate its work and to expand its col-
laboration with industry partners to
get this done.
A growing number of Maryland citi-
zens have expressed concerns about air-
plane noise in their communities. We
all want a thriving aviation industry.
Air travel is important to our way of
life, and it is a key sector of our econ-
omy, accounting for more than 5 per-
cent of our total gross domestic prod-
uct (GDP) in 2014 and supporting more
than 10 million jobs.
As air traffic volumes increase, how-
ever, we are increasing our commu-
nities’ exposure to noise pollution that
has an adverse impact on our quality of
life. We need to find new solutions for
supporting our need for air travel while
addressing these concerns about noise.
This legislation is also about finding
new and innovative ways to fight cli-
mate change. Today, transportation is
the leading source of greenhouse gas
emissions in the United States. Avia-
tion accounts for approximately 3 per-
cent of all emissions. Three percent
may not sound like much, but consider
that emissions from aviation are ex-
pected to triple by 2050 and could ac-
count for as much as 25 percent of glob-
al emissions. If we want to continue
flying as we do now while protecting
ourselves from the perils of climate
change, now is the time to act.
There is some exciting innovation
happening right now, with companies
working on new, electric aircraft tech-
nologies—including work by large, es-
tablished companies and by smaller
start-ups. We have heard from some of
them, and two things they have said
stand out.
The first is that government-funded
research undertaken by NASA is crit-
ical to the development and testing of
new technologies in electric aircraft.
The work that NASA does in collabora-
tion with industry partners addresses a
wide array of technical challenges, like
how to make certain electrical compo-
nents work at high altitudes and what
sorts of air frame designs might best
enable new kinds of propulsion.
The second thing we hear is that if
we do not act with greater urgency, we
risk allowing other countries to pass us
by in a critical industry. Europe, in
particular, is moving quickly with
strong government investments in re-
search, development, and demonstra-
tion of new, electric aircraft tech-
nologies.
If we fail to match this ambition and
build these skills at home, we will be
left out of this drive to innovate and
our businesses and workers will be at a
competitive disadvantage. This will be-
come even more difficult as other
countries embrace new, stricter stand-
ards for aircraft noise and greenhouse
gas pollution.
So there are a few reasons for the ur-
gency behind this legislation. It re-
sponds to the need to support research
and development in our aviation indus-
try to remain competitive with other
countries. It responds to the need for
new ideas to combat climate change.
And it responds to our need for air
travel with fewer noise impacts on our
neighborhoods. This legislation calls
on our innovative spirit to produce a
new generation of airplanes that are
cleaner, quieter, and ultimately more
sustainable, both for our environment
and our economy.
Thank you.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 417—COM-
MEMORATING THE 81ST ANNI-
VERSARY OF KRISTALLNACHT,
OR THE NIGHT OF BROKEN
GLASS
Mr. MURPHY submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions:
S. RES. 417
Whereas November 9, 2019, through Novem-
ber 10, 2019, marks the 81st anniversary of
Kristallnacht, or the Night of Broken Glass;
Whereas Kristallnacht began as a pogrom
authorized by Nazi party officials and was
carried out by members of the
Sturmabteilungen (commonly known as the
‘‘SA’’), the Schutzstaffel (commonly known
as the ‘‘SS’’), and the Hitler Youth;
Whereas Kristallnacht marked the first
large-scale anti-Semitic operation of the
Nazi Party and a crucial turning point in
Nazi anti-Semitic policy;
Whereas, during Kristallnacht, syna-
gogues, homes, and businesses in Jewish
communities were attacked, resulting in
murders and arrests of Jewish people in Ger-
many and in Austrian and Czechoslovakian
territories controlled by the Nazis;
Whereas the events of Kristallnacht re-
sulted in the burning and destruction of 267
synagogues, the looting of thousands of busi-
nesses and homes, the desecration of Jewish
cemeteries, the murder of 91 Jews, and the
arrest and deportation of 30,000 Jewish men
to concentration camps;
Whereas the shards of broken glass from
the windows of synagogues, Jewish homes,
and Jewish-owned businesses ransacked dur-
ing the violence that littered the streets
gave the pogrom the name of Kristallnacht,
commonly translated as the ‘‘Night of Bro-
ken Glass’’;
Whereas Kristallnacht—
(1) proved to be a crucial turning point in
the Holocaust, marking a shift from a policy
of removing Jews from Germany and Ger-
man-occupied lands to murdering millions of
people; and
(2) was a tragic precursor to the Second
World War;
Whereas, despite numerous global efforts
to eradicate hate, manifestations of anti-
Semitism and other forms of intolerance
continue to harm societies on a global scale;
and
Whereas, in 2018—
(1) anti-Semitic acts in France increased
by more than 70 percent compared to the
previous year, according to data from the
Government of France; and
(2) anti-Semitic crimes in Germany, which
include hate speech, increased by 20 percent,
according to data from the Government of
Germany;
Whereas, because hate crimes in the Euro-
pean Union are generally under reported, the
real figures on anti-Semitism in France,
Germany, and other states in the European
Union are likely much higher;
Whereas, while the United States has made
progress towards addressing anti-Semitism,
recent events demonstrate that much work
remains;
Whereas, in 2017, the Anti-Defamation
League recorded 1,986 anti-Semitic incidents
across the United States, including physical
assaults, vandalism, and attacks on Jewish
institutions, which represents a 57 percent
increase compared to anti-Semitic incidents
recorded in 2016;
Whereas recent anti-Semitic acts in the
United States include—
(1) the shooting at the Tree of Life Syna-
gogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in Octo-
ber, 2018; and
(2) the shooting at the Chabad of Poway
Synagogue in Poway, California, in April,
2019;
Whereas, according to the Anti-Defama-
tion League, since the Tree of Life Shooting
occurred, at least 13 white supremacists have
been arrested for their alleged roles in ter-
rorist plots, attacks, or threats against the
Jewish community in the United States; and
Whereas Kristallnacht teaches mankind
how hate can proliferate and erode societies
and serves as a reminder that the United
States must advance global efforts to ensure
that barbarism and mass murder never occur
again: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes the 81st anniversary of
Kristallnacht;
(2) pays tribute to the more than 6,000,000
Jewish people killed during the Holocaust
and the families affected by the tragedy;
(3) continues to support United States ef-
forts to address the horrible legacy of the
Holocaust and combat manifestations of
anti-Semitism domestically and globally;
and
(4) will continue to raise awareness and act
to eradicate the continuing scourge of anti-
Semitism at home and abroad, including
through work with international partners,
such as—
(A) the Organization for Security and Co-
operation in Europe (referred to in this re-
solving clause as the ‘‘OSCE’’);
(B) the Tolerance and Non-Discrimination
Unit of the OSCE; and
(C) the Personal Representative on Com-
bating Anti-Semitism of the OSCE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO6.024 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6511
November 12, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 418—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE REGARDING THE GOV-
ERNMENT OF TURKEY’S CRACK-
DOWN ON DISSENT RELATED TO
ITS INCURSION INTO NORTHEAST
SYRIA, AND BROADER HUMAN
RIGHTS VIOLATIONS
Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. WYDEN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 418
Whereas Turkey is a constitutional, sec-
ular state with an ethnically, religiously,
and culturally diverse population;
Whereas Turkey has been a modern democ-
racy and a major North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization (NATO) ally to the United States;
Whereas Turkey is a signatory to the
International Covenant on Civil and Polit-
ical Rights and is therefore obligated to up-
hold the freedom of its people to peacefully
express criticism of their government;
Whereas, immediately following the incur-
sion by the Turkish Armed Forces into
northeast Syria on October 9, 2019, the Gov-
ernment of Turkey began a coordinated
crackdown on online dissent;
Whereas, on October 9, 2019, Turkey’s Na-
tional Security Directorate made a state-
ment that criminal investigations had been
initiated against 78 people for ‘‘inciting en-
mity and hatred through black propaganda
[smear campaign] against [Turkey] over Op-
eration Peace Spring; sharing unsourced and
false social media postings intended to de-
stroy the reputation of [Turkey’s] security
forces and making propaganda for a terrorist
organization’’;
Whereas expression of opposition views
through social media posts, social media
reposts, and shared online articles has led to
the investigation and detention of individ-
uals in the region;
Whereas the shared content targeted by
Turkish authorities was largely authored by
Western and United States sources and out-
lets;
Whereas Turkey has over 120 journalists
and media workers in jail, more than in any
other country, with most of them detained
under propaganda charges;
Whereas, on October 10, 2019, the digital
services manager of the Birgun daily news-
paper was detained in his home in Istanbul
and questioned in relation to a news article
and a tweet said to have incited enmity or
hatred under the Article 216/1 of Turkish
Penal Code;
Whereas, on October 11, 2019, Minister of
the Interior Suleyman Soylu stated during a
speech that 121 people had been detained for
their social media posts ‘‘insulting ‘Oper-
ation Peace Spring’, describing [our] country
as an invader and insulating the unity of our
nation’’;
Whereas, on October 14, 2019, military po-
lice carried out a countrywide operation
with the aim of ‘‘preventing and deterring
sympathizers of the terrorist organization
from [engaging in provocations related to]
Operation Peace Spring’’ in which over
500,000 people were interrogated and 152 peo-
ple were detained, according to Amnesty
International;
Whereas, as of October 16, 2019, authorities
have identified 839 social media accounts
under investigation, and 186 individuals
taken into police custody since October 9,
2019, related to ‘‘shared criminal content’’;
Whereas, on October 19, 2019, police raided
several homes of human rights defenders and
journalists on counts of ‘‘inciting enmity or
hatred’’ through social media posts;
Whereas, on October 25, 2019, criminal com-
plaints were made against the French week-
ly journal Le Point for its coverage of the
military offensive;
Whereas the style and scale of the social
media crackdown specific to Turkish oper-
ations in Syria has recent precedent in the
aftermath of the Turkish Armed Forces’ Op-
eration Olive Branch in Afrin, in which—
(1) 1,719 social media accounts were inves-
tigated;
(2) 845 people were detained for social
media posts; and
(3) 643 people were subject to judicial pro-
ceedings; including 11 physician members of
the Turkish Medical Association’s Central
Council, who were sentenced to terms up to
3 years and three months for calling to an
end to the Afrin military operation;
Whereas Turkish authorities have targeted
more than a thousand criminal defense law-
yers as part of the ongoing crackdown on
dissent;
Whereas more than 265 academics have
been prosecuted in Turkey for signing an ap-
peal for peace between the Government of
Turkey and Kurdish insurgents;
Whereas human rights violations have
been a defining aspect of President Erdogan’s
authoritarian rule, including—
(1) the removal of at least 88 of the pro-
Kurdish Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP)
mayors from office in the last three years
and their replacement with state-appointed
trustees;
(2) the detention of HDP members of par-
liament; and
(3) the detention of Turkish employees of
United States diplomatic facilities in Tur-
key;
Whereas blanket bans on peaceful protests
of any form have been implemented by local
governors across Turkey; and
Whereas these bans have resulted in the ar-
rest and detention of many people and rep-
resent clear violations to the right to peace-
ful assembly as protected by international
human rights conventions to which Turkey
is a party and by the Constitution of Turkey:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) reaffirms the position of the United
States that peaceful dissent should be pro-
tected under the right of freedom of expres-
sion in Turkey;
(2) condemns policies and efforts by the
Government of Turkey to suppress peaceful
protesters, including those expressing dis-
sent against military operations by the
Turkish Armed Forces or policies instituted
by the Government of Turkey;
(3) stands with the defenders of free speech
and human rights in Turkey;
(4) encourages senior United States admin-
istration officials to raise the issue of sup-
pression of free speech and media in Turkey
at the highest levels, both bilaterally and
multilaterally;
(5) encourages United States embassy and
consular staff to attend politically moti-
vated trials; and
(6) calls on the Government of Turkey to—
(A) immediately lift restrictions on free-
dom of expression, including expression on-
line or in social media;
(B) ensure that criticism of the Turkish
Armed Forces’ military operations or calling
for peace—through media, social media,
peaceful assembly, or other peaceful means—
is not criminalized;
(C) drop all charges and end prosecution of
individuals or groups for peaceful expression
of their opposition to Turkey’s military op-
erations in Syria;
(D) ensure that people can gather and pro-
test peacefully, including by lifting blanket
protest bans across the country;
(E) release all political prisoners, including
journalists and Turkish employees of United
States diplomatic missions; and
(F) respect the rights of Turkish citizens
to elect their leaders through a democratic
process.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 419—PERMIT-
TING THE COLLECTION OF
CLOTHING, TOYS, FOOD, AND
HOUSEWARES DURING THE HOLI-
DAY SEASON FOR CHARITABLE
PURPOSES IN SENATE BUILD-
INGS
Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 419
Resolved,
SECTION 1. COLLECTION OF CLOTHING, TOYS,
FOOD, AND HOUSEWARES DURING
THE HOLIDAY SEASON FOR CHARI-
TABLE PURPOSES IN SENATE BUILD-
INGS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of the rules or regulations of
the Senate—
(1) a Senator, officer of the Senate, or em-
ployee of the Senate may collect from an-
other Senator, officer of the Senate, or em-
ployee of the Senate within a Senate build-
ing or other office secured for a Senator non-
monetary donations of clothing, toys, food,
and housewares for charitable purposes re-
lated to serving persons in need or members
of the Armed Forces and the families of
those members during the holiday season, if
the charitable purposes do not otherwise vio-
late any rule or regulation of the Senate or
Federal law; and
(2) a Senator, officer of the Senate, or em-
ployee of the Senate may work with a non-
profit organization with respect to the deliv-
ery of donations described under paragraph
(1).
(b) EXPIRATION.—The authority provided
by this resolution shall expire at the end of
the first session of the 116th Congress.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 1244. Mr. INHOFE (for Mr. BLUNT) pro-
posed an amendment to the bill H.R. 1865, to
require the Secretary of the Treasury to
mint a coin in commemoration of the open-
ing of the National Law Enforcement Mu-
seum in the District of Columbia, and for
other purposes.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 1244. Mr. INHOFE (for Mr. BLUNT)
proposed an amendment to the bill
H.R. 1865, to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint a coin in com-
memoration of the opening of the Na-
tional Law Enforcement Museum in
the District of Columbia, and for other
purposes; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 9. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.
The Secretary shall take such actions as
may be necessary to ensure that—
(1) minting and issuing coins under this
Act will not result in any net cost to the
United States Government; and
(2) no funds, including applicable sur-
charges, are disbursed to any recipient des-
ignated in section 7 until the total cost of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO6.028 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6512 November 12, 2019
designing and issuing all of the coins author-
ized by this Act (including labor, materials,
dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses,
marketing, and shipping) is recovered by the
United States Treasury, consistent with sec-
tions 5112(m) and 5134(f) of title 31, United
States Code.
f
NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
MUSEUM COMMEMORATIVE COIN
ACT
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H.R. 1865, which was received
from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 1865) to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint a coin in commemo-
ration of the opening of the National Law
Enforcement Museum in the District of Co-
lumbia, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. INHOFE. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Blunt amendment at the
desk be considered and agreed to; that
the bill, as amended be considered read
a third time and passed; and that the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 1244) was agreed
to, as follows:
(Purpose: To add a provision relating to
financial assurances)
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 9. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.
The Secretary shall take such actions as
may be necessary to ensure that—
(1) minting and issuing coins under this
Act will not result in any net cost to the
United States Government; and
(2) no funds, including applicable sur-
charges, are disbursed to any recipient des-
ignated in section 7 until the total cost of
designing and issuing all of the coins author-
ized by this Act (including labor, materials,
dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses,
marketing, and shipping) is recovered by the
United States Treasury, consistent with sec-
tions 5112(m) and 5134(f) of title 31, United
States Code.
The amendment was ordered to be
engrossed and the bill to be read a
third time.
The bill was read the third time.
The bill (H.R. 1865), as amended, was
passed.
f
PERMITTING THE COLLECTION OF
CLOTHING, TOYS, FOOD, AND
HOUSEWARES DURING THE HOLI-
DAY SEASON FOR CHARITABLE
PURPOSES IN SENATE BUILD-
INGS
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 419, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 419) permitting the
collection of clothing, toys, food, and
housewares during the holiday season for
charitable purposes in Senate buildings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. INHOFE. I further ask unani-
mous consent that the resolution be
agreed to, the preamble be agreed to,
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 419) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT
AGREEMENT—S. 2731
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate’s
action placing S. 2731 on the Calendar
be vitiated and the bill be considered
introduced and held at the desk on Oc-
tober 29, 2019, and then indefinitely
postponed today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—S. 2840
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I un-
derstand there is a bill at the desk, and
I ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the first time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2840) to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, and for other pur-
poses.
Mr. INHOFE. I now ask for a second
reading and in order to place the bill
on the Calendar under the provisions of
rule XIV, I object to my own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
read for the second time on the next
legislative day.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 13, 2019
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m., Wednesday, Novem-
ber 13; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Wolf nomination, with the
postcloture time expiring at 11 a.m.;
further, that if confirmed, the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table and the President
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action; finally, that the Senate recess
from 12:30 p.m. until 2 p.m. to allow for
the conference meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order, following the remarks
of Senator MENENDEZ.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President,
first, let me congratulate the Senator
from Oklahoma on his upcoming 50th
anniversary.
Mr. INHOFE. 60th.
Mr. MENENDEZ. That is the 60th an-
niversary. Oh, my God. That is a hall-
mark under any set of circumstances,
and we wish him much health and hap-
piness with his bride for a lot longer
time as well. I say congratulations.
Mr. INHOFE. Thank you.
f
TURKEY AND SYRIA
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President,
When President Trump welcomes Turk-
ish President Erdogan to the White
House this week, he will be welcoming
a known authoritarian, human rights
abuser, and friend to Putin, whose be-
havior increasingly runs counter to the
interests of the United States and our
allies. It is yet another strategic mis-
take and a terrible misuse of the power
of the Presidency.
In recent years, the President of Tur-
key has made a series of decisions to
part ways with NATO, with the United
States, and with the basic principles of
democracy. Make no mistake.
Erdogan’s actions are intentional. It is
stunning to think that any American
President would legitimize Erdogan’s
harmful policies by welcoming him to
the Oval Office. This meeting is a mis-
take, plain and simple.
I can only hope that instead of yield-
ing to Erdogan’s policies that are so
squarely at odds with U.S. interests,
President Trump treats this misguided
meeting as more than just a photo op
with yet another dictator.
The President should instead use this
visit to actually stand up for America,
for our principles, and for our allies. He
can do this by raising the many serious
questions that Turkey has yet to ad-
dress.
I would like to use this opportunity
to outline 10 critical questions, each of
which deserves real answers.
Question No. 1: Will Turkey reverse
course from Erdogan’s decision to buy
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO6.025 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6513
November 12, 2019
and receive the S–400 air defense sys-
tem from Russia?
The President’s National Security
Advisor claims that the administration
is very ‘‘upset’’ about Turkey’s pur-
chase of Russia’s S–400 weapons sys-
tem. Well, ‘‘upset’’ is not a policy, and
it falls well short of the Trump admin-
istration’s legal obligations.
Under the CAATSA sanctions law,
Turkey’s purchase of the S–400 is a sig-
nificant and sanctionable transaction.
These sanctions should have been im-
posed in July when Turkey first took
delivery of the S–400s. Yet, by failing
to implement the legal requirements of
CAATSA, President Trump has done
lasting damage to U.S. credibility, to
the integrity of our sanctions, and to
the rule of law.
Is it too much to ask the President of
the United States to follow the law?
He can start by imposing CAATSA
sanctions when Erdogan is in Wash-
ington.
Question Number 2: Will our Presi-
dent sanction the activities of
Halkbank, a Turkish institution that
facilitated the biggest evasion of Iran’s
sanctions in history? I repeat: It was
the biggest evasion of Iran sanctions in
history.
We know that the Justice Depart-
ment has finally brought charges in
the case, but if the administration had
followed the law, they would have al-
ready imposed sanctions on Halkbank
and sent a message to other actors who
seek to evade Iran sanctions.
I understand that one of Erdogan’s
top priorities for his visit to the White
House is to secure relief for Halkbank.
That is the opposite of what the law re-
quires, and I hope President Trump
shows some backbone when Erdogan
asks him for yet another favor.
Let’s not forget that President
Trump’s personal attorney, Rudy
Giuliani represented Reza Zarrab, one
of the players in Halkbank’s sanctions
evasion.
It seems that the President likes to
talk tough about his sanctions policy
on Iran and yet all the tough talks sud-
denly stops when the interests of his
authoritarian pals or his personal law-
yer are on the line.
Question number 3: Will the Presi-
dent accept the commission of war
crimes in Syria by Turkish-backed
forces—the war crimes that he in effect
invited Turkey to commit when he
green-lighted its invasion of Syria?
The U.N. reports that more than
200,000 people have been internally dis-
placed from the so-called safe zone con-
trolled by the Turks. Some of those
displaced have reported that Turkish-
backed forces have beaten civilians and
conducted kidnappings and summary
executions.
With the pullout of American troops,
Turkey was effectively given license to
commit these abuses and unleash un-
speakable crimes. That is ethnic
cleansing.
So many in this Chamber have said
never again to this kind of horror in
the past. Can we depend on President
Trump to do the same?
Last week, I introduced a binding
resolution that would require the State
Department to report on Turkish
human rights abuses in Syria. State’s
findings could have a direct bearing on
arms sales to Turkey. Meanwhile, we
have additional legislation to hold Tur-
key accountable that has been waiting
for a vote for weeks.
But where are we? Did we pass the
Risch-Menendez bill on Turkey? No.
Did we pass the House version of that
legislation? No. Day after day, week
after week, we sit on our hands, too
timid to act on any legislation that
might upset Erdogan while he is in
town. Whatever happened to standing
up for our American values?
This weekend, National Security Ad-
visor Robert O’Brien declared that
‘‘there’s no place for ethnic cleansing,
for war crimes in the 21st century.’’
Will President Trump deliver that mes-
sage to Erdogan on Wednesday? Will he
seek to maintain any shred of dignity
and U.S. credibility on human rights
issues, or will he let Erdogan engage in
these horrific human rights issues
without consequence?
Question Number 4: Will our Presi-
dent stand up to Turkish aggression
against its neighbors throughout the
region? Turkish naval ships routinely
violate the exclusive economic zones of
Cyprus and may take measures in
Famagusta that would set the peace
process on the island back even fur-
ther.
Turkey also routinely violates air-
space that belongs to Greece, brazenly
disregarding Greece’s sovereignty and
the safety of Greek pilots and those on
the ground below.
Has President Trump uttered a word
of support for our Greek friends and
NATO ally? Will he affirm America’s
relationship with Greece during
Erdogan’s visit to the White House?
The EU has developed a sanctions
framework that would address Tur-
key’s actions in the Cypriot Exclusive
Economic Zone. Will Donald Trump
follow suit?
Question No. 5: Will our President
condemn or accept Erdogan’s warming
relationship with the Russian Federa-
tion?
In addition to buying the S–400, Tur-
key is now in talks to purchase the
Russian Sukhoi aircraft. Last week,
Erdogan felt the need to coordinate
with President Putin prior to coming
to the United States. According to
Reuters, he said he would hold a phone
call with the Russian President over
the weekend to ‘‘form the basis’’ of his
talks with President Trump.
Imagine this, a NATO ally—NATO
comprised primarily to defend against
the Russian Federation—a NATO ally
going to have conversations with Putin
to form the basis of his conversation
with President Trump. Aside from per-
haps Hungary, I can’t imagine any
other leader in NATO coordinating
with Putin before a conversation with
an American President.
Some say we need to tread carefully
with Turkey lest we push it into Rus-
sia’s arms. Push? It seems to me that
Erdogan has jumped into Putin’s arms
long ago with no provocation from us.
Question No. 6: Will President Trump
call out Erdogan’s assault on the demo-
cratic process in Turkey? Will he stick
up for civil society groups, university
professors, and others who have been
unjustly detained? Will he stick up for
journalists there, even as he demonizes
the free press here at home? More jour-
nalists are imprisoned in Turkey than
any other country in the world—in the
world.
Under article 2 of the NATO charter,
member countries commit to a certain
set of democratic principles. This is
the basis of the alliance. At its core,
this is why we commit to the mutual
defense of these allies. They share our
values, our belief in human rights, in
human freedom, in democracy, and in
the rule of law. Yet all of Erdogan’s ac-
tions over the past few years run afoul
of the democratic principles that de-
fine the NATO alliance.
I know the President does not like to
stand up for democracy at home or
abroad, but I hope this meeting will be
different in that he will finally come to
understand what was clear to so many
Presidents before him—Republican and
Democratic alike—that how a leader
treats his own people is indicative of
how they will act on the world stage.
An authoritarian at home is an author-
itarian abroad, and both should matter
to the United States.
Question No. 7: Will President Trump
ignore the violent attacks by
Erdogan’s security detail in 2017
against peaceful protesters and DC po-
lice? The last time Erdogan visited in
2017, his goons did just that, resulting
in criminal charges against more than
half a dozen members of his security
detail.
During his meeting, President Trump
should insist that Erdogan hand over
those guards implicated in the 2017 at-
tacks. It is clear that Erdogan’s visit
will again attract demonstrators and
rightfully so. While Erdogan may not
believe in the right of peaceful protest
in his home country, I hope Erdogan
learned his lesson that here in the
United States the right to peaceful as-
sembly is enshrined in our Constitu-
tion and is core to our democracy. I
hope President Trump clearly reminds
him of this fact.
Question No. 8: Will President Trump
accept efforts by Turkey to convert
Hagia Sophia, which was the largest
Greek Orthodox Church in the world
for more than 1,000 years, into a
mosque? Will he advocate for the reli-
gious freedom of the Ecumenical Patri-
arch Bartholomew, who continues to
work and live under pressure from the
Turkish Government? I hear a lot
about religious freedom. Well, this is
one glaring example where the admin-
istration has been silent.
Question No. 9: Will President Trump
ignore Erdogan’s violation of the U.N.’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.029 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6514 November 12, 2019
arms embargo on Libya? Now, to be
fair, Turkey is not the only country
funneling weapons to clients in Libya
in clear violation of U.N. Security
Council Resolution 1970, but the grind-
ing, protracted conflict heightened by
these weapons is destabilizing North
Africa and allowing for the trafficking
and exploitation of desperate migrants
and refugees.
Will President Trump call on all out-
side powers, including Turkey, to en-
gage in Libya with diplomacy rather
than weapons transfers and to encour-
age the warring parties to find a polit-
ical solution to the conflict?
Finally, Question No. 10: Will Presi-
dent Trump call out Turkey’s relation-
ship with Hamas, the Palestinian orga-
nization that continues to terrorize
Israel on a daily basis? Will he stand by
our ally Israel or will his personal in-
terest and affinity for strong men win
out once again?
The President says he wants to put
America first. Yet on every one of
these 10 issues, the President has cow-
ered to the demands of Ankara and
Moscow.
Look, President Trump can meet
with Erdogan—that is his decision and
his prerogative—but on these and so
many other issues, President Trump’s
actions do not represent the values of
the American people or their represent-
atives in Congress. He does not rep-
resent those who support holding Rus-
sia accountable. He does not represent
those who stand against war crimes in
Syria. He does not represent those who
want to see a democratic Turkey.
Despite our objections, President
Trump will welcome Erdogan to the
Oval Office. At the same time, it is
worth pointing out that so many
months into the controversy sur-
rounding Ukraine, President Trump
has yet to set a date for an Oval Office
meeting with Ukraine’s President
Zelensky.
President Zelensky is a true friend to
the United States on the frontlines of
the struggle for democracy in his coun-
try. He is standing up to Russian ag-
gression and corruption. He is respect-
ing the free press. He is working to
strengthen democratic institutions.
President Zelensky is everything that
President Erdogan of Turkey is not.
Yet it is Turkey that President Trump
continues to admire and Ukraine that
he continues to demonize.
Something is wrong here. Something
is wrong. We should not have to cross
our fingers and hope that any Amer-
ican President stands up for our values,
holds our adversaries accountable, and
does the right thing when it matters
most. It should not be a question. It
should be a given. Yet all I can do at
this time is hope that President Trump
will reverse course and challenge the
bad behavior of an authoritarian like
Erdogan rather than celebrate it.
With that, I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:01 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, November
13, 2019, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT TO THE
GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be colonel
THOMAS JASON ABELL
MAURICIA P. ALO
KEVIN D. ALONS
SOTERA L. ANDERSON
ROBERT P. ANDREWS
WILLIAM B. ANNIE
DAMON B. ARMITAGE
JENNIFER LEE ARMSTRONG
RYAN DOYLE AYERS
DOUGLAS H. BAILEY
CLAY M. BALDWIN
SEAN P. BARNETT
YAAKOV BRUHAEL BINDELL
JASSEN L. BLUTO
WILLIAM R. BOHNSTEDT
EDWARD F. BORNEO
ANTHONY STEPHEN BRADLEY
CLARK J. BRAMANTE
PATRICK LEE BROWN
BRIAN JAMES BUDDEN
FRANCIS X. BUSER
JESSE RYAN CARLSON
KYLE JOHN CERFOGLIO
DAVID ROY CHAUVIN
CHRISTOPHER JOHN CHERNEY
SHAWN M. CLINE
RALPH S. COLEMAN, JR.
MANUEL ANGEL COLON–DEJESUS
EDWARD WARREN COOK, JR.
LOUIS A. DAVENPORT
CHRISTOPHER R. DINOTE
TODD HENRY DOMACHOWSKI
ENRIQUE DOVALO, JR.
NATHAN O. DREWRY
ROBERT EDWARD DRISCOLL, JR.
CHRISTOPHER A. EASON
MANSOUR GEORGE ELHIHI
ERIC NILS ERICKSON, JR.
BRANDON WREGG ESKAM
AMANDA B. EVANS
CHARLES R. EWINGS III
KATHLEEN ANN FALLIS
CHRISTOPHER ALLEN FIELDS
DOUGLAS JAY FIKE
JEREMY RICHARD FORD
TERESA RENEE FRANK
MATTHEW WARD GALLEGOS
JUAN CARLOS GARCIA
SHELDON MCLANE GARDNER
JOSEPH PATRICK GEANEY
KRISTOPHER R. GEIS
GRACE ANN GIBBS
FRED GINSBURG
DANIEL W. GOWDER
NATHAN EDWARD GRABER
JULIE ANN GRATION
MARK C. HANSEN
RYAN NATHANIEL HARRIS
JASON LEE HAWK
TIMOTHY BLANE HAYNES
MICHAEL W. HOLDCROFT
CHAD ERIC HOLESKO
STEVEN J. HUNTER
NICOLE ANNE IVERS
EDWARD WORTH KELLER III
LISA KIRK
MICHAEL B. KOSDERKA
AMY P. KREMSER
JASON J. LABANT
JEREMY CHRISTOPHER LASITER
WILLIAM J. LAYTON
KRISTY JO LEASMAN
TODD A. LUCE
AARON J. MATHENA
GLENDA M. MATHURINLEE
BRIAN S. MCCULLOUGH
MATTHEW RICHARD MCDONOUGH
MATTHEW J. MCGARRY
MICHAEL PATRICK MCGINN
JENNIFER MAMULA MUMME
ROBERT JOSEPH NOVAK, JR.
JODY W. OGLE
BRIAN L. PARKER
ANTHONY JOHN PASQUALE
AERICK GOURLAY PAXTON
JONATHAN TODD PINKARD
ROBERT ALAN PLANTE
TROY DEAN POORMAN
KRISTIAN BRIAN POST
BRANDON J. POWELL
KEVIN S. RAY
CHRISTOPHER TERREN RAYMOND
JAMES TODD REEMAN
WILLIAM ROBERT ROCHE
MATTHEW PARRISH SANDS
MARC ANTHONY SCORSONE
KRISTOF K. SILLS
BEVERLEY ANN SIMPSON
JACOB P. SKUGRUD
STEVEN JON SMART
JONATHAN T. SMIES
JEFFREY W. SMITH II
SKY W. SMITH
EDWARD MICHAEL SOTO
DAVID J. SPISSO II
TIMOTHY PAUL STANLEY
GLENN HIGHTOWER STEPHENS
JESSICA Y. SULLIVAN
KELLY CALHOUN SULLIVAN
DARCY DELPHON TATE
JON M. TAYLOR
FREDRICK H. THOMAS II
BRET A. TRIPPEL
EDWIN EUGENE TUHY, JR.
ANDREW J. VANDERZIEL
RICHARD GRAHAM VOGT
JAMES BRIAN VOGUS
CHARLES B. WARREN
BART MAYNARD WILDER
JOE FORREST WILDMAN
WILLIAM JENNINGS WILKINSON
AARON THOMAS WILSON
KEITH CHARLES WILSON
DANIEL C. WRAZIEN
KERBY JOHN WRIGHT
BRYAN DOUGLAS YATES
LAWRENCE NAHNO YAZZIE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
JOSHUA B. STIERWALT
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
GERALD J. HALL
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
NICOLE L. KRUSE
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
RESERVE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be captain
THOMAS Q. GALLAGHER
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR MARINE
CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 531 AND 1211:
To be captain
EMMA R. SHINN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR TEMPORARY
APPOINTMENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE
UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTION 8287:
To be major
RYAN J. NOWLIN
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G12NO6.023 S12NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1415
November 12, 2019
LATE CONGRESSMAN JOHN H.
ADLER
HON. DONALD NORCROSS
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. NORCROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor and commend the late Cherry
Hill, New Jersey resident, Congressman John
H. Adler at the John H. Adler Memorial Park
Dedication.
The late Congressman John Adler grew up
in Haddonfield, New Jersey where his father
owned a small dry-cleaning store, attended
Haddonfield public schools and graduated
from Haddonfield Memorial High School. He
went on to attend Harvard University where he
obtained his Bachelor of Arts degree in Gov-
ernment, and a Juris Doctor from Harvard Law
School. John met his wife Shelley in law
school and after they graduated, they returned
to South Jersey and settled down in Cherry
Hill.
In 1988 Adler began serving on the Cherry
Hill Township Council where he passed the
Township’s ethics ordinance, was committed
to strengthening Cherry Hill schools and im-
proving health care. In 1991, Adler ran for a
seat in the New Jersey Senate, representing
New Jersey’s Sixth Legislative District and
won the election. He served as a New Jersey
State Senator from 1992 to 2009. During his
time in the New Jersey Senate, Adler served
on the Judiciary Committee as Chair, the Envi-
ronment Committee, and sponsored vital legis-
lation designed to address key environmental
and health related issues, including the
Smoke-Free Air Act that banned smoking in
most public places. He also championed major
ethics reforms, support for children and adults
with disabilities and laws that made our state
and communities safer.
In 2008, Adler ran for the State of New Jer-
sey’s Third Congressional District seat and
won the election. This was the first time a
Democrat held that seat in over one hundred
years. He was sworn into office in January
2009 and served on the Committee on Finan-
cial Services and the Committee on Veteran’s
Affairs. During his tenure he spearheaded leg-
islation to support our veterans and seniors,
protect women’s healthcare, help working fam-
ilies, protect consumers, and end the Great
Recession.
In 2011 Adler suddenly passed away. He is
survived by his wife Shelley, and their four
sons, Jeffrey, Alex, Andrew, and Oliver. In
2011, Shelley Adler started the John H. Adler
Memorial Fund for Veterans’ Affairs at Harvard
University, which supports interdisciplinary re-
search and programs intended to promote ef-
fective governmental policy as it relates to vet-
erans.
On November 2, 2019 the Camden County
Board of Freeholders will dedicate the John H.
Adler Memorial Park at Challenge Grove to
commemorate Adler’s life and dedication to
public service.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
honoring the late Congressman John Adler, of
Cherry Hill, New Jersey, a dedicated public
servant who fought tirelessly for the people of
New Jersey for more than two decades.
f
HONORING GLEN OAKS ELEMEN-
TARY SCHOOL FOR BEING
NAMED A NATIONAL BLUE RIB-
BON SCHOOL
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Glen Oaks Elementary School in
Hickory Hills, Illinois, for being honored with
the prestigious 2019 U.S. Department of Edu-
cation National Blue Ribbon School Award.
The award was conferred under the Exem-
plary High Performing Schools category.
In 1982, the U.S. Department of Education
established the National Blue Ribbon Schools
Program to recognize public and private
schools boasting high or significantly improved
achievement. I am proud that Glen Oaks Ele-
mentary School of Hickory Hills, Illinois, has
been honored as one of those exceptional
schools.
This is not the first time Glen Oaks Elemen-
tary School has been honored for excellence
in education. In 2012, Glen Oaks was des-
ignated for the first time as a National Blue
Ribbon School. This year, Glen Oaks Elemen-
tary School has been recognized for perform-
ance in the top ten percent of all Illinois
schools, and has also received a designation
of exemplary from the Illinois State Board of
Education.
Under the direction of District Super-
intendent Dr. Jeannie Stachowiak, School
Principal Kristin Reingruber, and Assistant
Principal Carla Braun, teachers implement a
collaborative approach to classroom learning
that facilitates individual growth. The teachers
are committed to Glen Oak Elementary
School’s mission for every student to realize
their full potential as a socially responsible life-
long learner. The Glen Oaks Positive Behavior
Interventions and Supports (PBIS) program
and the Academic Student Success Enrich-
ment Teams (ASSETS) developed by teach-
ers and administrators have also had a posi-
tive impact on student achievement.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in congratulating Glen Oaks Elementary
School for this remarkable achievement and
recognizing the teachers, administrators, stu-
dents, parents, and community for the hard
work that they have put in to earn this award.
HONORING RIVER ROUGE POLICE
LIEUTENANT RON GUFFEY
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to Lieutenant Ron Guffey who served
on the City of River Rouge’s Police Depart-
ment on the occasion of his retirement.
During his twenty-three years with the police
force, Lieutenant Guffey has served with dedi-
cation and bravery. He first joined the City of
River Rouge’s Police Department as a patrol
officer in 1996. Lieutenant Guffey served the
force in several capacities and rose through
the ranks, serving as Corporal, Detective, and
Sergeant before ultimately retiring as Lieuten-
ant. Lieutenant Guffey’s presence will be
missed and is a loss for the community and
the City of River Rouge.
In short, Lieutenant Guffey has served
bravely and nobly. Please join me in saluting
him for his twenty-three years of public service
as we wish him well on his retirement.
f
550TH BIRTHDAY OF SIKH GURU
NANAK
HON. GREG PENCE
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize a very special day for the Hoosier
Sikh Community: the 550th birthday of Guru
Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. This occasion
will be celebrated by more than 25,000,000
Sikhs worldwide on November 12, 2019.
Indiana is proud to be home to over 10,000
Sikhs that enrich our communities and em-
body the meaning of Hoosier values.
Hoosier Sikhs are one of the fastest growing
business communities in Indiana, and their
contributions to our economy and culture are
valued.
On this day I am proud to stand with our
friends in the Sikh community by offering leg-
islation to celebrate this momentous occasion
and honor their contributions to Indiana and to
our great nation.
f
IN HONOR OF REVEREND
ROOSEVELT CARTER, I
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, Jr.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor an outstanding Man of
God, a devoted spiritual leader, and dear
friend of longstanding, Reverend Roosevelt
Carter, I, who retired from his role as Senior
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K12NO8.001 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1416 November 12, 2019
Pastor of First Monumental Faith Ministries in
Albany, Georgia after over three decades of
selfless service and was honored on Saturday,
November 9, 2019, at 5:00 pm.
In 1984, Reverend Carter answered the call
to preach the word of God and founded First
Monumental Faith Ministries alongside his
wife, First Lady, and Co-Pastor, LaVerne
Shinault Carter. For the past 35 years, Rev.
Carter has been the shepherd at First Monu-
mental where he has ministered to the needs
of his flockchristening babies, baptizing believ-
ers, performing marriages, and consoling be-
reaved families while developing and honing
his skills as a church administrator and inspir-
ing spiritual leader. Under The Carters’ dy-
namic and spirit-filled leadership, First Monu-
mental Faith Ministries has experienced tre-
mendous growth. But most importantly, under
their leadership, First Monumental has been a
beacon of hope and salvation for the con-
gregation through its many ministries that
share the good news of our Lord and Savior,
Jesus Christ.
Outside of the church, Reverend Carter has
also proved himself a true servant of the com-
munity in which he lives. His drive led him to
organize First Monumental Community Out-
reach, Inc. (FMCO) to help provide services to
those in need. By utilizing its access to gov-
ernment grants, FMCO opened ‘‘Job’s Place’’,
the first assistance program for persons diag-
nosed with HIV/AIDS in the Dougherty County
area. Reverend Carter and FMCO also joined
forces with the City of Albany & the Dougherty
County Coalition to help end homelessness by
leading the charge to acquire government
funding from the Department of Housing &
Urban Development (HUD) to support and
transition over 15 families to self-sustainable
living. Furthermore, Reverend Carter also ex-
tended the reach of First Monumental Faith
Ministries through the Monumental Develop-
ment Center and the Fluff-n-Fold Laundromat
to aid in job creation for residents in the com-
munity.
Reverend Carter has achieved much in his
life, but none of it would have been possible
without the Grace of God and the love and the
support of his loving wife, LaVerne, and his
children, Roosevelt, Jr., Roderald, Lorenzo,
and Renorta.
On a personal note, I have been blessed by
Reverend Carter’s sage counsel and enduring
friendship over the time that I have known
him. He has always encouraged and sup-
ported me during my career in Congress and,
I am proud to call him my friend.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
my wife, Vivian, and me, along with the
730,000 residents of Georgia’s Second Con-
gressional District, in extending our sincerest
congratulations and best wishes to Reverend
Roosevelt Carter, I on the occasion of his re-
tirement and in congratulating him for 35 out-
standing years of leadership at First Monu-
mental Faith Ministries, and for a lifetime of
selfless service to God, the church, and to hu-
mankind.
HONORING MARINE RETIRED CWO-
3 WARRANT OFFICER DANIEL
PAYNE
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize my dear friend Mr. Daniel ‘‘Dan’’
Payne as he is honored as the 2019 Grand
Marshal for the 100th Anniversary of the Cen-
tral Valley Veterans Day Parade (CVVDP).
Dan has dedicated his life to his country and
the people of the Central Valley.
Dan was born in San Jose, California to
Frank and Ubelia Payne on August 16, 1954.
He attended local schools while working in the
fields picking apricots and other fruits. He at-
tended college but soon changed course. He
enlisted into the Marine Corps in 1973, in-
spired by a television commercial about the
branch. Dan told his then-girlfriend and now
wife of 43 years Mary, that he was going to
enlist the next day. He served as an enlisted
member for 12 years, achieving the rank of
Gunnery Sergeant. In 1986, he applied for Of-
ficers Candidates School and was accepted in
February 1987. Despite severely injuring his
knee, Dan continued his training to become an
officer, graduating that same year.
Dan attended Electronics Radar Pulse Ac-
quisitions Control HAWK Guided Missile,
Command and Control Electronics Tech
HAWK Guided Missile, HAWK Guided Missile
Systems Tech, and Tactical Basics School
TBS Quantico, Virginia. He has an associate
degree in Law Enforcement, Missiles and Mu-
nitions, and an Electrical Engineering degree
from Trinity University. A Decorated Desert
Storm Veteran, Dan was the first Hispanic
Chief Warrant Officer (CWO) in the HAWK
Guided Missile field in the Marine Corps.
During his time in the Marines, Dan was a
boxer and played multiple sports. He trained in
Shotokan while he was in Japan and earned
4 black belts. He was named in Who’s Who of
Martial Arts and fought many different fighters,
including Chuck Norris.
After being deployed and stationed around
the world, Dan’s last stop was in Fresno, Cali-
fornia where he and his wife Mary, and two
daughters Rebecca and Rachel, settled. In
1996, Dan retired as CWO–3 and began
teaching at Fresno City College Training Insti-
tute. He was awarded the Center for Applied
Competitive Technology (CACT) Teacher’s
Award in 1998. Dan was an ordained pastor
while he was in the Marines and decided to
continue this path after retirement.
Dan is also the founder and CEO of Cable
Links Construction. The construction firm pro-
vides training for Lucent, Siecor, 3–M Amp,
and other telecommunication companies. Their
specialties are in fiber optics and high-speed
copper cable. Over the years, Cable Links has
also expanded into construction. Since its
founding 20 years ago, Cable Links has grown
into a successful small-business in the Central
Valley. It has been featured in the Fresno Bee
as one of the fastest-growing companies in
the Central Valley, and twice was mentioned
in lnc Magazine as one of the fastest-growing
companies in the United States.
Following his retirement from the Marine
Corps, Dan has served his community. Some
of his many contributions include leading mis-
sion trips to Mexico for New Covenant Com-
munity Church for 15 years, and as music
leader for Celebrate Recovery 12-Step Pro-
gram. He was Co-Chair for Toys-for-Tots in
2011, Chairman of Central Valley Veterans K–
9 fundraising for 11 years, Post Commander
for American Legion Post 4, Executive Direc-
tor of the California Veterans Action Alliance,
Board Member of the Central Valley Veterans
Retirement Home, and CEO since 2010 and
announcer of the CVVDP since 2003.
Throughout his career Dan has received
recognition, including as local television affil-
iate KSEE24’s Hispanic Portrait of Success re-
cipient in 1999; 2002 Business Man of the
Year; honored with his 3 brothers and 2 sis-
ters as the La Familia Silicon Valley Hispanic
Veteran and Community Family of the Year in
2010; Guest of Honor for the Marine Corps
Ball; the Gold Medal for volunteer work by
President Bush in 2002; appointed to Presi-
dent George W. Bush’s tax Sub-Committee.
Madam Speaker, it is with great respect that
l ask my colleagues in the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives to congratulate CWO–3 Warrant
Officer Dan Payne as he celebrates his last
year as CEO of the Central Valley Veterans
Day Parade and is honored as their Grand
Marshal. I have had the honor to work with
Dan for over 20 years and he is more than
well-deserved of this recognition. I ask that
you join me in wishing Dan and his family con-
tinued success, health and happiness.
f
RECOGNIZING JANE LOIS
WELLER’S 100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. HARLEY ROUDA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Jane Lois Weller of Huntington
Beach for her service to our country during
World War II and to honor her recent 100th
birthday. Born in Chicago just after World War
I and raised during the Great Depression, Ms.
Weller bore witness to some of the most tu-
multuous times in our nation’s history. By vir-
tue of this upbringing, and because of what
many would call an ambitious spirit, Ms.
Weller went on to lead a life dedicated to serv-
ice, both to her country and to her family.
Just one year after graduating from Nursing
School at the Evangelical Hospital in Chicago,
Ms. Weller enlisted in the United States Army
Air Corps in December 1942. After completing
flight school at Bowman Field in Kentucky, she
was stationed at Hickam Field on Oahu, Ha-
waii.
From Hawaii to the Mariana Islands to the
Solomon Islands to the Philippines, Ms. Weller
bravely risked her life to tend to many soldiers
wounded on the frontlines. For her valiant
service in active combat zones throughout the
Pacific Theater, Ms. Weller was awarded two
Bronze Stars.
After the war. Ms. Weller graduated from
the University of California, Berkeley, contin-
ued to serve as nurse in the public sector, and
raised her three children. She has always kept
an active mind, enjoying hobbies including as-
tronomy, biblical and classical studies, knitting,
jazz piano, singing, and more. I ask that all
Members join me in recognizing the remark-
able life and service of Jane Lois Weller on
the occasion of her recent 100th birthday.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.001 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1417
November 12, 2019
HONORING THE 100TH BIRTHDAY
OF MR. GEORGE ARNOLD
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize my constituent, George Arnold’s
100th birthday.
George Daniel Arnold was born in
Reidsville, Georgia, to Joseph James and
Susie Snell Arnold. The youngest of ten, he
was affectionately nicked named GD by his
older siblings. George graduated from Dor-
chester Academy where he received training
as a plasterer. After graduation, George left
home and traveled through the south, prac-
ticing his trade until 1943.
The lure of better opportunities convinced
him to join his brothers in Detroit, Michigan.
Once in Detroit, he quickly became part of the
community by joining Aijlon Baptist Church.
Today he is one of Aijlon’s longest serving
ushers, sitting on the usher board since 1946.
In 1943 he also joined the King David Grand
Lodge and is a dedicated member to this day.
He has earned many titles of distinction such
as, 33rd degree Mason, Past Grand Lecturer,
Worshipful Master, Shriner, and Knight of the
Temple. His past and current positions include
Dean of the Most Worshipful Institute of
Learning and Past Instructor of the Most Wor-
shipful Institute of Learning, which in August of
this year was renamed the George D. Arnold
Institute of Learning in recognition for his de-
voted service to his Masonic Brothers. As part
of his continual service, George also performs
burial ceremonies in Detroit, Flint, Saginaw,
and Grand Rapids.
In short, Mr. Arnold is a dedicated family
man, business owner, and Michigander and
we are excited to honor him on his 100th
birthday.
f
HONORING THE 2019 WOMEN OF
THE YEAR
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the 2019 Women of the Year.
The honorees represent some of the most out-
standing and dedicated women in the 3rd
Congressional District. Nominated by their
peers, these women and the leadership they
have provided are being recognized for play-
ing an integral and crucial role in improving
the lives of everyone in their communities.
During the last 50 years women have made
great strides in America. It used to be almost
unheard of to see women as elected officials,
CEOs, senior military officials, doctors or attor-
neys, but today many of our most successful
leaders in the world are women. This progress
has not come easy and many women before
you have worked hard and strived to achieve
the independence and rights you have today.
I realize there is more work to be done to en-
sure that women have equal pay, flexible work
schedules and affordable education. Each of
the honorees will be a vital part of the future
successes for women.
2019’s Women of the Year are:
Kellie Geweke Sheeran is a Sutter County
native who has worked continuously to give
back to her community. A Yuba City High
School graduate, Kellie graduated from Chico
State with a degree in Organizational Commu-
nications before returning home in 2003 to join
the family business at Geweke Ford Kia Colli-
sion. Over the years, Kellie has contributed
tremendously through her family’s non-profit
organization, Geweke’s Caring for Women
Foundation, where she served as Director
from 2008 to 2010. This organization finan-
cially assists local women facing cancer, hav-
ing now provided over 10,000 women low-cost
mammograms and women’s health
screenings. Under her leadership, the
Geweke’s Caring for Women Foundation has
helped over 430 cancer survivors through nu-
merous grants. Beyond her work with her fam-
ily’s foundation, she has been a steadfast ad-
vocate for breast cancer awareness, co-
chairing the Pink October Race for Awareness
for the last 12 years alongside her sister.
Kellie is also an active member of Early Risers
Kiwanis and has supported Beale Airforce
Base as part of the Beale Military Liaison
Council for 10 years, where she has been an
honorary commander since 2011. Kellie’s pas-
sion and dedication make her an invaluable
member of the Yuba-Sutter community.
Joyce Hammond is a dedicated educator
who has educated thousands of students on
topics of health and nutrition. With 24 years of
service to the Yuba City Unified School Dis-
trict, she has made a lasting impact on the
community. Recently, Joyce has partnered
with Sutter County Public Health and CalFresh
to promote healthy and active lifestyles by
teaching her students about good nutrition and
how to make healthy choices through the
CalFresh Healthy Living Program. Joyce’s in-
valuable experience in education coupled with
her expertise in nutrition has allowed her to
seamlessly introduce this new program into
her Childhood Development, Early Childhood
Careers and Life Management, and Nutritional
Science classes. Joyce also takes the time to
serve as a co-advisor to the campus Family
and Consumer Science Club where she en-
courages her students to participate in the
healthy living program. Joyce’s passion, com-
mitment, and professionalism have been a
source of inspiration to her colleagues who
admire her determination to provide her stu-
dents with the skills that will help them lead
healthy lives for years to come. Joyce’s tire-
less work to improve the quality of life for her
students and their families will leave a lasting
impact on her community.
Ms. Kathleen Heeren served her country in
the United States Army and, following her
honorable discharge, continued her life of
service by devoting her time to advocating on
behalf of her fellow veterans. She is a lifetime
member of the American Legion, where she
has volunteered for over 21 years. Over the
years, Kathleen has served as Commander of
the Vacaville American Legion Post 165, Com-
mander of the American Legion 5th District,
and the Women Veteran’s Representative to
the California American Legion. She now
serves as the Women Veteran’s Representa-
tive to the Vacaville Soroptimist International
where she has been a member for over 10
years and given her time to a number of com-
mittees within the organization. Her generosity
and volunteer work have extended to many
youth programs in her community including
the Vanden High School JROTC program,
local Boy Scout troops, and the American Le-
gion Boys and Girls State programs. Kathleen
has truly lived a life of service, wearing the
uniform for her country before going on to
honor the men and women who served be-
fore, after, and alongside her through her work
with veteran organizations. Kathleen is an in-
tegral part of the Vacaville veteran community
and has touched the lives of many.
Kelly Heung has committed her life to help-
ing children of all abilities and backgrounds
thrive. Through her many professional and vol-
unteer positions, Kelly has dedicated count-
less hours to supporting children in her com-
munity. Throughout her career she has de-
voted herself to understanding and meeting
the needs of children and has lived that com-
mitment in all her professional and personal
actions. Having earned her PhD in Human De-
velopment, Kelly became an authority on au-
tism and other neurodevelopmental disorders
and now uses her expertise to mentor future
leaders in the field. She has also become an
active advocate for education in Yolo County,
volunteering her time with the Superintendent
Parent Advisory Committee, Davis Parent Uni-
versity Board, Davis Joint Unified School Dis-
trict Strategic Planning Committee, Davis
Schools Foundation, Parent Teacher Associa-
tion, and multiple School Site Councils. Kelly
has used her positions within all of these orga-
nizations to champion the interests of under-
served children and ensure equitable treat-
ment for all students throughout her commu-
nity. Kelly has inspired others with her com-
passion, conscientiousness, and commitment
to being the voice for children who are unable
to advocate for themselves. She is generous
with her time, energy, and kindness, and is a
devoted mother, wife, daughter, and friend.
Rosemary Hicks is a dedicated advocate for
children and families in her community. For 42
years, Rosemary has been a devoted part of
the Colusa Unified School District. As a former
para-educator and current administrative as-
sistant to the Principal of Burchfield Primary
School, Rosemary has touched the lives of so
many children, teachers, and families. She is
known throughout her community as someone
who will always find a way to help a family in
need. Around the holidays Rosemary is a driv-
ing force behind countless community food,
clothing, and shoe drives, as well as Toys for
Tots programs. She has also served her com-
munity through leadership positions in organi-
zations such as the Colusa Little League, IM-
PACT Thrift Store, the Catholic Ladies Auxil-
iary, the Lions Club, the Rotary Club, and
many more. She is also an active member of
the California School Employees Association
where she has been a strong advocate for her
colleagues. Through her tireless work and
dedication to helping others, Rosemary has
become a pillar of support for families and
children in Colusa. She is known by everyone
in Colusa as the heart and soul of the Colusa
Unified School District and the community at
large.
Jaye Hurt is dedicated to giving back to the
men and women who serve our country and
the families who support them. Through her
work as the Team Lead at the Airman and
Family Readiness Center, Jaye is highly re-
spected and admired for her constant dedica-
tion to ensuring that our Airmen and their fam-
ilies get the services and support that they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.004 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1418 November 12, 2019
need. As Team Lead, Jaye has provided over-
sight to key support programs that have
helped over 73,000 military personnel. She co-
ordinated the Monthly Hearts Apart Program,
which provided activities for children and so-
cial emotional support for spouses of deployed
troops. Jaye has focused many of her efforts
on supporting troops and their families during
deployment. She facilitated over 50 pre-de-
ployment briefings and ensured that family
members felt prepared and supported by the
base community. She organized a Deployer
Care project that sent more than 400 care
packages to deployed troops. She has also
worked with local community leaders to en-
sure viable employment opportunities for Mili-
tary Spouses. Jaye was also the driving force
behind the Annual Base Freedom Walk, where
her coordination efforts resulted in the partici-
pation of more than 900 students. She also
played a role in starting the Travis Lesbian,
Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Alliance, is a
founding member of the Special Needs Task
Force for families with exceptional family
members, is a Traumatic Stress Response
Team member, and oversees many other sup-
port services encompassed by the Diversity
Working Group. Through her commitment to
excellence and continual support, Jaye has
changed the lives of thousands of military per-
sonnel and their families.
Erica Hurtado has dedicated herself to im-
proving the lives of children within her commu-
nity. As a member of the Founding Families
for the Dixon Montessori Charter School, Erica
assisted in setting up classrooms, offices, and
other sites around the campus in preparation
for the first school year. For years, she do-
nated her time and skill as a professional pho-
tographer to capture photos of students and
staff. It was during this time that Erica joined
the DMCS board of directors where she is still
active today. Erica also helped form the first
Dixon Little League Challengers Team, which
gave children with cognitive and physical dis-
abilities the opportunity to fulfill their dreams of
participating in a team sport. After receiving
immense support for the organization from the
community, Erica was inspired to create
T.E.A.M. Dixon with the emphasis that ‘‘To-
gether Everyone Always Matters.’’ In founding
this non-profit organization, Erica was instru-
mental in helping to break down barriers fac-
ing those with special needs while simulta-
neously helping to build their confidence and
increase community awareness and under-
standing. T.E.A.M. Dixon’s mission, with the
help of Erica’s vision and generosity, has
spread to nearby towns where they wish to
bring the same compassion and kindness to
their community. Through her hard work and
dedication, Erica has had a positive impact on
the lives of countless children in her commu-
nity.
Roberta James is an active member of her
community who has devoted her time to pro-
moting education, reading, and an apprecia-
tion for the arts and literature in Colusa. As an
educator, she dedicated her career to keeping
students engaged in their education, working
with families, and mentoring new teachers.
Ten years ago, Roberta founded the Virginia
Yerxa Community Read and formed a com-
mittee of women who established the first one-
book project in Colusa County, doing so in
memory of another Colusa woman who was a
tireless advocate for literacy. Every year, a
new book selection is chosen to shine a light
on different areas of the community. Several
events are planned throughout the year that
bring everyone together to share their inter-
ests and experiences through a shared appre-
ciation of that year’s book. Thanks to Rober-
ta’s commitment to the project, the Virginia
Read has become part of the fabric of the
Colusa community. Roberta still teaches part
time while using the rest of her time to focus
on art. She founded an Artist-in-Residence
program which offers a space for artists to
work on their craft in exchange for sharing
their talents with the local community. Through
this program and her support of the Colusa
County Arts Council, Roberta works to pro-
mote her community as a destination for those
interested in the arts. Roberta is an integral
member of her community, consistently finding
and addressing the needs of Colusa.
Mary Rose Kennedy has devoted her career
and personal life to caring for and educating
children. A mother of five, retired teacher, and
current classroom volunteer, Mary Rose has
touched the lives of countless children in her
community. Having retired after more than 25
years of service to the Orland Unified School
District, she now has the pleasure of seeing
the impact she has made on her community
when she is fondly greeted by her former stu-
dents. Mary Rose was a strong and dedicated
educator who was honored as a Glenn County
Teacher of the Year, and later inducted into
the Glenn County Educator’s Hall of Fame.
Though now retired, she continues to volun-
teer her time in classrooms helping children
learn the joy of reading. Her volunteer work
also extends beyond the classroom where she
uses her grant writing skills to help secure
funding for community organizations such as
the Orland Arts Commission, the Orland Beau-
tification Committee, and a local club providing
scholarships to deserving high school stu-
dents. Mary Rose is an integral member of the
Orland community and has played a vital role
in its improvement and growth.
Through her diligent dedication to her com-
munity, Juantia Menefee has become an un-
wavering pillar of support for those in her com-
munity with the greatest need. She has de-
voted her career to serving those in need of
housing assistance and ensuring they receive
the services they need. Through her work with
Volunteers for America, Juantia became part
of a national network of service organizations
providing life altering support to 1.5 million
people every year. She has also worked with
the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment to help underprivileged individuals and
families find affordable housing and employ-
ment. Juantia also volunteers with arts and
reading programs at local schools, working to
ensure that the students within her community
are engaged and successful in their academic
endeavors. Juantia’s service to her community
can be seen in everything she does, from her
career path to her volunteer work, she devotes
her time to serving others.
Glenda Nelson was born and raised on En-
terprise Rancheria, instilled with the impor-
tance of honor and duty in serving her Native
People. She surmounted many hardships be-
fore becoming one of the first Native American
women to graduate college. Glenda then used
her voice and her education to protect the
Rancheria Lands and the sovereign rights of
indigenous peoples, leading to her eventual
election to the Tribal Council. Her desire to
serve expanded to active involvement in polit-
ical advocacy at the state and federal level,
where she provided testimony on legislation
and advocated for increased funding, protec-
tion of tribal sovereignty, and protection of the
Indian Child Welfare Act. She has served as
a delegate to the California Nations Indian
Gaming Association and the National Con-
gress of the American Indians. Glenda played
an integral role in developing educational pro-
grams and participated in the founding of the
Ipakanni Early College Charter School. Glenda
has fought on behalf of her community on
every issue, serving as a member of the
Board of Directors for Feather River Tribal
Health, a board member for the Enterprise
Rancheria Indian Housing Authority, a dele-
gate to the National American Indian Housing
Council, and a delegate to the California Tribal
Families Coalition. After years of hard work
and leadership, together with the Tribal Coun-
cil, Glenda is credited with creating hundreds
of jobs in the region by making the vision of
opening a casino in Yuba County a reality.
Glenda’s passionate and effective advocacy
on behalf of her community will have a lasting
impact for generations to come.
Pat Nicodemus has spent the last 35 years
serving her community and working to improve
the lives of some of the most disadvantaged
populations. Early in her career, Pat helped
found an emergency foster program where
she helped recruit and prepare families to
adopt drug exposed infants, ensuring a safe
place for children facing unimaginable chal-
lenges. Later in her career she began to work
on decreasing recidivism by helping incarcer-
ated individuals access parenting classes,
drug treatment programs, and other edu-
cational services essential for survival outside
of the prison system. Pat co-founded the
Women’s ReEntry and Achievement Program,
a program to guide incarcerated women to ad-
dress their past trauma, deal with their addic-
tions, and have the best possible chance to
become productive members of their commu-
nities. Through this program, Pat has helped
hundreds of women and their families lift
themselves into prosperity. Her compassion,
wisdom, patience, and devotion to serving
women and families has transformed many
lives and her positive impact on her commu-
nity will span generations.
Vangie Porras has been an integral part of
her community of Glenn County and has
served in some form since 1989. As one of
the first Latino students welcomed into the
Orland School district, Vangie faced stark
challenges to having her voice heard. But that
didn’t stop her from finding ways to become
involved in her community. Vangie began her
path of service at the Democratic Party booth
at the Glenn County Fair in 1989. From there
she eventually became treasurer of the Glenn
County Democratic Party, holding the organi-
zation together with her many years of hard
work and well-earned wisdom. Outside poli-
tics, Vangie Porras expanded her portfolio of
service to the Orland Unified School Board
and the Glenn County Fair Board. Her work
ensured that current students never had to
face the same challenges she faced in Glenn
County and held together a tightly knit county
fair community. Vangie Porras has become a
permanent fixture of public service in Glenn
County. On behalf of the people of Orland and
the 3rd Congressional District, I offer Vangie
Porras my congratulations and well wishes for
her future endeavors.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.005 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1419
November 12, 2019
Navneet Randhawa is a dedicated commu-
nity servant who has routinely taken the time
to reach out to people in need and bring com-
munities together. In 2012 Navneet partici-
pated in the Sutter County Library’s Citizen-
ship Preparation class, where she learned of
their Literacy Services Program. She was in-
terested in the opportunity to give back to the
library and volunteered a tutor for ESL stu-
dents with the lowest reading levels. Col-
leagues and students alike attest to her friend-
ly and welcoming manner as she provided crit-
ical assistance with the program. Navneet also
worked tirelessly for Casa de Esperanza, a
shelter, counseling, advocacy, and education
facility for adult and child survivors of domestic
violence, sexual violence, child abuse, elder
abuse, and human trafficking. Through her
work as a bi-lingual counselor advocate she
was instrumental in bridging the gap between
the organization and her Southeast Asian
community, helping Casa de Esperanza reach
more people in need of their services. She
also worked to help her colleagues better un-
derstand her culture so they could better serve
the community. Though Navneet now works
as a nurse, she continues to volunteer her
time with Casa where she continues to make
a positive difference in people’s lives.
Navneet’s unique skill and compassion in
bringing together communities and treating ev-
eryone with compassion is a joy and inspira-
tion to everyone around her.
Margaret Renn has dedicated her life to
educating children throughout her community.
Margaret taught in elementary school class-
rooms for 16 years at schools in San Jose,
Vallejo, and Fairfield before going on to serve
as an elementary school principal in the Fair-
field-Suisun Unified School District for 16 more
years. Now in retirement, Margaret continues
her passion for education by volunteering with
the Solano County Chapter of the California
Retired Teachers Association. In addition to
her many years of service as a public educa-
tor, Margaret now spends her free time serv-
ing special needs children and adults at the
Horseplay Therapeutic Riding Center in Dixon,
where she has been volunteering for five
years, is one of two volunteer coordinators,
and serves on their Board of Directors.
Through her work at the Horseplay Thera-
peutic Center she has the privilege of getting
to see special needs riders develop physical
strength, social skills, and self confidence
while expanding their horsemanship skills.
Margaret has dedicated herself to the edu-
cation and wellbeing of others and her service
in the classroom and at the stables have had
a lasting positive impact on her community.
Jenn Rexroad is a fierce advocate for chil-
dren and families throughout our community.
As the Founder and Executive Director of the
California Alliance of Caregivers, Jenn consist-
ently fights for the needs of at-risk foster care
children. Jenn was instrumental in creating
and implementing a policy agenda that advo-
cated for the rights of foster children and
played a vital role in establishing numerous
projects important to children and families. Her
work on the Resource Families’ Policy Summit
and the Mental Health Services Parent Stake-
holder Engagement Project has furthered the
goal of improving mental health services for all
children and youth statewide. Her fervent ad-
vocacy has helped to create stronger protec-
tions and opportunities for those in need. Jenn
is in position to continue her vital work by
serving as a First5 Yolo Commissioner and
volunteering as the Child Welfare Policy Direc-
tor for the organization Children Now. Her un-
bridled energy and concern for those in need
are instrumental in creating a more caring and
compassionate community. Her work on be-
half of children and families in our community
will have a lasting impact on generations to
come.
Jen Roberts is a passionate activist whose
strong and energetic leadership has had a real
impact on her community. As founder of Indi-
visible Colusa, a local volunteer organization
focused on engaging in progressive political
advocacy, Jen has been tireless in creating
ways for local community members to develop
their voice. In doing everything from orga-
nizing postcard campaigns to composing the
Indivisible Colusa newsletter, Jen has been re-
lentless in pursuing ways for community mem-
bers to engage in the political process on the
local, state, and federal levels. She has been
known to regularly open her home for meet-
ings and debate watch parties. Her coura-
geous, thoughtful, and principled leadership
has allowed Indivisible Colusa to rapidly trans-
form from its humble beginnings in 2017 to the
lively and visible presence it is in the commu-
nity today. Jen is also a founding member of
the Colusa County Democratic Central Com-
mittee, which held its first meeting in February
2018. Kickstarting this process, Jen was inte-
gral in establishing a Democratic party com-
mittee in one of the few California counties
that didn’t already have one. Jen is tireless in
her efforts to engage others and ensures that
those in her community have a place to de-
velop and express their beliefs while delving
into the democratic process.
I congratulate each of them and commend
them for their work. I am inspired by them and
firmly believe when women succeed, America
succeeds.
f
TRIBUTE TO ANN AND VINCE
BELLIS
HON. GREGORY F. MURPHY
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to Ann and Vince
Bellis of Greenville, North Carolina.
In October of this year they were honored
by the Friends of Greenville Greenways for
their efforts to champion, create, and expand
the family-friendly walking, running and biking
space. They have given countless hours over
several years to the fulfillment of this commu-
nity-enhancing project.
This couple have been honored for a life-
time of civic engagement, their incredible tech-
nical knowledge of the environment including
a plethora of horticultural expertise and for un-
selfishly sharing that knowledge with the com-
munity.
Many citizens of Greenville daily enjoy the
Greenway and I applaud the work of the
Bellis’ in making what was once just an idea
into a beautiful reality for the betterment of our
city.
IN HONOR OF JULIO BALSERA
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I rise in
honor of Julio Balsera, the extraordinary
Cuban activist. He passed away last month at
the age of 80.
Born in Havana in 1939, Mr. Balsera spent
his early years fighting the Castro regime. He
fled Cuba by hiding inside the kitchen cabinets
of a cargo ship bound for Caracas in 1960,
and in 1963, he made his way to Miami.
Mr. Balsera continued his activism in South
Florida. He founded the J. Balsera School Bus
Service, which offered children rides to school.
Through this business, Mr. Balsera became a
key figure in the burgeoning Cuban-American
community. He got to know the schoolchildren
who rode his buses and their families, and he
was always happy to provide vote rec-
ommendations. He also sent his buses to mo-
bilize voters ahead of elections and to help
Cubans arriving in Florida during the Mariel
exodus.
Mr. Balsera sold his bus company after four
decades of business, but he continued his ac-
tivism, leading the charge to recall former
Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos Alvarez in 2011. He
was also a founding member of the Cuban
American National Foundation.
Julio Balsera’s influence can be seen at
nearly every level of government in the greater
Miami area, and his legacy of speaking truth
to power will be felt for years to come. I’m
proud to recognize his contributions to our
South Florida community.
f
HONORING SAINTS CYRIL AND
METHODIUS SCHOOL FOR BEING
NAMED A NATIONAL BLUE RIB-
BON SCHOOL
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Saints Cyril and Methodius
School in Lemont, Illinois, for receiving the
prestigious 2019 U.S. Department of Edu-
cation National Blue Ribbon School Award.
The school was recognized under the Exem-
plary High Performing Schools category.
In 1982, the U.S. Department of Education
established the National Blue Ribbon Schools
Program to recognize public and private
schools boasting high or significantly improved
achievement. I am proud that Saints Cyril and
Methodius School has been honored as one
of those exceptional schools.
Saints Cyril and Methodius School has long
been a fixture of the Village of Lemont having
been founded at the same time as the parish
in 1884. The mission of Saints Cyril and
Methodius School is to provide an excellent
Catholic education in a compassionate envi-
ronment that strives to develop each student
spiritually, academically, physically, and emo-
tionally. The school offers an integrated set of
courses to motivate students to understand
the connection between the classroom and liv-
ing one’s faith. Students are challenged with a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.006 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1420 November 12, 2019
rigorous and engaging curriculum which in-
cludes technology, art, Spanish, physical edu-
cation, and music classes.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Saints Cyril and Methodius
School for being honored with this National
Blue Ribbon School Award. This impressive
achievement is a well-deserved recognition of
all the work done by Principal Shirley
Tkachuk, Reverend Waldemar ‘‘Valdi’’
Stawiarski, teachers, school staff, students,
parents, and parishioners.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF EDWARD
WALTER HOSTETLER
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and pay tribute to the life of Edward
Walter Hostetler, who passed away on Octo-
ber 22, 2019. Edward served our nation with
honor and selflessness and will be missed by
many in the community.
Edward Walter Hostetler was born on De-
cember 17, 1920 in Sugarcreek, Ohio. He at-
tended Ohio State University on a 4-year aca-
demic scholarship and was a member of the
ROTC program. In 1943, he graduated with an
agriculture degree and joined the United
States Army, serving during World War II. He
served in Germany, Belgium, France, and
Luxemburg. He was assigned to the Artillery,
Tank Destroyer, Infantry and Calvary
Branches as a Lieutenant. In 1945 Edward
was assigned to the 7th Army War Crimes
Court and was then transferred to a Constabu-
lary Unit. Edward returned home in June of
1946 and was honorably discharged in Sep-
tember of 1946.
Upon his return to civilian life he began
teaching in Orville, Ohio, before meeting the
love of his life, Merry Belle Groff. The two
married in Clearfield, Pennsylvania on Decem-
ber 10, 1947. After honeymooning in Cali-
fornia, Edward and Merry made it their perma-
nent home. Together they were the proud par-
ents of Greg, Rory and Suzanne.
Edward and Merry initially lived in Los An-
geles where Edward worked as a dairy in-
spector. Eventually they moved to California’s
Central Valley. Edward worked for the
Chowchilla Water District and Cal Farm Insur-
ance. The family moved to Dos Palos in
Merced County in 1964 and eventually opened
their own real estate brokerage, Hostetler Real
Estate. Edward also supported his wife’s en-
trepreneurship, as she was the proud owner of
House of Hostetler Antiques.
Edward always enjoyed being surrounded
by family and making new memories with his
children and grandchildren. The family fre-
quently vacationed together, creating lifelong
memories. He was a man of strong faith and
believed in helping others in need. Edward
could always be found watching his Ohio
State Buckeyes on Saturday afternoons.
Edward is preceded in death by his beloved
wife of 70 years Merry Belle, his brother Rich-
ard Hostetler, and his daughter-in-law Cathie
Hostetler.
He is survived by his sons Greg and Rory
Hostetler of Los Banos, California, daughter
Suzanna Hostetler Rider of Fresno, California,
four grandchildren and four greatgrand-
children.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the life of Edward Walter
Hostetler. His presence in the community will
be greatly missed. I join his family and friends
in honoring his great life.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF W. GEORGE ALLEN
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today with a heavy heart to honor the life and
legacy of my dear friend, W. George Allen, a
selfless member of our community who spent
his life serving others. I had the great privilege
of working alongside George as his law part-
ner for many years. Throughout his more than
four-decade career practicing law, he estab-
lished himself as one of our state’s most influ-
ential civil rights advocates. I will never forget
the years we spent working together to fight
and end segregation in Broward County.
George was born in Sanford, Florida in
1936. He attended Florida A&M University and
received his Bachelor of Science degree in
Political Science with a minor in Economics,
before continuing his education at the Univer-
sity of Florida Law School, where he became
the first African American to receive a Juris
Doctor degree.
Between 1958 and 1960, George served in
the United States Army as a special agent in
the Counter Intelligence Corps, before being
honorably discharged at the rank of First Lieu-
tenant. Following his military service, George
was accepted into law school, where he be-
came involved in social activism by organizing
lunch counter sit-ins around Gainesville, Flor-
ida. After graduating and being admitted to the
Florida Bar Association, he decided to open
his own firm in Fort Lauderdale. Here he prac-
ticed for forty-two years, specializing in trial
work, probate, personal injury, insurance de-
fense and wrongful death.
Throughout his career, George was recog-
nized time and again for his hard work and
dedication to those around him. He was a
member of the Urban League of Broward
County, the NAACP, Alpha Phi Alpha Frater-
nity, Inc, the University of Florida Foundation,
and the Florida Bar Association. He also
served as the Broward County Bar Associa-
tion’s president. Additionally, he received nu-
merous awards for his achievements, includ-
ing the University of Florida Distinguished
Alumnus Award in 2000, and the National
Conference for Community and Justice Silver
Medallion Award in 2001. In 2003, George
was inducted into the National Bar Associa-
tion’s Hall of Fame, and in February of 2005,
Governor Jeb Bush appointed him to the Flor-
ida A&M University’s Board of Trustees.
Madam Speaker, W. George Allen was a
champion for our community and positively im-
pacted the lives of all those he met. He was
a South Florida icon, whose life and legacy
has left an indelible mark on our state and na-
tion. I want to extend my deepest condolences
to his children, Jonathan, Timothy, Frederick,
and Amy Carole and the entire Allen family
during this heartbreaking time. W. George
Allen was a blessing to our community. I am
so truly honored to have called him my friend.
He will be dearly missed.
f
HONORING LINDY LEE GOLD ON
THE CELEBRATION OF HER 75TH
BIRTHDAY
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, it is my
great privilege to rise today to join the family,
friends and colleagues who have gathered in
celebration of Lindy Lee Gold as she marks
her 75th Birthday—a remarkable milestone for
this very special member of the New Haven
community.
As a Senior Specialist with the Connecticut
State Department of Economic and Commu-
nity Development, a position she had held
since 1998, Lindy has dedicated her profes-
sional career to expanding opportunities for
Connecticut’s businesses and its workforce.
However, there are few members of the New
Haven community who have been more in-
volved with the City’s many facets than Lindy.
She is perhaps most well known for her dedi-
cation and tireless advocacy efforts—from the
arts to education, local government to commu-
nity development, Lindy has played a critical
role in New Haven’s success.
Lindy’s foray into public service began with
her appointment to New Haven’s Board of
Education where she was vice chair of the
Intergroup Relations Taskforce. She went on
to win election for two terms on New Haven’s
Board of Alders representing the 26th Ward
where she served as chair of the Legislation
Committee and as a member of the Finance
Committee.
Lindy currently serves as board chair of the
Gateway Community College Foundation, a
position she has held for the last decade, as
a Fellow at Yale’s Pierson College, and as a
member of the Executive Board of the Shubert
Performing Arts Center. She is also a board
member of the United Way of Greater New
Haven, the Community Action Agency, New
Haven Arts Council, Jewish Federation of
Greater New Haven, and the New Haven
Manufacturers Association. She also was
founder and the first female president of Fel-
lowship Inc, and Cornerstone Inc., and is past
president of the Jewish Community Center of
Greater New Haven.
Lindy’s civic contributions are hardly limited
to New Haven. In addition to her many con-
tributions to our fair City, she serves on a mul-
titude of organizations across the state. Lindy
is Vice-President of the Jewish Federation As-
sociation of Connecticut as well as a member
of the state board of the Anti-Defamation
League. She also holds board memberships
with the Housatonic Community College Foun-
dation, Southern Connecticut State University
Foundation, JobLinks Fairfield County, Con-
necticut Technical High Schools, and the
Women’s Business Development Center.
Lindy’s commitment is extraordinary and
she has built a legacy of service which serves
as an inspiration to many. Advocate, mentor,
and friend, wherever Lindy goes she makes
an impact. Her endless energy and dedication
make all the difference. I, like so many others,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K12NO8.003 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1421
November 12, 2019
consider myself fortunate to call her my friend.
I am thrilled to have the opportunity to rise
today to extend my heartfelt congratulations to
Lindy Lee Gold on the celebration of her 75th
birthday. I wish her all the best for many more
years of health and happiness. Happy Birth-
day.
f
TRIBUTE TO BRUCE AND ANNA
BIGGS
HON. GREGORY F. MURPHY
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to Bruce and
Anna Biggs of Elizabeth City, North Carolina
who received the first ever Albemarle Area
United Way Keel Club Philanthropy Award.
For half a century the Biggs’ have been giving
back to the community with their time, talent
and treasure by donating to numerous organi-
zations and causes in the region as well as
funding three scholarships.
Students at East Carolina University, the
College of the Albemarle and MidAtlantic
Christian University have all benefitted from
the Biggs’ generosity. Bruce Biggs had to bor-
row money to attend ECU for his bachelor’s
degree in business and being able to fund
scholarships is especially meaningful to him.
Anna Biggs is a retired school teacher.
Bruce and Anna have sought to give to others
in a community that has been so good to
them.
f
HONORING BOWLES FARMING
COMPANY FOR 2019 AGRI-
CULTURE BUSINESS OF THE
YEAR IN THE CENTRAL VALLEY
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Bowles Farming Company for the 2019
Agriculture Business Award in the Central Val-
ley. Their contributions to the Central Valley
extends to many families and to the commu-
nity.
Bowles Farming Company originated in
1965 by George, Henry Bowles, and Amy
Bowles Lawrence. The 3 siblings started the
business and their families soon took over
making it 6 generations between the Bowles
and Lawrence family.
For over 150 years, the families have con-
tributed growing food, creating jobs for many
people, and having 14 different crops. They
provide over a thousand jobs with over 50,000
days of farming. Their crops include cotton
which is the world’s only verified pima cotton,
Pimacott, tomatoes that are both processed
and fresh market, and almonds. Cotton like
Pima or Extra Long Staple (ELS) is quality
cotton, and Bowles Farming Company pro-
duces this quality crop.
Their farm is 11,000 acres and located in
Los Banos, California. President and CEO,
Cannon Michael is a passionate advocate for
agriculture and on water. The importance of
water and California’s agriculture is a priority
to the Bowles Farming Company.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in celebrating Bowles Farming Company
on their 2019 Agriculture Business of the year
award. They are an influential company in the
Central Valley.
f
HONORING THE 2019 WOMEN OF
THE YEAR
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the 2019 Women of the Year.
The honorees represent some of the most out-
standing and dedicated women in the 3rd
Congressional District. Nominated by their
peers, these women and the leadership they
have provided are being recognized for play-
ing an integral and crucial role in improving
the lives of everyone in their communities.
During the last 50 years women have made
great strides in America. It used to be almost
unheard of to see women as elected officials,
CEOs, senior military officials, doctors or attor-
neys, but today many of our most successful
leaders in the world are women. This progress
has not come easy and many women before
you have worked hard and strived to achieve
the independence and rights you have today.
I realize there is more work to be done to en-
sure that women have equal pay, flexible work
schedules and affordable education. Each of
the honorees will be a vital part of the future
successes for women.
2019’s Women of the Year are:
Lynn Rolston has used her creativity, deter-
mination, and skilled leadership to have a vast
and visible impact on her community. She en-
visioned an economic rebirth for her rural
community of Esparto, if only the right commu-
nity stakeholders were gathered in the same
space. Fueled by this vision for a brighter fu-
ture, Lynn helped found the New Season
Community Development Corporation to revi-
talize the core business community and to de-
liver a higher quality of life to her fellow resi-
dents of Esparto. Under Lynn’s guidance, the
New Season Community Development Corp.
began rehabilitating unused properties and ac-
quiring tenants for them. Lynn’s eagerness to
serve her community spread from community
development to every facet of her life. Lynn
revitalized the Esparto Regional Chamber of
Commerce by injecting it with fresh new re-
cruits from the newly strengthened Esparto
business community. Furthermore, Lynn
served on multiple Yolo County committees
such as the Esparto Citizens Advisory Com-
mittee and the Recreation Task Force, where
her efforts helped create the new Tuli Mem
Park and Aquatic Center. Lynn Rolston is an
example to us all on the positive effects one
determined visionary can have on any com-
munity.
Beth Rowe is an active member of the
Vacaville community who continues to show
support and encouragement for women
throughout Solano County. Beth has been an
active member of the local Soroptimist Inter-
national club for over four years. In her time
with Soroptimist, she has mentored countless
girls and actively participated in providing
scholarships and grants to single mothers and
young students. Beth gave an empowering
speech representing the Soroptimist Inter-
national of Vacaville regarding the detrimental
impact of the rape kit backlog in Solano Coun-
ty on the ability to bring justice to victims of
sexual assault. Thanks to her speech, Sorop-
timist received a $10,000 grant from 100
Women Who Care which they used to pay for
the testing of old rape kits at risk of expiration.
Beth has also been a fierce advocate for As-
sembly Bill 1496, which would mandate the
testing of untested rape kits, and is deter-
mined to see this bill become law. She draws
her strength and desire to help others from
her upbringing which shaped her into the ad-
vocate she is today. Beth is also a member of
Saving Gracie, Angel Fund for Pets, and her
local VFW Auxiliary and is passionate about
helping families and veterans in her commu-
nity. Beth is a passionate advocate for those
in her community who have the most trouble
getting their voices heard.
Heather Sanderson is an active member of
the Fairfield community who uses her time
and talents to support and advocate for at-risk
youth. She possesses the skills, commitment,
and compassion to be an uplifting force for the
entire Fairfield community. In her work as the
Police Activities League Coordinator, she pro-
vides marginalized youths with after school
programs, providing healthy food options,
positive activities, and life changing opportuni-
ties. She has also introduced several pro-
grams to the community that focus on reduc-
ing violence and teaching younger generations
how to navigate emotions such as fear, anger,
and stress. She has developed valuable part-
nerships with community organizations to fur-
ther the positive impact of the Police Activities
League programs. Heather’s generosity, kind-
ness, and compassion make her an inspiration
to all her peers. Her work has changed count-
less lives and left a lasting positive impact on
her community.
Cherie Schroeder is an exceptional and self-
less community servant whose work has had
an incredible impact on Solano and Yolo
Counties. As the Director of the Foster and
Kinship Care Education Program at Woodland
Community College, Cherie is a tireless advo-
cate for foster youth and consistently provides
support and guidance for the most vulnerable
among us. For over 34 years, Cherie has put
her heart and soul into this work. Her work-
ethic, compassion, and intellect have made
her a wonderful rolemodel for all those she
interacts with. In addition to her work as Direc-
tor of the Foster and Kinship Care Education
program, she is a longtime member of the So-
roptimist International of Dixon. When she
served as President, Cherie oversaw the de-
velopment of the Young Woman of the Month
program which recognized local women for
their outstanding achievements within their
community. Through this program, she
mentored countless young women and ran a
generous scholarship initiative. Cherie serves
her community with unparalleled kindness and
compassion and has touched the lives of
many.
Harmony Scopazzi is a vital and appre-
ciated part of this community. She is dedi-
cated to ensuring that every family in Yolo
County is successful, happy, and healthy. For
the past 13 years, Harmony has worked for
Davis Community Meals and Housing as a
Family Case Manager and Volunteer Coordi-
nator. Harmony has selflessly devoted her
time and energy to the mission of protecting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.011 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1422 November 12, 2019
Yolo County families from food and housing
insecurities and is a truly valued member of
the agency. She is endlessly generous, caring,
loving, and respectful and she will always go
out of her way to help those around her. For
the past five years, Harmony has served as a
foster parent, opening her home to ensure that
there is a safe and loving environment for any
child in need. Her service as a foster parent
is one of many ways in which she dem-
onstrates her generosity, kindness, and drive
to help others. Harmony has touched the lives
of countless children throughout our commu-
nity and her positive impact cannot be over-
stated.
Julie Shuffield is a renowned entrepreneur,
dedicated community servant, and strong ad-
vocate on behalf of women. Julie long ago dis-
covered her abiding passion for infrastructure
development, operation, and strategic plan-
ning. Julie has long maintained this passion
for infrastructure and appreciated its role as
the backbone to safety, resilience, and a high
standard of living for our local communities.
Her decades of experience, first as manager
of External Affairs for California Independent
System Operation, then as Director of Regu-
latory and Government Affairs, and now as
Senior Consultant for Advantage Consulting,
have seen her exercise this passion to ensure
the highest quality infrastructure standards are
met for every project in which she is involved.
Her ability to respond with foresight, flexibility,
and ingenuity to any and all challenges that
come her way have allowed her to make sig-
nificant contributions across many fields. As
owner of her own S-corporation and partner at
her consulting firm, Julie knows what it takes
to thrive as a female entrepreneur. She used
this knowledge to assist in launching a United
States branch of the Hawthorne club to pro-
mote female executives in energy to C-suite
and board positions. In the community, Julie
serves as Chairperson of Casa de Esperanza,
a shelter for victims of domestic violence, child
abuse, sexual assault, and human trafficking.
Additionally, she has served as Co-Founder of
Yuba-Sutter Back the Badge, a local law en-
forcement trauma and spousal support team,
as well as being a Rotary Youth Leadership
Awards counselor for over a decade. Through
her career and volunteerism, Julie has made
countless contributions to her local community.
Cathy Speck has led a life of activism and
perseverance, demonstrating at every turn her
indominable spirit. Cathy has faced a great
deal of hardship in her life, living with two de-
bilitating diseases and watching much of her
family do the same. Despite these challenges
and more, she has consistently spread joy in
her community through her music, art, writing,
and infectious spirit. Cathy has also fought for
righteous causes, acting as a fierce advocate
for marriage equality and ALS awareness. In
2009, Cathy was diagnosed with amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis (ALS), a rare degenerative
disease that has claimed four of her family
members already. She takes part in many ef-
forts to raise awareness about ALS, and as a
columnist at the iPinion Syndicate, Cathy fur-
ther raises awareness and support for those
diagnosed with ALS, using compassion and
humor to discuss a difficult topic. In addition to
her work as an activist, Cathy is deeply in-
vested in community building. For the past
several years, she has organized a yearly
Christmas caroling excursion to Courtyard
Healthcare in Davis to foster friendships and
bring smiles to long term patients. She is also
a booster of the Dorothy Speck Memorial Bas-
ketball Tournament at Davis High School, the
longest running girls’ basketball tournament in
the country. Cathy consistently demonstrates
her unwavering commitment to use all that
she can, from her activism to her artistic tal-
ents, to make her community a better place.
Dee Tokiwa has dedicated her life to help-
ing others in her community. Dee works as a
nurse in oncology and bone marrow trans-
plants at Sutter General Hospital, but this de-
manding career never stopped her from volun-
teering her time in her community. For several
years, she has volunteered at Alamo Elemen-
tary School in Vacaville, where she has over-
seen numerous activities and events. She has
spent countless days with the children during
their recesses where she created new games,
encouraged participation, cultivated compas-
sion, and fostered understanding amongst the
students. As an advocate for education and lit-
eracy, Dee took the time to organize the dis-
trict-wide Novel Knowledge program. This
competition for students between fourth and
sixth grades quickly became an avenue for
children to improve their reading and critical
thinking skills. She also served as the chair-
person for the annual Scholastic Book Fairs
and planned a book drive fundraiser which re-
ceived enough books to fill the school library
and classrooms. She contributes to her com-
munity in many ways, living up to the Mother
Teresa quote by which she lives, ‘‘Not all OF
US can do great things, but we can do small
things with great love.’’ She is a loving mother
and devoted member of the community who
exudes kindness, humility, and generosity.
Tracy Tomasky is a fierce advocate for the
rights of others who consistently works to build
communities of respect and acceptance. Tracy
serves as the co-chair of the Davis Phoenix
Coalition, a nonprofit organization that works
to build diverse and inclusive communities and
advocate for the rights of the LGBTQ+ mem-
bers of our community. Tracy is passionate
about the work she does fighting for the rights
of LGBTQ+ individuals, preventing of hate
speech, and promoting immigrant rights. As
the volunteer coordinator of the Davis Phoenix
Coalition, she always comes prepared with a
plan on how to best utilize the skills of the
group and bring out the best of everyone’s
abilities to further the organization’s mission.
Tracy has a rare ability to bridge divides and
bring communities together to deliver positive
change through collaboration. Tracy’s work on
behalf of those who are underrepresented has
made Davis into a safer and more inclusive
community that is welcoming to all. Her tire-
less advocacy has had a widespread and last-
ing impact that cannot be overstated.
Kim Travis has dedicated her career to
guiding young athletes to reach for and
achieve their goals. As the girls’ volleyball
coach at Pierce High School in Arbuckle, Kim
has served as a wonderful role model to each
of her students. She is a proactive coach who
has worked hard to build a successful high
school and club volleyball team. Her coaching
style exercises team building by developing
their skills and confidence, teaching her play-
ers that success comes from failure. Her role
in the community is felt by all. She started a
youth camp program for children between first
and eighth grade, and for the past ten years,
has dedicated her time on the boards of Ar-
buckle and West Side Little League. She also
volunteers for Pierce Pride Foundation and
Dynamix Club Volleyball where she actively
fundraises for sports equipment and programs.
More recently, Kim organized a volleyball tour-
nament between two alumni high school
teams in Colusa to remember and honor fallen
Davis Police Officer and Pierce High School
alumni, Natalie Corona, bringing her commu-
nity together in a difficult time. Many have
come to know Kim as a leader, teacher, and
friend and she has touched the lives of count-
less young athletes whom she has mentored.
Diane Vafis has lived for over 50 years in
Colusa, where her love and kindness has
touched the lives of countless people. Cur-
rently serving as the Co-Director of the after-
school program operated by St. Stephen’s
Episcopal Church in Colusa, she has worked
to provide after-school tutoring to fourth grad-
ers for over 12 years. Diane takes extra care
to create a healthy and nurturing environment
for her students, personally picking up the chil-
dren after school, providing craft sessions, and
communicating closely with her students’
teachers to maximize their success. Broad-
ening the impact of her investments in local
education, she became a vital member and
treasurer of the Colusa County Alpha Kappa
Chapter of Omega Nu, which provides aca-
demic scholarships to local high school grad-
uates. In addition to cultivating after edu-
cational programs, Diane is the Civic Beautifi-
cation Chair of the Garden Club of Colusa
County, which is responsible for planting and
maintaining gardens in public spaces such as
libraries, post offices, and the courthouse.
Diane demonstrates an unwavering dedication
to serving her community and serves as a role
model for everyone around her.
With a wealth of business knowledge and a
heart of service, Sarah Villec has become a
staple in the Dixon community since first mov-
ing to California as a military spouse. She
began her career with the Dixon Tribune in
1988 working long and hard hours to ensure
the paper published a fair and balanced inter-
pretation of the local news. Recognizing her
leadership and management skills, the owners
asked her to manage operations for the
Benicia Herald, The Martinez News Gazette,
and the Rio Vista River News Herald. Despite
her long hours involved in her newspaper ca-
reer, Sarah managed to find time to dedicate
Countless hours to the Dixon community. She
is involved with the local Chamber of Com-
merce, the Downtown Dixon Business Asso-
ciation and is the President of Dixon Family
Services, a non-profit which helps families and
individuals who are experiencing difficult
times. Sarah Villec is a champion of women in
business with a heart for public service.
Strong in her mind and body, she continues to
be involved in the local community and is an
inspiration to those around her. On behalf of
the citizens of Dixon and the people of the 3rd
Congressional District, I extend my sincere ap-
preciation to Sarah for her enthusiasm and
dedication to her community and love for her
family.
Tina Viramontes’ commitment and love for
her community as a leader is reflected by her
involvement in several campaigns and com-
munity events. She worked countless hours to
help pass Measure V, a local measure which
would improve the roads in the City of
Clearlake. She’s a staple in the local youth
sports community where you will often find her
volunteering her time by helping at events or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.014 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1423
November 12, 2019
providing rides to the parents of athletes who
have no way to get to the games. As a com-
munity leader, Tina organized the 1st Annual
Soapbox Derby, a family friendly event that in-
spires children and adults to create the fastest
gravity-powered, or most creative vehicles,
they can and race in front of cheering fans.
This was especially important to Lake County
in that it was simply a joyous occasion for the
entire community after four straight years of
disastrous fires. Tina Viramontes is a Deputy
City Clerk for the City of Clearlake who has a
heart for public service and a strong desire to
help people. She greets everyone with a
smile, a cheerful attitude, and helps them
navigate through the various departments with
professionalism and integrity. On behalf of the
Clearlake community and the people of the
3rd Congressional District, I offer Tina
Viramontes congratulations and my well wish-
es in her future endeavors.
Dr. Vajra M. Watson has had immense influ-
ence the community during her career at UC
Davis as the Director of Research and Policy
for Equity. Her poise, work-ethic, and commit-
ment to making the world a better place
stands unmatched. Dr. Watson devotes her
time to creating and expanding upon various
academic and community-based programs.
She digs in to solve problems on the ground,
putting her renowned academic research to
work. Just a few of the programs that she
helped develop include Sacramento Area
Youth Speaks (SAYS), the UC Davis Campus-
wide Equity task Force, and the UC Davis
Outreach Center. Dr. Watson has been an in-
valuable figure for the African American Com-
munity, creating and fighting for these life-al-
tering programs. Her work supports the edu-
cation and elevation of marginalized youths
from disenfranchised communities. Her SAYS
program has been instrumental in helping
teachers learn to incorporate authenticity in
the classroom environment to engage and en-
rich their students. In addition to her hands-on
work in the community, she has contributed to
the education canon of academia with a mul-
titude of books and peer reviewed studies. Her
book Transformative Schooling addresses
many of the central aspects of our time as she
delves into the structure and nuances of
America’s education structure, as well as the
necessary action that must be taken. On be-
half of the 3rd Congressional District, I offer
Vajra M. Watson my sincere best wishes and
continued success.
Jeanine Werner has dedicated much of her
life to improving the lives of children who are
deaf and hard of hearing, or those that have
physical and cognitive disabilities. Her empa-
thy and drive started early in her life, leading
her to begin working with these populations in
high school. As she continued to develop her
professional career, she never abandoned her
original goal. After working with these popu-
lations as a classroom aid, she eventually took
on the opportunity to work with adults and chil-
dren known as ‘‘Campers’’. These ‘‘Campers’’,
who are attendees of Lion Camps for people
with disabilities, undoubtably benefited from
her kindness and commitment to improving
the lives of those around her. Upon returning
to Yuba City, Jeanine involved herself with
Casa de Esperanza, a shelter for those suf-
fering from abuse and violence. Jeanine then
began work as a Counselor Advocate for the
First Responder program. Shortly after, she
was promoted to be Project Director for the
program because of her skill and passion.
During her time at Casa de Esperanza, Jean-
ine transformed several programs and projects
through expansive training, education, and
outreach efforts. Her desire to improve the
lives of those around her continues to benefit
our community. On behalf of the people of
Yuba City and the 3rd Congressional District,
I am pleased to congratulate Jeanine Werner
as a 2019 Woman of the Year for her dedica-
tion, passion, kindness, and intellect.
Kristina Wiley’s dedication to helping others
is unparalled. In her tireless work to improve
her community, she has served as president
of Soroptimist, a non-profit organization de-
voted to improving the lives of women and
girls across the country. In addition, Kristina
has raised money for charities and even trav-
eled to Haiti to perform dental surgery for
those in need. In her work in Dixon, Kristina
has raised tens of thousands of dollars for
breast cancer research, donated to the funeral
funds of those in need and raised $47,000 for
animal welfare. In addition to these great con-
tributions, Kristina has devoted her time to
mentoring children and even taken children in
need under her wing while they get back on
their feet. Kristina has also used her skills as
a DDS in Haiti, traveling there 5 times in order
to perform much-needed procedures on those
who would otherwise not have access to den-
tal care. Her involvement in the community
has improved many lives and will continue to
do so in the future.
I congratulate each of them and commend
them for their work. I am inspired by them and
firmly believe when women succeed, America
succeeds.
f
IN SUPPORT OF THE SAFE RE-
TURN OF AUSTIN BENNETT TICE
HON. HENRY CUELLAR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. CUELLAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to call attention to Austin Bennett Tice’s pro-
longed captivity in Syria, where he has been
held since August 14, 2012; over seven years.
Austin is an American journalist who headed
to Syria to work as a free-lance reporter for
the McClatchy News Service between his sec-
ond and third years at Georgetown Law
School. A native of Houston, Texas, and a
Georgetown alumnus, Austin is an exceptional
young man who demonstrated his determina-
tion and potential early in life as both an Eagle
Scout and a National Merit Finalist.
After graduation from Georgetown Univer-
sity’s School of Foreign Service, he was com-
missioned as an officer in the United States
Marine Corps. As an infantryman, his service
included tours of duty in Afghanistan and Iraq.
At the time of his capture, Austin sought to en-
sure that the world understood the tragic situa-
tion in Syria. Because of his dedication to our
country, we owe this young man every pos-
sible effort to affect his release.
Presidential Policy Directive 30, U.S. Nation-
als Taken Abroad and Personnel Recovery Ef-
forts, clearly commits the Government to work-
ing in a coordinated manner and utilizing all
instruments of national power to safely recover
hostages. We appreciate that commitment and
were grateful when the FBI announced last
April a $1 million reward for Austin’s safe re-
turn. We are aware that the Hostage Recovery
Fusion Cell has been engaged with efforts to
secure his release for several years.
Madam Speaker, it has now been over four
years since that Presidential Policy Directive
was finalized, and we strongly urge the Presi-
dent and State Department officials to person-
ally ensure that the U.S. government galva-
nizes its efforts and employs all appropriate
means to secure this young man’s safe and
expeditious return to the United States.
f
WAR EMERGENCY PIPELINE
HISTORICAL MARKER
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the November 11, 2019, dedica-
tion of an Illinois State Historical Society His-
torical Marker for the Completion of the War
Emergency Pipeline in 1943 from Longview,
Texas, to Norris City, Illinois.
Before the bombing of Pearl Harbor on De-
cember 7, 1941, and entry of the United
States into World War II, 95 percent of the
crude oil delivered to east coast oil refineries
was transported by tanker ships, with 90 per-
cent of that from Texas oil fields. In 1942, oil
tankers from the Gulf of Mexico were being
sunk by German submarines at the rate of
three per day. A committee appointed by
President Franklin D. Roosevelt recommended
an overland pipeline be built from Longview to
Norris City.
Work began at Longview on August 3,
1942, and a dedication ceremony at Norris
City was held upon completion, February 19,
1943. Newspapers and radio stations recorded
the event; the newsreels were shown prior to
movies in theaters all over America. The first
day, 60,000 barrels of crude oil flowed into
Norris City. The first trainload left Norris City
the night of the dedication with 96 oil tankers.
Fifteen 80,000-barrel storage tanks and
three loading racks had been built. 13,500
barrels of crude oil were received hourly on
this pipeline between February 19 and Sep-
tember 1, 1943. The railroad hauled 124,193
tankers of oil out of Norris City. The War
Emergency Pipeline put 3,500 people to work.
Madam Speaker, the pipeline’s impact on
the war effort was tremendous, enabling the
safe and timely transport of oil vital to the al-
lies during the height of wartime service. I
want to extend a warm thank you to the
Enbridge-Texas Eastern Company and The Il-
linois State Historical Society for collaborating
to ensure an important piece of this nation’s
history is preserved for future generations.
f
HONORING MARK BORBA FOR 2019
AGRICULTURIST OF THE YEAR
IN THE CENTRAL VALLEY
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Mr. Mark Borba on the occasion of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.015 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1424 November 12, 2019
his award for the 2019 Agriculturist of the
Year. It is transparent that Mark’s 40 plus
years of continuous passion for the agricultural
community.
With only 40 cows and 120 acres of land,
A.J. Borba started the line of farmers near
Hardwick, California. He later moved to River-
dale, California in the 1900’s and started a
dairy farm. A.J. with his two sons, began a
row crop operation. An immigrant from Azores,
Portugal, he did not realize the impact his
family would make for the Central Valley.
His two sons, Ross Sr. and Darril began
what we know today, the Borba Brothers
Farms in 1958. Ross Sr. and his wife Justina
had two sons, Ross Jr., Mark, and a daughter,
Dwayne. In 1976, the family passed the busi-
ness down to Mark and Ross Jr.
The family has been through droughts, dif-
ferent crops, and their share of hardships. Yet,
they have survived and have been able to be
proudly called fourth-generation farmers. Their
share of crops includes almonds, tomatoes,
melons, lettuce, wheat, garlic, and cotton.
Mark believes in education and was recog-
nized for it in 1996 for the U.C. Davis Award
of Distinction for his contributions and accom-
plishments. He helped with the Ross Borba
Sr. Scholarship Endowment for agricultural
college students. Mark wants people to be
educated on water and agricultural issues. He
constantly talks to members of the community
and to elected officials about water rights
issues and practices in fanning. His passion to
grow for farmers and for his family is clearly
shown.
In various capacities, Mark has been in-
volved in the community. He served as Chair-
man of the Board at Community Medical Cen-
ters in Fresno. He was also on the board for
the Maddy Institute, and a Chairman for the
California Cotton Growers Association.
Madam Speaker, it is with great respect that
I ask my colleagues in the House of Rep-
resentatives to congratulate Mr. Mark Borba
on his recent award. His accomplishments to
Fresno County made amazing impacts in the
community. It is my honor to join his col-
leagues, family, and friends in honoring his
award and achievements.
f
RECOGNIZING LYNNE AND MYRON
MALNAA
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, Lynne
and Myron Malnaa of Glasgow, Montana are
a shining example of dedication and compas-
sion. For 18 years they have been active in
the Montana foster care system, welcoming
children into their home anywhere from over-
night to 14 years. During this time, they have
adopted two children and are the guardians to
another.
Lynne ran a daycare from her home for 25
years before she devoted nearly 15 years to
the State of Montana Office of Public Assist-
ance. Myron served our state as a law en-
forcement officer for 25 years. Together, their
experiences helped them provide a safe
haven, day or night, for more than 150 fright-
ened and neglected children in need of care
and love, which they have given so freely and
unconditionally.
We can all learn from Lynne and Myron’s
decades of kindness and generosity. I am
pleased to recognize Lynne and Myron
Malnaa as 2019 Angels in Adoption Honorees.
f
HONORING THE MEMORY OF
FREDDIE B. YELDER
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
honor of the memory of Freddie B. Yelder, a
beloved Detroit community member.
Born July 15, 1934, Ms. Yelder spent her
early years in Mosses, Alabama before mov-
ing with her husband and family to Detroit,
Michigan. She quickly became a respected
leader in her family, community, and church.
Ms. Yelder was especially known for her kind-
ness and generosity to others. The matriarch
of the Yelder/Bain/Patton family, she cared for
her large extended family, but especially her
disabled brother, and as sole caregiver to her
husband after he became disabled. As the
owner of a party store, she never failed to do-
nate goods and services to those in need. She
never shied away from opening up her own
home to others when someone needed shel-
ter.
Ms. Yelder’s openheartedness and chari-
table spirit were an asset in the leadership
role she assumed in her forty-three years as
a member and former Board of Trustees
President of Sharon Missionary Baptist
Church. She initiated the organizing of the
church mission, which two years later lead to
the mission deciding to purchase the perma-
nent structure called Sharon Missionary Bap-
tist Church. One of her proudest accomplish-
ments was when she successfully negotiated
in the church’s favor the initial selling condi-
tions and reducing the church’s costs by sev-
eral thousand dollars. In addition to her work
on behalf of the missionary program, Ms.
Yelder supervised the ‘‘Meet Up, Eat Up’’ pro-
gram, which fed countless children in the sur-
rounding community, as well as the church
soup kitchen, which was funded solely through
her own fundraising efforts.
In short, Ms. Freddie B. Yelder’s life was
distinguished by her generosity, kindness, and
leadership. We give honor to her memory and
tireless efforts in dedication to her surviving
family.
f
CELEBRATING THE 75TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF FRESNO PACIFIC UNI-
VERSITY
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
commemorate Fresno Pacific University in
Fresno, California on the occasion of its 75th
anniversary. The university is a valuable part
of the community and plays an important role
in educating students in the Central Valley.
Fresno Pacific University was established in
1944 as the Pacific Bible Institute in a two-
story home near downtown Fresno. The
school had 5 faculty members and a student
body of 28. The college’s leadership took it
upon themselves to expand its campus and
curriculum. In 1958 land was purchased to
build a larger campus, a biblical seminary and
a Mennonite Brethren Church. Beginning in
1961, the biblical college expanded to a two-
year institution, Pacific College, and eventually
a four-year program in 1964. In 1997, Pacific
College would henceforth be known as Fresno
Pacific University, with satellite locations
throughout the Central Valley.
The university has integrated five schools,
including: School of Business, Natural
Sciences, Education, a Fresno Pacific Biblical
Seminary, and Humanities, Religion, and So-
cial Sciences. They have over 30-degree op-
tions, 40 programs, and more than 100 areas
of study. Throughout its history Fresno Pacific
has experienced tremendous growth that con-
tinues to this day.
Past presidents that have helped the cam-
pus and the university’s mission to grow have
also left their unique mark. Samuel W.
Goosen was named the first president in
1944. George W. Peters started in 1947 and
introduced the importance of church missions.
Reuben M. Baerg began as president in 1953
and was once an instructor in Greek and the
Bible’s New Testament. Bernhard J. Braun
was named president in 1955 and was instru-
mental in developing the junior college cur-
riculum for the university. Arthur J. Wiebe be-
came president in 1960 and facilitated the
transition to a four-year campus and increased
the enrollment of students. Edmund Janzen
began his tenure in 1975 and helped to ex-
pand the mission program. In 1985, Richard
A. Kriegbaum was named president and under
his guidance, the undergraduate program be-
came nationally ranked. Allen Carden’s leader-
ship started in 1997, followed by Harold H.
Haak in 2000. In 2002, D. Merrill Ewert be-
came the 10th President. Pete Menjares start-
ed in 2012 and was followed by Richard
Kriegbaum as he returned in 2014 to help
serve one more time. Dr. Joseph Jones now
serves as president for the university and con-
tinues to work to advance the university’s
growth and student success.
With strong leadership, the last 75 years
have been tremendously transformative for
Fresno Pacific University. As they continue to
grow and prosper, their values of faith, spirit,
and innovation has allowed them to continu-
ously evolve.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Fresno Pacific University as it
celebrates its 75th anniversary. I commend
Fresno Pacific for its 75 years of commitment
to education and I wish the faculty, staff, stu-
dents and alumni continued success.
f
TRIBUTE TO COLONEL RAYMOND
CELESTE, USMC (RET.)
HON. GREGORY F. MURPHY
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to Colonel Ray-
mond Celeste, USMC (Ret.) who has com-
pleted twenty-nine Marine Corps Marathons
here in Washington, D.C. and was recently in-
ducted into the Marine Corps Marathon Hall of
Fame.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.018 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1425
November 12, 2019
In addition to his 26 years of dedicated
service to our country as a Marine, Ray has
diligently served members of the military and
veterans across the Third District of North
Carolina since 2011, originally under Con-
gressman Walter B. Jones, Jr. and continuing
on my current staff.
Madam Speaker, please join me in thanking
Ray for the work he has done and continues
to do for the veterans in NC–03 as well as the
service members stationed at Camp Lejeune,
and Marine Corps Air Stations Cherry Point
and New River.
Semper-Fi.
f
JONATHAN ZUMKEHR DEPARTS
FCC VICTORVILLE
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, Jonathan
Zumkehr has worked for the Federal Bureau
of Prisons for over a decade. He began his
work at Metropolitan Detention Center Los An-
geles in May 2007, where he guarded inmates
standing trial in federal court. After two years
at MDC Los Angeles, he transferred to FCC
Victorville in March 2009.
While at FCC Victorville, he became in-
volved in improving the lives of his community
and his fellow correctional officers. He worked
with Be The Match to help raise awareness for
finding bone marrow matches for those with
blood cancers, and he supported Mothers
Against Drunk Drivers in their campaign to
fight intoxicated driving. Jonathan’s passion for
improving his community also led him to im-
prove the lives and working conditions of his
fellow correctional officers. He was success-
fully elected to serve as the Vice President for
AFGE Local 3969, where he consistently ad-
vocated for better and safer working condi-
tions. Among other important issues, Jonathan
was instrumental in bringing to light the under-
staffing of FCC Victorville and highlighting the
risky practice of augmentation.
Jonathan Zumkehr is an outstanding law en-
forcement professional whose dedication to
those around him has improved lives and
made our community a safer place. He will be
sorely missed as he departs for AUSP Thom-
son, and I wish him continued success in his
Bureau of Prisons Career.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF JOAN
ALBERT LAWLER
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to reflect on the life of Joan Albert
Lawler, a respected businesswoman and pas-
sionate philanthropist, who touched countless
lives by her life and work throughout Wash-
ington, D.C., Northern Virginia, and Westmore-
land County, Virginia.
Born in Syracuse, New York, Joni, grew up
in McLean, Virginia. After earning a bachelor’s
degree from the University of Vermont, she
worked at the U.S. House of Representatives
on the staff of Hon. Ron Marlenee and Hon.
Albert Johnson, as well as the Clerk of the
House and the Territorial Caucus. The positive
feeling of helping others through legislation
was a foundation for her good works that she
continued throughout her life. It was here on
Capitol Hill that she met her husband, John.
They opened a watering hole for the young
political community called ‘‘The Third Party’’
and were active members of the Congres-
sional Flying Club. While raising her family,
Joni earned a real estate license and co-
founded a financial consulting firm, East West
Financial Services.
In 2005, Joni moved with her family full-time
to the Northern Neck of Virginia where she
used her wide-ranging experience in business
and philanthropy to become a pillar of the
community, admired for her leadership, gen-
erosity, and grace. She served on the boards
and committees of numerous organizations,
creating many fundraising events that became
beloved local traditions.
She always volunteered her time and lead-
ership, establishing successful fundraising
events that became longstanding traditions,
with Our Lady of Victory Church and the ele-
mentary and high schools her three daughters
attended including Our Lady of Victory School,
Washington Waldorf School, and St.
Margaret’s School where she also served on
the Board of Governors. Joni was guided by
her deep faith, and spearheaded a successful
capital campaign to support the construction of
a new church rectory and office for St. Paul’s
Mission in Hague, VA. She truly was a doer of
good works.
A pillar in the Commonwealth of Virginia,
she was always striving to make a difference.
I can assure you that our nation and Com-
monwealth is a greater, more successful
place, due to her ever-present leadership and
generosity. She is an example of community
leaders that we all wish to emulate.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in re-
membering the life of Joan Albert Lawler, a life
lived serving her community. Words alone
cannot express our gratitude. May God bless
Joni and her family.
f
CELEBRATING THE 75TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF FRESNO PACIFIC UNI-
VERSITY
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
commemorate Fresno Pacific University in
Fresno, California on the occasion of its 75th
anniversary, The university is a valuable part
of the community and plays an important role
in educating students in the Central Valley.
Fresno Pacific University was established in
1944 as the Pacific Bible Institute in a two-
story home near downtown Fresno. The
school had 5 faculty members and a student
body of 28. The college’s leadership took it
upon themselves to expand its campus and
curriculum. In 1958 land was purchased to
build a larger campus, a biblical seminary and
a Mennonite Brethren Church. Beginning in
1961, the biblical college expanded to a two-
year institution, Pacific College, and eventually
a four-year program in 1964. In 1997, Pacific
College would henceforth be known as Fresno
Pacific University, with satellite locations
throughout the Central Valley.
The university has integrated five schools,
including: School of Business, Natural
Sciences, Education, a Fresno Pacific Biblical
Seminary, and Humanities, Religion, and So-
cial Sciences. They have over 30-degree op-
tions, 40 programs, and more than 100 areas
of study. Throughout its history Fresno Pacific
has experienced tremendous growth that con-
tinues to this day.
Past presidents that have helped the cam-
pus and the university’s mission to grow have
also left their unique mark. Samuel W.
Goosen was named the first president in
1944. George W. Peters started in 1947 and
introduced the importance of church missions.
Reuben M. Baerg began as president in 1953
and was once an instructor in Greek and the
Bible’s New Testament. Bernhard J. Braun
was named president in 1955 and was instru-
mental in developing the junior college cur-
riculum for the university. Arthur J. Wiebe be-
came president in 1960 and facilitated the
transition to a four-year campus and increased
the enrollment of students. Edmund Janzen
began his tenure in 1975 and helped to ex-
pand the mission program. In 1985, Richard
A. Kriegbaum was named president and under
his guidance, the undergraduate program be-
came nationally ranked. Allen Carden’s leader-
ship started in 1997, followed by Harold H.
Haak in 2000. In 2002, D. Merrill Ewert be-
came the 10th President. Pete Menjares start-
ed in 2012 and was followed by Richard
Kriegbaum as he returned in 2014 to help
serve one more time. Dr. Joseph Jones now
serves as president for the university and con-
tinues to work to advance the university’s
growth and student success.
With strong leadership, the last 75 years
have been tremendously transformative for
Fresno Pacific University. As they continue to
grow and prosper, their values of faith, spirit,
and innovation has allowed them to continu-
ously evolve.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Fresno Pacific University as it
celebrates its 75th anniversary. I commend
Fresno Pacific for its 75 years of commitment
to education and I wish the faculty, staff, stu-
dents and alumni continued success.
f
CONGRATULATING BOB LOZINAK
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to congratulate Altoona Curve
Owner, Bob Lozinak, on being named the
2019 King of Baseball by Minor League Base-
ball. Mr. Lozinak of Blair County, Pennsyl-
vania, will receive this honor during the
league’s winter meetings in San Diego on De-
cember 8.
In 1999, Mr. Lozinak brought baseball to Al-
toona. Since then, he has grown the Curve’s
fanbase and garnered national recognition for
his work not only with the Curve, but through-
out his 40-year history in Minor League Base-
ball.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.021 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1426 November 12, 2019
Mr. Lozinak’s passion both for the sport of
baseball and for our community is an im-
mense asset to Pennsylvania’s 13th Congres-
sional District. This recognition is well-de-
served, and I congratulate our ‘‘King of Base-
ball’’ on this outstanding accomplishment.
f
HONORING THE 2019 WOMEN OF
THE YEAR
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the 2019 Women of the Year.
The honorees represent some of the most out-
standing and dedicated women in the 3rd
Congressional District. Nominated by their
peers, these women and the leadership they
have provided are being recognized for play-
ing an integral and crucial role in improving
the lives of everyone in their communities.
During the last 50 years women have made
great strides in America. It used to be almost
unheard of to see women as elected officials,
CEOs, senior military officials, doctors or attor-
neys, but today many of our most successful
leaders in the world are women. This progress
has not come easy and many women before
you have worked hard and strived to achieve
the independence and rights you have today.
I realize there is more work to be done to en-
sure that women have equal pay, flexible work
schedules and affordable education. Each of
the honorees will be a vital part of the future
successes for women.
2019’s Women of the Year are:
Bobbi Abold is a dedicated, passionate, and
invested advocate who brings over a decade
of experience in education to her work on be-
half of at-risk students. Bobbi currently serves
as the Assistant Superintendent of Curriculum
and Instruction for the Yuba County Office of
Education. In this position as well as during
her time as Principal at Durham Elementary
School, Bobbi has leveraged her unique ca-
pacity for positive reinforcement and decision
making to administer critical resources and en-
gaging programs for all her students. As a true
model and champion of the very best in lead-
ership in alternative education, Bobbi has con-
tinuously gone out of her way to improve her
skills by training in restorative practices and is
always challenging others to become better
educators. Her inclusivity allows her to foster
a positive and constructive environment for
students to learn and grow as individuals, and
she lends a special focus to those facing the
greatest challenges. Bobbi is a passionate
public servant who consistently demonstrates
her unparalleled dedication to securing bright
futures for her students.
Rose Mary Avila is a dedicated advocate for
members of the Yuba County community. She
is a highly regarded volunteer, community
servant, and business woman. Rose Mary
works to help the Marysville business commu-
nity thrive through her involvement with the
Focus on Marysville business forum. Rose
Mary has been an executive member at the
Alliance for Hispanic Advancement in Yuba
County for 15 years and contributes her time
to many events and fundraisers. Through this
organization she has worked to enrich the
lives of people of Hispanic heritage in her
community by awarding scholarships to His-
panic students, providing health resources and
bilingual information for community members,
and administering numerous other community
programs. Rose Mary is also a member of the
Marysville Kiwanis where she lends valuable
assistance to their fundraising efforts. Rose
Mary is also an active member of her church
where she helps with annual fundraisers and
volunteered as a catechism teacher. Rose
Mary is a loving mother of two, grandmother
of four, and a cherished friend to many. A life-
long resident of Yuba County, she has had a
positive impact on countless members of her
community.
Lisa Baker is a tireless advocate working at
the forefront of some of the most pressing
issues facing her community. Her activism en-
compasses issues such as housing, social
equality, and climate change. Her efforts to
provide affordable housing, connect residents
with social services, improve social equity, and
address issues related to climate change have
had a profound and positive impact on our dis-
trict. As CEO of the Yolo County Housing Au-
thority, Lisa works tirelessly to realize the or-
ganization’s mission of working to provide
quality affordable housing and community de-
velopment services for all. Her organization
and its allies provide essential services that
meet the needs of thousands of underprivi-
leged households throughout Yolo and Solano
counties. Under her leadership, the Yolo
County Housing Authority works with commu-
nity partners to combat homelessness and
does innovative work on climate resiliency.
Over the years, her organization has earned
numerous national recognitions, and last year
won the City of Davis Environmental Special
Recognition award for ongoing work in sus-
tainability and equity. Beyond her
groundbreaking work in building climate resil-
iency and sustainability into affordable hous-
ing, Lisa lends her time and expertise to a va-
riety of community organizations. She is Vice
Chair of the Winters Planning Commission,
serves on the Citizen Advisory Committee for
the Yolo County Transportation District, is a
member of the Cool Davis Council of Advi-
sors, serves on the Prop 47 Steering Com-
mittee, and is a member of the Yolo Resil-
ience Collaborative. She is also a member of
a number of statewide and national organiza-
tions focused on advocating for affordable
housing in underserved communities. Lisa’s
passion for public service and positive impact
on her community cannot be overstated.
Navjot Bala-Singh has a unique and unpar-
alleled ability as an educator. When Navjot
came to the United States in 2002, it was her
dream to become an educator and share the
history of Indian women with her community.
The challenges of adjusting to a new culture
and learning to communicate effectively in a
foreign language did not stop her from pur-
suing her goals. On the contrary, this experi-
ence endowed her with patience and a unique
perspective she could share with others. In
2010 she became a U.S. Citizen, enrolled in
college, and later completed her degree in
early childhood education. She became a
Mentor Teacher at Yuba Community College
where she shared her skills as a pre-school
teacher and her passion for cultivating young
minds flourished. Throughout her educational
career she has learned the value of sharing
her Indian culture with students and her com-
munity. Navjot now plays a leadership role in
the annual Indian Women’s Teejan Meda, an
event which shares the important contributions
Indian women have made to national and local
communities. She also plays a crucial role in
putting on the annual Sikh Parade, Nagar
Kirtan, which attracts over 100,000 visitors to
Yuba City and provides a special opportunity
to share Indian culture with the local commu-
nity. Navjot and her husband lend the use of
their local landmark restaurant, the Star of
India, to make this event a resounding suc-
cess year after year. Navjot plays an integral
role in fostering cultural exchange and under-
standing that has helped to make Yuba City a
vibrant and diverse community.
Dennise Burbank is a life-long resident of
the Yuba-Sutter area with an extensive record
of service to her community. Dennise is well
known for her kind heart and unparalleled
generosity. Fulfilling a lifelong dream to open
her own business, Dennise founded Burbank
Insurance in 2007. Outside of work, she
spends her time doing a variety of volunteer
work. Dennise and her son give their time
training service dogs that are placed with chil-
dren with autism all over the country. Dennise
can also be found overseeing everything from
the Olivehurst Christmas Parade to operating
her non-profit organization SoYouCan. Under
her leadership, this organization aids needy
families across the county. For the last seven
years, SoYouCan has partnered with the Yuba
County Sherriff’s Department, Olivehurst and
Linda Fire Departments, and countless local
schools and volunteers to put together Oper-
ation Turkey Swap. This annual event brings
Christmas dinners and toys to over 250 fami-
lies and 600 children, allowing those who
might go without to participate in the Christ-
mas spirit. Additionally, as President of the
Marysville Kiwanis club, Dennise oversaw the
BUGS program which focuses on incentivizing
local middle school students to raise their
grades with the promise of a new bicycle for
the top-five most improved students, as well
as an ice cream social for all who take the
pledge to improve. In 2012, Dennise ran for
Director of Public Utilities, going on to serve
as President of the Board until 2015. With her
vast array of accomplishments and caring spir-
it, Dennise serves as a shining example of
philanthropic generosity and passionate serv-
ice to everyone in her community.
Neelam Canto-Lugo is a community servant
who has made contributions to the Yuba-Sut-
ter area and beyond that cannot be over-
stated. As a retired adjunct professor of com-
munications at Yuba College and a feminist
ahead of her time, her main mission and pur-
pose has always been to better the lives of
students, children, and women in disadvan-
taged communities. In her two-plus decades at
Yuba College, Neelam developed and coordi-
nated the Crossing Borders—Building Bridges
Events Series. Here she effectively promoted
cultural, socio-political, and religious under-
standing through countless events and
projects, including museum exhibits on the
Japanese-American Internment experience,
interfaith panel discussions promoting religious
tolerance, as well as annual panels on wom-
en’s health, domestic violence, human traf-
ficking, and Women’s History Month. Whether
in the fight to reduce hate crimes in Yuba City
or support women’s entrepreneurship in Nepal
and Bangladesh, Neelam’s presence and
service-oriented mindset are felt by all she
meets. For her efforts, she has been recog-
nized with numerous awards, including but
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.025 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1427
November 12, 2019
certainly not limited to, the United States
President’s Gold Volunteer Service Award for
volunteer work in developing countries and the
John W. Rice Equity and Diversity Award.
Neelam’s leadership has made a positive im-
pact on women’s issues locally and inter-
nationally, where her trailblazing approach to
social justice, women’s rights, and equity has
broken many a glass ceiling.
Jill Cook has a heart of service that is clear-
ly and consistently demonstrated in her com-
mitment to serving those in need. In her work
as the Yolo County Deputy Administrator she
does just that, focusing on bringing health and
wellness to the community. Jill passionately in-
fuses her commitment to community health
and wellness with her focused determination
and natural ability to forge cooperation
amongst partners. In doing so, Jill was at the
forefront of the local Affordable Care Act im-
plementation, secured over $6 million in new
funding through an intergovernmental transfer
with the Medi-Cal managed plan, and helped
the County transition to a regional public
health laboratory through a joint powers
agreement with two adjacent counties. More
recently, Jill oversaw the completion of the
Tuli Mem Park and Aquatic Center spanning 8
acres of rural western Yolo County. Her stead-
fast belief that underserved communities
throughout Yolo County deserve access to
outdoor recreation for play and exercise, in-
spires her to find ways of galvanizing support.
Jill uses her strong public health background
to champion for her community and success-
fully secured funding from the California De-
partment of Parks and Recreation for Knights
Landing in order to provide new outdoor recre-
ation space in her community. Jill continually
seeks ways to help others and has imple-
mented workgroups focused on improving the
quality of life for residents of Yolo County. Her
hard work and determination make her a
strong advocate for the well-being of her com-
munity and her generosity and volunteerism
are an example for future leaders.
Jenalee Dawson is a young professional
who has accomplished more in her career
than many do in a lifetime. She puts her un-
paralleled determination and focus to work as
a fierce advocate for those at risk in her com-
munity, working to address issues of inter-
personal violence, senior poverty and isola-
tion, affordable housing, homelessness, men-
tal health and substance abuse, and accessi-
bility to services. While she is currently em-
ployed as the Resident Social Services Coor-
dinator for the California Department of
Human Development, Jenalee continuously
finds additional opportunities to contribute to
the well-being of those in her community.
Whether it is in her role as Service Coordi-
nator for Parkway Plaza Senior Apartments,
serving as the Chair of the Solano Partnership
Against Violence, or as co-organizer of the
Family Justice Center, Jenalee’s impactful
presence is always felt. As a member of the
Senior Coalition of Solano County, Jenalee
was responsible for launching the Savvy Sen-
iors Program, which seeks to avail seniors of
resources and benefits for everything from
budgeting to avoiding becoming the victim of
fraud. Jenalee shows immeasurable strength
and courage in compassionately using her
own experience overcoming violence and ad-
versity to serve as a role model for others
looking to rise above difficult circumstances
and build resiliency. Jenalee is a talented and
selfless individual who has made countless
contributions to the lives of others and I look
forward to seeing what more she accom-
plishes in the years ahead.
Pat Dennis has had an immeasurable im-
pact on the town of Vacaville, where she dis-
plays a commitment to sustaining and enrich-
ing fine arts in her community. Pat has always
been eager to shoulder communal responsi-
bility and began volunteering for the North Bay
Opera Guild shortly after moving to Vacaville.
Here she quickly rose to become President of
the organization, leading it to its peak while
fostering an inviting environment at its 354
seat Opera House facility. Pat has facilitated
numerous school and community outreach
programs, such as the annual Young Per-
formers Concert, while also working with the
Vacaville Museum Guild to support the preser-
vation of Vacaville’s local history. Pat has
logged over 16,500 volunteer hours for the
North Bay Volunteer Guild and has made sig-
nificant contributions to the cause of Alz-
heimer’s research. Pat has also become a
crucial part of the Vacaville Arts Council,
where she holds the position of Vice Presi-
dent. In this position she helped to advance
the organization’s impact, expanding events,
adding membership, and acting as an integral
piece of the ‘‘Salute to the Stars’’ event. Pat’s
work in the community is invaluable and she
is pillar of the community, beloved by all who
know her.
Ana Dineen has continuously sought out
ways to support and engage the underrep-
resented in Solano County. During her dec-
ades-long career as a school nurse, Ana
oversaw the Healthy Start Family Resource
Center in Fairfield and Suisun City. Under her
leadership, the Family Resource Center has
grown into a model child abuse prevention
program, providing families in crisis a place to
receive basic necessities, crisis counseling,
and parenting education. Ana has also served
as President of the Solano Children’s Alliance,
providing crucial insight on child and family
needs to the Solano Board of Supervisors.
Under the steady hand of her leadership,
these organizations have continued to expand
the range and depth of available community
resources. Now retired, Ana founded Voces
Unidas (United Voices), a non-profit organiza-
tion focused on availing the Latino community
of resources, including know-your-rights work-
shops, information sessions on obtaining prop-
er identification, and education on human traf-
ficking. With her tireless dedication to aiding
those in need, Ana is truly a treasure of So-
lano County whose impact will be felt for gen-
erations to come.
Deborah Dunham has led a life of service,
dedicated to volunteer work and philanthropic
efforts. Deborah served her country in the
United States Marine Corps, where she was
one of the first four female marines to be se-
lected for IBM’s Computer Programming
School and received two Meritorious Pro-
motions. This alone would make her worthy of
recognition, but her service did not end there.
Over the last 44 years, Deborah has served
as a professional fundraising executive, volun-
teer, and generous supporter of numerous
charitable organizations throughout her com-
munity. She has a passion for developing and
improving nonprofit organizations and consist-
ently makes invaluable contributions with un-
matched selflessness and dedication. To
many, she is known for her work with Gorilla
Doctors, a joint program between the Moun-
tain Gorilla Veterinary Project and the UC
Davis One Health Institute of Veterinary Medi-
cine which provides veterinary care to wild
mountain and Grauer’s gorillas throughout
East Africa, playing an important role in saving
the species from extinction. As chair of their
Board of Directors, her leadership, purpose,
and drive helped lead the organization to new
heights. Through her efforts, she has brought
international renown and accolades to our
community and her work received recognition
from the President of Rwanda. Deborah is an
inspiration to many in our community, having
effectively juggled the responsibilities of family,
career, and community involvement and twice
beating cancer while always maintaining her
commitments to the many organizations she
supports. Deborah is admired and revered by
friends and colleagues locally, regionally, and
around the world because when she sets her
mind to it, she brings about indelible change.
Nancy Geweke Elrod has made vast and
meaningful contributions to the Yuba-Sutter
area over her lifetime. As a Yuba City High
School graduate, Nancy went on to get her
degree in Recreation Administration at Cal
Poly San Luis Obispo. She subsequently
served as sales manager for the Lodi Con-
ference and Visitor’s Bureau, before settling in
as Recreation Coordinator for the City of Yuba
City. During her time in this position she
oversaw the budget and implemented festivi-
ties for Yuba City’s Centennial Celebration
while simultaneously supervising the city’s
youth programming and senior activities.
When she decided to join the family business,
Geweke Ford, in 2009, Nancy couldn’t wait to
continue getting involved in her community.
She has contributed immensely to her family’s
non-profit organization, Geweke’s Caring for
Women Foundation, where she served as Di-
rector since 2011. This organization financially
assists local women facing cancer and has
now provided over 10,000 women with low-
cost mammograms and women’s health
screenings. Under her leadership, the
Geweke’s Caring for Women Foundation has
helped over 430 cancer survivors through nu-
merous grants. Nancy has co-chaired the Pink
October Race for Awareness for 14 years
alongside her sister and under her leadership
fundraising efforts have grown up to 35 per-
cent, raising over $150,000 each year. Nancy
has also been an active member of Early Ris-
ers Kiwanis, finds time to volunteer with the
Beale Military Liaison Committee, and has
proudly served on the Sutter Medical Founda-
tion Philanthropy Committee since 2009.
Through her effective leadership and enthusi-
astic approach, Nancy has touched the lives
of many throughout the Yuba-Sutter commu-
nity.
Catherine Farman is a dedicated advocate
for the most vulnerable populations of her
community. For years, Catherine has donated
her time and expertise to the Empower Yolo
Board of Directors, where she has been in-
strumental in furthering their mission to pro-
mote safe, healthy, and resilient communities.
Empower Yolo is the county’s leading re-
source for survivors of domestic violence, sex-
ual assault, human trafficking, and child
abuse. Catherine has served in numerous
leadership roles at the organization, where
she has helped to raise thousands of dollars,
volunteered at countless events, and grown
Empower Yolo’s extensive network of support.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.026 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1428 November 12, 2019
Additionally, she takes the time to inspire and
mentor her colleagues, helping them to har-
ness their own skills, knowledge, and passion
to serve their community. Catherine is also the
founder of the Davis Schools Foundation,
which has helped every school in Davis and
thousands of children over the years. She has
also given her time and support to such orga-
nizations as 100 Women Who Care, the Yolo
Crisis Nursery, and the Yolo County Food
Bank. Catherine is a fierce advocate, caring
friend, loving mother, and inspirational leader
whose dedicated service to her community
has changed countless lives in Yolo County.
Diana Fuentes-Michel is a dedicated advo-
cate not only within the Yolo and Sacramento
regions, but throughout the entire state of Cali-
fornia. For years, Diana has applied her skills
and expertise in higher education policy to en-
sure that migrant, low-income, and moderate-
income students from the state of California
can pursue a higher education. Diana has also
been instrumental in ensuring that upwards of
50,000 undocumented students can attend
college by ushering in California’s Dream Act
Application. Diana also contributed to the es-
tablishment of the bilingual career and college
fair called Steps to College: Paseo de la
Universidad, which was the first of its kind in
Yolo and Sacramento counties. Diana’s work
as an establishing member and volunteer for
the Chicano-Latino Youth Leadership Program
has provided thousands of California’s young
Latinx with the opportunity to visit Sacramento,
stay on college campuses, and participate in
state government affairs. She has also volun-
teered her time with Cien Amigos where she
helped to raise funds for the nonprofit that
serves 300 students and helps administer the
organization’s yearly scholarship program.
Diana is an inspirational leader whose dedi-
cated service to her community has changed
countless lives in our community and through-
out the state of California.
I congratulate each of them and commend
them for their work. I am inspired by them and
firmly believe when women succeed, America
succeeds.
f
CELEBRATING THE INSTALLATION
OF DR. MATTHEW GIORDANO AS
THE FOURTH PRESIDENT OF
VILLA MARIA COLLEGE
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, today I rise to acknowledge the installation
of Dr. Matthew Giordano as the Fourth Presi-
dent of Villa Maria College on Friday, Novem-
ber 15, 2019.
Villa Maria College is a private, co-edu-
cational, Catholic college providing the support
and resources needed to give students the op-
portunity to learn and grow with a culturally di-
verse population that lives its ideals of truth,
charity, and unity.
Dr. Matthew Giordano, the first male, lay-
person president in the college’s history, as-
sumed the role of interim president in July
2018 following the retirement of Sister Mar-
cella Marie Garus, Villa’s legendary forty-year
leader. Since that time, the College launched
three new academic programs including flexi-
ble business, game design and software de-
velopment proactively responding to height-
ened employment opportunities in these
growth industries. Scholarship eSports has
also found a home at Villa Maria College.
This visionary leader is not only responding
to the marketplace of today but ensuring the
college’s future growth as he and his team are
creating a new strategic plan, introduced new
models of governance and is developing
strong connections between the Villa Maria
family of students, faculty and staff.
Prior to his selection, Giordano served at
vice president for academic affairs from 2012
to 2018. During that time, he played a pivotal
role in planning and implementing the col-
lege’s creative blueprint resulting in major en-
rollment growth and increased retention,
launching new academic programs, including
an honors program, and helping to secure
grant funding in support of student success,
including a $1.8 million Title III grant.
Dr. Giordano brought his passion for teach-
ing English and gift for student engagement to
Villa in 2005 and became chairperson of the
liberal arts department in 2009.
It is especially noteworthy that while he is
working within the beautiful, stately walls of
the Villa Campus, Dr. Giordano understands
that the college is strengthened when the sur-
rounding neighborhoods are strengthened. An
anchor institution and community asset linking
the borders of the city of Buffalo and the town
of Cheektowaga, Villa’s new president is com-
mitted to open dialogue with local leaders and
elected officials to develop partnerships and
initiate collaborative relationships in support of
its students and neighbors.
Dr. Giordano has a Bachelor of Arts degree
in English and Philosophy from Binghamton
University and both a Master of Arts and doc-
torate degree in American Literature from the
Ohio State University. He successfully com-
pleted the Executive Leadership Academy of
the Council of Independent Colleges and the
Felician Leadership Institute this past year.
He follows in the footsteps of true Felician
leaders as Villa Maria College was founded in
1960 by Mother Mary Annette Guzowski and
the Felician Sisters of the Immaculate Heart of
Mary Province. Through extensions of char-
ters, National and State Accreditations and
significant program expansions offering real
world experiences, Villa Maria College at al-
most sixty years of service remains a vital
center of educational energy as it embraces
the academic, social and careers goals of its
students.
Madam Speaker, I take this time to con-
gratulate Dr. Matthew Giordano on his installa-
tion as President of Villa Maria College. This
new era in the college’s history will begin with
a true celebration witnessed by his wife, Jen-
nifer Desiderio, their three daughters and the
extended Villa Maria Community. We extend
our best wishes for continued success as he
leads this unique institution of higher edu-
cation into the future.
HONORING JAMES AND DELIA
NETTO’S 60TH BIRTHDAYS AND
40TH WEDDING ANNIVERSARY
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate Mr. and Mrs. James and Delia Netto
on the special occasion of their 60th birthdays
and 40th wedding anniversary. They are won-
derful members of the community and have
been an inspiration for all married couples.
James and Delia Netto were born in Han-
ford, California—he on May 17 and she on
December 30—in 1959. They come from
proud Portuguese families originating from the
Azores Islands. James and Delia met in
church and quickly realized they had found the
loves of their life. They were married on Sep-
tember 1, 1979 at Shrine of Our Lady of Fat-
ima Catholic Church in Laton, California. The
Nettos are the proud parents of two daugh-
ters, Danae Koprivetz and Diandra Vantrease.
Together, James and Delia founded Double
N Diary and Netto Trucking. James and his
brother, Frank, then started Netto Agriculture,
Inc., where Delia served as Chief Financial Of-
ficer. James now owns Penny Newman Grain
Company, serving as Vice President of Sales
and Production.
James and Delia are known for their service
and generosity in the Central Valley of Cali-
fornia. They were awarded the St. John Bosco
Friends of the Youth Award in 2011 for their
contributions to St. Rose-McCarthy Catholic
School in Hanford, California. Additionally,
James serves on the St. Vincent de Paul Cen-
ter Board of Directors in Hanford and the cou-
ple support the Poverello House, Candle Light
Guild, Saint Agnes Holy Cross Center, Make-
A-Wish Foundation, among other organiza-
tions.
The Netto’s favorite pastime is spending
time with their family and friends, including
their daughters, sons-in-law Jeff and Troy and
beloved grandchildren Emma, James and
Sloane. They also enjoy traveling.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the
U.S. House of Representatives to join me in
celebrating my friends James and Delia Netto
as they celebrate their 60th birthdays and 40th
wedding anniversary. I join their family and
friends in celebrating this milestone occasion.
f
TRIBUTE TO PARKER OVERTON
HON. GREGORY F. MURPHY
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to Parker
Overton of Grimesland, North Carolina. Mr.
Overton was recently presented The Order of
the Long Leaf Pine on October 22nd. The
Order of the Long Leaf Pine is the highest
award for state service granted by the Gov-
ernor. It is presented to persons for exemplary
service to the state of North Carolina and its
communities that is above and beyond the call
of duty and which has made a significant im-
pact and strengthened North Carolina.
Mr. Overton, who grew up on Greenville, is
the founder of Overton’s, the world’s largest
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.027 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1429
November 12, 2019
catalog of watersports and boating supplies
from 1975 to 2003. He is chairman-elect of
Greenville Utilities Corporation, chairman of
the Board of Vidant Health Foundation, found-
ing director and former board member of
Metrics Pharmaceuticals, founding member of
Select Bank and Trust Greenville and Select
Bancorp, former president of the N.C. State
Veterinary Foundation, member of the Advi-
sory Board for the East Carolina University
Chemistry Department and was instrumental
in securing funding for the ECU School of
Dental Medicine.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
honoring this great citizen of the state of North
Carolina.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE VETERANS
AND CONSUMERS FAIR CREDIT
ACT
HON. JESÚS G. ‘‘CHUY’’ GARCÍA
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I
am proud to introduce the Veterans and Con-
sumers Fair Credit Act, which extends impor-
tant protections to all consumers.
In 2006, Congress imposed an interest rate
cap on many consumer loans, including pay-
day products, for active-duty servicemembers
and their dependents via a bipartisan amend-
ment known as the Military Lending Act. This
rate cap has proven successful in cracking
down on usury and preventing predatory lend-
ing from trapping active-duty military families
in a cycle of debt.
We know that the Military Lending Act has
preserved access to credit while protecting
consumers from predatory payday lenders.
Some states have extended these proven pro-
tections to all their residents, but my constitu-
ents in Illinois remain vulnerable to payday
loans, debt collection, vehicle repossessions,
and more.
Veterans and consumers deserve the same
protections from vicious debt traps that active-
duty service members receive, and the Vet-
erans and Consumers Fair Credit Act will do
just that.
I encourage my colleagues to support this
bill.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF RODNEY
KROPF
HON. VICKY HARTZLER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Ozark Organic Feeds
and founder Rodney Kropf for the completion
of their new $13 million expansion project.
Rodney was able to use savings from the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act to expand his feed oper-
ation, investing an additional $10 million into
the new project.
As a poultry farmer for over 36 years, Rod-
ney knows a thing or two about hard work.
Ozark Organic Feeds was incorporated in Dal-
las County a little more than a decade ago.
Today the new 10,000 square foot facility in-
cludes four storage bins that hold over
700,000 bushels of grain.
Ozark Organic Feeds uses state-of-the-art
technology to produce precision organic ani-
mal feed blends for 2.5 million hens through-
out the United States. Output from their new
plant operations is now yielding 2,400 tons of
grain a week, enough to fill 100 to 110 semi-
trucks.
Madam Speaker, I congratulate Rodney
Kropf for his hard work and hope my col-
leagues will recognize that tax cuts lead to
economic growth.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF NAVAL
VETERAN, LT. HENRY ROSS
PEROT
HON. MARCY KAPTUR
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
during this week commemorating veterans in
memoriam of Lt. Henry ‘‘Ross’’ Perot, of
Texarcana, Texas.
When I learned of Ross Perot’s passing this
summer, I was saddened by the loss of a pas-
sionate and determined American patriot.
Ross Perot was a one of a kind American.
His swashbuckling, Texas vintage and ‘can do’
spirit was irrepressible. He lived the life he
chose full steam ahead. His life of service was
attributed to the love that he had for our great
nation, and for that of his fellow service mem-
bers who make the most honorable sacrifice
to serve in our armed forces. He exhibited
fierce loyalty to his family and friends, and his
love of our nation was encapsulated in his fa-
mous catchphrase, ‘‘It’s just that simple.’’ On
this Veteran’s Day, let us remember and
honor Ross’ military career as a Naval Officer,
and the thousands upon thousands of people
and institutions he helped throughout his life—
most often privately with no fanfare.
From a young age Ross strove for excel-
lence. At twelve years old he joined the Boy
Scouts of America, and within a year of joining
he achieved the rank of Eagle Scout. This is
the most prestigious title achieved by very few
young men who participate in the program,
which develops character and a strong foun-
dation toward a life in public service.
A proud and grateful graduate of the U.S.
Naval Academy at Annapolis, Class of 1949,
Ross served as a Lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy
for four years. While at the Academy, Ross
was elected Student Body President, and also
aided in the development of its honor system.
He was assigned to the destroyer USS
Sigourney (DD–643), and was then later reas-
signed to the aircraft carrier USS Leyte (CVS–
32).
Ross was also an agent of action and gave
tremendous support to veteran’s organizations
such as the Vietnam Prisoners of War, and
the Son Tay Raiders. He most notably advo-
cated for the hundreds of former war prisoners
left behind at the end of the Vietnam war. Ex-
hibiting the mantra of ‘‘no man left behind,’’
Ross fought to alleviate the afflictions of his
brothers and strove to provide them with bet-
ter nourishment and medical treatment. He
was truly a beacon of light at a time of utter
darkness for so many in the military.
A man of fierce determination, Ross lived
every day to its fullest. His candidacy in 1992
and 1996 for the presidency of the United
States created a thunderbolt in American poli-
tics. His founding of the Reform Party brought
new issues forward to the public—fair trade
was among them with his firm prediction that
NAFTA would create a great sucking sound of
U.S. jobs outsourced to penny wage nations.
That proved correct. Trade deficits with U.S.
trade partners have not been balanced since
and, on balance, have been increasingly larg-
er every year. He predicted the political thun-
derbolt this would spawn.
Though many pundits put forth highly critical
and piercing commentary regarding this busi-
nessman turned presidential candidate, Ross
Perot’s persistence drew attention to Amer-
ica’s diminishing industrial base and the risks
posed to the nation’s innate strength as to
growing U.S. government debt. By the year
2000, his drive had helped move the nation to
balance the annual budget and begin paying
down its long-term debt. That is, until 9/11. In
response to his critics who charged him with
being crazy, Ross’ answer was to jubilantly
dance across the stage with his wife Margot to
the great Patsy Cline’s love anthem ‘‘Crazy,’’
to the sheer delight and spontaneous ap-
plause of his audiences.
One cannot reflect on Ross’ life without
mentioning his astounding business prowess.
He established many business ventures and
cutting-edge firms such as founding the Elec-
tronic Data Systems (EDS), which became a
leader in record processing. He also invested
in Apple founder Steve Jobs’ NeXT computer
and software company, which helped shape
our current technological age. One of Ross’
most impressive ventures was his namesake,
Perot Systems. Perot Systems helped stream-
line record keeping for government, manufac-
turing, banking, insurance, and most notably
health records by digitization and automation.
Before being purchased by Dell, Perot grew
his business to be a Fortune 1000 company
with offices in over 25 countries, with more
than 23,000 employees, and annual revenue
of $2.8 billion.
His business successes gave way to his un-
wavering support of private gifts of health and
medical support to veterans and civilians,
many of whom were strangers. One such in-
stance was the National Medal of Honor Mu-
seum, a museum which he donated in an ef-
fort to highlight the sacrifice and bravery of
American Medal of Honor recipients. His con-
tributions to the University of Texas South-
western Medical Center surpassed $100 mil-
lion. Perot wanted this funding to be used for
the indigent and uninsured, or ill veterans and
armed services members. He also donated
$2.5 million in seed money to fund research
for returned veterans after the Gulf War suf-
fering from neurological symptoms.
As we remember the life of Ross Perot dur-
ing this Veteran’s Day week, we remember his
infectious laugh and how he was no one’s
fool. He will be deeply missed by his friends
and family. My thoughts and prayers are with
both the Perot and Birmingham families, his
wife Margot, their five children Ross Jr.,
Nancy, Suzanne, Carolyn, Katherine, and their
nineteen grandchildren. May his legacy of pa-
triotism and service live on. And may he be
granted eternal peace, though I suspect he is
already rearranging heaven’s accoutrements.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:48 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A12NO8.030 E12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1228
Tuesday, November 12, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
See Résumé of Congressional Activity.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6489–S6514
Measures Introduced: Eleven bills and three reso-
lutions were introduced, as follows: S. 2830–2840,
and S. Res. 417–419. Page S6507
Measures Reported:
S. 1877, to establish procedures and consequences
in the event of a failure to complete regular appro-
priations, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–158) Page S6507
Measures Passed:
National Law Enforcement Museum Commemo-
rative Coin Act: Senate passed H.R. 1865, to re-
quire the Secretary of the Treasury to mint a coin
in commemoration of the opening of the National
Law Enforcement Museum in the District of Colum-
bia, after agreeing to the following amendment pro-
posed thereto: Page S6512
Inhofe (for Blunt) Amendment No. 1244, to add
a provision relating to financial assurances.
Page S6512
Senate buildings charitable collection: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 419, permitting the collection of
clothing, toys, food, and housewares during the holi-
day season for charitable purposes in Senate build-
ings. Page S6512
ESSENTIAL NATIONAL SECURITY AU-
THORITIES ACT INDEFINITELY POST-
PONED—AGREEMENT: A unanimous-consent
agreement was reached providing that the Senate’s
action placing S. 2731, to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Department of Energy,
on the calendar be vitiated and the bill be consid-
ered introduced and held at the desk, on October
29, 2019, and then indefinitely postponed.
Page S6512
Messages from the President: Senate received the
following messages from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the continuation of the national emergency that was
originally declared in Executive Order 12938 of No-
vember 14, 1994, with respect to the proliferation
of weapons of mass destruction; which was referred
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs. (PM–36) Page S6506
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the continuation of the national emergency that was
originally declared in Executive Order 12170 of No-
vember 14, 1979, with respect to Iran; which was
referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs. (PM–37) Page S6507
WOLF NOMINATION—AGREEMENT: Senate
resumed consideration of the nomination of Chad F.
Wolf, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Strat-
egy, Policy, and Plans, Department of Homeland Se-
curity. Pages S6491–S6500
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 54 yeas to 40 nays (Vote No. EX. 353), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S6500
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Wednes-
day, November 13, 2019, with the post-cloture time
expiring at 11 a.m. Page S6512
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations: Routine lists in the Air Force,
Army, Marine Corps, and Navy. Page S6514
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S6507, S6512
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6507–09
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S6509–10
Additional Statements: Pages S6505–06
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12NO9.REC D12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1229
November 12, 2019
Amendments Submitted: Pages S6511–12
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—353) Page S6500
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 7:01 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Wednesday,
November 13, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the
remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S6512.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 26 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 5032–5057; 1 private bill, H.R.
5058; and 5 resolutions, H. Res. 688–692 were in-
troduced. Pages H8782–84
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H8785–86
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 3699, to codify the Transportation Security
Administration’s responsibility relating to securing
pipelines against cybersecurity threats, acts of ter-
rorism, and other nefarious acts that jeopardize the
physical security or cybersecurity of pipelines, and
for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–279);
H.R. 1615, to transfer the responsibility of
verifying small business concerns owned and con-
trolled by veterans or service-disabled veterans to the
Small Business Administration, and for other pur-
poses, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–280, Part
1);
H.R. 3224, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to provide for increased access to Department
of Veterans Affairs medical care for women veterans,
with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–281); and
H.R. 3141, to limit the collection of annual pre-
miums under the FHA program for mortgage insur-
ance for single family housing, and for other pur-
poses, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–282).
Page H8782
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Butterfield to act as Speak-
er pro tempore for today. Page H8745
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H8745, H8775
Recess: The House recessed at 2:05 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4:05 p.m. Pages H8745–46
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Protect the GI Bill Act: H.R. 4625, amended, to
amend title 38, United States Code, to require that
educational institutions abide by certain principles as
a condition of approval for purposes of the edu-
cational assistance programs of the Department of
Veterans Affairs; Pages H8746–51
Reducing High Risk to Veterans and Veterans
Services Act: H.R. 4477, amended, to direct the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress a
plan to address certain high risk areas identified by
the Comptroller General of the United States regard-
ing the Department of Veterans Affairs in the 2019
High-Risk List of the Government Accountability
Office; Pages H8751–53
VA Tele-Hearing Modernization Act: H.R.
4771, amended, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to permit appellants to appear in disability
compensation cases before the Board of Veterans’
Appeals by picture and voice transmission from loca-
tions other than facilities of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs; Pages H8753–55
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To
amend title 38, United States Code, to permit appel-
lants to appear in cases before the Board of Veterans’
Appeals by picture and voice transmission from loca-
tions other than facilities of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, and for other purposes.’’; Page H8755
VA Overpayment Accountability Act: H.R.
4360, to amend title 38, United States Code, to im-
prove the due process accorded veterans with respect
to recovery of overpayments made by the Depart-
ment and other amounts owed by veterans to the
United States, to improve the processing of veterans
benefits by the Department of Veterans Affairs;
Pages H8755–57
Protecting Families of Fallen Servicemembers
Act: H.R. 4356, amended, to amend the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12NO9.REC D12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1230 November 12, 2019
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to allow certain in-
dividuals to terminate contracts for telephone, multi-
channel video programming, or internet access serv-
ice; Pages H8757–58
GI Bill Planning Act of 2019: H.R. 4162,
amended, to amend title 38, United States Code, to
extend the period under which an election must be
made for entitlement to educational assistance under
the All-Volunteer Educational Assistance Program of
Department of Veterans Affairs, to phase out the use
of such program, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 408
yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 610;
Pages H8758–60, H8774
VA Design-Build Construction Enhancement
Act of 2019: H.R. 3996, to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for certain requirements re-
lating to the use of the design-build construction
method for Department of Veterans Affairs construc-
tion projects; Pages H8760–61
Fallen Warrior Battlefield Cross Memorial Act:
H.R. 1424, to amend title 38, United States Code,
to ensure the Secretary of Veterans Affairs permits
the display of Fallen Soldier Displays in national
cemeteries; and Pages H8761–63
Amending title 38, United States Code, to pro-
vide for increased access to Department of Veterans
Affairs medical care for women veterans: H.R.
3224, amended, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to provide for increased access to Department
of Veterans Affairs medical care for women veterans,
by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 399 yeas to 11 nays,
Roll No. 611. Pages H8763–73, H8774–75
Presidential Messages: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that the na-
tional emergency with respect to Iran that was de-
clared in Executive Order 12170 of November 14,
1979 is to continue in effect beyond November 14,
2019—referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed (H. Doc. 116–79).
Pages H8773–74
Read a message from the President wherein he no-
tified Congress that the national emergency with re-
spect to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruc-
tion that was declared in Executive Order 12938 of
November 14, 1994 is to continue in effect beyond
November 14, 2019—referred to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs and ordered to be printed (H. Doc.
116–80). Page H8774
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H8774 and H8774–75. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 2 p.m. and ad-
journed at 8:07 p.m.
Committee Meetings
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on House Administration: Full Committee
held a markup on H.R. 1980, a bill to establish in
the Smithsonian Institution a comprehensive wom-
en’s history museum, and for other purposes. H.R.
1980 was ordered reported, as amended.
UNITED STATES EXPORT FINANCE
AGENCY ACT OF 2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee began a hearing
on H.R. 4863, the ‘‘United States Export Finance
Agency Act of 2019’’. Testimony was heard from
Chairman Waters, and Representatives Stivers and
Lucas.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D1206)
S. 693, to amend title 36, United States Code, to
require that the POW/MIA flag be displayed on all
days that the flag of the United States is displayed
on certain Federal property. Signed on November 7,
2019. (Public Law 116–67)
H.R. 1396, to award Congressional Gold Medals
to Katherine Johnson and Dr. Christine Darden, to
posthumously award Congressional Gold Medals to
Dorothy Vaughan and Mary Jackson, and to award
a Congressional Gold Medal to honor all of the
women who contributed to the success of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration during
the Space Race. Signed on November 8, 2019. (Pub-
lic Law 116–68)
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 13, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: busi-
ness meeting to consider S. 10, to require the Inter-Agen-
cy Task Force on Harmful Algal Blooms and Hypoxia to
develop a plan for reducing, mitigating, and controlling
harmful algal blooms and hypoxia in South Florida, S.
481, to encourage States to require the installation of res-
idential carbon monoxide detectors in homes, S. 999, to
provide for Federal coordination of activities supporting
sustainable chemistry, S. 1069, to require the Secretary of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12NO9.REC D12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1231
November 12, 2019
Commerce, acting through the Administrator of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, to estab-
lish a constituent-driven program to provide a digital in-
formation platform capable of efficiently integrating
coastal data with decision-support tools, training, and
best practices and to support collection of priority coastal
geospatial data to inform and improve local, State, re-
gional, and Federal capacities to manage the coastal re-
gion, S. 1640, to require compliant flame mitigation de-
vices to be used on portable fuel containers for flammable
liquid fuels, S. 1982, to improve efforts to combat marine
debris, S. 2330, to amend the Ted Stevens Olympic and
Amateur Sports Act to provide for congressional oversight
of the board of directors of the United States Olympic
and Paralympic Committee and to protect amateur ath-
letes from emotional, physical, and sexual abuse, S. 2346,
to improve the Fishery Resource Disaster Relief program
of the National Marine Fisheries Service, S. 2429, to re-
authorize the Coral Reef Conservation Act of 2000 and
to establish the United States Coral Reef Task Force, S.
2453, to assist in the conservation of the North Atlantic
right whale by supporting and providing financial re-
sources for North Atlantic right whale conservation pro-
grams and projects of persons with expertise required for
the conservation of North Atlantic right whales, S. 2472,
to redesignate the NASA John H. Glenn Research Center
at Plum Brook Station, Ohio, as the NASA John H.
Glenn Research Center at the Neil A. Armstrong Test
Facility, S. 2525, to require the Director of the National
Institute of Standards and Technology to conduct a study
of personal protective equipment worn by firefighters to
determine the prevalence and concentration of per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances, S. 2535, to require the Sec-
retary of Commerce to conduct an assessment and analysis
relating to the decline in the business formation rate in
the United States, S. 2597, to require the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration to make certain
operational models available to the public, S. 2693, to
improve oversight by the Federal Communications Com-
mission of the wireless and broadcast emergency alert sys-
tems, S. 2775, to improve the cyber workforce of the
United States, S. 2782, to improve provisions of law re-
lating to sexual harassment and assault prevention at the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, S.
2789, to amend the Communications Act of 1934 and
title 17, United States Code, to extend expiring provi-
sions relating to the retransmission of signals of television
broadcast stations, S. 2800, to authorize programs of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, S. 2802,
to amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 to
reauthorize and modify the John H. Prescott Marine
Mammal Rescue and Response Grant Program, S. 2805,
to improve transit-oriented development financing, H.R.
3153, to direct the Director of the National Science
Foundation to support research on opioid addiction, an
original bill entitled, ‘‘Marine Mammal Research and Re-
sponse Act of 2019’’, the nominations of Ian Paul Steff,
of Indiana, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and
Director General of the United States and Foreign Com-
mercial Service, Michael Graham, of Kansas, to be a
Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for
a term expiring December 31, 2020, and to be a Member
of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term
expiring December 31, 2025, Carl Whitney Bentzel, of
Maryland, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner, Theo-
dore Rokita, of Indiana, to be a Director of the Amtrak
Board of Directors, and routine lists in the Coast Guard,
10 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine preserving and expanding clean, reliable
nuclear power, focusing on United States commercial nu-
clear reactor performance trends and safety initiatives, 10
a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: to
hold hearings to examine the response to lung illnesses
and rising youth electronic cigarette use, 10 a.m.,
SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
to hold hearings to examine unprecedented migration at
the United States southern border, focusing on the year
in review, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Stanley Blumenfeld, and Mark C.
Scarsi, both to be a United States District Judge for the
Central District of California, Grace Karaffa Obermann,
of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, and Stephen
A. Vaden, of Tennessee, to be a Judge of the United
States Court of International Trade, 10 a.m., SD–226.
House
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Readi-
ness; and Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces,
joint hearing entitled ‘‘F–35 Program Update:
Sustainment, Production, and Affordability Challenges’’,
10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Health, markup on H.R. 2339, the ‘‘Reversing the Youth
Tobacco Epidemic Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4995, the ‘‘Mater-
nal Health Quality Improvement Act of 2019’’; H.R.
4996, the ‘‘Helping Medicaid Offer Maternity Services
Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 2387, the ‘‘STOP GAMES Act
of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Subcommittee on Na-
tional Security, International Development, and Monetary
Policy, hearing entitled ‘‘How America Leads Abroad: An
Examination of Multilateral Development Institutions’’,
10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
November 13, Full Committee, markup on H.R. 2445,
the ‘‘Self-Employed Mortgage Act’’; H.R. 3490, the
‘‘Small Business Lending Fairness Act’’; H.R. 3948, the
‘‘Debt Collection Practices Harmonization Act’’; H.R.
4403, the ‘‘Stop Debt Collection Abuse Act’’; H.R. 5021,
the ‘‘Ending Debt Collection Harassment Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 2398, to amend the United States Housing Act of
1937 and title 38, United States Code, to expand eligi-
bility for the HUD–VASH program, to direct the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to submit annual reports to the
Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House
of Representatives regarding homeless veterans, and for
other purposes; H.R. 5003, the ‘‘Fair Debt Collection
Practices for Servicemembers Act’’; H.R. 5001, the ‘‘Non-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12NO9.REC D12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1232 November 12, 2019
Judicial Foreclosure Debt Collection Clarification Act’’;
and H.R. 5013, the ‘‘Small Business Fair Debt Collection
Protection Act’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Europe,
Eurasia, Energy, and the Environment, hearing entitled
‘‘Democracy and the NATO Alliance: Upholding our
Shared Democratic Values’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, markup on
H.J. Res. 79, removing the deadline for the ratification
of the equal rights amendment, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial, and Admin-
istrative Law, hearing entitled ‘‘Online Platforms and
Market Power, Part 4: Perspectives of the Antitrust
Agencies’’, 2 p.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee for Indig-
enous Peoples of the United States, hearing on H.R.
4957, the ‘‘Native American Child Protection Act’’, 10
a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public
Lands, hearing entitled ‘‘Roads to Ruin: Examining the
Impacts of Removing National Forest Roadless Protec-
tions’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, continue hearing
on H.R. 4863, the ‘‘United States Export Finance Agency
Act of 2019’’, 3 p.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Strengthening Transparency or
Silencing Science? The Future of Science in EPA Rule-
making’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Keeping Our Sights on Mars Part 2: Structuring a
Moon-Mars Program for Success’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Upskilling the Medical Workforce: Opportuni-
ties in Health Innovation’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Mate-
rials, hearing entitled ‘‘Amtrak Now and Into the Fu-
ture’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public
Buildings, and Emergency Management, hearing entitled
‘‘Review of Smithsonian Institution Current Facilities and
Future Space Needs’’, 2 p.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Hijacking our Heroes: Exploiting Veterans
through Disinformation on Social Media’’, 2 p.m.,
HVC–210.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Impeachment Inquiry: Ambas-
sador William B. Taylor and Mr. George Kent’’, 10 a.m.,
1100 Longworth.
Joint Meetings
Joint Economic Committee: to hold hearings to examine
the economic outlook, 11 a.m., SH–216.
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of November 13 through November 15,
2019
Senate Chamber
On Wednesday, Senate will continue consideration
of the nomination of Chad F. Wolf, of Virginia, to
be Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans,
Department of Homeland Security, post-cloture, and
vote on confirmation of the nomination at 11 a.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Chad
F. Wolf, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the nomination of Steven J. Menashi, of
New York, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Second Circuit.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: No-
vember 13, business meeting to consider S. 10, to require
the Inter-Agency Task Force on Harmful Algal Blooms
and Hypoxia to develop a plan for reducing, mitigating,
and controlling harmful algal blooms and hypoxia in
South Florida, S. 481, to encourage States to require the
installation of residential carbon monoxide detectors in
homes, S. 999, to provide for Federal coordination of ac-
tivities supporting sustainable chemistry, S. 1069, to re-
quire the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Ad-
ministrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration, to establish a constituent-driven program to
provide a digital information platform capable of effi-
ciently integrating coastal data with decision-support
tools, training, and best practices and to support collec-
tion of priority coastal geospatial data to inform and im-
prove local, State, regional, and Federal capacities to man-
age the coastal region, S. 1640, to require compliant
flame mitigation devices to be used on portable fuel con-
tainers for flammable liquid fuels, S. 1982, to improve ef-
forts to combat marine debris, S. 2330, to amend the Ted
Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act to provide for
congressional oversight of the board of directors of the
United States Olympic and Paralympic Committee and to
protect amateur athletes from emotional, physical, and
sexual abuse, S. 2346, to improve the Fishery Resource
Disaster Relief program of the National Marine Fisheries
Service, S. 2429, to reauthorize the Coral Reef Conserva-
tion Act of 2000 and to establish the United States Coral
Reef Task Force, S. 2453, to assist in the conservation of
the North Atlantic right whale by supporting and pro-
viding financial resources for North Atlantic right whale
conservation programs and projects of persons with exper-
tise required for the conservation of North Atlantic right
whales, S. 2472, to redesignate the NASA John H. Glenn
Research Center at Plum Brook Station, Ohio, as the
NASA John H. Glenn Research Center at the Neil A.
Armstrong Test Facility, S. 2525, to require the Director
of the National Institute of Standards and Technology to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12NO9.REC D12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1233
November 12, 2019
conduct a study of personal protective equipment worn
by firefighters to determine the prevalence and concentra-
tion of per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances, S. 2535, to re-
quire the Secretary of Commerce to conduct an assess-
ment and analysis relating to the decline in the business
formation rate in the United States, S. 2597, to require
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to
make certain operational models available to the public,
S. 2693, to improve oversight by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission of the wireless and broadcast emer-
gency alert systems, S. 2775, to improve the cyber work-
force of the United States, S. 2782, to improve provisions
of law relating to sexual harassment and assault preven-
tion at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, S. 2789, to amend the Communications Act of
1934 and title 17, United States Code, to extend expiring
provisions relating to the retransmission of signals of tele-
vision broadcast stations, S. 2800, to authorize programs
of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, S.
2802, to amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act of
1972 to reauthorize and modify the John H. Prescott Ma-
rine Mammal Rescue and Response Grant Program, S.
2805, to improve transit-oriented development financing,
H.R. 3153, to direct the Director of the National Science
Foundation to support research on opioid addiction, an
original bill entitled, ‘‘Marine Mammal Research and Re-
sponse Act of 2019’’, the nominations of Ian Paul Steff,
of Indiana, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce and
Director General of the United States and Foreign Com-
mercial Service, Michael Graham, of Kansas, to be a
Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for
a term expiring December 31, 2020, and to be a Member
of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term
expiring December 31, 2025, Carl Whitney Bentzel, of
Maryland, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner, Theo-
dore Rokita, of Indiana, to be a Director of the Amtrak
Board of Directors, and routine lists in the Coast Guard,
10 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: November
14, to hold hearings to examine the nomination of Dan
R. Brouillette, of Texas, to be Secretary of Energy, 10:30
a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: November
13, to hold hearings to examine preserving and expand-
ing clean, reliable nuclear power, focusing on United
States commercial nuclear reactor performance trends and
safety initiatives, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: No-
vember 13, to hold hearings to examine the response to
lung illnesses and rising youth electronic cigarette use, 10
a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
November 13, to hold hearings to examine unprecedented
migration at the United States southern border, focusing
on the year in review, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
November 14, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the nomination of Peter Gaynor, of Rhode Island,
to be Administrator of the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, Department of Homeland Security, 9:30
a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: November 13, to hold hear-
ings to examine the nominations of Stanley Blumenfeld,
and Mark C. Scarsi, both to be a United States District
Judge for the Central District of California, Grace Karaffa
Obermann, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United
States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years,
and Stephen A. Vaden, of Tennessee, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of International Trade, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
November 14, Full Committee, business meeting to
consider the nominations of Patrick J. Bumatay, of Cali-
fornia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, Lawrence VanDyke, of Nevada, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Philip M.
Halpern, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of New York, Bernard Maurice Jones
II, to be United States District Judge for the Western
District of Oklahoma, and Barbara Bailey Jongbloed, to
be United States District Judge for the District of Con-
necticut, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Rules and Administration: November 14, to
hold an oversight hearing to examine the Smithsonian In-
stitution; to be immediately followed by a hearing to ex-
amine the nomination of Hugh Nathanial Halpern, of
Virginia, to be Director of the Government Publishing
Office, 10 a.m., SR–301.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Novem-
ber 14, to hold hearings to examine noncompete agree-
ments and American workers, 10 a.m., SR–428A.
Select Committee on Intelligence: November 14, to received
a closed briefing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m.,
SH–219.
House Committees
Committee on Agriculture, November 14, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Safeguarding American Agri-
culture from Wild, Invasive, and Non-Native Species’’,
10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Appropriations, November 14, Sub-
committee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs,
and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Office of Ac-
countability and Whistleblower Protection’s Failures at
VA’’, 10 a.m., 2362–A Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, November 14, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘The Economic Outlook: The View from
the Federal Reserve’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, November 14, Sub-
committee on Consumer Protection and Commerce,
markup on H.R. 3851, the ‘‘Travel Promotion, Enhance-
ment, and Modernization Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 4779,
to extend the Undertaking Spam, Spyware, And Fraud
Enforcement With Enforcers beyond Borders Act of
2006, and for other purposes, 9:30 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, November 14, Sub-
committee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human
Rights, and International Organizations, hearing entitled
‘‘The U.S. Policy in the Sahel Region’’, 2 p.m., 2172
Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12NO9.REC D12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1234 November 12, 2019
Committee on the Judiciary, November 14, Subcommittee
on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, hearing en-
titled ‘‘The Administration of Bail by State and Federal
Courts: A Call for Reform’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
November 14, Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual
Property, and the Internet, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining
the Use of ‘‘Snap’’ Removals to Circumvent the Forum
Defendant Rule’’, 2 p.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, November 14, Sub-
committee on Energy and Mineral Resources, hearing on
H.R. 4248, the ‘‘Surface Mining Control and Reclama-
tion Act Amendments of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Long-
worth.
November 14, Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and
Wildlife, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of NOAA’s Report
on Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing’’, 2
p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, November 14, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining State Efforts to
Undermine Access to Reproductive Health Care’’, 2 p.m.,
2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, November 14,
Full Committee, markup on H.R. 4979, the ‘‘Rural
STEM Education Act’’; H.R. 4704, the ‘‘Advancing Re-
search to Prevent Suicide Act’’; and H.R. 4990, the
‘‘Election Technology Research Act’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Ray-
burn.
November 14, Subcommittee on Energy, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Water and Geothermal Power: Unearthing the Next
Wave of Energy Innovation’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, November 14, Sub-
committee on Rural Development, Agriculture, Trade,
and Entrepreneurship, hearing entitled ‘‘Assessing the
Government’s Role in Serving Rural American Small
Businesses (Part One)’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
November 14, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘A
Fair Playing Field? Investigating Big Tech’s Impact on
Small Business’’, 1 p.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, November
14, Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Trans-
portation, hearing entitled ‘‘Commercial and Passenger
Vessel Safety: Challenges and Opportunities’’, 2 p.m.,
2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, November 14, Sub-
committee on Technology Modernization, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Cybersecurity Challenges and Cyber Risk Manage-
ment at the Department of Veterans Affairs’’, 10 a.m.,
HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, November 14, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Caring for Aging Americans’’,
10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, November 15,
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Impeachment Inquiry:
Ambassador Marie ‘‘Masha’’ Yovanovitch’’, 9 a.m., 1100
Longworth.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, November 14, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 1:30 p.m.,
1300 Longworth.
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, Novem-
ber 15, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Administrative
Efficiencies: Exploring Options to Streamline Operations
in the U.S. House of Representatives’’, 9:30 a.m., 210
Cannon.
Joint Meetings
Joint Economic Committee: November 13, to hold hear-
ings to examine the economic outlook, 11 a.m., SH–216.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D12NO9.REC D12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1235
November 12, 2019
* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accom-
panying report. A total of 156 written reports have been filed in the Senate,
267 reports have been filed in the House.
Résumé of Congressional Activity
FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS
The first table gives a comprehensive résumé of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House.
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation.
DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
January 3 through October 31, 2019
Senate House Total
Days in session .................................... 155 159 . .
Time in session ................................... 799 hrs., 39′ 655 hrs, 18′ . .
Congressional Record:
Pages of proceedings ................... 6,362 8,721 . .
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 1,390 . .
Public bills enacted into law ............... 20 46 66
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . .
Bills in conference ............................... 1 1 . .
Measures passed, total ......................... 403 522 925
Senate bills .................................. 76 22 . .
House bills .................................. 49 350 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... 24 5 . .
House joint resolutions ............... 4 8 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 12 5 . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... 8 11 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 230 121 . .
Measures reported, total ...................... *230 258 488
Senate bills .................................. 169 . . . .
House bills .................................. 19 208 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . .
House joint resolutions ............... . . 1 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 3 . . . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 2 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 39 47 . .
Special reports ..................................... 20 8 . .
Conference reports ............................... 1 1 . .
Measures pending on calendar ............. 196 69 . .
Measures introduced, total .................. 3,261 5,785 9,046
Bills ............................................. 2,769 4,961 . .
Joint resolutions .......................... 59 78 . .
Concurrent resolutions ................ 28 71 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 405 675 . .
Quorum calls ....................................... 2 1 . .
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 342 271 . .
Recorded votes .................................... . . 337 . .
Bills vetoed ......................................... 5 1 . .
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . .
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS
January 3 through October 31, 2019
Civilian nominees, totaling 508, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 274
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 215
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 19
Other Civilian nominees, totaling 1,258, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 987
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 270
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 1
Air Force nominees, totaling 5,851, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 5,684
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 167
Army nominees, totaling 6,560, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 6,536
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 24
Navy nominees, totaling 4,615, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 4,609
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 6
Marine Corps nominees, totaling 1,430, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,427
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 3
Summary
Total nominees carried over from the First Session ............................... 0
Total nominees received this Session ..................................................... 20,222
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 19,517
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 685
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 20
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0667 Sfmt 0667 E:\CR\FM\D12NO9.REC D12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1236 November 12, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Wednesday, November 13
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Chad F. Wolf, of Virginia, to
be Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans, De-
partment of Homeland Security, post-cloture, and vote on
confirmation of the nomination at 11 a.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Chad F.
Wolf, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke cloture
on the nomination of Steven J. Menashi, of New York,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, November 13
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of measures
under suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga., E1415
Cook, Paul, Calif., E1425
Costa, Jim, Calif., E1416, E1420, E1421, E1423, E1424,
E1425, E1428
Cuellar, Henry, Tex., E1423
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E1420
Garamendi, John, Calif., E1417, E1421, E1426
Garcı́a, Jesús G. ‘‘Chuy’’, Ill., E1429
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E1424
Hartzler, Vicky, Mo., E1429
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E1420
Higgins, Brian, N.Y., E1428
Joyce, John, Pa., E1425
Kaptur, Marcy, Ohio, E1429
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E1415, E1419
Murphy, Gregory F., N.C., E1419, E1421, E1424, E1428
Norcross, Donald, N.J., E1415
Pence, Greg, Ind., E1415
Rouda, Harley, Calif. E1416
Shalala, Donna E., Fla., E1419
Shimkus, John, Ill., E1423
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E1415, E1417, E1424
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E1425
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Nov 13, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D12NO9.REC D12NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
