Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 115th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H7639
Vol. 164 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JULY 25, 2018 No. 125—Book II
House of Representatives
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 5957
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
be removed as a cosponsor of H.R. 5957.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Louisiana?
There was no objection.
f
EXTENDING DEADLINE FOR PRO-
MULGATION OF REGULATIONS
UNDER TRIBAL TRANSPOR-
TATION SELF-GOVERNANCE PRO-
GRAM
Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 6414) to amend title 23,
United States Code, to extend the dead-
line for promulgation of regulations
under the tribal transportation self-
governance program.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 6414
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF DEADLINE FOR PRO-
MULGATION OF REGULATIONS
UNDER TRIBAL TRANSPORTATION
SELF-GOVERNANCE PROGRAM.
Section 207(n)(1) of title 23, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (B) by striking ‘‘21
months’’ and inserting ‘‘42 months’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (C) by striking ‘‘30
months’’ and inserting ‘‘48 months’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Alaska (Mr. YOUNG) and the gentleman
from Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO) each will
control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Alaska.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous material on H.R. 6414.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Alaska?
There was no objection.
Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
6414.
I thank Chairman SHUSTER and
Ranking Member DEFAZIO for includ-
ing the Tribal Transportation Self-
Governance Program in the FAST Act.
The FAST Act requires the Depart-
ment of Transportation to use a nego-
tiated rulemaking process to establish
the regulations to implement the pro-
gram. It also set deadlines for the
issuance of the regulations.
H.R. 6414 would extend these dead-
lines. This bill would ensure that there
is an opportunity for a true negotiated
rulemaking process that is not one-
sided and that respects Tribal self-de-
termination.
Without this extension, I am con-
cerned that the Department will move
forward with implementing the pro-
gram in a way that is not helpful to
the Tribes of America. This would un-
dermine the intent of the previous
FAST Act and would lead to a lack of
Tribal participation in the program.
I thank the Sitka Tribe of Alaska for
their leadership and work on this pro-
gram and issue, and I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 6414.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, if you look at how
transportation funds are administered
to the Tribes, first off, it is a pathetic
and inadequate amount of money,
given the infrastructure problems that
the Tribes have. But then, that is true
of infrastructure, writ large, across the
United States of America.
Secondly, we think it was 1860 or
1870, the Tribes do not directly receive
these funds. There are various Federal
agencies involved, and sometimes
State agencies involved, in the dis-
bursal of those funds and the approval
of the projects under those funds.
b 1430
This legislation was part of the
FAST Act, which would give Tribal
self-governance. They would be able to
administer their own funds without
anybody taking off administrative
costs, without bureaucratic delay, and
set their own priorities on their own
lands. I sponsored this into the FAST
Act. It was unanimously accepted at
the time.
Now, we thought, when we passed the
FAST Act that 3 years would be long
enough for the Department of Trans-
portation to consult with the Tribes.
We set up a committee to come to con-
sensus on the rules for self-governance.
Well, unfortunately, it was slowed
down because of the Presidential elec-
tion. After the Presidential election,
this committee did not meet for the en-
tire year of 2017. And then, this year,
essentially, DOT had some meetings,
but then presented sort of a take-it-or-
leave-it to the Tribes, which the Tribes
find unacceptable.
Now, unfortunately, the Tribes can’t
prolong the negotiations unless we
change the law, because the law set a
deadline of December 2018. And because
of the way that bureaucratic rule-
making process works, DOT would
have to put out their rule in August
while we are out of town and without
having reached any consensus or hav-
ing had any meaningful conversation
with the Tribes under the rules for
which they should be able to admin-
ister their own funds for their own
projects.
So this bill is quite simple. It extends
the deadline so that DOT won’t rush
out a rule that is opposed by the
Tribes, which, obviously, destroys the
entire intent of this legislation. This
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.059 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7640 July 25, 2018
would provide an additional year. And,
hopefully, with some prodding, and
maybe a different Congress next year,
we can get DOT’s attention and get
them to meaningfully consult with the
sovereign nations, with the Tribes, to
come up with a bill that is agreed to
both by the Department of Transpor-
tation and the Tribes.
Mr. Speaker, this is quite simple. It
has broad bipartisan support. I am not
aware of any opposition. I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘aye’’ on this legisla-
tion, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I
have no other speakers, and I yield
back the balance of my time
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Alaska (Mr.
YOUNG) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 6414.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SAVE OUR SEAS ACT OF 2018
Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (S. 756) to reauthorize and amend
the Marine Debris Act to promote
international action to reduce marine
debris, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 756
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
TITLE I—MARINE DEBRIS
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Save Our
Seas Act of 2018’’.
SEC. 102. NOAA MARINE DEBRIS PROGRAM.
Section 3 of the Marine Debris Act (33
U.S.C. 1952) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a semicolon;
(B) in paragraph (5)(C), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting a semicolon;
and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) work to develop outreach and edu-
cation strategies with other Federal agencies
to address sources of marine debris;
‘‘(7) except for discharges of marine debris
from vessels, in consultation with the De-
partment of State and other Federal agen-
cies, promote international action, as appro-
priate, to reduce the incidence of marine de-
bris, including providing technical assist-
ance to expand waste management systems
internationally; and
‘‘(8) in the case of an event determined to
be a severe marine debris event under sub-
section (c)—
‘‘(A) assist in the cleanup and response re-
quired by the severe marine debris event; or
‘‘(B) conduct such other activity as the Ad-
ministrator determines is appropriate in re-
sponse to the severe marine debris event.’’;
(2) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub-
section (d);
(3) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(c) DETERMINATION OF SEVERE MARINE DE-
BRIS EVENTS.—At the discretion of the Ad-
ministrator or at the request of the Gov-
ernor of an affected State, the Administrator
shall determine whether there is a severe
marine debris event.’’; and
(4) in subsection (d), as so redesignated—
(A) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘sub-
paragraph (B)’’ and inserting ‘‘subparagraphs
(B) and (C)’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ‘‘may
waive all or part of the matching require-
ment under subparagraph (A)’’ and inserting
‘‘may reduce the non-Federal share of
project costs under subparagraph (A) by up
to 50 percent’’; and
(C) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)
the following:
‘‘(C) SEVERE MARINE DEBRIS EVENTS.—Not-
withstanding subparagraph (A), the Federal
share of the cost of an activity carried out
under a determination made under sub-
section (c) shall be—
‘‘(i) 100 percent of the cost of the activity,
for an activity funded wholly by funds made
available by a person, including the govern-
ment of a foreign country, to the Federal
Government for the purpose of responding to
a severe marine debris event; or
‘‘(ii) 75 percent of the cost of the activity,
for any activity other than an activity fund-
ed as described in clause (i).’’.
SEC. 103. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON INTER-
NATIONAL ENGAGEMENT TO RE-
SPOND TO MARINE DEBRIS.
It is the sense of Congress that the Presi-
dent should—
(1) support research and development on
systems and materials that reduce—
(A) derelict fishing gear; and
(B) the amount of solid waste that is gen-
erated from land-based sources and the
amount of such waste that enters the marine
environment;
(2) work with representatives of foreign
countries that discharge the largest amounts
of solid waste from land-based sources into
the marine environment, to develop mecha-
nisms to reduce such discharges;
(3) carry out studies to determine—
(A) the primary means of discharges re-
ferred to in paragraph (2);
(B) the manner in which waste manage-
ment infrastructure can be most effective in
preventing such discharges; and
(C) the long-term impacts of marine debris
on the national economies of the countries
with which work is undertaken under para-
graph (2) and on the global economy, includ-
ing the impacts of reducing the discharge of
such debris;
(4) work with representatives of the coun-
tries with which work is undertaken in para-
graph (2) to conclude one or more new inter-
national agreements that include provi-
sions—
(A) to mitigate the discharge of land-based
solid waste into the marine environment;
and
(B) to provide technical assistance and in-
vestment in waste management infrastruc-
ture to reduce such discharges, if the Presi-
dent determines such assistance or invest-
ment is appropriate; and
(5) encourage the United States Trade Rep-
resentative to consider the impact of dis-
charges of land-based solid waste from the
countries with which work is conducted
under paragraph (2) in relevant future trade
agreements.
SEC. 104. MEMBERSHIP OF THE INTERAGENCY
MARINE DEBRIS COORDINATING
COMMITTEE.
Section 5(b) of the Marine Debris Act (33
U.S.C. 1954(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
(2) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (7); and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(5) the Department of State;
‘‘(6) the Department of the Interior; and’’.
SEC. 105. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 9 of the Marine Debris Act (33
U.S.C. 1958) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to the Administrator
$10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018
through 2022 for carrying out sections 3, 5,
and 6, of which not more than 5 percent is
authorized for each fiscal year for adminis-
trative costs.
‘‘(b) AMOUNTS AUTHORIZED FOR COAST
GUARD.—Of the amounts authorized for each
fiscal year under section 2702(1) of title 14,
United States Code, up to $2,000,000 is au-
thorized for the Secretary of the department
in which the Coast Guard is operating for use
by the Commandant of the Coast Guard to
carry out section 4 of this Act, of which not
more than 5 percent is authorized for each
fiscal year for administrative costs.’’.
TITLE II—MARITIME SAFETY
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Maritime
Safety Act of 2018’’.
SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) COMMANDANT.—The term ‘‘Com-
mandant’’ means the Commandant of the
Coast Guard.
(2) RECOGNIZED ORGANIZATION.—The term
‘‘recognized organization’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 2.45–1 of title 46,
Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act.
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the department in
which the Coast Guard is operating.
SEC. 203. DOMESTIC VESSEL COMPLIANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date on which the President sub-
mits to the Congress a budget each year pur-
suant to section 1105 of title 31, United
States Code, the Commandant shall publish
on a publicly accessible Website information
documenting domestic vessel compliance
with the requirements of subtitle II of title
46, United States Code.
(b) CONTENT.—The information required
under subsection (a) shall—
(1) include flag-State detention rates for
each type of inspected vessel; and
(2) identify any recognized organization
that inspected or surveyed a vessel that was
later subject to a Coast Guard-issued control
action attributable to a major noncon-
formity that the recognized organization
failed to identify in such inspection or sur-
vey.
SEC. 204. SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
of the United States shall conduct an audit
regarding the implementation and effective-
ness of safety management plans required
under chapter 32 of title 46, United States
Code.
(b) SCOPE.—The audit conducted under sub-
section (a) shall include a representative
sample of safety management plans, includ-
ing such plans for—
(1) a range of vessel types and sizes; and
(2) vessels that operate in a cross-section
of regional operating areas.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General shall submit to Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:56 Oct 17, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD18\JULY\H25JY8.PT2 H25JY8
abonner
on
DSKBCJ7HB2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7641
July 25, 2018
Transportation of the Senate a report detail-
ing the results of the audit and providing
recommendations related to such results, in-
cluding ways to streamline and focus such
plans on ship safety.
(2) MARINE SAFETY ALERT.—Not later than
60 days after the date the report is submitted
under paragraph (1), the Commandant shall
publish a Marine Safety Alert providing no-
tification of the completion of the report and
including a link to the report on a publicly
accessible website.
SEC. 205. EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
(a) REGULATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 3306 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(l)(1) The Secretary shall require that a
freight vessel inspected under this chapter be
outfitted with distress signaling and location
technology for the higher of—
‘‘(A) the minimum complement of officers
and crew specified on the certificate of in-
spection for such vessel; or
‘‘(B) the number of persons onboard the
vessel; and
‘‘(2) the requirement described in para-
graph (1) shall not apply to vessels operating
within the baseline from which the terri-
torial sea of the United States is measured.
‘‘(m)(1) The Secretary shall promulgate
regulations requiring companies to maintain
records of all incremental weight changes
made to freight vessels inspected under this
chapter, and to track weight changes over
time to facilitate rapid determination of the
aggregate total.
‘‘(2) Records maintained under paragraph
(1) shall be stored, in paper or electronic
form, onboard such vessels for not less than
3 years and shoreside for the life of the ves-
sel.’’.
(2) DEADLINES.—The Secretary shall—
(A) begin implementing the requirement
under section 3306(l) of title 46, United States
Code, as amended by this subsection, by not
later than 1 year after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act; and
(B) promulgate the regulations required
under section 3306(m) of title 46, United
States Code, as amended by this subsection,
by not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
(b) ENGAGEMENT.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commandant shall seek to enter into ne-
gotiations through the International Mari-
time Organization to amend regulation 25 of
chapter II–1 of the International Convention
for the Safety of Life at Sea to require a
high-water alarm sensor in each cargo hold
of a freight vessel (as that term is defined in
section 2101(13) of title 46, United States
Code), that connects with audible and visual
alarms on the navigation bridge of the ves-
sel.
SEC. 206. VOYAGE DATA RECORDER; ACCESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 63 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 6309. Voyage data recorder access
‘‘Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the Coast Guard shall have full and
timely access to and ability to use voyage
data recorder data and audio held by any
Federal agency in all marine casualty inves-
tigations, regardless of which agency is the
investigative lead.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The analysis
for such chapter is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘6309. Voyage data recorder access.’’.
SEC. 207. VOYAGE DATA RECORDER; REQUIRE-
MENTS.
(a) FLOAT-FREE AND BEACON REQUIRE-
MENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commandant shall seek to enter into nego-
tiations through the International Maritime
Organization to amend regulation 20 of chap-
ter V of the International Convention for the
Safety of Life at Sea to require that all voy-
age data recorders are installed in a float-
free arrangement and contain an integrated
emergency position indicating radio beacon.
(2) PROGRESS UPDATE.—Not later than 3
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Commandant shall submit to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate an update
on the progress of the engagement required
under paragraph (1).
(b) COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS.—Not later
than 2 years after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate a cost-ben-
efit analysis of requiring that voyage data
recorders installed on commercial vessels
documented under chapter 121 of title 46,
United States Code, capture communications
on the internal telephone systems of such
vessels, including requiring the capture of
both sides of all communications with the
bridge onboard such vessels.
SEC. 208. SURVIVAL AND LOCATING EQUIPMENT.
Not later than 2 years after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Commandant
shall, subject to the availability of appro-
priations, identify and procure equipment
that will provide search-and-rescue units the
ability to attach a radio or Automated Iden-
tification System strobe or beacon to an ob-
ject that is not immediately retrievable.
SEC. 209. TRAINING OF COAST GUARD PER-
SONNEL.
(a) PROSPECTIVE SECTOR COMMANDER
TRAINING.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Com-
mandant shall implement an Officer in
Charge, Marine Inspections segment to the
sector commander indoctrination course for
prospective sector commanders without a
Coast Guard prevention ashore officer spe-
cialty code.
(b) STEAMSHIP INSPECTIONS.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Commandant shall imple-
ment steam plant inspection training for
Coast Guard marine inspectors and, subject
to availability, recognized organizations to
which authority is delegated under section
3316 of title 46, United States Code.
(c) ADVANCED JOURNEYMAN INSPECTOR
TRAINING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commandant shall establish advanced
training to provide instruction on the over-
sight of recognized organizations to which
authority is delegated under section 3316 of
title 46, United States Code, auditing respon-
sibilities, and the inspection of unique vessel
types.
(2) RECIPIENTS.—The Commandant shall—
(A) require that such training be com-
pleted by senior Coast Guard marine inspec-
tors; and
(B) subject to availability of training ca-
pacity, make such training available to rec-
ognized organization surveyors authorized
by the Coast Guard to conduct inspections.
(d) COAST GUARD INSPECTIONS STAFF;
BRIEFING.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Com-
mandant shall provide to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate a briefing detailing—
(1) the estimated time and funding nec-
essary to triple the current size of the Coast
Guard’s traveling inspector staff; and
(2) other options available to the Coast
Guard to enhance and maintain marine safe-
ty knowledge, including discussion of in-
creased reliance on—
(A) civilian marine inspectors;
(B) experienced licensed mariners;
(C) retired members of the Coast Guard;
(D) arranging for Coast Guard inspectors
to ride onboard commercial oceangoing ves-
sels documented under chapter 121 of title 46,
United States Code, to gain experience and
insight; and
(E) extending tour-lengths for Coast Guard
marine safety officers assigned to inspection
billets.
(e) AUDITS; COAST GUARD ATTENDANCE AND
PERFORMANCE.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commandant shall—
(1) update Coast Guard policy to utilize
risk analysis to target the attendance of
Coast Guard personnel during external safe-
ty management certificate and document of
compliance audits; and
(2) perform a quality assurance audit of
recognized organization representation and
performance regarding United States-flagged
vessels.
SEC. 210. MAJOR MARINE CASUALTY PROPERTY
DAMAGE THRESHOLD.
Section 6101(i)(3) of title 46, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘$500,000’’ and
inserting ‘‘$2,000,000’’.
SEC. 211. REVIEWS, BRIEFINGS, AND REPORTS.
(a) MAJOR CONVERSION DETERMINATIONS.—
(1) REVIEW OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.—
The Commandant shall conduct a review of
policies and procedures for making and docu-
menting major conversion determinations,
including an examination of the deference
given to precedent.
(2) BRIEFING.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commandant shall provide to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate a briefing on the findings of
the review required by paragraph (1).
(b) VENTILATORS, OPENINGS AND STABILITY
STANDARDS.—
(1) REVIEW.—Note later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commandant shall complete a review of the
effectiveness of United States regulations,
international conventions, recognized orga-
nizations’ class rules, and Coast Guard tech-
nical policy regarding—
(A) ventilators and other hull openings;
(B) fire dampers and other closures pro-
tecting openings normally open during oper-
ations; and
(C) intact and damage stability standards
under subchapter S of chapter I of title 46,
Code of Federal Regulations.
(2) BRIEFING.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commandant shall provide to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a briefing on
the effectiveness of the regulations, inter-
national conventions, recognized organiza-
tions’ class rules, and Coast Guard technical
policy reviewed under paragraph (1).
(c) SELF-LOCATING DATUM MARKER
BUOYS.—Not later than 6 months after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Com-
mandant shall provide to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY7.017 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7642 July 25, 2018
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate a briefing on the reliability of
self-locating datum marker buoys and other
similar technology used during Coast Guard
search-and-rescue operations. The briefing
shall include a description of reasonable
steps the Commandant could take to in-
crease the reliability of such buoys, includ-
ing the potential to leverage technology used
by the Navy, and how protocols could be de-
veloped to conduct testing of such buoys be-
fore using them for operations.
(d) OVERSIGHT PROGRAM; EFFECTIVENESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commandant shall commission an as-
sessment of the effectiveness of the Coast
Guard’s oversight of recognized organiza-
tions and its impact on compliance by and
safety of vessels inspected by such organiza-
tions.
(2) EXPERIENCE.—The assessment commis-
sioned under paragraph (1) shall be con-
ducted by a research organization with sig-
nificant experience in maritime operations
and marine safety.
(3) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than 180 days after the date that the assess-
ment required under paragraph (1) is com-
pleted, the Commandant shall submit to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate the results
of such assessment.
SEC. 212. FLAG-STATE GUIDANCE AND SUPPLE-
MENTS.
(a) FREIGHT VESSELS; DAMAGE CONTROL IN-
FORMATION.—Within 1 year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall issue flag-State guidance for all freight
vessels documented under chapter 121 of title
46, United States Code, built before January
1, 1992, regarding the inclusion of comprehen-
sive damage control information in safety
management plans required under chapter 32
of title 46, United States Code.
(b) RECOGNIZED ORGANIZATIONS; UNITED
STATES SUPPLEMENT.—The Commandant
shall—
(1) work with recognized organizations to
create a single United States Supplement to
rules of such organizations for classification
of vessels; and
(2) by not later than 1 year after the date
of the enactment of this Act, provide to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate a briefing
on whether it is necessary to revise part 8 of
title 46, Code of Federal Regulations, to au-
thorize only one United States Supplement
to such rules.
SEC. 213. MARINE SAFETY STRATEGY.
Section 2116 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘each year
of an annual’’ and inserting ‘‘of a triennial’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘ANNUAL’’ and inserting ‘‘TRIENNIAL’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘annual’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘triennial’’;
(3) in subsection (c)—
(A) by striking ‘‘fiscal year 2011 and each
fiscal year’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2020
and triennially’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘annual plan’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘triennial plan’’; and
(4) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ‘‘annu-
ally’’ and inserting ‘‘triennially’’.
SEC. 214. RECOGNIZED ORGANIZATIONS; OVER-
SIGHT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3316 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended by redesig-
nating subsection (g) as subsection (h), and
by inserting after subsection (f) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(g)(1) There shall be within the Coast
Guard an office that conducts comprehensive
and targeted oversight of all recognized or-
ganizations that act on behalf of the Coast
Guard.
‘‘(2) The staff of the office shall include
subject matter experts, including inspectors,
investigators, and auditors, who possess the
capability and authority to audit all aspects
of such recognized organizations.
‘‘(3) In this subsection the term ‘recognized
organization’ has the meaning given that
term in section 2.45–1 of title 46, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, as in effect on the date of
the enactment of the Maritime Safety Act of
2018.’’.
(b) DEADLINE FOR ESTABLISHMENT.—The
Commandant of the Coast Guard shall estab-
lish the office required by the amendment
made by subsection (a) by not later than 2
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 215. TIMELY WEATHER FORECASTS.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Commandant
shall seek to enter into negotiations through
the International Maritime Organization to
amend the International Convention for the
Safety of Life at Sea to require that vessels
subject to the requirements of such Conven-
tion receive timely synoptic and graphical
chart weather forecasts.
SEC. 216. MARINE SAFETY IMPLEMENTATION
STATUS.
Not later than December 19 of 2018, and of
each of the 2 subsequent years thereafter,
the Commandant shall provide to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a briefing on
the status of implementation of each action
outlined in the Commandant’s final action
memo dated December 19, 2017, regarding the
sinking and loss of the vessel El Faro.
SEC. 217. DELEGATED AUTHORITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commandant shall review the authori-
ties that have been delegated to recognized
organizations for the alternative compliance
program as described in subpart D of part 8
of title 46, Code of Federal Regulations, and,
if necessary, revise or establish policies and
procedures to ensure those delegated au-
thorities are being conducted in a manner to
ensure safe maritime transportation.
(b) BRIEFING.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commandant shall provide to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate and the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure of the House of
Representatives a briefing on the implemen-
tation of subsection (a).
TITLE III—CENTER OF EXPERTISE
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Coast
Guard Blue Technology Center of Expertise
Act’’.
SEC. 302. COAST GUARD BLUE TECHNOLOGY CEN-
TER OF EXPERTISE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act and subject to the availability of appro-
priations, the Commandant shall establish
under section 58 of title 14, United States
Code, a Blue Technology center of expertise.
(b) MISSIONS.—In addition to the missions
listed in section 58(b) of title 14, United
States Code, the Center—
(1) shall—
(A) promote awareness within the Coast
Guard of the range and diversity of Blue
Technologies and their potential to enhance
Coast Guard mission readiness, operational
performance, and regulation of such tech-
nologies;
(B) function as an interactive conduit to
enable the sharing and dissemination of Blue
Technology information between the Coast
Guard and representatives from the private
sector, academia, nonprofit organizations,
and other Federal agencies;
(C) increase awareness among Blue Tech-
nology manufacturers, entrepreneurs, and
vendors of Coast Guard acquisition policies,
procedures, and business practices; and
(D) provide technical support, coordina-
tion, and assistance to Coast Guard districts
and the Coast Guard Research and Develop-
ment Center, as appropriate; and
(2) subject to the requirements of the Coast
Guard Academy, may coordinate with the
Academy to develop appropriate curricula
regarding Blue Technology to be offered in
professional courses of study to give Coast
Guard cadets and officer candidates a greater
background and understanding of Blue Tech-
nologies.
(c) BLUE TECHNOLOGY EXPOSITION; BRIEF-
ING.—Not later than 6 months after the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Com-
mandant shall provide to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate a briefing on the costs and ben-
efits of hosting a biennial Coast Guard Blue
Technology exposition to further inter-
actions between representatives from the
private sector, academia, and nonprofit orga-
nizations, and the Coast Guard and examine
emerging technologies and Coast Guard mis-
sion demands.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CENTER.—The term ‘‘Center’’ means the
Blue Technology center of expertise estab-
lished under this section.
(2) COMMANDANT.—The term ‘‘Com-
mandant’’ means the Commandant of the
Coast Guard.
(3) BLUE TECHNOLOGY.—The term ‘‘Blue
Technology’’ means any technology, system,
or platform that—
(A) is designed for use or application
above, on, or below the sea surface or that is
otherwise applicable to Coast Guard oper-
ational needs, including such a technology,
system, or platform that provides contin-
uous or persistent coverage; and
(B) supports or facilitates—
(i) maritime domain awareness, includ-
ing—
(I) surveillance and monitoring;
(II) observation, measurement, and mod-
eling: or
(III) information technology and commu-
nications;
(ii) search and rescue;
(iii) emergency response;
(iv) maritime law enforcement;
(v) marine inspections and investigations;
or
(vi) protection and conservation of the ma-
rine environment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Alaska (Mr. YOUNG) and the gentleman
from California (Mr. GARAMENDI) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Alaska.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on S. 756.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:56 Oct 17, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD18\JULY\H25JY8.PT2 H25JY8
abonner
on
DSKBCJ7HB2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7643
July 25, 2018
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Alaska?
There was no objection.
Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I
yield the balance of my time to the
gentleman from California (Mr. HUN-
TER), and I ask unanimous consent that
he may control that time to manage
the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Alaska?
There was no objection.
Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, S. 756, the Save Our
Seas Act, promotes continued national
and international efforts to address the
growing amount of marine debris en-
tering the ocean environment.
The dean of the House, the gen-
tleman who yielded to me, Mr. DON
YOUNG, our esteemed colleague from
Alaska, sponsored the House com-
panion bill. I thank our longstanding
colleague for all of his efforts to move
this legislation through committee and
to the House floor.
Marine debris is pervasive and per-
sistent, remaining in the ocean for
years and negatively impacting the
ocean environment.
S. 756 urges the administration to
support research and development on
systems and materials that would re-
duce the amount of waste that enters
the ocean and work with nations that
discharge large amounts of solid waste
into the ocean by sharing technologies
and infrastructure to prevent, reduce,
or mitigate those land-based sources
from entering the marine environment.
The bill also allows the Adminis-
trator of NOAA to designate, respond
to, and assist in the cleanup of severe
marine debris events.
Title II of the bill is the Maritime
Safety Act. The text came from H.R.
6175, a bill ordered reported from the
Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee. I sponsored this bill with
the ranking member of the Coast
Guard and Maritime Transportation
Committee, Mr. GARAMENDI, my es-
teemed colleague from California, as a
cosponsor.
The bill addresses maritime safety
issues that were raised in the Com-
mandant of the Coast Guard’s final ac-
tion memo in response to the tragic
sinking of the El Faro. A few of the re-
quired actions include: timely weather
forecasts, not too complicated; emer-
gency safety gear with locator beacons,
so we can find the crew after the vessel
has sunk; and float-free voyage data re-
corders with integrated emergency po-
sition indicating beacons.
The measures included in this title
should promote safer vessel transit
and, if needed, would assist the Coast
Guard in its rescue operations.
Sadly, we were reminded again last
week, by the events in Missouri, the
dangers of going out in the open water,
even in a relatively protected environ-
ment. Our thoughts and prayers go out
to the families of the loved ones who
lost their lives in the tragic incident.
Tragedies like this and, sadly, others
in recent history remind us that we
must remain vigilant and committed
to improving maritime safety to pro-
tect those who go out on the water for
their livelihood or for recreation.
Title III of the bill allows the Coast
Guard to establish a Blue Technology
center of expertise. This title is the
text of H.R. 6206, as reported by the
Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee. Mr. GARAMENDI sponsored
the legislation, and I am an original
cosponsor of the bill.
The ranking member and I have a
strong interest in Blue Technology and
how it can assist the Coast Guard in
performing its multitude of missions
better and more cost effectively. The
center created by this legislation will
provide a venue for the Coast Guard to
interface with industry on existing and
up-and-coming technologies that could
be used by the service in conducting its
missions. It is an important component
in bringing the Coast Guard into the
modern technological world.
I thank the chairman of the com-
mittee, Mr. SHUSTER, for this leader-
ship, and Mr. DEFAZIO and, especially,
Mr. GARAMENDI for their leadership and
cooperation in getting these bills out
of committee and to the floor today.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, first, let me thank
Chairman HUNTER for his work on this
bill and on the other work we have
been able to do with the Coast Guard
and the legislation. It has been a great
pleasure to work with him.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S.
756, the Save Our Seas Act of 2018, as
amended, to include other important
bills addressing maritime safety and
ocean technologies.
As explained by the majority’s man-
ager of the bill, marine debris, espe-
cially plastics, is a persistent and
growing threat to the global marine
environment. Many countries, includ-
ing the United States, contribute to
the plastic pollution, and it does add
up.
For example, in 2010 alone, according
to a University of Georgia study, a
total of 8 million metric tons of plastic
entered the world’s oceans. Worse yet,
the study predicts that number will
grow 10 times—tenfold—as large by
2025.
Not only are floating plastic bags,
straws, Styrofoam cups, and plastic
bottles harmful to the health and wel-
fare of marine life, but marine debris
also threatens the food supply of mil-
lions of people around the world who
rely on seafood as their primary source
of protein.
The impacts affect people every-
where, and the problem is not going to
go away and won’t be solved by itself.
The legislation we put forth today is
an important step in the right direc-
tion.
Title I would authorize existing fund-
ing levels in the Marine Debris Act to
enable the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration and the
United States Coast Guard to identify
and remove sources of marine debris
and to coordinate response activities
on the national and regional levels to
assess and reduce the volume of the de-
bris entering our oceans.
The title also contains important
amendments, including new authority
to allow the Federal Government to
provide assistance to mitigate severe
marine debris events, such as the re-
currence of the flood of debris that
drifted from Japan across the Pacific
Ocean in the aftermath of the 2011
Fukushima earthquake and tsunami.
I also want to express my strong sup-
port for two other bills recently passed
and reported by the Transportation
and Infrastructure Committee that
were added as separate titles to S. 756:
First, H.R. 6175, the Maritime Safety
Act of 2018, as title II; and my legisla-
tion, H.R. 6206, the Coast Guard Blue
Technology Center of Expertise Act, as
title III.
The 2015 sinking of the U.S.-flagged
commercial vessel, El Faro, and the
tragic loss of all 33 crew members was
the worst U.S. maritime disaster in 35
years. The subsequent Marine Board of
Investigation, convened by the Coast
Guard and joined by the National
Transportation Safety Board, found
numerous faults in the ship’s safety
management system, bridge manage-
ment, and safety apparatus, as well as
other critical oversights or failures.
Title II enacts several important rec-
ommendations contained in the action
memo released by then-Commandant of
the Coast Guard, Admiral Paul
Zukunft.
I want to particularly note the chair-
man’s work in bringing together a cou-
ple of hearings on this, both formal and
informal, that led to these investiga-
tions and recommendations.
Together, these provisions that are
in this bill will improve ship commu-
nication and safety management. They
will also improve our ability to iden-
tify and recover voyage data recorders
and locate and retrieve seafarers who
may be adrift at sea.
Additionally, the investigation re-
vealed gaps or insufficient oversight in
the inspection regime, and the bill
deals with those.
Title II also includes several new re-
quirements to shore up the oversight
and investigation of third-party inspec-
tors, who should be reviewing the safe-
ty of these ships.
I also strongly support title III,
which contains my legislation—I know
you are surprised with that support,
but nonetheless—H.R. 6026, to author-
ize the Coast Guard to establish a Blue
Technology center of expertise.
Unlike the Navy, ocean industry sec-
tors, and ocean science community, the
Coast Guard has not embraced the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.063 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7644 July 25, 2018
adoption and use of a wide assortment
of advanced ocean technologies, sys-
tems, sensors, and platforms. This is
unfortunate because I suspect that sev-
eral such technologies have the poten-
tial to dramatically improve the Coast
Guard’s operational capability.
Therefore, title III simply draws
upon the existing authority to direct
the Coast Guard to establish a Blue
Technology center of expertise. The
overarching goal is to improve from
within the Coast Guard’s awareness of
blue technologies that apply or align
with Coast Guard mission needs.
In addition, this new Blue Tech-
nology center will facilitate a dialogue
and sharing of information between the
Coast Guard and the growing number
of Blue Tech stakeholders in the pri-
vate sector, academia, and ocean re-
search community.
A 2015 study by NOAA identified over
400 Blue Technology firms across the
United States who generate some $7
billion in annual revenue. These firms,
along with our academic and research
institutions, stand ready to put their
innovations to work in the service of
the American people, using the Coast
Guard as a mechanism to accomplish
that.
I am confident that this Blue Tech-
nology center will open doors of oppor-
tunity for the Coast Guard to better
protect and patrol the vast oceans and
complex waterways.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on
both sides to join with me in support of
this noncontroversial maritime legisla-
tion, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
b 1445
Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Alaska
(Mr. YOUNG), dean of the House, a gen-
tleman that has been working mari-
time issues because he represents all of
Alaska. Whether it is fisheries, energy
exploration, to pollution, Mr. DON
YOUNG from Alaska knows what he is
talking about probably more than any-
body in this body.
(Mr. YOUNG of Alaska asked and was
given permission to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Chairman HUNTER and Ranking
Member GARAMENDI and, of course,
PETER DEFAZIO.
This is a good piece of legislation. I
had a House bill similar in fact, too.
This came over from the Senate side,
but I am not really interested in whose
bill it is but, more likely, getting
things done. So this is a good bill.
And debris is what I am interested in
as one of our biggest issues; it has been
well explained by both speakers prior
to me. It is getting bigger, like I say.
What is it? Tenfold more. And the ton-
nage is already there.
We have to look at preventing the de-
bris, but also what do we do once it is
in the ocean. I have some ideas. And,
hopefully, later on, we can explore
those ideas, how we will recover and
utilize that debris, because it does
harm our maritime lives, and it makes
the ocean really a garbage dump, and
we don’t want that.
So this is a good piece of legislation.
I thank each person that has been in-
volved in it, and I urge my colleagues
to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, may
I inquire as to how much time I have
remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from California (Mr.
GARAMENDI) has 131⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. GARAMENDI. That should be
enough for Mr. DEFAZIO, the ranking
member of the committee, to share his
views on this legislation.
I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman
from Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO).
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague, both for his leadership
on these issues, and for the time. And
I also would congratulate Chairman
YOUNG and others, particularly SU-
ZANNE BONAMICI, from my State, who
has taken a real leadership role on the
issue of marine debris.
We are choking the oceans to death.
The lifeblood of our planet, the lungs of
our planet, it is becoming a giant gar-
bage dump. The Pacific Gyre can be
seen from space. It is a massive gyre in
the middle of the Pacific Ocean and we
have to begin to deal seriously with
these issues.
It was just this week in the New
York Times, photographs of the Do-
minican Republic, known for its pris-
tine beaches, which had giant bull-
dozers on the beach trying to eat
through about an 8-foot tall pile of
plastic debris on the beaches. So this
threatens the marine environment and
all that which is dependent upon it, the
creatures that live there, and those of
us who harvest from that. And it is
threatening tourism and recreation.
Obviously, this has to be dealt with.
I will say, this is good legislation,
but it is a pathetic amount of money.
The amount of money that Congress is
putting out to deal with something
that is threatening the very oceans
that surround us probably isn’t ade-
quate to clean up the little—I live on a
boat down there inside Hains Point—
probably that little section of water in-
side Hains Point down by Fort McNair.
I don’t even think $10 million could
clean that up, let alone the oceans. So
we need to get a little more serious
about this and really put up additional
funds.
So that is very important legislation.
Title II is something about which I am
very passionate. The worst maritime
disaster since 1983, and obviously, there
is a lot of blame to go around on that
disaster. But one of the factors was
that ship was not fit. It had been cer-
tified by an independent party which is
called, under the law, a recognized or-
ganization, as fit to go to sea.
Now, why would that happen? Well,
because the recognized organizations
get paid by the shipping companies.
Now, I am not going to hire you if you
tell me my ship isn’t fit to go to sea,
which is what they should have been
telling TOTE. They didn’t tell them be-
cause, hey, we want more of your busi-
ness. We will go out and certify some
more of your unfit ships and kill more
people. This has got to end.
The Coast Guard is also at fault.
They were not providing enough over-
sight to these recognized organiza-
tions, and had let their own marine
safety division, under this privatiza-
tion scheme, deteriorate to the point
where they couldn’t even keep up with
the paperwork.
So this bill is going to begin to rec-
tify those issues and revitalize the
Coast Guard maritime safety organiza-
tion, and also, bring new scrutiny on
these recognized organizations so they
don’t kill any more people and send
unfit ships to sea.
Finally, the legislation, the third
part of this is, I think, a tremendous
accomplishment by the Ranking Mem-
ber, JOHN GARAMENDI, which is his Blue
Tech center and Blue Oceans. The
Coast Guard has, unfortunately—again,
we have underfunded the Coast Guard,
so Congress is at fault for many of
these things; maritime safety and the
lack of initiative of the Coast Guard in
terms of adopting new 21st century
technologies to better perform their
mission and make the sea-lane safer
and better understand what is going on
in the oceans around us.
So, maybe we will get, someday, to
name the Blue Tech Center after Mr.
GARAMENDI, but not until he is long
gone, so he is not in a hurry for that.
So anyway, I want to congratulate
him, and congratulate others who have
been involved, and thank Chairman
SHUSTER for moving this legislation.
Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the honorable gen-
tlewoman from the State of Oregon
(Ms. BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank my colleague from California
for yielding time, and also for his com-
mitment to this important issue.
I am honored to co-chair the Oceans
Caucus with Representative YOUNG,
and I thank him for his leadership on
this important issue.
I also thank my Oregon colleague,
Mr. DEFAZIO, for his commitment and
for his passion about the importance of
marine debris and addressing it.
I rise in support of the Save our Seas
Act, a bill to clean up and reduce ma-
rine debris. This bill would reauthorize
the NOAA Marine Debris Program
through fiscal year 2022 and provide re-
sources to help States respond to se-
vere marine debris events. The health
of our oceans reflects the health of our
planet, and we must do more to keep
garbage out the ocean and off of our
shores.
Every minute, the equivalent of a
garbage truck full of plastic is dumped
into our oceans. According to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.064 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7645
July 25, 2018
United Nations, that is more than 8
million tons a year. Plastic bottles,
straws, grocery bags, cigarette butts,
fishing gear, and abandoned vessels lit-
ter the ocean.
Currents and atmospheric winds
carry floatable marine debris. These
movements trap items in debris accu-
mulation zones, also known as garbage
patches. A study published in the jour-
nal, Scientific Reports, estimated that
the Pacific garbage patch is comprised
of about 1.8 trillion pieces of debris.
We still don’t know how long it takes
for plastic to biodegrade. Estimates
range from 450 years to never.
Marine debris harms our coastal
economies, endangers marine life, de-
stroys important marine habitats,
propagates invasive species, and cre-
ates hazardous conditions for the mari-
time industry. Tiny pieces of plastic,
fiber, fragments, and microbeads also
make their way into marine life, block-
ing digestive tracts, altering growth
and, in some cases, killing animals and
marine organisms.
Healthy beaches and waterways are
critical to the marine ecosystems that
thousands of people rely on to earn a
living in Oregon and other coastal com-
munities. After the tsunami hit the
coast of Japan in 2011, large materials
like docks and boats that carried
invasive species ended up on the shores
of the Pacific Northwest.
But it is not just tsunami debris that
is a problem. According to NOAA, a
majority of the debris that covers our
beaches come from storm drains and
sewers, demonstrating that this is not
just a problem resulting from those
along our Nation’s shorelines.
Marine debris is entirely preventable,
but we must support responsible dis-
posal practices and provide coastal
communities with the resources they
need. The NOAA Marine Debris Pro-
gram has partnered with Oregon Sea
Grant, Oregon State University, Or-
egon Coast Aquarium, and Lincoln
County School District to create a cur-
riculum to teach middle and high
school students about the effects of
marine debris and to promote steward-
ship activities.
There has been growing momentum
on this issue, as many companies and
cities and jurisdictions across this
country stop the use of plastic straws
and bags.
The ocean is resilient and we can
help it heal, but we cannot afford to
wait. I urge my colleagues to support
this bill to strengthen the Federal re-
sponse to marine debris.
I want to close, again, by thanking
all of the bipartisan sponsors and co-
sponsors of this legislation, but also,
especially, the co-chair of the Oceans
Caucus, again, Representative DON
YOUNG, for his leadership.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I am
prepared to close. I will take my few
seconds that remain then and simply
say this is a good piece of legislation. I
want to thank the chair of the Coast
Guard and Maritime Transportation
Subcommittee for his work on this,
and for working across the aisle to
solve problems, some very real, serious
problems in this legislation.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
First off, thanks to Mr. GARAMENDI.
If there are two more folks in this Con-
gress from opposite sides of the aisle
that disagree on some things some-
times, but agree as much as possible
and as much as we do on the things
that we are working on, I would be sur-
prised. And I would like to just thank
him so much for his work and for com-
ing up with great legislation, great
ideas, and pushing this forward.
There is an old military saying that
if you control the ocean, you control
the world. And just as serious of a
sense, if you destroy the ocean, you de-
stroy the world. I think that is one rea-
son this bill is so important.
S. 756 promotes action to address the
marine debris, catastrophic issues that
we face now that will only get worse. It
increases maritime vessel safety so you
will not have another tragic incident
like you had with the El Faro. And it
establishes a Blue Technology center of
expertise so we can help the Coast
Guard work smarter and not harder
with their limited funds. I urge all
Members to support it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Alaska (Mr.
YOUNG) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 756, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EXPRESSING SENSE OF HOUSE
THAT THE LACK OF TIMELY AND
PREDICTABLE FUNDING UNNEC-
ESSARILY UNDERMINES MISSION
OF THE UNITED STATES SPE-
CIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 1009) expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives
that the lack of timely and predictable
funding unnecessarily undermines the
mission of the United States Special
Operations Command and jeopardizes
the security of the United States.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 1009
Whereas the ability of the United States
Special Operations Command to successfully
conduct operations relies on adequate
resourcing;
Whereas Special Operations Forces must
prepare for a wide array of missions to sup-
port and defend the United States in various
capacities around the world;
Whereas the training and development of
Special Operations Forces takes multiple
years and cannot be created overnight;
Whereas the success of the United States
Special Operations Command requires close
coordination between each branch of the
Armed Forces;
Whereas training shortfalls have been iden-
tified as posing an unnecessary risk to Spe-
cial Forces soldiers;
Whereas the lack of full, on-time funding
undermines the ability of the United States
Special Operations Command to work by,
with, and through our partner nations;
Whereas the smaller operating footprint of
Special Operations Forces poses unique oper-
ational needs not found in conventional
forces;
Whereas the deployment cycle of Special
Operations Forces requires additional atten-
tion and resources be provided for family and
support programs before, during, and after
deployments; and
Whereas the United States Special Oper-
ations Command must maintain a constant
level of readiness that is significantly under-
mined by budget uncertainty: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) finds that not providing the Depart-
ment of Defense with stable, predictable, and
on-time funding unnecessarily jeopardizes
the safety and security of the United States;
(2) expresses a sense of gratitude for the in-
credible sacrifices made by both Special Op-
erators and their families; and
(3) commits to meeting the needs of the
United States Special Operations Command
as part of its efforts to restore military read-
iness.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Wyoming (Ms. CHENEY) and the gen-
tleman from California (Mr.
GARAMENDI) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Wyoming.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on the resolu-
tion under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Wyoming?
There was no objection.
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
HUDSON) to discuss his resolution.
Mr. HUDSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of my resolution, H.
Res. 1009, which expresses the sense of
the House of Representatives that lack
of timely and predictable funding un-
necessarily undermines the mission of
the United States Special Operations
Command and jeopardizes the security
of the United States.
b 1500
Mr. Speaker, one of the greatest hon-
ors of my life is representing Fort
Bragg, the epicenter of the universe
and home of the Airborne and Special
Operations Forces. The units stationed
here represent the best of the best and
have a vast footprint.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Aug 29, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD18\JULY\H25JY8.PT2 H25JY8
abonner
on
DSKBCJ7HB2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7646 July 25, 2018
As our Nation continues to fight ter-
rorism around the world while simulta-
neously preparing for the threats of
near-peer adversaries, our require-
ments increase and diversify.
For too long, we have asked our mili-
tary to do more with less. Now, we
have made great progress with our fis-
cal year 2018 and fiscal year 2019 DOD
appropriations, but every time we fail
to pass a Defense Appropriations bill
on time, we do irreparable harm to our
Nation’s military. This is especially
apparent in our special operations com-
munity.
The men and women at USSOCOM
cannot afford another year of CRs.
Their missions require an advanced
level of training and preparation as
they operate in some of the most aus-
tere conditions in the world.
When USSOCOM is not funded on
time, training cannot be conducted, es-
sential equipment cannot be ordered,
and long-term responsibilities are not
met. The effects of 9 years of con-
tinuing resolutions have severely un-
dermined our forces and led to a waste
of taxpayer dollars as we flood the De-
partment of Defense with cash near the
end of the fiscal year and force them to
spend it all within a matter of a few
months.
We must never underestimate the
most important asset our military has,
and that is the individual. Green Be-
rets cannot be built overnight. We can-
not flip a switch and magically produce
Navy SEALs or Air Force combat con-
trollers or Marine Raiders. The elite
units of USSOCOM are built over mul-
tiple years and cannot be stopped and
started.
This resolution would affirm our
commitment to stand behind each and
every one of these incredible service-
members and their families.
Make no mistake, when this body
chooses not to appropriately fund these
warriors, we are putting their lives at
greater risk. I refuse to go home and
look in the eye of a Gold Star wife of
a Green Beret and say: ‘‘Sorry, your
husband didn’t get the training he
needed, because we were too busy play-
ing games in Washington.’’ That, Mr.
Speaker, is unacceptable.
The time is now for us to come to-
gether as a Nation and fund our mili-
tary. I urge every one of my colleagues
to recognize what is at stake and put
the needs of our Nation before politics.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank
Representative CHENEY for her efforts
on these issues, as well as Chairman
THORNBERRY and Chairwoman GRANGER
for their unwavering support and com-
mitment to our military and our spe-
cial operators.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself as much time as I might
consume, but I will try to be brief.
Mr. Speaker, we are in total support
of this piece of legislation. We think
this is a very, very good thing to do, to
adequately fund all of our military,
whether it is SOCOM or any other part
of it. It is essential for our national se-
curity.
However, I would like to note that,
having served on the Armed Services
Committee for the last several years
and endured unending discussions
about the horrible sequestration issues,
which were totally under the control of
the majority party to change should
they decide to do so, that it is a little
incongruous to put forth a resolution
that would call for adequate funding
for SOCOM, and we should do so.
At the same time, when we have cre-
ated a trillion-dollar deficit with a
piece of legislation that passed last De-
cember with no Democratic votes—be-
cause we like to think of ourselves as
deficit hawks, and we think it is dif-
ficult to put this Congress into a situa-
tion where we have to choose between
the health of seniors who are on Medi-
care or young children who depend
upon the Medicaid program or maybe
the education systems.
So this resolution, it is a good thing.
It is something we ought to do. Cer-
tainly, we ought to support SOCOM.
Certainly, we ought to pass appropria-
tions bills on time. Let me commend
the House for having done so, and we
can always blame the enemy on the
other side of the building, the Senate,
but the reality is that the Treasury
was gutted by a tax bill of which more
than 80 percent of the benefit went to
the top income earners of America and
corporations. And a deficit has been
created that will be a trillion dollars
next year. That is the period of time in
which this resolution calls for full
funding for our Special Operations
Forces.
So my discussion today is really
about the very difficult choices that
are going to have to be made because
this Congress, without Democratic sup-
port, decided that the first choice was
the superwealthy and the corporations
of America, not the children, not the
sick, not those in need of education,
not the infrastructure, but rather those
who have much already.
Now, I notice that I don’t have many
colleagues here on our side, although I
would assure all the Congress that we
are 100 percent in support of our Spe-
cial Operations Forces, and we look
forward to a continuing debate on the
choices that must be made.
Mr. Speaker, I urge an ‘‘aye’’ vote,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I wel-
come my colleague from California’s
support for this resolution.
As my colleague knows very well, we
have done far more in this body, and,
as he mentioned, we have done far
more in this body than these resolu-
tions of support. These resolutions of
support are crucially important, but
we have, in this House, completed our
work. We have completed our work on
the Defense Appropriations bill.
Last year, the Senate also completed
its work, and we were able to take the
very first crucially important steps to
begin to rebuild our military with the
$700 billion we were able to appropriate
for fiscal year 2018.
We have also done our work for this
fiscal year, and we will be in a position,
hopefully in the next day or so, to be
able to pass the National Defense Au-
thorization Act as well for fiscal year
2019.
So we in this House understand how
crucially important it is that we get
the work done, that we pass this legis-
lation. We need the Senate to do the
same.
We also, I think, need to recognize we
have fundamental disagreements and
disputes about the impact of the tax
cuts we passed. In fact, on this side of
the aisle, we believe that allowing
Americans to keep more of their
money is really the secret to getting
the kind of economic growth we need
to fundamentally deal with the deficit,
that the answer is not to raise people’s
taxes to have more money coming into
the Treasury. We need to actually let
people keep more of what they have
got. We need to let people invest more
of their own money.
We have seen jobs come back, and we
have seen economic growth come back.
We have seen people at all income lev-
els able to keep more money, and they
see the difference in their paychecks.
So we are very proud of that, and we
do not believe that we should ever be in
a situation where we think that some-
how we have to choose expensive do-
mestic spending if we want to fund the
military.
I agree with my colleague’s views on
sequestration. Sequestration was ex-
tremely damaging. The Budget Control
Act is damaging, and we ought to be in
a position where we are repealing that
as well.
So I am pleased that there will be
support for this resolution on behalf of
our Special Operations Forces.
Mr. Speaker, I also want to thank
very much my friend and colleague
from North Carolina for introducing
this important bill highlighting the
crucial role our special operators play.
Mr. Speaker, they, more than any
other segment of our forces, operate in
secret and undertake missions that
keep us safe and that serve to protect
and defend us. We will not ever know
most of the stories of the service that
they carry out for all of us.
They really are the watchmen on the
walls of freedom. They stand guard for
all of us day and night, undertaking
missions that are incredibly complex,
incredibly dangerous. And too often,
they pay the ultimate sacrifice, but
they are willing to do that for our free-
dom.
It is crucially important, Mr. Speak-
er, that we don’t in this House and in
this Congress continue to force them
and all of our men and women in uni-
form to pay the price for our dysfunc-
tion, and that is a price that comes
with funding delays and uncertainty.
Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I urge the
adoption of this resolution, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
DUNCAN of Tennessee). The question is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.069 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7647
July 25, 2018
on the motion offered by the gentle-
woman from Wyoming (Ms. CHENEY)
that the House suspend the rules and
agree to the resolution, H. Res. 1009.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EXPRESSING SENSE OF HOUSE
THAT THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE FACES SIGNIFICANT
READINESS CHALLENGES AF-
FECTED BY BUDGETARY UNCER-
TAINTY
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 1010) expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives
that the United States Air Force faces
significant readiness challenges due to
insufficient personnel levels, a shrink-
ing and depleted aircraft fleet, and
maintenance deferrals, all of which are
affected by budgetary uncertainty and
impede the Air Force’s ability to meet
ongoing and unexpected national secu-
rity threats, putting United States na-
tional security at risk.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 1010
Whereas according to Air Force Chief of
Staff General David Goldfein, the United
States Air Force is ‘‘the smallest we’ve ever
been’’;
Whereas according to an April 2018 report
from the Government Accountability Office,
more than a quarter of fighter pilot positions
are unfilled;
Whereas the Air Force has just 18,000 of the
roughly 20,000 pilots it needs to crew its 5,500
fighters, bombers, airlifters, cargo planes,
and rescue helicopters;
Whereas this 10 percent gap in its air crew
requirement could, as Secretary of the Air
Force Heather Wilson said in November of
2017, ‘‘break the force’’;
Whereas almost 1⁄3 of the Air Force’s air-
craft were not flyable, or mission-capable, at
any given time in fiscal year 2017;
Whereas over the last decade, the total
number of aircraft in the Air Force has been
on a downward slope;
Whereas the total number of aircraft in the
Air Force will drop again from fiscal year
2017 to fiscal year 2018;
Whereas the average age of an aircraft,
forcewide, increased from 24 years in fiscal
year 2010 to 27.6 years in fiscal year 2017; and
Whereas between fiscal years 2013 and 2017,
accidents involving all Defense Department
warplanes rose nearly 40 percent: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the House
of Representatives that—
(1) the United States Air Force faces sig-
nificant readiness challenges due to aging
aircraft and depleted personnel;
(2) Congress must provide the Air Force
regular and sufficient funding to address pro-
curement, maintenance, and staffing short-
falls; and
(3) without this funding, United States na-
tional security is at risk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Wyoming (Ms. CHENEY) and the gen-
tleman from California (Mr.
GARAMENDI) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Wyoming.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on the resolu-
tion under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Wyoming?
There was no objection.
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr.
ARRINGTON), my friend and colleague,
to discuss his resolution.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I
want to thank my friend, the gentle-
woman from the Cowboy State (Ms.
CHENEY), for yielding me time, but
mainly for her leadership on this issue
to ensure that we as a country and as
the leaders of this great Nation fulfill
our most important responsibility to
provide for a common defense, our con-
stitutional first job, to provide for the
common defense, and, I would add, to
secure our liberty and the liberty of
our posterity, because there is no free-
dom without liberty. So God bless the
gentlewoman, and I thank her for lead-
ing the charge here.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to strongly en-
courage my colleagues to support this
resolution, H. Res. 1010, expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives
that the United States Air Force faces
tremendous readiness challenges, re-
flected in a shrinking and dilapidated
aircraft fleet, insufficient personnel,
and dangerous levels of deferred main-
tenance, all of which are due, I think,
in large part, I would say, to budgetary
uncertainty, which impedes the Air
Force’s ability to meet our national se-
curity threats.
Mr. Speaker, there is nothing more
important than the safety of the Amer-
ican people and the security of our
country. To do this, it is real simple.
We have to have a strong military. To
do that, we would need to include a
strong Air Force.
For the past 70 years, our Air Force
has ensured that America’s military
prowess is unmatched in the skies, pro-
tecting our people, our allies, and our
interests around the world.
I am honored to have Dyess Air
Force Base in my backyard, the largest
B–1 bomber base in this country, and I
am proud to represent the brave air-
men of the 7th Bomb Wing and the
317th Airlift Group, and all those in the
Key City and in the Big Country area
who support them.
I know that these men and women,
along with all of our men and women
in the armed services around the world,
are doing all they can every day for our
Nation’s defense, and we as Congress
ought to do all we can to support them.
I think it is a moral imperative to
ensure that our sons and daughters,
that our brothers and sisters who we
ask to risk their families, to risk their
very lives, I think we should, at a min-
imum, make sure they have the tools
and resources necessary to be safe and
successful.
But recently, because of our contin-
ued reliance on temporary funding
measures known as CRs, or continuing
resolutions, and the budget uncer-
tainty and disruption that those cre-
ate, we have hurt the Air Force’s readi-
ness and our combat capabilities.
We have failed, it is hard to believe,
for almost 10 years in a row to fund our
military on time. Temporary spending
measures, coupled with continual de-
fense cuts—I think it is about $200 bil-
lion over the last decade—often delay
procurement of important assets.
Every contract, whether it is to buy a
plane, repair a plane, fuel a plane, or
arm a plane, is adversely affected by
this funding start and stop.
But I think we could put it another
way. This broken funding process, or
budget and appropriations process that
I have been describing, weakens our de-
fense and plays directly into the hands
of our adversaries.
b 1515
Throughout our Nation’s history, our
airmen and airwomen have always an-
swered the call of duty. They should
not pay the price because Congress has
failed to fulfill our duty, which is to
fully fund our military and to do it on
time. That is going to send the right
message to our troops. That will affirm
our support for our troops. And I think
it sends the right message to our en-
emies as well, just as importantly.
Congress, though, has continued to
fail to do this, and it has caused sig-
nificant damage to our entire defense
community, including the U.S. Air
Force.
The Air Force has a 70-year history.
This is the smallest and oldest Air
Force—the smallest and oldest—we
have ever had.
The Heritage Foundation’s ‘‘2018
Index of U.S. Military Strength’’ rates
our Air Force readiness as being mere-
ly marginal. With marginal processes,
marginal inputs and resources, you get
marginal results.
I think both sides of the aisle, my
colleagues and my Democrat col-
leagues, would agree that our troops
deserve better than marginal support.
More than a quarter of our fighter pilot
positions are unfilled, and there is a 10
percent gap between the pilots that the
Air Force has and what they need to
crew their aircraft, a gap that the Air
Force Secretary Heather Wilson said
could ‘‘break the force.’’ That is from
our Secretary of the Air Force.
Last year, almost one-third of the
Air Force’s planes were not flyable,
and the average age of our aircraft is
almost 30 years old.
Here is the worst part: Not only are
we compromising our capabilities, but
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.500 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7648 July 25, 2018
aviation accidents, including fatal ac-
cidents, are on the rise. We now have
four times as many servicemembers
dying in training-related accidents
than in combat.
Mr. Speaker, by June of this year, we
already matched the number of non-
combat crashes in the Air Force than
we had all last year. Between the years
2013 and 2017, we had 133 military acci-
dents leading to deaths. That is a 40
percent increase over that timeframe.
While our Nation’s Air Force fleet
continues to diminish in size and effec-
tiveness, our adversaries, like China,
are modernizing and expanding. The
way I think of it, Mr. Speaker, is with
respect to our investment in national
security and our military strength. We
are retreating while some of our adver-
saries are advancing. That is scary, and
that is unacceptable.
As President Reagan said, weakness
invites aggression. He also said that
peace is achieved through American
strength.
Our first President said that our
military readiness is ‘‘the most effec-
tual means of preserving peace.’’
If we don’t reverse this trend, we as a
Nation will leave ourselves vulnerable
at a time of escalating threats and in-
creasing instability around the world.
That is why we need to give the Air
Force the quantity and the certainty of
resources that match the caliber of our
airmen and their enormous commit-
ment of that sacred duty of protecting
our fellow Americans. If we do this, our
Air Force can continue safeguarding
the skies, remaining the greatest fight-
ing force in the world.
Mr. Speaker, America is still the
leader of the free world, and the world
is safer when America leads and when
America’s military is strong. The
world is counting on us. The American
people and our allies are counting on
us. Most importantly, our brothers and
sisters in uniform are counting on us.
Politicians too often make the im-
portant seem insignificant and the in-
significant important. There is nothing
more important for the American peo-
ple and the future of this Republic than
what we are talking about here today.
Let’s be leaders. Let’s do the right
thing, and let’s support our troops.
Again, I want to thank Representa-
tive CHENEY, along with my fellow Tex-
ans, Chairman THORNBERRY and Chair-
man GRANGER, for their efforts.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume, as long as it does not exceed 20
minutes.
Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from
Texas spoke boldly and correctly. If I
could get a copy of his speech, as I will,
I think I will use it myself.
He covered all the issues that I would
want to cover in talking about the
United States Air Force as a represent-
ative of two very important Air Force
bases, Travis Air Force Base in Fair-
field-Vacaville, California, and Beale
Air Force Base just outside of
Marysville, California.
I found myself not only in sympathy
and empathy, but also marching right
alongside the gentleman from Texas as
he eloquently spoke about the role of
the Air Force and the necessity of Con-
gress to provide the adequate funding
for not only repairing and maintaining
the existing aircraft and bases, but also
to expand and improve.
Certainly, I am looking forward to
the arrival of the KC–46s to Travis Air
Force Base. If Boeing will get that
done, we will get on with it.
However, I want to remind my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
that funding for the military is ulti-
mately dependent upon the revenues of
the Federal Government, which are de-
pendent upon the health of the econ-
omy. Those things go together.
My esteemed colleague from Wyo-
ming, in her remarks on the previous
bill, addressed the issue of how we tax
and who we tax or whether we tax. An
interesting point was raised about this
and whether it is possible to tax too
low.
A situation has arisen in the State of
Oklahoma, where they thought they
could cut taxes continually and every-
thing would grow, and there would be
great opportunities. Well, the oppor-
tunity turned out for the highway pa-
trolmen to buy their own gas, and for
schools to go to 4- and even 3-day ses-
sions, because there was no money.
So my point is this, that we have to
balance things here. I raise this issue
in the context of the appropriate desire
of my colleagues to adequately fund
the military, because I read in the
newspaper yesterday and again today
that my colleagues intend to go to tax
cut 2.0. Very interesting.
In the face of a trillion-dollar deficit
in the 2018–2019 fiscal year, we would do
another massive tax cut in hopes that
the situation would be such for the rev-
enues of the Federal Government that
we could fund everything that the mili-
tary wants and whatever other needs
we decide must be funded.
Well, let’s see. We just borrowed, or
are about to borrow, $12 billion from
China to pay American farmers for
their losses resulting from a trade war
with China in which China was sup-
posed to somehow grow our economy
by not shipping as much to America.
That is convoluted, but it is what we
are going to have to do if we cut taxes
again. We are going to have to grow
the Chinese economy, so we can borrow
money from China, and then import
from them.
I guess this makes sense to some, but
I think we best be very careful here.
Mr. Speaker, I guess some people
would say that I am off subject matter
here, because we are really talking
about fully funding the needs, in this
piece of legislation, of the United
States Air Force, and we should do so.
However, at the same time, we must
consider the revenue sources for the
Federal Government, and we did.
In December 2017, the 435 of us who
are selected by the 350 million Ameri-
cans to represent them, a decision was
made amongst us to slash the revenue
of the Federal Government by more
than $1.5 trillion over the next decade.
Now, my colleagues on the Demo-
cratic side didn’t vote for that, but, ap-
parently, the deficit hawks migrate out
of Washington, D.C., in the winter. I
suspect they are coming back—not
‘‘suspect,’’ they are actually back. The
Speaker of the House tells us that we
must cut Medicaid, Medicare, and So-
cial Security in order to deal with the
deficit that was created by the tax bill.
Well, we shall see.
How are we going to adequately fund
the military in the face of last Decem-
ber’s tax cut, which I will remind folks,
if they care to be reminded, that the
beneficiaries were principally the great
American corporations that were doing
quite well, profitably, prior to the tax
cut, and that somehow promised that
they would bring jobs home, which
they have not. Well, we shall see.
It takes $1.5 trillion out of the Treas-
ury, and my esteemed colleague from
Wyoming said: Look how successful
Oklahoma was.
Well, I don’t think she said that. But
as she was talking about tax cuts, it
came to mind that we ought to think
about Oklahoma and what happens
when the government doesn’t have the
revenue it needs to do the things that
it must do.
Now, maybe you want to argue that
the government must not provide fund-
ing for Social Security. Maybe you
would want to argue that the govern-
ment must not provide money for Med-
icaid, of which some 60 to 70 percent of
the recipients are elderly people in
nursing homes. Maybe we ought not do
that. Or maybe you would want to
argue that the Medicare program for
seniors should be slashed and cut.
Those are all suggestions that the
Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives has made. I disagree.
How do we fund the programs that
Americans need? Surely, they want a
strong Air Force, as I do. And I suspect
they would also want to see that those
seniors in nursing homes are cared for,
and those who are on Medicare are able
to get their drugs and their care, and
that the Social Security checks not be
slashed and reduced. We shall see.
In any case, I support the resolution,
and I think we ought to fully fund the
Air Force.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I just want to insert
some facts into the debate about the
tax cuts. According to CBO estimates,
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is going to
result in an increase in GDP of $1.7
trillion. We are going to see 900,000 new
jobs. Wages will increase by $1.2 tril-
lion. Investments will increase by $600
billion. The tax cuts that we passed in
this House—and my colleague is right,
none of the Democrats voted for it. In
fact, the minority leader has said that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.072 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7649
July 25, 2018
she thinks we ought to reverse those
tax cuts, which would be devastating
to the economy.
We lived through the stagnation of
the Obama years, and we passed a tax
cuts bill that fundamentally changed
the trajectory of this economy. We
have seen 1.3 million jobs added. We
have minority unemployment at the
lowest rates, I believe, in history.
So the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is
working, and it is helping to bring jobs
back. I am really pleased that we are
looking at ways that we can make
those cuts permanent, that we can
make sure that we are helping the mid-
dle class, and that we are helping small
businesses across this country on a per-
manent basis.
We can spend all of the time my col-
league from California would like de-
bating the tax cuts, debating the im-
pact on our economy, but the facts are
clear, that those tax cuts, despite the
politics and the rhetoric, have had the
kind of impact that, frankly, we knew
they would have.
So I am really proud of what we have
done with respect to the tax cuts, and
now we need to make sure that we fund
the military. If we don’t fund the mili-
tary, it doesn’t matter much what else
we do if we don’t provide for the secu-
rity of this Nation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1530
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, may
I inquire how much time I have re-
maining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from California has 12 minutes
remaining.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, if
you are a person who wants to cut
taxes and borrow money from China,
then you can keep the economy going.
In fact, the job growth has been basi-
cally steady for the last 8 years. It has
been in the last year, also, and most of
this year, and we are thankful for that.
Nonetheless, we have a very serious
deficit. The CBO estimate that was
quoted a moment ago actually took
place prior to the tax cut. More recent
estimates indicate that the deficit is
larger than anticipated and that the
growth rate has not expanded to the
point that was anticipated and that the
deficits that are going to be there are
very real. All of that is true.
While there have been increases in
wages, some 2 percent over the last
year, almost 18 months now—and we
are grateful for that—those wages are
less than the inflation rate; and, there-
fore, for those working men and women
across the Nation who have received an
average of 2 percent or so of wage
growth, it has been eaten up by infla-
tion.
The point here is one of this resolu-
tion reminding us that we have a very
important obligation to adequately
fund, in this case, the Air Force; in the
previous piece of legislation, special
operations. Indeed, we do have that ob-
ligation. But at the same time, we need
to have a fiscally sound government.
Unfortunately, what happened last
December was to pull the foundation of
fiscal soundness out from beneath the
government’s revenue stream.
Now, there is a necessity for some ad-
justment in the taxes, and you will get
no debate on our side of the aisle about
the necessity to do that. It would have
been our choice, had we the majority,
to reduce taxes far more than the tax
bill did for the working men and
women and for the smaller businesses
in America, and not for the wealthy
corporations that were doing quite
well, and certainly not to create an
international Tax Code that continues
to encourage the offshoring of Amer-
ican jobs.
That simply happened because the re-
duction in the corporate tax rate for
America went to 20 percent, while
those American corporations operating
offshore could get a 10 percent tax, pro-
viding a very significant benefit to cor-
porations to offshore jobs. I don’t think
we would have done that. Maybe that
is why many of us voted against the
legislation.
There is much more to be said about
it, but the fundamental point at this
moment is this resolution that says
fully fund the Air Force. We are 100
percent for that.
The question we ask is: How are we
to do that in the face of the massive
deficit and, to hear from our Repub-
lican leadership, tax cut 2.0? What does
that mean, on tax cut 1.0? We don’t
know. But I would draw the attention
of all of us to what happens when you
do not have the revenues necessary to
fund the government—Oklahoma.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, may I in-
quire as to how much time I have re-
maining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Wyoming has 101⁄2 min-
utes remaining.
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Okla-
homa (Mr. RUSSELL).
Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague from Wyoming.
Mr. Speaker, I didn’t realize that this
was going to be a defend Oklahoma de-
bate. I invite my colleague, Mr.
GARAMENDI, to come and look at our
thriving economy, our sustained eco-
nomic growth of nearly 6 percent since
2008 when my colleague’s State has
been on the wane.
This thing about deficits and deficit
spending, we have a balanced budget
amendment, unlike my colleague’s
State. And further, we don’t borrow
from the Federal Government to bail
out our State; instead, we pay the bills
ourselves.
Now, I thought that this was a meas-
ure to support our military and to sup-
port the United States Air Force, and
in that we will wholeheartedly agree.
But, Mr. Speaker, I take great pride in
the people of Oklahoma. With one-
tenth of the population, we can do ev-
erything that my colleague on the
other side of the aisle’s State does
itself, and I take great pride in that.
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, in clos-
ing, I want to thank my colleague from
Oklahoma for his remarks. I also want
to thank my colleague from Texas for
this important resolution.
I am honored, Mr. Speaker, to rep-
resent F.E. Warren Air Force Base, lo-
cated in Cheyenne. The missileers of
the Mighty Ninety Missile Wing are re-
sponsible for maintaining, protecting,
and manning ICBMs that are deployed
throughout Wyoming, Nebraska, and
Colorado. These missiles remain on
alert 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
They are one of our most important de-
terrents against attack from our adver-
saries.
But these Minuteman 3 missiles, Mr.
Speaker, were developed in the 1960s
and deployed in the 1970s. We have
made modernization and modifications
since then, but we desperately need ad-
ditional modernization to these ICBMs
and to our force in general to keep pace
with adversaries like the Russians who
have made significant investments in
their ICBM force. We cannot do that,
Mr. Speaker, without predictable and
reliable funding that is required to
complete such a complicated and com-
plex multiyear project.
The ICBM replacement program,
known as the Ground-Based Strategic
Deterrent, is slated to receive the nec-
essary increased funding in fiscal year
2019 so that we can accelerate that pro-
gram. But for these resources to be ef-
fective, Mr. Speaker, we must make
sure we get the additional funding to
the Air Force on time.
As my colleague from Texas talked
about, Mr. Speaker, the Air Force faces
readiness and modernization chal-
lenges, and the ICBM replacement is
just one of those.
Once again, Mr. Speaker, we have to
stop allowing our dysfunction and we
have got to stop allowing the demands,
frankly, by some on the other side of
the aisle to hold our defense funding
hostage. We have got to stop allowing
those political debates to put our men
and women in uniform at greater risk
and, frankly, the long-term national
security of this Nation at risk.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the adoption of
this resolution, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Wyoming (Ms.
CHENEY) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 1010.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.073 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7650 July 25, 2018
EXPRESSING SENSE OF HOUSE
THAT NOT FULLY RESOURCING
THE UNITED STATES ARMY IN A
TIMELY MANNER ERODES THE
ARMY’S ABILITY TO MAINTAIN
READINESS
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 1007) expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives
that not fully resourcing the United
States Army in a timely manner erodes
the Army’s ability to maintain readi-
ness and poses risk to the Army’s abil-
ity to conduct military operations.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 1007
Whereas, in previous years, the United
States Army delayed supply transactions,
and later had to order parts from sources
outside the Department of Defense supply
system and pay more to get parts fabricated
or shipped quickly to keep up with mainte-
nance timelines;
Whereas, in previous years, the Army was
forced to restrict to home station training
due to not having enough resources;
Whereas the Army, if not fully resourced,
will postpone all noncritical maintenance
work orders until later in the year when
resourced correctly;
Whereas the Army is attempting to add
military personnel to meet critical skill
gaps, and if not fully resourced, will delay
the recruitment of new personnel which will
result in units continuing to lack the full
complement of personnel needed to be 100-
percent effective;
Whereas, if not fully resourced, noncritical
travel, which includes relocating soldiers’
families (change of duty station) will be
postponed and may result in missed school
year timing for dependent spouses and their
children;
Whereas United States Army Forces Com-
mand is responsible for the training, mobili-
zation, deployment, sustainment, and trans-
formation of conventional forces to provide
relevant and ready land power to combatant
commanders;
Whereas global threats require the Army
to prepare to fight both terrorist organiza-
tions as well as possible near-peer adver-
saries; and
Whereas it takes both significant time and
resources to build a professional Army: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) finds that not resourcing the Depart-
ment of the Army in a timely manner erodes
readiness and puts the United States Army
at a disadvantage; and
(2) affirms that Congress should resource
all our warfighters prior to the beginning of
a new fiscal year.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Wyoming (Ms. CHENEY) and the gen-
tleman from California (Mr.
GARAMENDI) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Wyoming.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on the resolu-
tion under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Wyoming?
There was no objection.
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. RUS-
SELL), who is my colleague from the
Armed Services Committee, to discuss
his resolution.
Mr. RUSSELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from Wyoming for
her important leadership in the
strengthening of our military and my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
that I work with well on the Armed
Services Committee.
Mr. Speaker, nothing is too good for
the troops, and nothing is what they
get—at least on time, year after year,
by this Congress. Our lack of diligence
and commitment to provide timely
funds in Congress erodes military read-
iness and weakens our Nation. H. Res.
1007 helps fix that for the United States
Army.
For me, these are not academic or
political issues but, rather, experien-
tial. Having served as a combat infan-
tryman in more than two decades of
uniformed service prior to coming to
Congress, these are not issues that I
take lightly. I have lived the hardships
created when Congress is derelict in its
duty.
When supply transactions are de-
layed, the Army is forced to order
parts outside the Department of De-
fense supply system, pay for more
parts, and risk getting any spare parts
at all. Soldiers are severely hampered
in their training, being forced to stay
at home stations with limitations on
equipment, fuel, and ammunition. Con-
sequently, the readiness of units dimin-
ishes, and their morale flags.
Even if the Army were to somehow
make the best of those circumstances
and attempt to send their warriors to
school in the time that is created be-
cause they can’t train to maybe in-
crease their vital skills, they can’t.
Their funds are delayed, so their
schools get canceled, and the time is
gone forever.
Adding insult to injury, many people
who were promised schools to make
important promotions have those
schools taken from their grasp, and,
disillusioned, they exit the force, af-
fecting recruitment and the trained
warriors who had invested years up to
that point.
Another insult to injury is the relo-
cation of families. It gets postponed,
and it causes undue family hardship on
those in uniform, missed school for
their children, and stresses on the war-
rior at home which not only affect his
performance, but what is sad is that it
was all preventable, while we in this
Congress who are responsible for this
and the timely delivery of funds fly
home to our families weekend after
weekend without interruption.
Our founding documents state that
we should promote the general welfare
and provide for the common defense.
Both sides of the aisle need to be mind-
ful that these founding documents do
not say provide the general welfare and
promote, somehow, the common de-
fense. If we cannot defend the Republic,
all of these other things are simply not
going to matter.
Our lack of diligence in Congress cre-
ates reduced readiness, a less capable
military, cancellation of training, un-
told family hardships, and a less secure
nation. It is so easily solved. We simply
do the work, sign the bills, and get
them to the President by October 1.
It is pretty simple, and it is extraor-
dinarily important. Today is the 25th
of July. There is plenty of time.
The question that I and warriors who
still serve in uniform ask is: Will this
Congress have the heart and the guts
to do what is right?
The clock ticks. Let’s stop the mad-
ness. Let’s stop the debate of ancillary
things that don’t have anything to do
with providing for the common defense,
and let’s end the continuing resolu-
tions that affect our military funding.
Run a clean defense measure.
If we are in so much agreement about
funding our military, then my chal-
lenge to both sides of the aisle is let’s
run a clean measure. Let’s not attach
anything else to it, no Labor-H, no
other appropriations measures, a sim-
ple, clean measure that we all agree to
anyway and we pass year after year.
Then we can get it to the President’s
desk, and our warriors who give us our
freedom and allow us to continue with
this great Republic for generation to
generation will have what they need.
We have not done it in years. This
could be a first and could be a hall-
mark of the 115th Congress.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I want to thank the gentleman from
Oklahoma for making me aware of the
current financial situation, and I will
remind him that California is running
a very significant budget surplus at the
present time. Both of our economies
are presently growing, and we are
thankful for that.
I also want to thank the gentleman
for being a voice of knowledge on the
Armed Services Committee, for his
many years of service in the United
States Army, and for bringing us this
resolution today calling for the full
and timely funding of the United
States Army.
b 1545
My father, who served in the Army
and ended that service as a major,
would have been very pleased to hear
that there was adequate and timely
funding.
I know I have said quite enough on
the issue of how we are going to fund
the government, and I am sure my col-
leagues across the aisle probably think
I have said too much. If they feel that
way, so be it. But I do think that we
need to understand the need to be bal-
anced as we move forward.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.075 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7651
July 25, 2018
I announce my support for this reso-
lution, along with the two previous res-
olutions, and look forward to its imme-
diate passage.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague,
Mr. GARAMENDI from California, for his
support of these resolutions and for his
time focusing on them today on the
floor.
I also want to thank my colleague
from Oklahoma. There is no stronger
supporter of our men and women in
uniform that I know of in this body
than Mr. RUSSELL from Oklahoma. He
understands, I would say, more than
most because of his own service that
what we do in this body and what we do
on this floor has a direct impact on the
levels of risk, on the safety, and on the
effectiveness of our men and women in
uniform.
Mr. Speaker, this resolution high-
lights the damage that we have seen to
the readiness of the United States
Army over 9 years of continuing reso-
lutions, sequestration, and overall
budget dysfunction.
I want to echo the remarks of my
colleague from Oklahoma. Let’s change
that. Let’s make this a new start. Let’s
make this the year that we don’t hold
military funding hostage and we pass a
clean Defense Appropriations bill. We
have done it here in the House. We
know they can do it in the Senate. We
need to get the bill, take it up, and
pass it.
All these other arguments and dis-
cussions are important. They are im-
portant for the future of the Nation.
They are important for our economy.
But we should not force our men and
women in uniform to have to wait, to
have stand by and watch, not knowing
whether we are going to be able to pass
the bills that they need for the funding
they need to continue to keep us all
safe.
We did our job for fiscal year 2018, al-
though we were too slow, but we have
now appropriated the $700 billion for
that fiscal year. Let’s do it this year on
time, with sufficient funding, and with
a level of accountability, and also
making sure that our men and women
in uniform know that those funds are
coming to them.
It is going to take us more than a
single year to get ourselves out of the
crisis we face, Mr. Speaker. We have
made a good start. But I think we
should all come together, both sides of
the aisle and, frankly, on both sides of
Capitol Hill, to say: Look, this is an
issue on which we are going to agree.
The security of the Nation is an issue
that ought to cross party lines. The
support that we are seeing for this res-
olution and for all the resolutions we
have done for our services dem-
onstrates that. Let’s make this the
year that we do it differently and we do
it right, Mr. Speaker.
With that, I thank everyone who has
participated in this effort. I thank
Chairman THORNBERRY and Chairman
GRANGER for their important efforts.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this
resolution, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Wyoming (Ms.
CHENEY) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.R.
1007.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RESTORING ACCESS TO
MEDICATION ACT OF 2018
Ms. JENKINS of Kansas. Mr. Speak-
er, pursuant to House Resolution 1012, I
call up the bill (H.R. 6199) to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to in-
clude certain over-the-counter medical
products as qualified medical expenses,
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 1012, in lieu of
the amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means printed in
the bill, an amendment in the nature of
a substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 115–82 is adopt-
ed, and the bill, as amended, is consid-
ered read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 6199
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Restoring Access to Medication and Mod-
ernizing Health Savings Accounts Act of 2018’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. First dollar coverage flexibility for high
deductible health plans.
Sec. 3. Treatment of direct primary care service
arrangements.
Sec. 4. Certain employment related services not
treated as disqualifying coverage
for purposes of health savings ac-
counts.
Sec. 5. Contributions permitted if spouse has a
health flexible spending account.
Sec. 6. FSA and HRA terminations or conver-
sions to fund HSAs.
Sec. 7. Inclusion of certain over-the-counter
medical products as qualified
medical expenses.
Sec. 8. Certain amounts paid for physical activ-
ity, fitness, and exercise treated
as amounts paid for medical care.
SEC. 2. FIRST DOLLAR COVERAGE FLEXIBILITY
FOR HIGH DEDUCTIBLE HEALTH
PLANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 223(c)(2) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) FIRST DOLLAR COVERAGE FLEXIBILITY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A plan shall not fail to be
treated as a high deductible health plan by rea-
son of failing to have a deductible for not more
than $250 of specified services for self-only cov-
erage (twice such amount in the case of family
coverage) during a plan year.
‘‘(ii) SPECIFIED SERVICES.—For purposes of
this subparagraph, the term ‘specified services’
means, with respect to a plan, services other
than preventive care (within the meaning of
subparagraph (C)) identified under the terms of
the plan as being services to which clause (i) ap-
plies.’’.
(b) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—Section 223(g)(1)
of such Code is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and (c)(2)(A)’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘, (c)(2)(A), and
(c)(2)(E)’’, and
(2) in subparagraph (B)—
(A) by striking ‘‘such taxable year’’ in the
matter preceding clause (i) and inserting ‘‘the
taxable year (plan year in the case of the dollar
amount in subsection (c)(2)(E))’’, and
(B) by striking ‘‘clause (ii)’’ and inserting
‘‘clauses (ii) and (iii)’’ in clause (i), by striking
‘‘and’’ at the end of clause (i), by striking the
period at the end of clause (ii) and inserting ‘‘,
and’’, and by inserting after clause (ii) the fol-
lowing new clause:
‘‘(iii) in the case of the dollar amount in sub-
section (c)(2)(E) for plan years beginning in cal-
endar years after 2019, ‘calendar year 2018’.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply with respect to plan
years beginning after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 3. TREATMENT OF DIRECT PRIMARY CARE
SERVICE ARRANGEMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 223(c)(1) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(D) TREATMENT OF DIRECT PRIMARY CARE
SERVICE ARRANGEMENTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A direct primary care serv-
ice arrangement shall not be treated as a health
plan for purposes of subparagraph (A)(ii).
‘‘(ii) DIRECT PRIMARY CARE SERVICE ARRANGE-
MENT.—For purposes of this paragraph—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘direct primary
care service arrangement’ means, with respect to
any individual, an arrangement under which
such individual is provided medical care (as de-
fined in section 213(d)) consisting solely of pri-
mary care services provided by primary care
practitioners (as defined in section 1833(x)(2)(A)
of the Social Security Act, determined without
regard to clause (ii) thereof), if the sole com-
pensation for such care is a fixed periodic fee.
‘‘(II) LIMITATION.—With respect to any indi-
vidual for any month, such term shall not in-
clude any arrangement if the aggregate fees for
all direct primary care service arrangements (de-
termined without regard to this subclause) with
respect to such individual for such month ex-
ceed $150 (twice such dollar amount in the case
of an individual with any direct primary care
service arrangement (as so determined) that cov-
ers more than one individual).
‘‘(iii) CERTAIN SERVICES SPECIFICALLY EX-
CLUDED FROM TREATMENT AS PRIMARY CARE
SERVICES.—For purposes of this paragraph, the
term ‘primary care services’ shall not include—
‘‘(I) procedures that require the use of general
anesthesia,
‘‘(II) prescription drugs (other than vaccines),
and
‘‘(III) laboratory services not typically admin-
istered in an ambulatory primary care setting.
The Secretary, after consultation with the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services, shall
issue regulations or other guidance regarding
the application of this clause.’’.
(b) DIRECT PRIMARY CARE SERVICE ARRANGE-
MENT FEES TREATED AS MEDICAL EXPENSES.—
Section 223(d)(2)(C) is amended by striking ‘‘or’’
at the end of clause (iii), by striking the period
at the end of clause (iv) and inserting ‘‘, or’’,
and by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(v) any direct primary care service arrange-
ment.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.077 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7652 July 25, 2018
(c) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—Section 223(g)(1)
of such Code, as amended by section 2(b), is
amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘(c)(1)(D)(ii)(II),’’ after
‘‘(b)(2),’’ each place it appears, and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and
(iii)’’ and inserting ‘‘, (iii) and (iv)’’ in clause
(i), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of clause (ii),
by striking the period at the end of clause (iii)
and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and by inserting after
clause (iii) the following new clause:
‘‘(iv) in the case of the dollar amount in sub-
section (c)(1)(D)(ii)(II) for taxable years begin-
ning in calendar years after 2019, ‘calendar year
2018’.’’.
(d) REPORTING OF DIRECT PRIMARY CARE
SERVICE ARRANGEMENT FEES ON W–2.—Section
6051(a) of such Code is amended by striking
‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph (16), by striking
the period at the end of paragraph (17) and in-
serting ‘‘, and’’, and by inserting after para-
graph (17) the following new paragraph:
‘‘(18) in the case of a direct primary care serv-
ice arrangement (as defined in section
223(c)(1)(D)(ii)) which is provided in connection
with employment, the aggregate fees for such
arrangement for such employee.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to months beginning
after December 31, 2018, in taxable years ending
after such date.
SEC. 4. CERTAIN EMPLOYMENT RELATED SERV-
ICES NOT TREATED AS DISQUALI-
FYING COVERAGE FOR PURPOSES OF
HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 223(c)(1) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by sec-
tion 3(a), is amended by adding at the end the
following new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) SPECIAL RULE FOR QUALIFIED ITEMS AND
SERVICES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—An individual shall not be
treated as covered under a health plan for pur-
poses of subparagraph (A)(ii) merely because the
individual, in connection with the employment
of the individual or the individual’s spouse, re-
ceives (or is eligible to receive) qualified items
and services at—
‘‘(I) a healthcare facility located at a facility
owned or leased by the employer of the indi-
vidual (or of the individual’s spouse), or oper-
ated primarily for the benefit of such employer’s
employees, or
‘‘(II) a healthcare facility located within a su-
permarket, pharmacy, or similar retail establish-
ment.
‘‘(ii) QUALIFIED ITEMS AND SERVICES DE-
FINED.—For purposes of this subparagraph, the
term ‘qualified items and services’ means the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(I) Physical examinations.
‘‘(II) Immunizations, including injections of
antigens provided by employees.
‘‘(III) Drugs other than a prescribed drug (as
such term is defined in section 213(d)(3)).
‘‘(IV) Treatment for injuries occurring in the
course of employment.
‘‘(V) Drug testing, if required as a condition
of employment.
‘‘(VI) Hearing or vision screenings.
‘‘(VII) Other similar items and services that
do not provide significant benefits in the nature
of medical care.
‘‘(iii) AGGREGATION.—For purposes of clause
(i)(I), all persons treated as a single employer
under subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section
414 shall be treated as a single employer.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to months beginning
after December 31, 2018, in taxable years ending
after such date.
SEC. 5. CONTRIBUTIONS PERMITTED IF SPOUSE
HAS A HEALTH FLEXIBLE SPENDING
ACCOUNT.
(a) CONTRIBUTIONS PERMITTED IF SPOUSE HAS
A HEALTH FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNT.—Sec-
tion 223(c)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 is amended by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end
of clause (ii), by striking the period at the end
of clause (iii) and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and by in-
serting after clause (iii) the following new
clause:
‘‘(iv) coverage under a health flexible spend-
ing arrangement of the spouse of the individual
for any plan year of such arrangement if the
aggregate reimbursements under such arrange-
ment for such year do not exceed the aggregate
expenses which would be eligible for reimburse-
ment under such arrangement if such expenses
were determined without regard to any expenses
paid or incurred with respect to such indi-
vidual.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by this section shall apply to plan years begin-
ning after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 6. FSA AND HRA TERMINATIONS OR CON-
VERSIONS TO FUND HSAS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 106(e)(2) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘(2) QUALIFIED HSA DISTRIBUTION.—For pur-
poses of this subsection—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified HSA
distribution’ means, with respect to any em-
ployee, a distribution from a health flexible
spending arrangement or health reimbursement
arrangement of such employee directly to a
health savings account of such employee if—
‘‘(i) such distribution is made in connection
with such employee establishing coverage under
a high deductible health plan (as defined in sec-
tion 223(c)(2)) after a significant period of not
having such coverage, and
‘‘(ii) such arrangement is described in section
223(c)(1)(B)(iii) with respect to the portion of
the plan year after such distribution is made.
‘‘(B) DOLLAR LIMITATION.—The aggregate
amount of distributions from health flexible
spending arrangements and health reimburse-
ment arrangements of any employee which may
be treated as qualified HSA distributions in con-
nection with an establishment of coverage de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(i) shall not exceed
the dollar amount in effect under section
125(i)(1) (twice such amount in the case of cov-
erage which is described in section
223(b)(2)(B)).’’.
(b) PARTIAL REDUCTION OF LIMITATION ON DE-
DUCTIBLE HSA CONTRIBUTIONS.—Section
223(b)(4) of such Code is amended by striking
‘‘and’’ at the end of subparagraph (B), by strik-
ing the period at the end of subparagraph (C)
and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and by inserting after
subparagraph (C) the following new subpara-
graph:
‘‘(D) so much of any qualified HSA distribu-
tion (as defined in section 106(e)(2)) made to a
health savings account of such individual dur-
ing the taxable year as does not exceed the ag-
gregate increases in the balance of the arrange-
ment from which such distribution is made
which occur during the portion of the plan year
which precedes such distribution (other than
any balance carried over to such plan year and
determined without regard to any decrease in
such balance during such portion of the plan
year).’’.
(c) CONVERSION TO HSA-COMPATIBLE AR-
RANGEMENT FOR REMAINDER OF PLAN YEAR.—
Section 223(c)(1)(B)(iii) of such Code, as amend-
ed by section 5(a), is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(iii) coverage under a health flexible spend-
ing arrangement or health reimbursement ar-
rangement for the portion of the plan year after
a qualified HSA distribution (as defined in sec-
tion 106(e)(2) determined without regard to sub-
paragraph (A)(ii) thereof) is made, if the terms
of such arrangement which apply for such por-
tion of the plan year are such that, if such
terms applied for the entire plan year, then such
arrangement would not be taken into account
under subparagraph (A)(ii) of this paragraph
for such plan year, and’’.
(d) INCLUSION OF QUALIFIED HSA DISTRIBU-
TIONS ON W–2.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 6051(a) of such Code,
as amended by section 3(d), is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph (17), by
striking the period at the end of paragraph (18)
and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and by inserting after
paragraph (18) the following new paragraph:
‘‘(19) the amount of any qualified HSA dis-
tribution (as defined in section 106(e)(2)) with
respect to such employee.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
6051(a)(12) of such Code is amended by inserting
‘‘(other than any qualified HSA distribution, as
defined in section 106(e)(2))’’ before the comma
at the end.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to distributions made
after December 31, 2018, in taxable years ending
after such date.
SEC. 7. INCLUSION OF CERTAIN OVER-THE-
COUNTER MEDICAL PRODUCTS AS
QUALIFIED MEDICAL EXPENSES.
(a) HSAS.—Section 223(d)(2) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—
(1) by striking the last sentence of subpara-
graph (A) and inserting the following: ‘‘For
purposes of this subparagraph, amounts paid
for menstrual care products shall be treated as
paid for medical care.’’, and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(D) MENSTRUAL CARE PRODUCT.—For pur-
poses of this paragraph, the term ‘menstrual
care product’ means a tampon, pad, liner, cup,
sponge, or similar product used by women with
respect to menstruation or other genital-tract se-
cretions.’’.
(b) ARCHER MSAS.—Section 220(d)(2)(A) of
such Code is amended by striking the last sen-
tence and inserting the following: ‘‘For purposes
of this subparagraph, amounts paid for men-
strual care products (as defined in section
223(d)(2)(D)) shall be treated as paid for medical
care.’’.
(c) HEALTH FLEXIBLE SPENDING ARRANGE-
MENTS AND HEALTH REIMBURSEMENT ARRANGE-
MENTS.—Section 106 of such Code is amended by
striking subsection (f) and inserting the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(f) REIMBURSEMENTS FOR MENSTRUAL CARE
PRODUCTS.—For purposes of this section and
section 105, expenses incurred for menstrual care
products (as defined in section 223(d)(2)(D))
shall be treated as incurred for medical care.’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATES.—
(1) DISTRIBUTIONS FROM HEALTH SAVINGS AC-
COUNTS.—The amendments made by subsections
(a) and (b) shall apply to amounts paid after
December 31, 2018.
(2) REIMBURSEMENTS.—The amendment made
by subsection (c) shall apply to expenses in-
curred after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 8. CERTAIN AMOUNTS PAID FOR PHYSICAL
ACTIVITY, FITNESS, AND EXERCISE
TREATED AS AMOUNTS PAID FOR
MEDICAL CARE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 213(d)(1) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of subparagraph (C), by
striking the period at the end of subparagraph
(D) and inserting ‘‘, or’’, and by adding at the
end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) for qualified sports and fitness ex-
penses.’’.
(b) QUALIFIED SPORTS AND FITNESS EX-
PENSES.—Section 213(d) of such Code is amended
by adding at the end the following paragraph:
‘‘(12) QUALIFIED SPORTS AND FITNESS EX-
PENSES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified sports
and fitness expenses’ means amounts paid for—
‘‘(i) membership at a fitness facility,
‘‘(ii) participation or instruction in a program
of qualified physical activity, or
‘‘(iii) safety equipment for use in a program
(including a self-directed program) of qualified
physical activity.
‘‘(B) LIMITATIONS.—
‘‘(i) OVERALL DOLLAR LIMITATION.—The ag-
gregate amount treated as qualified sports and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A25JY7.019 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7653
July 25, 2018
fitness expenses with respect to any taxpayer for
any taxable year shall not exceed $500 (twice
such amount in the case of a joint return or a
head of household (as defined in section 2(b))).
‘‘(ii) DOLLAR LIMITATION ON SAFETY EQUIP-
MENT.—The amount treated as qualified sports
and fitness expenses with respect to any item of
safety equipment described in subparagraph
(A)(iii) shall not exceed $250.
‘‘(iii) EXCLUSION OF EXERCISE VIDEOS, ETC.—
Qualified sports and fitness expenses shall not
include videos, books, or similar materials.
‘‘(C) QUALIFIED PHYSICAL ACTIVITY.—For pur-
poses of this paragraph—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), the term ‘qualified physical activity’
means any physical exercise or physical activ-
ity.
‘‘(ii) EXCLUSIONS.—The Secretary, after con-
sultation with the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, shall issue guidance to deter-
mine for purposes of this paragraph what does
not constitute a qualified physical activity, in-
cluding golf, hunting, sailing, horseback riding,
and other similar activities.
‘‘(D) FITNESS FACILITY DEFINED.—For pur-
poses of subparagraph (A)(i), the term ‘fitness
facility’ means a facility—
‘‘(i) providing instruction in a program of
qualified physical activity or facilities for quali-
fied physical activity,
‘‘(ii) which is not a private club owned and
operated by its members,
‘‘(iii) whose health or fitness facility is not in-
cidental to its overall function and purpose, and
‘‘(iv) which is fully compliant with applicable
State and Federal anti-discrimination laws.
‘‘(E) PROGRAMS WHICH INCLUDE COMPONENTS
OTHER QUALIFIED PHYSICAL ACTIVITY.—Rules
similar to the rules of paragraph (6) shall apply
in the case of any program or facility that in-
cludes qualified physical activity (or facilities
therefore) and also other components. For pur-
poses of the preceding sentence, travel and ac-
commodations shall be treated as an other com-
ponent.
‘‘(F) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—In the case of
any taxable year beginning in a calendar year
after 2019, the $500 amount in subparagraph
(B)(i) and the $250 amount in subparagraph
(B)(ii) shall each be increased by an amount
equal to—
‘‘(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by
‘‘(ii) the cost-of-living adjustment determined
under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in
which such taxable year begins, determined by
substituting ‘calendar year 2018’ for ‘calendar
year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.
If any increase determined under the preceding
sentence is not a multiple of $10, such increase
shall be rounded to the next lowest multiple of
$10.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to taxable years be-
ginning after December 31, 2018.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill,
as amended, shall be debatable for 1
hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Ways and
Means.
The gentlewoman from Kansas (Ms.
JENKINS) and the gentleman from Or-
egon (Mr. BLUMENAUER) each will con-
trol 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Kansas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JENKINS of Kansas. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members may have 5 legislative days
within which to revise and extend their
remarks and include extraneous mate-
rials on the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Kansas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JENKINS of Kansas. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to come to
the floor today to speak in support of
the Restoring Access to Medication
and Modernizing Health Savings Ac-
count Act of 2018.
This legislation makes a variety of
simple but much-need changes to
health savings accounts, or HSAs, rules
to ensure that folks have more access
and choice when using their HSAs.
This bill contains five separate bipar-
tisan pieces of legislation that passed
the Ways and Means Committee earlier
this month. It includes a bipartisan
policy by Mr. ROSKAM and Mr. THOMP-
SON that would allow HSA-eligible
plans to offer a certain amount of first-
dollar coverage in their plan design
without losing their HSA-eligibility.
This allows HSA plans to offer cov-
erage for valuable services like tele-
health or primary care appointments
without a deductible.
The bill permits patients with HSAs
to access the innovative and patient-
centered direct primary care arrange-
ments with HSA plans, provisions
championed by the bipartisan team of
Mr. PAULSEN and Mr. BLUMENAUER.
The bill also allows coverage for cer-
tain medical services from a retail or
onsite clinic and permits contributions
to an HSA if their spouse has a health
FSA, which is prohibited today.
Another commonsense provision in
the bill allows rollovers from other
tax-advantaged health accounts to be
able to fund HSAs. These proposals
were included in Mr. KELLY and Mr.
BLUMENAUER’s bipartisan legislation.
Additionally, this bill contains the
PHIT Act, introduced in a bipartisan
manner by Mr. JASON SMITH and Mr.
KIND, that would allow certain quali-
fied fitness expenses to be eligible
items that can be paid for with tax-ad-
vantaged dollars, offsetting a portion
of their costs and promoting healthy
activity.
Lastly, this legislation repeals the
Affordable Care Act’s unnecessary bar-
riers when it comes to using tax-advan-
taged health accounts to purchase
over-the-counter medicines, something
that I have been pleased to work on
with my good friend Congressman KIND
for the last several years, and I am en-
couraged that the bipartisan duo of
Representatives MENG and PAULSEN
have also joined us in introducing the
underlying legislation.
In addition to expanding access for
over-the-counter medication, the bill
also allows for feminine hygiene prod-
ucts to be considered a qualified med-
ical expense.
Since the passage of the Affordable
Care Act, Americans have had to seek
prescriptions in order to use their
health savings and flexible spending
accounts on safe and effective over-the-
counter medicines. This legislation
would end the need for those prescrip-
tions.
It doesn’t make any sense to require
the millions of American families that
use HSAs and FSAs to manage their
healthcare needs to go to the doctor in
order to access over-the-counter medi-
cines for things like basic pain man-
agement and cold and allergy symp-
toms.
Nobody benefits from this nonsen-
sical policy that requires consumers to
jump through unnecessary hoops and
increases the burdens on the
healthcare system, all while providing
no medical benefit. Over-the-counter
medicines are often the frontline treat-
ment for many common illnesses and
for maintenance of chronic diseases,
and they should be treated as medi-
cally reimbursable healthcare thera-
pies, just as prescription medications.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased the House
is considering H.R. 6199, which gives in-
dividuals and families more control
over their healthcare spending and in-
creases their options when it comes to
health savings accounts.
Today marks a nice opportunity to
pass bipartisan legislation to simply
make it easier for consumers to meet
their basic medical needs. These are
commonsense, simple, bipartisan solu-
tions, and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to be here
with Ms. JENKINS, moving forward on
this legislation. It represents an oppor-
tunity for us to deal with a series of, as
she mentioned, bipartisan ideas, rel-
atively simple, to enhance service de-
livery.
I state from the outset that I am
troubled that we were not able to pro-
vide opportunities to pay for these.
They carry a cost. In committee, even
though I thought they were a good
idea, I voted against some of them be-
cause they were rather expensive.
In the aggregate, these are things,
moving forward, that will improve
healthcare, and I am hopeful that, as
we move along the process, we can find
some ways to offset the costs involved.
Some of us have philosophical ques-
tions about the role of HSAs and how it
fits overall, but this legislation will
make key consumer-friendly improve-
ments to our existing system. Direct
primary care medical homes are an im-
portant example of successful delivery
reforms that will become easier to ac-
cess under this legislation.
DPC arrangements offer individuals
access to comprehensive primary care
and prevention services in a medical
home setting for a flat monthly fee, as
opposed to concierge services that
some people have in mind. Most of
these practices typically charge a low
monthly fee, perhaps $50 to $100, in
most cases, and they serve low- and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY7.019 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7654 July 25, 2018
moderate-income patients. These fees
support the delivery of high-quality,
coordinated care by providing better
healthcare upfront in primary care set-
tings.
DPC practices reduce unnecessary
hospital and specialty care, as well as
administrative expenses. This empow-
ers the doctor-patient relationship, en-
abling providers to resist financial in-
centives that distort the decision-
making process in primary care.
It also reduces the conveyor belt
process, where people are typically
shuttled into the office in 8-minute in-
crements. This is not the case in direct
primary care. It is not uncommon for
appointments to last half an hour or
even an hour. So they build a better re-
lationship with patients, and they are
able to better understand and address
healthcare needs.
By offering a high level of access to
primary care, evidence shows that di-
rect primary care medical homes im-
prove health outcomes and reduce
costs. Today, DPC medical homes serve
individuals of all ages and income in at
least 47 States.
This legislation simplifies existing
IRS regulations and clarifies that di-
rect primary care medical homes are
qualified health expenses—medical
services—and not health plans.
I personally question the IRS ruling.
We have debated with them, but we
have lost that. We fix it with this legis-
lation.
b 1600
As more individuals and employers
seek to utilize the direct primary care
delivery model, it is important that
this outdated tax barrier not get in the
way of patients accessing this success-
ful model.
The legislation will allow HSA plans
to cover onsite employee clinics. Think
for a moment about the nursing sta-
tions that we have here in the House of
Representatives to provide that serv-
ice. They can offer physical exams, im-
munization, over-the-counter drugs,
drug testing, hearing and vision screen-
ing, and other minor primary care pre-
ventive services to help employers as-
semble a benefits package for their em-
ployees that is both practical and can
give them a competitive edge.
Allowing employees to access this
basic healthcare service at work means
it doesn’t disrupt the worksite. It is
more convenient for them; it is better
for the employer.
Another key consumer change made
by this bill is to recognize that employ-
ees change jobs. This bill allows indi-
viduals to streamline the conversion of
a medical savings account, flexible sav-
ings account, or HSA so they won’t
lose savings when they change jobs.
These reasonable changes will help
consumers make the most of their em-
ployer-sponsored coverage.
Now—make no mistake—while this
legislation will certainly help some
consumers, it doesn’t atone for the sys-
tematic sabotage that we have seen of
the Affordable Care Act by the admin-
istration and some of my Republican
colleagues. By zeroing out the mandate
penalty, estimates are that insurance
premiums will rise 15 percent. None of
these bills before us today undo that
premium hike that is visited upon our
constituents unnecessarily.
These premium increases are coming
after Republicans gave insurance com-
panies billions in tax cuts in their tax
bills. Republican attempts to expand
HSAs is no replacement for the Afford-
able Care Act’s financial assistance.
Attempts to expand HSAs are a con-
tinuation of a platform of shifting fam-
ilies into health plans which provide
fewer health benefits and higher out-of-
pocket costs, while providing greater
tax benefits for those who need them
least.
HSAs and high-deductible healthcare
plans shift costs to consumers without
bending the cost curve or addressing
underlying costs of medical care in the
United States. I think we can and
should do better.
For instance, the President has
promised action on lowering prescrip-
tion drug costs. These bills today do
nothing to lower the cost of drugs con-
sumers buy, and seek to move more
people into plans that provide only cat-
astrophic coverage, exposing more peo-
ple to pay the full freight of drug price
hikes.
Now, we have legislation before our
committees that could move forward to
do something about this, and I am sad-
dened, despite Trump’s talking about
it, that we have really not taken ac-
tion to do so. And we could, on a bipar-
tisan basis, if we were enabled to do so.
The collection of bills on the floor
this week will reduce Federal revenues
by about $90 billion and will do nothing
to reduce the number of uninsured peo-
ple that will increase as a result of pol-
icy changes my Republican friends
have done in this Congress. Their sabo-
tage efforts under the Trump adminis-
tration have caused millions of people
to lose coverage, and millions more
will do so in the future.
Now we are seeing, in the budget pro-
posal, my Republican friends proposing
to cut Medicare and Medicaid by near-
ly $1 trillion to try and pay for the
deficits that have been exaggerated by
tax cuts they have enacted. The bills
that we will be considering, especially
the next one, will only add fuel to that
fire.
So, I am pleased that we have got
some bipartisan pieces that we can
move forward. I am hopeful that we
don’t abandon a sense of fiscal respon-
sibility to be able to work together to
pay for them, and I hope that we can
encourage some of my friends on the
other side of the aisle to dial back the
assault on the Affordable Care Act, es-
pecially by the administration, so that
we don’t destabilize the system fur-
ther, drive up costs, and increase the
number of uninsured.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. JENKINS of Kansas. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr. RICE), a dis-
tinguished member of the House Ways
and Means Committee.
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I am proud to stand before
you today to discuss two bills that ex-
pand choice and offer lower cost. And
lower cost and choice are what are
needed in healthcare.
Back home in South Carolina, the av-
erage premium before ObamaCare, in
2013, in the individual market, was
$233. In 2017—which the premiums were
set before the President took office—
before the ‘‘assault’’ on ObamaCare
that my colleague was speaking of, the
premium reached $512. That is a $279-
per-month increase in 4 years, a 120
percent increase from 2013 to 2017.
Before ObamaCare, 85 percent of the
people in the country were covered by
health insurance. At the peak, under
the Affordable Care Act, 91 percent
were covered. So we covered 6 percent
more people, and that is a good thing.
But what was the cost of that? To
cover 6 percent more of our population,
the other 85 percent, who were already
covered, either by Medicare, Medicaid,
or private insurance, had to pay an-
other 120 percent on their premiums in
South Carolina, 105 percent nation-
wide. And the premiums are going to
go up double digits again this year.
We need lower cost, and we need
choice. In South Carolina, all of the in-
surance companies have pulled out of
the exchanges except for one. In fact,
40 percent of the counties in the coun-
try have only one choice for health in-
surance. That is no choice at all. It is
either health insurance or nothing.
You select from that one company, or
you get nothing. We need lower cost,
and we need choice.
These bills today, by allowing more
liberal contributions to health savings
accounts, by allowing easier access to
health savings accounts, by allowing
health savings accounts to be used for
more purposes—like private family
care or for nonprescription drugs, over-
the-counter drugs—they are serving
the exact causes, the exact purposes,
that I hear the most complaints about
back home.
My folks back home are saying: How
can I afford these insurance policies?
With the high deductibles that are
being forced on us by these insurance
companies, even if I have the insurance
policy, I cannot afford to use it.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand be-
fore you today to recommend these
bills.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from
Wisconsin (Mr. KIND), a senior member
of the Committee on Ways and Means,
author of several of these reform provi-
sions, and a champion of value over
volume in healthcare, as well as fiscal
restraint.
Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend and colleague from Oregon for
yielding me this time. I agree with my
colleague.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.112 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7655
July 25, 2018
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to
this legislation, not because of the pol-
icy initiatives underlying these bills,
but because of how fiscally irrespon-
sible it is being done.
This week, out of the Ways and
Means Committee, we have 10 bills to
be debated and voted on on the House
floor, at a total cost of roughly $90 bil-
lion. There was no effort made to try
to find an offset or a pay-for in order to
maintain some fiscal discipline in this
place. That is problematic, because we
keep digging the hole deeper.
But my name is on a few of these
bills. Yesterday we had the repeal of
the medical device tax, legislation that
I had authored with my friend from
Minnesota, ERIK PAULSEN. But that
came at a cost of $20 billion. No offset.
No pay-for. Just borrow more money
from China and let future generations
wrestle with it.
But it made sense policy-wise to try
to repeal that in a fiscally responsible
manner, because we were taxing these
manufacturers whether they were mak-
ing a profit or not. In fact, the pre-rev-
enue companies were getting hit by the
same tax. Policy-wise, it didn’t make a
lot of sense.
Today, I was happy to introduce leg-
islation from our friend and colleague,
Ms. JENKINS, on the Restoring Access
to Medication Act. This will make it
easier for patients to purchase over-
the-counter medicine with their HSA
and FSA account money without hav-
ing to first run to their doctor to get a
prescription. Just for the sake of effi-
ciency and the cost savings, policy-
wise, that makes sense; but the legisla-
tion comes with a cost, and there was
no effort to pay for that.
Also part of this package is legisla-
tion I have introduced with our col-
league, Mr. SMITH, called the Personal
Health Investment Today Act, or the
PHIT Act. This would allow HSA and
FSA dollars to be used for physical ex-
ercise, for gym memberships, so that
we are investing in the front end of
wellness and keeping people healthy in
their lives rather than the hundreds of
billions of dollars we spend at the back
end dealing with chronic disease man-
agement.
Policy-wise that makes sense, but
the legislation, again, comes with a
cost. No attempt to pay for it. I think
that is fiscally irresponsible.
At the time when we worked on and
passed the Affordable Care Act, Presi-
dent Obama had one major request,
that all of it had to be paid for, all of
it had to be offset. We worked hard to
accomplish it, and, in fact, we did, and
then some. We did not add one nickel
to our budget deficit or to future budg-
et debt forecasts because of how we
dealt with that in a fiscally responsible
manner.
All we are asking is that our col-
leagues on the other side who are in
charge now and running this place try
to practice some semblance of that fis-
cal discipline that we showed with the
passage of the Affordable Care Act.
We ought to be working together,
finding out what is working with the
healthcare system and fixing what
isn’t.
What is not working is the elimi-
nation of cost-sharing reduction pay-
ments that help health insurance pro-
viders spread the risk in the health in-
surance exchanges. That is one of the
reasons why premiums are being driven
up right now.
What is not working is refusing to
provide funding to the navigators, who
help people make the choices with the
health plans that they have available,
or undercutting funding for any edu-
cation outreach with patients, or the
elimination of the individual responsi-
bility component so that young and
healthy people don’t get to sit around
and wait until they get sick or injured
and then go out and acquire health in-
surance. That is not how insurance
markets work.
What also doesn’t work is an admin-
istration that is trying to undermine
the protections that are in place under
the Affordable Care Act for people with
preexisting conditions. There is a law-
suit pending right now. This adminis-
tration should be defending that pre-
existing condition exclusion, and they
are refusing to do so. That will impli-
cate millions of lives throughout our
country.
There is a lot that we can and should
be working on together to improve the
healthcare system, to reduce
healthcare costs for all Americans.
This approach, this piecemeal ap-
proach, while policy-wise there is a lot
of justification and explanation for
what is happening, is being done in a
very fiscally irresponsible manner, just
piling on the debt.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BOST). The time of the gentleman has
expired.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield the gentleman from Wisconsin 1
additional minute.
Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, this comes,
by the way, on the heels, in this session
of Congress, of the passage of a major
tax cut last year that will add over $2
trillion to our national debt over the
next 10 years because, again, there was
no attempt to pay for it. It comes on
the heels of the passage of a 2-year
budget that will increase spending by
over half a trillion dollars, none of it
paid for, none of it offset.
Just yesterday, President Trump just
announced a $12 billion subsidy bailout
program for our family farmers be-
cause of the adverse effects that they
are feeling due to his tariffs. And that
is going to be borrowed money from
China, again, to pay our farmers be-
cause they can’t now sell their prod-
uct—guess where—into the Chinese
market.
How crazy is this? I hope we are not
in an era now where budget deficits and
debt only matters when there is a Dem-
ocrat in the White House. Over the last
year and a half, that certainly seems to
be the case in this Congress.
Ms. JENKINS of Kansas. Mr. Speak-
er, I appreciate my friend’s point of
view on the other side of the aisle. Mr.
KIND and I have worked really hard on
this legislation for many years. I want
to, for the Record, just remind folks
that this bill is simply allowing people
to keep more of their hard-earned
money.
Letting people keep their own money
is not government spending that needs
to be offset. Each of these bills con-
tained in this package were authored
with our Democratic colleagues with-
out an offset. Each of these bills went
through committee, with bipartisan
support, without an offset. It is ironic
that Democrats want to, all of a sud-
den, claim to be fiscally conservative.
This is the same Democratic Party
that passed the stimulus in 2009. Re-
member, that bill added nearly $800 bil-
lion to the deficit.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
KELLY), a real leader on these issues on
the House Committee on Ways and
Means.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
including my bill, H.R. 6305, the Bipar-
tisan HSA Improvement Act of 2018, in
H.R. 6199, the Restoring Access to
Medication and Modernizing Health
Savings Accounts Act.
b 1615
This important legislation expands
access to and enhances the utility of
health savings accounts, also known as
HSAs.
My legislation gives employers more
flexibility to offer quality healthcare
in the setting that is best for them,
like onsite or retail clinics. Employers
around the country are offering inno-
vative ways to deliver healthcare to
their associates, and this provision
makes sure that individual health sav-
ings accounts can utilize these same
services.
It also fixes the spouse penalty by al-
lowing individuals to make health sav-
ings account contributions if a spouse
has a flexible spending account, while
preventing double-dipping in tax bene-
fits.
Lastly, it makes it easier for people
to save for their healthcare by stream-
lining the conversion of other tax-pre-
ferred accounts to health savings ac-
counts.
Ultimately, this bill modernizes
healthcare delivery and gives employ-
ers the freedom to innovate and im-
prove their employees’ health.
I am also very pleased to see that the
PHIT Act was included in this package.
I strongly support adding more of an
emphasis on exercise and wellness to
build a healthy American population.
We spend an incredible amount of
money on healthcare but very little on
maintenance, like exercise and
wellness, before we get sick. The PHIT
Act will better incentivize healthy life-
styles.
Mr. Speaker, we are trying to im-
prove healthcare for all Americans.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.080 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7656 July 25, 2018
This means giving consumers a choice
in their healthcare by incentivizing
wellness and exercise. This is a pre-
emptive effort to build a healthier,
stronger America and the freedom to
design insurance products that work
best for them.
If you want to keep healthcare costs
down, let’s just make sure people are
healthier. That is the best way to do it.
And do you know what? I really like
this debate because we talk about how
the deficit has grown. And for my col-
leagues on the other side, I wasn’t here
at the time, but I watched the deficit
grow in the beginning of the Obama ad-
ministration from $9 trillion to $20 tril-
lion, and I am glad that, finally, some-
body has awakened to the fact that we
are working with huge deficits.
Now, this bill was passed by the Ways
and Means Committee in a bipartisan
fashion, and I want to thank my friend
EARL BLUMENAUER for working on this
issue.
This issue is extremely important for
the 175 million Americans who get
their health insurance from their em-
ployer. I strongly urge my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle to vote in
favor of H.R. 6199.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself 1 minute just to respond
briefly.
Mr. Speaker, I was here in 2009. The
very month President Obama took of-
fice, there were 700,000 jobs lost. There
was great fear that we were going to
have a complete collapse of the auto
industry. There was a whole range of
things that we were in an emergency
situation on, and the worst economic
crisis since the Great Depression.
As it was, a major portion of that bill
was tax cuts to try and stimulate the
economy. I do point out that as we
move forward, our healthcare bill was
entirely paid for, and that is what we
need to get back to.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS), a champion of healthcare, deal-
ing with disparities in the healthcare
system, a champion for balance and vi-
sion, and I appreciate him being here.
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my colleague who
demonstrates with regularity the in-
tensification of real care for the peo-
ple.
Today, we take up another bill that
does nothing to make up for the long-
term Republican sabotage of the Af-
fordable Care Act. Tens of millions of
working families also see their
healthcare costs skyrocket due to the
repeated Republican efforts to under-
mine the healthcare system.
Tens of millions of Americans with
preexisting conditions will still fear
the loss of guaranteed health protec-
tions with the horrible choice of loss of
health insurance or untenable pre-
miums.
The Republicans’ sabotage will cost a
typical family of four in my congres-
sional district $2,250 more in insurance
premiums in 2019. The Republicans’
sabotage will cost a typical 55-year-old
couple in my congressional district
$3,570 more in 2019.
The 2019 premium hikes follow an av-
erage 37 percent increase in 2018. These
premium hikes are especially dis-
turbing when contrasted with the bil-
lions in tax cuts the Republicans gave
to insurance companies in their tax
law.
H.R. 6199 makes a small change to
health savings accounts used exclu-
sively by the wealthy. Many of my con-
stituents have trouble paying for basic
living costs like heat, food, and hous-
ing. They ask me regularly for a few
hundred dollars to help their kids stay
in college.
The vast majority of my constituents
can’t set aside tens of thousands of dol-
lars to pay for their medical care out of
pocket in a health savings account.
This legislation does nothing to in-
crease coverage, improve affordability,
or change the skyrocketing costs of
healthcare.
I urge my colleagues to reject this
bill, and I urge my Republican col-
leagues to bring up meaningful legisla-
tion to improve coverage and lower
costs to help the tens of millions of
Americans in need.
Ms. JENKINS of Kansas. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman
from Kansas (Mr. ESTES), my friend
and colleague.
Mr. ESTES of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to speak in support of two bills
being considered today as part of our
overall goal to improve healthcare for
families across the country.
Currently, ObamaCare is broken. As I
mentioned in an opinion piece, from
2010 to 2016, health insurance premiums
increased by nearly $4,400 per family.
This year, health insurance costs
rose about 30 percent and are expected
to go up an additional 10 to 20 percent
in 2019.
These skyrocketing costs are not due
to some sabotage, as some folks have
suggested. Instead, they are a product
of a system that was designed and des-
tined to fail.
Today, we all recognize that
ObamaCare has failed to provide insur-
ance for all Americans. Rather than
create more government-run
healthcare, we need competition and
free market solutions like health sav-
ings accounts to put patients in con-
trol of their own healthcare. That is
why I am proud to support H.R. 6199,
the Restoring Access to Medication
Act of 2018, sponsored by Representa-
tive LYNN JENKINS and Representative
GRACE MENG.
H.R. 6199 repeals provisions of the Af-
fordable Care Act that restrict health
savings accounts, medical savings ac-
counts, health flexible spending ar-
rangements, and health reimbursement
arrangements to only be used for pre-
scription drugs or insulin. Removing
these restrictions will allow people to
use such accounts for over-the-counter
drugs.
I am also proud to support H.R. 6311,
the Increasing Access to Lower Pre-
mium Plans and Expanding Health
Savings Accounts Act of 2018, spon-
sored by Representatives PETER ROS-
KAM and MICHAEL BURGESS.
H.R. 6311 provides relief from
ObamaCare’s rising premiums and lim-
ited choices by allowing the premium
tax credit to be used for plans offered
outside of ObamaCare exchanges. The
bill also expands access to the lowest
premium plans for people purchasing
coverage in the individual market and
allows the premium tax credit to be
used to offset the cost of such plans.
These measures increase competition
for consumers and seek to drive down
the cost of health insurance.
I want to thank the Ways and Means
Committee for bringing forward
thoughtful healthcare solutions that
will help American families. I urge my
colleagues to support both bills.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I take modest exception
to the notion that somehow the Afford-
able Care Act failed. It represents the
largest expansion of healthcare that we
have seen in decades. It is so popular
and important that, when my Repub-
lican friends attempted to repeal it,
something they have been working on
for 7 years, it blew up in their face.
Even President Trump said their bill
was mean. And it continues, even
though they are working to dismantle
it bolt by bolt.
I would hope that we will return to
sanity to be able to work to be able to
move forward on things like some of
the elements in this bill here today
that we agree upon that could move us
forward rather than the continued bat-
tle over the notion that the Affordable
Care Act is something that needs to be
destroyed. The American people de-
serve better.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. JENKINS of Kansas. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. ROSKAM), who has
provided great leadership in this area.
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased to see the inclusion of the Pro-
moting High-Value Health Care
Through Flexibility for Deductible
Health Plans in this bill today. This is
legislation that is bipartisan that I in-
troduced, along with the Congressman
from California (Mr. THOMPSON), that
gives consumers the choice and flexi-
bility that they need to be engaged in
their healthcare.
In a nutshell, the bill allows plans to
offer coverage for high-value, low-cost
services like telehealth, chronic dis-
ease management such as diabetic test-
ing strips, or primary care visits below
the deductible. In a nutshell, what we
are trying to do is give patients more
choices, more capacity to be more de-
monstrative about navigating through
their own healthcare needs.
This is a good bipartisan approach. I
thank the gentlewoman for including
it, and I thank her for the time. I urge
its passage.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.082 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7657
July 25, 2018
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. JENKINS of Kansas. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman
from Minnesota (Mr. PAULSEN), who
has worked tirelessly in this area.
Mr. PAULSEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairwoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, as an advocate for giv-
ing consumers more choice in
healthcare and lowering costs, I sup-
port this bill, which also gives more
flexibility for those who have
healthcare savings accounts, as well as
some of the other provisions that were
already just previously mentioned.
I want to highlight my support for
one of the provisions in this bill that
will allow people to use their
healthcare savings account to pay for
direct primary care and those arrange-
ments.
The concept of direct primary care is
simple, and it is supported by a lot of
family doctors, a lot of primary care
doctors. People pay a monthly fee to
see their physician in this area any-
time they choose, over the phone,
through telemedicine, or in person, and
then they get a whole host of services.
It is really important for strengthening
the doctor-patient relationship, and it
means that more people will have ac-
cess to primary care services instead of
just going to the emergency room in
order to get care.
But, unfortunately, the IRS has stat-
ed that direct primary care arrange-
ments are essentially health insurance,
and they categorize them in this way
so you cannot use your HSAs and those
funds to pay for direct primary care.
That is why Congressman BLUMENAUER
and I authored legislation to fix this
and to allow HSAs, health savings ac-
counts, to be used for direct primary
care, and I am pleased that it is in-
cluded in this bill.
Another important reform will allow
employers to offer direct primary care
arrangements to employees that have
an HSA, also. This will let more people
have access to direct primary care
through their healthcare savings ac-
counts, allowing family practice doc-
tors like Dr. Julie Anderson in Min-
nesota to expand their practice with-
out having to worry about the head-
ache of filling out mountains of paper-
work and excessive insurance forms,
because direct primary care let’s the
doctor work directly with the patient
and you don’t have to go through ex-
tensive billing services and insurance.
Healthcare savings accounts, Mr.
Speaker, have already been proven to
help lower healthcare costs; and ex-
panding them, giving consumers more
flexibility and more choices, will mean
families are also going to be better off.
So let’s allow healthcare savings ac-
counts to be used for direct primary
care and support the underlying bill.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the oppor-
tunity for us to have this discussion. It
has been fun working with the gen-
tleman from Minnesota (Mr. PAULSEN)
on this notion of direct primary care.
It is a simple notion that runs athwart
IRS regulations. I still don’t fully un-
derstand why these should be classified
as ‘‘health plan’’ rather than ‘‘payment
for service.’’
But, nonetheless, we were able to
work together on a bipartisan basis to
move this forward. It is not expensive.
The score is less than $2 billion out of
$90 billion that we are tossing around
here, and I personally believe that it
will result in substantial savings in
order to provide more efficient cov-
erage.
But I must say that I am a little
troubled by the continuing assault on
what we are doing with the fiscal fu-
ture of this country.
b 1630
We just saw the latest reports that
because of what my Republican friends
have done with the budget and with the
tax bill, we have doubled the deficit
this year. It is doubled.
Now, there were complaints from my
friend from Kansas about deficit spend-
ing when President Obama took office.
Remember, he was only President for
one-third of that month and lost 700,000
jobs. The economy was in free fall. Ab-
solutely we took steps: cutting taxes
and moving in areas to try and
strengthen parts of the economy that
was posing huge problems for people
across the board. And this was broadly
supported by people in business. Eco-
nomic experts actually agree that
probably we didn’t do enough, and that
slowed the economic recovery. But the
economy has recovered.
We have seen 9 consecutive years of
private sector job growth. That is what
Trump inherited: over 7 years of job
growth. The economy was strong. It
wasn’t in free fall. Yet, in that strong
position, we are doubling the deficit
this year. We are looking at trillion
dollar deficits as far as the eye can see.
And we just had the President an-
nounce that he wants to spend $12 bil-
lion more, not because we are in eco-
nomic free fall, but because his ruinous
trade policies have resulted in losses to
the farming sector. They are going to
provide extra government bailout, not
because farmers want it, but because
they are being injured by these ruinous
trade policies.
There was a time when most of my
Republican friends would rise up in op-
position. It is certain that if these were
offered by Bill Clinton or Barack
Obama, they would be screaming at the
top of their lungs. Most of them are
strangely silent now, but it is another
$12 billion to try to fix a problem that
Trump has created by starting trade
wars with our friends, trying to punish
China, and, in fact, we are punishing
our allies. And somehow auto imports
are national security.
This is embarrassing that we are in
this situation. But it is not just embar-
rassing, it is dangerous. We are weak-
ening ourselves economically, while we
pick fights with our allies, like Canada
and the European Union.
Mr. Speaker, on top of all of this, we
are going to advance legislation today
that have some nuggets of positive
things. I have worked with my col-
leagues on some of them. There are im-
portant advances, but they are coming
at a price of $90 billion added to the
deficit, without even an attempt to
work with us to offset. I think we could
have offset the direct primary care
piece that we are talking about here. It
is relatively small potatoes compared
to $90 billion, and compared to $12 bil-
lion for tariff relief for a trade war we
didn’t need.
Mr. Speaker, I enjoy the conversa-
tion about some of these items. I think
it is important to spotlight them. But
I am hopeful that we are able to return
to fiscal stability, not having bailouts
for farmers that they don’t want and
wouldn’t need if we had a rational tar-
iff policy. I am hopeful that we are not
going to have a parade of other things
that undermine the Affordable Care
Act and add unnecessary costs to the
deficit.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JENKINS of Kansas. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself the remainder of my
time.
Mr. Speaker, we have heard my
friends on the other side of the aisle
suggest here, this afternoon, this bill
might, in some way, hurt people with
preexisting conditions. However, we
know that is simply not true. This bill
doesn’t touch preexisting conditions. It
doesn’t raise costs or premiums on
families. And it doesn’t take away any-
one’s choice of a healthcare plan.
Millions of Americans use tax-advan-
tage healthcare accounts to save and
pay for healthcare expenses. In fact,
there are twice as many Americans
with an HSA than those who get cov-
erage on the Affordable Care Act’s ex-
changes. Almost 22 million people had
an HSA in 2017, and there is only about
10 million people enrolled on the ex-
changes in 2018. Forty-four percent of
all civilian workers had access to a
health flexible spending arrangement
in 2017.
The provisions in this bill allow more
things to be paid for out of these ac-
counts, like over-the-counter drugs,
feminine products, and fitness activi-
ties. This means people are paying less
because they are able to use pre-tax
dollars or take a deduction for their
contribution.
As a reminder, the policies in the bill
are all bipartisan. We have worked to-
gether to write and advance them.
This bill helps middle class families
afford their healthcare expenses, and I
hope my colleagues will continue to
support this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 1012,
the previous question is ordered on the
bill, as amended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.084 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7658 July 25, 2018
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R.
5515, NATIONAL DEFENSE AU-
THORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL
YEAR 2019
Mr. BYRNE, from the Committee on
Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 115–875) on the resolution (H.
Res. 1027) providing for consideration
of the conference report to accompany
the bill (H.R. 5515) to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2019 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes, which was
referred to the House Calendar and or-
dered to be printed.
f
INCREASING ACCESS TO LOWER
PREMIUM PLANS AND EXPAND-
ING HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
ACT OF 2018
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to House Resolution 1011, I call up the
bill (H.R. 6311) to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act to
modify the definition of qualified
health plan for purposes of the health
insurance premium tax credit and to
allow individuals purchasing health in-
surance in the individual market to
purchase a lower premium copper plan,
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 1011, in lieu of
the amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute con-
sisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 115–83 is adopted, and the bill, as
amended, is considered read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 6311
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Increasing Access to Lower Premium Plans
and Expanding Health Savings Accounts Act of
2018’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Carryforward of health flexible spending
arrangement account balances.
Sec. 3. Individuals entitled to part A of Medi-
care by reason of age allowed to
contribute to health savings ac-
counts.
Sec. 4. Maximum contribution limit to health
savings account increased to
amount of deductible and out-of-
pocket limitation.
Sec. 5. Allow both spouses to make catch-up
contributions to the same health
savings account.
Sec. 6. Special rule for certain medical expenses
incurred before establishment of
health savings account.
Sec. 7. Allowance of bronze and catastrophic
plans in connection with health
savings accounts.
Sec. 8. Allowing all individuals purchasing
health insurance in the individual
market the option to purchase a
lower premium copper plan.
Sec. 9. Delay of reimposition of annual fee on
health insurance providers.
SEC. 2. CARRYFORWARD OF HEALTH FLEXIBLE
SPENDING ARRANGEMENT ACCOUNT
BALANCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 106 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(h) CARRYFORWARD OF HEALTH FLEXIBLE
SPENDING ARRANGEMENT ACCOUNT BALANCES.—
A plan shall not fail to be treated as a health
flexible spending arrangement under this section
or section 105 merely because the lesser of—
‘‘(1) such arrangement’s account balance (or
any portion thereof) determined as of the end of
any plan year, or
‘‘(2) the product of the dollar limitation in ef-
fect under section 125(i) for such plan year (de-
termined without regard to paragraph (2) there-
of) multiplied by 3,
may be carried forward to the succeeding plan
year.’’.
(b) COORDINATION WITH LIMITATION ON SAL-
ARY REDUCTION CONTRIBUTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 125(i) of such Code is
amended by redesignating paragraph (2) as
paragraph (3) and by inserting after paragraph
(1) the following new paragraph:
‘‘(2) COORDINATION WITH CARRYFORWARD OF
ACCOUNT BALANCES.—The dollar amount other-
wise in effect under paragraph (1) for any plan
year shall be reduced (but not below zero) by
the excess (if any) of—
‘‘(A) the amount of any account balance
which is carried forward to such plan year from
the preceding plan year, over
‘‘(B) twice the dollar limitation in effect under
paragraph (1) (determined without regard to
this paragraph).’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 125(i)
of such Code is amended by striking ‘‘taxable
year’’ each place it appears in paragraphs (1)
and (3) (as redesignated by paragraph (1) of this
subsection) and inserting ‘‘plan year’’.
(c) COORDINATION WITH CAFETERIA PLAN LIM-
ITATION ON DEFERRED COMPENSATION.—Section
125(d)(2) of such Code is amended by adding at
the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) EXCEPTION FOR HEALTH FLEXIBLE SPEND-
ING ARRANGEMENTS.—Subparagraph (A) shall
not apply to a plan to the extent of amounts in
a health flexible spending arrangement which
may be carried forward as described in section
106(h).’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to plan years begin-
ning after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 3. INDIVIDUALS ENTITLED TO PART A OF
MEDICARE BY REASON OF AGE AL-
LOWED TO CONTRIBUTE TO HEALTH
SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 223(c)(1)(B) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of clause (ii), by strik-
ing the period at the end of clause (iii) and in-
serting ‘‘, and’’, and by adding at the end the
following new clause:
‘‘(iv) entitlement to hospital insurance bene-
fits under part A of title XVIII of the Social Se-
curity Act by reason of section 226(a) of such
Act.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
223(b)(7) of such Code is amended by inserting
‘‘(other than an entitlement to benefits de-
scribed in subsection (c)(1)(B)(v))’’ after ‘‘Social
Security Act’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to months beginning
after December 31, 2018, in taxable years ending
after such date.
SEC. 4. MAXIMUM CONTRIBUTION LIMIT TO
HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT IN-
CREASED TO AMOUNT OF DEDUCT-
IBLE AND OUT-OF-POCKET LIMITA-
TION.
(a) SELF-ONLY COVERAGE.—Section
223(b)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended by striking ‘‘$2,250’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the amount in effect under subsection
(c)(2)(A)(ii)(I)’’.
(b) FAMILY COVERAGE.—Section 223(b)(2)(B)
of such Code is amended by striking ‘‘$4,500’’
and inserting ‘‘the amount in effect under sub-
section (c)(2)(A)(ii)(II)’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
223(g)(1) of such Code is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘subsections (b)(2) and’’ both
places it appears and inserting ‘‘subsection’’,
and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘deter-
mined by’’ and all that follows through ‘‘ ‘cal-
endar year 2003’.’’ and inserting ‘‘determined by
substituting ‘calendar year 2003’ for ‘calendar
year 2016’ in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof.’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to taxable years be-
ginning after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 5. ALLOW BOTH SPOUSES TO MAKE CATCH-
UP CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SAME
HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 223(b)(5) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘(5) SPECIAL RULE FOR MARRIED INDIVIDUALS
WITH FAMILY COVERAGE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of individuals
who are married to each other, if both spouses
are eligible individuals and either spouse has
family coverage under a high deductible health
plan as of the first day of any month—
‘‘(i) the limitation under paragraph (1) shall
be applied by not taking into account any other
high deductible health plan coverage of either
spouse (and if such spouses both have family
coverage under separate high deductible health
plans, only one such coverage shall be taken
into account),
‘‘(ii) such limitation (after application of
clause (i)) shall be reduced by the aggregate
amount paid to Archer MSAs of such spouses
for the taxable year, and
‘‘(iii) such limitation (after application of
clauses (i) and (ii)) shall be divided equally be-
tween such spouses unless they agree on a dif-
ferent division.
‘‘(B) TREATMENT OF ADDITIONAL CONTRIBU-
TION AMOUNTS.—If both spouses referred to in
subparagraph (A) have attained age 55 before
the close of the taxable year, the limitation re-
ferred to in subparagraph (A)(iii) which is sub-
ject to division between the spouses shall in-
clude the additional contribution amounts de-
termined under paragraph (3) for both spouses.
In any other case, any additional contribution
amount determined under paragraph (3) shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.086 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7659
July 25, 2018
not be taken into account under subparagraph
(A)(iii) and shall not be subject to division be-
tween the spouses.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to taxable years be-
ginning after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 6. SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN MEDICAL EX-
PENSES INCURRED BEFORE ESTAB-
LISHMENT OF HEALTH SAVINGS AC-
COUNT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 223(d)(2) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(D) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN MEDICAL EX-
PENSES INCURRED BEFORE ESTABLISHMENT OF AC-
COUNT.—If a health savings account is estab-
lished during the 60-day period beginning on
the date that coverage of the account bene-
ficiary under a high deductible health plan be-
gins, then, solely for purposes of determining
whether an amount paid is used for a qualified
medical expense, such account shall be treated
as having been established on the date that
such coverage begins.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by this section shall apply with respect to cov-
erage beginning after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 7. ALLOWANCE OF BRONZE AND CATA-
STROPHIC PLANS IN CONNECTION
WITH HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 223(c)(2) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(E) BRONZE AND CATASTROPHIC PLANS TREAT-
ED AS HIGH DEDUCTIBLE HEALTH PLANS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘high deductible
health plan’ shall include any plan described in
subsection (d)(1)(A) or (e) of section 1302 of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
‘‘(ii) CERTAIN RULES NOT APPLICABLE.—Sub-
paragraphs (C) and (D) shall not apply with re-
spect to any plan described in clause (i).’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by this section shall apply to months beginning
after December 31, 2018, in taxable years ending
after such date.
SEC. 8. ALLOWING ALL INDIVIDUALS PUR-
CHASING HEALTH INSURANCE IN
THE INDIVIDUAL MARKET THE OP-
TION TO PURCHASE A LOWER PRE-
MIUM COPPER PLAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1302(e) of the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42
U.S.C. 18022(e)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) of
subparagraph (B) as subparagraphs (A) and
(B), respectively, and adjusting the margins ac-
cordingly;
(B) by striking ‘‘plan year if—’’ and all that
follows through ‘‘the plan provides—’’ and in-
serting ‘‘plan year if the plan provides—’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (A), as redesignated by
paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘clause (ii)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘subparagraph (B)’’;
(2) by striking paragraph (2); and
(3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as para-
graph (2).
(b) RISK POOLS.—Section 1312(c)(1) of the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42
U.S.C. 18032(c)(1)) is amended by inserting ‘‘and
enrollees in catastrophic plans described in sec-
tion 1302(e)’’ after ‘‘Exchange’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
1312(d)(3)(C) of the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18032(d)(3)(C)) is
amended by striking ‘‘, except that in the case
of a catastrophic plan described in section
1302(e), a qualified individual may enroll in the
plan only if the individual is eligible to enroll in
the plan under section 1302(e)(2)’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to plan years begin-
ning after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 9. DELAY OF REIMPOSITION OF ANNUAL FEE
ON HEALTH INSURANCE PROVIDERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 9010(j)(3) of the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care Act is
amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘December 31, 2021’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by this section shall apply to calendar years be-
ginning after December 31, 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill
shall be debatable for 1 hour equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
The gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
ROSKAM) and the gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. LEVIN) each will control
30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the bill
currently under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I chair the Health Sub-
committee at the Ways and Means
Committee, and I have had the oppor-
tunity, like many of my colleagues, to
hear from physicians, hospitals, and
patient advocates. I have heard a lot of
stories about increased costs, which
are exacerbating the coverage and ac-
cess challenges that we currently face.
There is a broad consensus that
healthcare in the United States needs
to move towards a system that pro-
vides greater access to affordable care.
The question is: How do we get that
done?
The ACA government-approved, gov-
ernment-mandated one-size-fits-all in-
surance has dramatically decreased
choice and increased premiums in the
individual market. We will hear a lot
of debate about this today.
But here is what is happening close
to home. Mr. Speaker, in my home
State, the Department of Health and
Human Services released a report that
shows, between 2013 and 2017, the aver-
age monthly premium for coverage in
the individual market, in Illinois, in-
creased 108 percent, or by $3,228 a year.
I have five counties in my constitu-
ency. In two of those five counties,
there is only one insurer offering plans
on the individual exchange. That is not
a choice. That is a government man-
date. That is a government monopoly.
It is time to drive a discussion
around empowering individuals and
their families to make healthcare deci-
sions for themselves based on their
needs and based on their budgets.
The policies that are included in H.R.
6311 expand access to consumer-di-
rected health plans with tax favored
accounts, like health savings accounts,
HSAs. This bill increases choice, lowers
premiums, and let’s more families save
more money to pay for their healthcare
costs.
Now, my friends across the aisle will,
without question, get up this afternoon
and say that this bill doesn’t do any-
thing to help people. That instead of
these policies, we should drop every-
thing and work to fix the very broken,
flawed plan that is the ACA. Well, here
is the thing.
There are twice as many people who
have an HSA than those who are cov-
ered under the exchanges. Let me say
that again. Twice as many Americans
are covered under HSAs than under the
Affordable Care Act: 21.8 million peo-
ple, Mr. Speaker, had a health savings
account in 2017, and there is only 10.6
million who are enrolled in the ex-
changes in 2018—2 to 1.
The bill makes smart changes to help
families save more money pre-tax for
their healthcare. It changes the so-
called use-it-or-lose-it nature of flexi-
ble spending arrangements, FSAs, by
allowing balances to roll over to the
next year. It doubles the amount of
money people can put into a health
savings account so that they can save
enough to cover their exposure to out-
of-pocket costs, and they are increas-
ingly vulnerable to these out-of-pocket
costs.
Now, my friends on the other side
may say they want to talk about and
distract from some of these common-
sense solutions and say that somehow
some subpar insurance is being pro-
moted. Well, even after canceling mil-
lions of healthcare plans that people
had and that people liked, notwith-
standing the President’s promise that
if you like your coverage, you get to
keep your coverage—you remember
that, Mr. Speaker—notwithstanding
that, Democrats, God bless them, they
still think they know what type of
healthcare is best for everyone. They
haven’t learned yet that individuals
and families are the best ones to make
these decisions, not politicians and not
bureaucrats in Washington.
We think people should be able to
purchase the type of coverage they
want and the type of coverage they can
afford. One of the provisions in this bill
allows everyone to purchase a cata-
strophic plan, a plan that was designed
by ObamaCare. These plans offer the
lowest premiums, and we think every-
one should have access to them.
Even better, because these plans have
average deductibles of $6,000, we think
we should allow catastrophic and
bronze plans to qualify for an HSA as
well. This means people can get a
break in taxes for the money that they
save for their huge ObamaCare
deductibles. This is real savings to real
people who are struggling under the
current healthcare law.
b 1645
It allows working seniors with HSA-
eligible coverage who are enrolled in
Medicare part A to contribute to an
HSA, which can provide an added ben-
efit for seniors and an incentive for
them to stay on their employer-spon-
sored plan over Medicare, if they
choose. It makes perfect sense.
It increases utility and flexibility
through allowing both spouses to make
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY7.023 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7660 July 25, 2018
catch-up contributions into the same
HSA if they are over age 55.
Finally, it delays ObamaCare’s
health insurance tax for an additional 2
years, which would otherwise increase
the cost of insurance premiums
through a nearly $27 billion excise tax.
This is a flawed tax that gets passed on
to American families who are pur-
chasing in the individual market; it
gets passed on to seniors in Medicare
Advantage; it gets passed on to small
businesses; and it gets passed on in
Medicaid programs.
So I want to thank the Ways and
Means Committee members who took
that effort seriously. I look forward to
this afternoon’s debate.
I want to thank Chairman BRADY for
his leadership in driving this discus-
sion, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS,
Washington, DC, July 13, 2018.
Hon. GREG WALDEN,
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN WALDEN: I write to you re-
garding H.R. 6311, to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and the Patient Protec-
tion and Affordable Care Act to modify the
definition of the qualified health plan for
purposes of the health insurance premium
tax credit and to allow individuals pur-
chasing health insurance in the individual
market to purchase a lower premium copper
plan.
The Committee on Ways and Means or-
dered favorably reported this bill which was
also referred to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce. I ask that the Committee on
Energy and Commerce waive formal consid-
eration of the bill so that it may proceed ex-
peditiously to the House Floor.
I acknowledge that by waiving formal con-
sideration of the bill, the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce is in no way waiving its
jurisdiction over the subject matter con-
tained in those provisions of the bills that
fall within your Rule X jurisdiction. I would
support your effort to seek appointment of
an appropriate number of conferees on any
House-Senate conference involving this leg-
islation.
I will include a copy of our letters in the
Congressional Record during consideration
of this legislation on the House floor.
Sincerely,
KEVIN BRADY,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE,
Washington, DC, July 16, 2018.
Hon. KEVIN BRADY,
Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN BRADY: Thank you for
your letters regarding H.R. 4952, the ‘‘Im-
proving Seniors Access to Quality Benefits
Act,’’ H.R. 6138, the ‘‘Ambulatory Surgical
Center (ACS) Payment Transparency Act of
2018,’’ and H.R. 6311, the ‘‘To amend the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act to mod-
ify the definition of qualified health plan for
purposes of the health insurance premium
tax credit and to allow individuals pur-
chasing health insurance in the individual
market to purchase a lower premium copper
plan.’’
The Committee on Energy and Commerce
will forgo consideration of both bills so that
they may proceed expeditiously to the House
Floor.
I appreciate your assurance that by for-
going action on these bills, the Committee is
in no way waiving its jurisdiction over the
subject matter contained in the bills. I also
appreciate your offer of support for the ap-
pointment of conferees from the Committee
to any House-Senate conference involving
this legislation.
Sincerely,
GREG WALDEN,
Chairman.
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I think we need to ask
ourselves: What is this bill all about?
Why are we here today?
H.R. 6311 is the final of three bills re-
garding health savings accounts and
health taxes that we will be consid-
ering this week. I find it sad we are not
spending our time today addressing the
most pressing concerns of Americans
struggling to make ends meet because
of the Republican sabotage of
healthcare coverage.
Nothing in H.R. 6311, or any other
bill we have considered this week,
undoes the ongoing harm caused by the
actions of the Trump administration or
this Republican Congress.
For example, earlier this month, the
administration created needless confu-
sion by refusing to make legally re-
quired risk adjustment payments until,
when there was major protest, it re-
versed course last night under public
pressure. But in June, the Justice De-
partment refused to defend protection
for the 130 million Americans living
with preexisting health conditions.
Last fall, the President terminated
cost-sharing reduction payments for
Americans earning 100 to 250 percent of
the Federal poverty level. The GOP tax
bill gutted the individual responsi-
bility requirement, causing a 15 per-
cent spike in premiums, according to
CBO.
Recently, the administration again
cut funding for navigator organizations
to just $10 million for the upcoming
open enrollment period. I saw at home
what these navigator provisions meant
to nonprofit organizations that were
reaching out to people who wanted in-
formation and healthcare.
Cut, cut, cut is the administration’s
answer. And this Congress’ response to
that administration action is zero, si-
lence, silence, silence.
These and so many other actions by
Republicans have led to direct in-
creases in premiums and out-of-pocket
costs for middle class families.
Expanding HSAs and shifting more
Americans into catastrophic coverage,
as H.R. 6311 does, will not meaningfully
help middle class families harmed by
Republican sabotage of ACA. Instead,
it will primarily benefit wealthy Amer-
icans and large insurance companies.
According to data from the Joint
Committee on Taxation, more than 80
percent of the tax benefit for health
savings accounts goes to individuals
earning more than $100,000 annually.
We pointed that out in committee.
What was the response? Obfuscation,
obfuscation. That is a fact and analysis
given to us by the Joint Committee on
Taxation. So all these crocodile tears
for mainly middle class families, I
think, are shown for what they are.
Very few families with modest in-
comes can afford the high, out-of-pock-
et expenses required in order to partici-
pate in a HSA. Doubling the amount
that individuals can contribute tax-
free—tax-free—as this bill does, will
make no difference to the millions of
working families who don’t have thou-
sands of dollars available to contribute
to an HSA in the first place.
I suggest that everybody go home
and talk to the general public.
In addition, a 2-year delay of the
health insurance provider fee will have
only a minimal impact on premiums.
Indeed, this provision will mainly ben-
efit insurance companies, while adding
more than $25 billion to the deficit.
Not only do the bills we have consid-
ered this week not address these press-
ing issues, they also recklessly add to
the deficit. Republicans have failed to
produce even $1 for the enormous cost
of these bills. So I said to the chairman
of the committee that I once chaired, I
was sometimes asked that question:
Will you pay for it? And I said yes.
I asked the chairman: Will you pay
for this? At first, it was said: Well, we
don’t have to do that in committee. So
I said: Will you do it on the floor, yes
or no? He said no.
So here we are. Although we do not
yet have a final analysis from the Con-
gressional Budget Office or the Joint
Committee on Taxation, past estimates
of similar provisions have shown us
this:
H.R. 184, which would repeal the med-
ical device tax, will cost about $20 bil-
lion over 10 years.
H.R. 6199, which would expand HSAs
to include over-the-counter medica-
tions and gym memberships, will cost
roughly $20 billion.
And this bill, which expands HSAs
and delays a tax on the health insur-
ance industry, would increase the def-
icit the most. This is, in a few words, a
Risky Roskam bill that would cost up
to $50 billion, $50 billion.
When all is said and done, our actions
this week could add up to $90 billion to
our Nation’s debt, increasing pressure
to cut vital programs like Medicare.
This comes just months after a tax cut
bill that would add an additional $2 bil-
lion to the debt.
So, look, we need to come and ask
ourselves: Why are we here?
These bills will not likely pass the
Senate or become law, so here we are.
We are going to recess, adjourn tomor-
row for 5 weeks or so. I think the re-
ality is that these bills, which will not
likely pass the Senate, will not ever be-
come law.
I think it is likely that they have a
different purpose, and I think that was
described in a recent article in The
Hill. I read it because I want the public
to question what we do, and I quote:
‘‘The bills on the House floor next
week could give victories to the bill
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:08 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.088 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7661
July 25, 2018
sponsors who are also vulnerable in No-
vember.’’ The chairman of the sub-
committee, where I am ranking mem-
ber, is facing, this article says, ‘‘a
tough reelection race in his suburban
. . . district.’’
‘‘But overall, the measures slated for
consideration are minor and won’t
make a major dent in premiums, ac-
cording to Joe Antos, a healthcare ex-
pert at the right-leaning American En-
terprise Institute.’’
I want to quote that again: ‘‘These
measures slated for consideration are
minor and won’t make a major dent in
premiums, according to Joe Antos, a
healthcare expert at the right-leaning
American Enterprise Institute.’’
So I think that is really what this is
all about. It is a political exercise. It is
aimed to help people who are in a vul-
nerable political position. But that is
not a reason to bring up these bills
today, when, as I described earlier,
there are so many issues relating to
healthcare coverage.
The Republicans have undertaken
these last months under this adminis-
tration to do everything they can to
sabotage healthcare for Americans. As
a result, 3 million people less have
healthcare insurance. But ACA works
so well that 20 million people received
healthcare coverage they did not have.
So, this is kind of a sad moment. We
are turning this place into a campaign
entity. We should not be doing that
when it comes to healthcare coverage.
We tried, in recent times, to say to the
Republicans, if you want to improve
ACA, we are ready. Never has there
been any offer to do that. Instead, it
was repeal, repeal, repeal. I won’t say
that 55 times, but that is how often it
happened. More recently, it was sabo-
tage, sabotage, sabotage. That isn’t
what we should be doing for what is so
dear to Americans, healthcare cov-
erage.
It is a sad day, as I said earlier, that,
here we are, when so much needs to be
done, and this, essentially, is a polit-
ical exercise.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
The gentleman from Michigan asked
the rhetorical question: Why are we
here?
I will tell you one reason why we are
here. One reason why we are here is I
have an independent recollection of
being in my car on Michigan Avenue in
Chicago, listening then to President
Obama give a speech to, I think it was
the American Medical Association. I
was listening on the radio and he said,
I think—I may be conflating here. But
he said: If you like your coverage, you
can keep your coverage. If you like
your doctor, you get to keep your doc-
tor.
I think, during the course of the
healthcare discussion, the Obama ad-
ministration made this explicit prom-
ise to the American people: You are
going to save $2,500 per family. And it
was going to be great. It was going to
solve all the problems. Yet, that didn’t
happen. That is why we are here.
I have a constituency where two
counties have one insurer. That is why
we are here.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. PAUL-
SEN) to tell us why we are here.
Mr. PAULSEN. Mr. Speaker, just to
follow up, there are too many families
that continue to suffocate under the
high premiums and high deductibles
that we have from the Affordable Care
Act.
In contrast to the top-down, one-size-
fits-all approach of ObamaCare,
healthcare savings accounts put con-
sumers in charge of their own
healthcare. It is no wonder they are
gaining in popularity.
Today, nearly 22 million Americans
have health savings accounts. That is
twice as many as was mentioned ear-
lier, twice as many as the number of
people who are getting plans through
the ObamaCare exchanges. That is not
even close. In Minnesota alone, more
than a million, 1.2 million, people and
families are eligible for HSA plans.
Now, the bill before us today sup-
ports the continued growth of
healthcare savings accounts and in-
cludes a couple of provisions that I
helped author, including allowing
working seniors to contribute to an
HSA, increasing the limits that indi-
viduals and families can contribute to
their HSAs, and allowing married cou-
ples the opportunity to make larger
catch-up contributions to their own
healthcare savings accounts. Then it
also creates a grace period to help pay
for medical expenses that someone
may have incurred before they actually
set up their healthcare savings ac-
counts.
These are all important improve-
ments that will help provide value in
healthcare and help lower prices.
So let’s let people purchase the type
of coverage that they want and that
they can afford. I am really pleased
that the bill before us makes these
very smart, strategic, calculated re-
forms, and I ask my colleagues for
their support.
b 1700
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I have heard the so-
called fact that more people have HSAs
than those who are covered by
ObamaCare. That simply is not true.
ObamaCare includes expanded Med-
icaid. So if you want to talk about
more than in the exchanges, we can
discuss that and argue it, but don’t
come here and minimize the impact of
ACA.
We worked hard on it. We meet so
many people who have benefited from
what we Democrats did, and the public,
more and more, is expressing that. You
were on the wrong side of history, and
you are now on the wrong side of public
opinion.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes, or
more if he would like, to the gentleman
from New York (Mr. HIGGINS), an ac-
tive member of our committee.
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Mr.
Speaker, health savings accounts,
while they may help people manage
their healthcare costs marginally, the
sad truth is this legislation will do
nothing—nothing—to lower healthcare
costs and to improve healthcare qual-
ity.
The legislation also does nothing—
nothing—to protect people with pre-
existing conditions, and 40 percent of
Americans between the ages of 50 and
641⁄2 have preexisting conditions.
The legislation before us will in-
crease the deficit by tens of billions of
dollars and will threaten the long-term
viability of Medicare and Social Secu-
rity.
Mr. Speaker, because of recent ac-
tions by the Trump Justice Depart-
ment and House Republicans, millions
of Americans between the ages of 50
and 641⁄2 who buy their health insur-
ance on the individual market are
about to get clobbered with double-
digit multiyear health insurance pre-
mium increases, and this Congress is
doing nothing—nothing—to help. This
population needs the protection of
Medicare now.
Medicare at 50 would allow people to
buy Medicare as their health insur-
ance. Medicare is Affordable Care Act
compliant, with essential benefits, has
high patient satisfaction ratings, has
full access to primary care and physi-
cian specialists, and always, always
covers preexisting conditions. Medicare
at 50 also is thousands of dollars cheap-
er when compared with the gold plan
on the individual market.
Mr. Speaker, Medicare is the best
public option that already exists, and
the best public option that already ex-
ists should be available to millions of
Americans ages 50 to 641⁄2.
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Indi-
ana (Mrs. WALORSKI).
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of H.R. 6311, the Increasing
Access to Lower Premium Plans and
Expanding Health Savings Accounts
Act.
This important bill contains a 2-year
delay of the health insurance tax, or
HIT. Like the medical device tax,
which the House voted yesterday to re-
peal, the HIT is yet another damaging
tax from ObamaCare. It raises pre-
miums for families, for small busi-
nesses, for seniors, and for the disabled
enrolled in Medicare Advantage. In
fact, the HIT could raise annual pre-
miums for the typical Medicare Advan-
tage couple by $500 if it returns in 2020.
I am a proud original cosponsor, with
Representatives NOEM, SINEMA, and
BERA, of H.R. 5963, which delays the
HIT for 2 years, and I am thrilled this
bill we are voting for today includes it.
I look forward to the day when we
can finally repeal this tax that falls on
the backs of seniors, the disabled,
small businesses, and hardworking
families, but until then, I urge my col-
leagues to support delaying it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.089 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7662 July 25, 2018
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. JUDY CHU), who is so active
and there all the time.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today in strong opposi-
tion to H.R. 6311, which, contrary to its
name, would do very little to help
Americans access quality healthcare
coverage. Instead, it would force fami-
lies to accept low-quality, catastrophic
health plans, or junk coverage, that
does not meet healthcare needs and
leaves ordinary Americans to foot the
bill when something goes wrong.
What does a catastrophic and high-
deductible plan mean? Well, it is a dis-
aster for many.
Recent studies have shown that 40
percent of Americans cannot afford
even a $400 emergency expense, let
alone the thousands of dollars nec-
essary for a medical emergency, which
could happen to any of us, but that is
the plan Republicans are offering.
Americans would get a plan that is
substandard. No one wants to have
health coverage that doesn’t actually
cover much at all.
What is more, these catastrophic and
high-deductible health plans are espe-
cially harmful to women. Since 50 per-
cent of the pregnancies in the United
States are unplanned, many parents in
these plans will not have saved enough
to cover these high deductibles or un-
expected costs. Furthermore, most
pregnancies last 9 months and, thus,
span more than one plan year. That
means during the course of a single
pregnancy, a mother in one of these
plans would have to hit her deductible
twice.
Maternity care services without com-
plications can average around $10,000
per pregnancy. What would happen in a
pregnancy with complications?
The Affordable Care Act was passed
so that we could move away from junk
plans that offered nothing in terms of
coverage and left people with thou-
sands of dollars in medical debt. This
bill is just another attempt to under-
mine the ACA, and we cannot go back.
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, every time today we
hear the phrase ‘‘junk coverage,’’ think
ObamaCare. And I am not trying to be
facetious, because there is nothing in
this bill that makes any change to any
coverage. I could only assume that the
gentlewoman from California (Ms.
JUDY CHU) is referring to the cata-
strophic coverage that was part of the
ACA.
All we are doing today is saying,
with that coverage, they ought not be
alone. They ought not just be out on an
ice floe all by themselves. People who
have that type of catastrophic cov-
erage that our friends, when they were
in the majority, created, those people
should simply have access to a health
savings account.
What is not to love about that?
So when you hear ‘‘junk coverage,’’
just be dismissive of that. It is a talk-
ing point, and it is not particularly
persuasive. Who is persuasive is the
gentleman from Nebraska.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. SMITH).
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today in support of H.R. 6311,
the Increasing Access to Lower Pre-
mium Plans and Expanding Health
Savings Accounts Act.
This bill gives all Americans the op-
tion to purchase a catastrophic plan if
they so choose, which, under current
law, is restricted to a limited popu-
lation. This bill will increase health in-
surance plan and pricing options as we
continue our work to address the un-
derlying problems of ObamaCare.
Nebraskans continue to tell me that
they are desperate for more options to
buy health insurance for their families.
We are down to only one insurer in Ne-
braska, in Nebraska’s exchange; and
with premiums for a family, which can
exceed $30,000 before even factoring in
four- and five-figure deductibles, fami-
lies need more options, Nebraskans
need more options.
The way to create access to
healthcare for more people is by under-
standing better the buyer-seller rela-
tionship.
If you want to reduce costs through
increasing participation, whoever is
doing the selling must create products
the consumer is willing to buy. The
more barriers are wedged between the
buyer and seller, the more trans-
parency and competition will decrease
and the more healthcare costs for con-
sumers will increase.
It is obvious that ObamaCare poli-
cies, which have restricted choice
through one-size-fits-all requirements
for insurance products, continue to
fail, and this bill will help give Nebras-
kans and all Americans the choices
they need and deserve.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. ROSKAM for
bringing us this bill, and I urge support
for it.
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. DOGGETT), a true fighter.
Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker,
TrumpCare, that is what we are talk-
ing about today.
What is TrumpCare? Well, it is not
much care. In fact, it is mainly indif-
ference from people that don’t really
care or understand the plight of thou-
sands of families across this country
working to make ends meet, and sud-
denly somebody has an accident on the
way home from work or suddenly a
child is diagnosed with some dreaded
disease, and they face, without access
to affordable health insurance, a catas-
trophe.
We know that there are a significant
number of American families that have
said they couldn’t meet a $400 or $500
emergency. Think about what happens
to them when they face a $4,000 or a
$40,000 healthcare bill. That is what the
Affordable Care Act has been all about.
So today we see the chapter in the
TrumpCare story that Mr. ROSKAM and
his colleagues are offering for Trump
and all of his cohorts. And what is it?
It is the 5 percent solution, because we
know that health savings accounts
have been used by exactly 5 percent of
those who earn less than $100,000.
So, as usual, the Trump approach is
let’s do more for the few, and to heck
with the many, the many people who
are out there for whom health savings
accounts provide little or no protec-
tion.
Now, of course, it is a valuable tax
shelter for some people who are a little
bit more prosperous in our society, and
that is fine, but I believe we need to
make healthcare accessible to more
people.
And then there is the additional
problem that Mr. ROSKAM and his col-
leagues have decided to pay for their
package of bills, $100 billion of bills, by
borrowing just a little bit more. After
all the trillions of dollars that they
have borrowed from the Saudis and the
Chinese and people here at home, wher-
ever they can find somebody who will
take their IOU, they want to borrow a
little more money, $100 billion, almost,
to finance this package of bills to help
that 5 percent of the families who earn
less than $100,000.
I offered an amendment, recognizing
that it wouldn’t correct all the flaws of
TrumpCare, but that it would address
one central problem, and that is the
problem of preexisting conditions.
What is a preexisting condition?
Well, it is whatever an insurance com-
pany wants to point to to deny you
coverage before the Affordable Care
Act.
I do think that our Republican col-
leagues are afflicted with a very seri-
ous preexisting condition. It is called
amnesia. They have forgotten what
healthcare was like for families before
the Affordable Care Act came into ex-
istence and prohibited these pre-
existing conditions not only for those
who went to the marketplace, but
across the board, to prevent pre-
existing conditions from being used
against someone to deny them cov-
erage or to limit the coverage that
they got.
The kind of people whom I came in
contact with as we worked on the Af-
fordable Care Act who were determined
to have preexisting conditions were a
victim of domestic violence, someone
who was born with a disability, and
someone who had an accident or an ill-
ness and found themselves with some
lingering effects of that. They would
either be denied coverage altogether,
or they would find in the fine print of
their insurance policy significant limi-
tations on that insurance. The insur-
ance would cover them for everything
except what they needed insurance for.
Now, after the Republican attempt—
and not just one, but 60 or 70 at-
tempts—to repeal the Affordable Care
Act failed in the United States Senate,
thanks to the courage of a few there
and of the many across this country
who said, ‘‘We don’t want it repealed,’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.091 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7663
July 25, 2018
now that it has failed, they have de-
voted the last year to doing everything
in the book to try to sabotage the Af-
fordable Care Act.
They won’t stabilize health insurance
markets. They won’t focus on reducing
premiums. They won’t focus on
strengthening and correcting any of
the shortcomings within the Affordable
Care Act, like the need to rein in the
prescription drug price gouging.
So instead of expanding accessible
coverage, what they do is to expand a
healthcare tax shelter for a few people.
Having done so much harm, they tell
us today that they are not advocating
junk insurance. Well, let’s talk about
junk insurance, because I think they
are right in the junkyard on it.
President Trump’s administration is
out there telling the courts that they
cannot defend the protections in the
Affordable Care Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
MITCHELL). The time of the gentleman
has expired.
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 2 minutes to the gentleman
from Texas.
Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, they
can’t defend, and they refuse to defend,
the preexisting conditions provisions
that protect, in Texas, it is almost half
of the population who are said to have
some type of preexisting condition.
b 1715
So the administration won’t protect
those with preexisting conditions.
They are hoping to erode that protec-
tion. And when I offered a one-para-
graph amendment, Republicans refused
it without any decent explanation in
our committee to ensure that the pre-
existing condition provision was in any
policy that would be purchased under
this plan.
So what you will be left with, as my
colleague from California explained,
are junk insurance plans. They are the
kind that promise great coverage, but
down in the fine print of the policy,
you don’t have coverage when you need
it. They are skinny insurance plans
that aren’t about the size of the person,
but the size of the coverage, that it
doesn’t cover very much. And those
kinds of plans are the kind that we will
end up having.
We have a saboteur-in-chief, not only
when it comes to our military alliances
and our friends abroad but, with this
President, with reference to
healthcare. These bare-bones, junk in-
surance policies will not get the job
done.
I think of the many people whom I
represent in central Texas, and I am
sure they are not unlike people in the
suburbs of Chicago.
They are people like Colleen, who is
a bookkeeper. She adopted her son
through the foster care system when he
was 18 months old. Unknown to her, he
had a preexisting condition; and she
learned that she had a preexisting con-
dition. And as she said: ‘‘The Afford-
able Care Act made my family pos-
sible.’’
I think of people like Theresa in San
Antonio, who says that, before the Af-
fordable Care Act, she found herself re-
peatedly digging out of medical debt
because of a preexisting condition.
I think of a constituent who called
me during the debate of the Affordable
Care Act because her sister could not
get coverage for cancer.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman
from Texas.
Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, her sis-
ter could not get coverage. Though she
had substantial chemotherapy cov-
erage, it was not enough to cover the
full amount of the treatment that she
needed.
We cannot go back. These folks
would drag us back along with the
chief saboteur of healthcare in this
country. We don’t want to return to
the fine print restrictions, to the clever
caveats. We need comprehensive cov-
erage.
The Affordable Care Act can be made
better, and I believe we are going to
have a Congress that will do just that
if we defeat this effort.
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, let’s talk about the 5
percent solution. So, if you are in the
5 percent, you need a solution. Five
percent of this country is millions of
people who are in HSAs.
And the characterization of some-
thing as a tax shelter, as the gen-
tleman from Texas just characterized,
is a completely loaded and pejorative
term.
So where do we go for some level of
clarity? Let’s go to the Joint Com-
mittee on Taxation, and the question
that was posed to them was: Show us
the tax returns of people who take ad-
vantage or who are in a health savings
account.
In 2015, 71 percent of returns reported
an income of $200,000 or less. Are those
rich people? I don’t think so. And, in
addition, 28 percent reported income of
$75,000 or less.
So the hyperbole, the overstatement,
the mischaracterization, I think is
‘‘rich.’’
And did you notice something, Mr.
Speaker? I laid out the President’s
promise: You like your coverage, you
get to keep your coverage. You like
your doctor, you get to keep your doc-
tor. And we are going to save $2,500 per
year per family.
There has been silence on the other
side of the aisle, and I predict that that
won’t be answered all afternoon. Do
you want to know why? Because there
is no answer.
For real answers, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr.
ROE).
Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in support of H.R. 6311. This
bill makes a number of welcome
changes to our broken healthcare sys-
tem to put patients back in charge of
their healthcare.
I have been a physician in rural east
Tennessee for over 30 years. Mr. Speak-
er, we heard about how the tax bill had
caused these premiums to go up. Let
me tell you what has happened in the
State of Tennessee. Since the ACA
took place, the number of options went
down and the premiums have gone up,
on average, 175 percent.
Let me say this: In the hospital
where I practiced, a university hos-
pital, the majority of people with
uncollectible debt are people with in-
surance.
Let me say that again. The majority
of uncollectible debt are people with
insurance.
Why? Because the out-of-pockets and
copays are so high that they can’t af-
ford it. And that is one of the reasons
we need this bill.
And let me say, also, that a year ago
I was facing a major operation, Mr.
Speaker, a cancer operation. I had the
ACA insurance. I looked at what my
out-of-pocket was, what my copays
were, what my premiums were, and
what my employer, the taxpayers of
this country, paid for me. I would have
been better off if I had just written a
check for the cost of that cancer oper-
ation that I had. I had an insurance
card. I didn’t have insurance coverage.
That is what I had with the ACA so-
called insurance.
Now that the mandate is gone—I
want to say this—we heard: Oh, good-
ness, the sky is falling because pre-
miums are going to go up. In Ten-
nessee, our premiums actually went
down 10 percent from the major insurer
in the State, Blue Cross, and for that
we are eternally grateful in my State.
What we want, now that the mandate
has gone, this bill will help create a
more affordable copper plan option
which will allow the tax credit recipi-
ents to use their credit to pay for cov-
erage. This is something we should
look at to expand. In fact, Senator
ALEXANDER and Congressman DUNCAN
have introduced legislation which
would allow consumers to purchase an
off-market plan when there are limited
options.
In my district, in the First District
of Tennessee, almost as many people,
within a few hundred, paid the penalty
tax, whatever Justice Roberts wanted
to call it, as actually got a subsidy. Al-
most as many people paid it. So what
good is it?
All of these changes are long over-
due. Americans have dealt with the
crushing costs associated with
ObamaCare, and we are trying to give
them as much relief as possible. By
passing this bill today, we will return
control to patients to determine what
level of coverage is best for them and
their families rather than the govern-
ment making an arbitrary decision for
them.
If we had a system of healthcare in
this country where it was patient cen-
tered and market driven, these changes
would be unnecessary. Instead, we still
have a top-down, government-knows-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.130 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7664 July 25, 2018
best approach to healthcare that con-
tinues to cost folks all across the coun-
try more than they can afford.
I support the provisions in this bill
because I have worked very hard to get
to it.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentleman an additional 30 sec-
onds.
Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Mr. Speaker, I
will finish by saying that the current
system under ObamaCare is
unsustainable, and we must increase
affordable options or the system will
collapse.
Finally, I will put it this way: We
need to put patients and doctors—no
insurance companies and bureaucrats—
in charge of healthcare decisions in
this country. That is what a health
savings account does, and I encourage
all of my colleagues to support this.
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, how much
time do I have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Michigan has 61⁄2 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from Illi-
nois has 14 minutes remaining.
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. STIVERS).
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank the gentleman from Illinois for
yielding me time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support
H.R. 6311, and more specifically, I rise
to support bipartisan language to make
flexible spending accounts flexible.
While 44 percent of Americans have
access to flexible spending accounts,
flexible spending accounts have not
been flexible. There are two problems:
Under ObamaCare, flexible spending
account contributions were capped at
$2,650. And while the average American
spends more than $5,700 in out-of-pock-
et healthcare costs, it is just not
enough.
The second problem is flexible spend-
ing account rules make people use it or
lose it at the end of the year, and they
can’t roll over their money. They have
to spend it on things they don’t need or
they have to lose that money.
Our bipartisan solution solves those
problems by doing two things:
First, it increases the limit on FSA
accounts by a multiple of three to
$7,950. And I did the math for the rank-
ing member. That total would be, over
3 years, if you wanted to save $50 a
week, you could accumulate $7,950. Ob-
viously, that would be if you weren’t
using it, so it would probably take
longer than that to accumulate that
kind of money. But, again, that is well
over the average of $5,700 of out-of-
pocket expenses that the average
American has.
And, by the way, while flexible
spending accounts are accessible to
people, one of the reasons people like
them is they make out-of-pocket ex-
penses more affordable for individuals
because those contributions are pretax
dollars.
The second thing our bipartisan lan-
guage does is it allows the balance to
be rolled over at the end of the year up
to that $7,950 limit. The rollover provi-
sion keeps people from losing their
money or making healthcare expenses
that are wasteful at the end of the
year.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the flexible spending account
language and the underlying bill.
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. LAWRENCE), my col-
league.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to speak against H.R. 6311.
This bill does no favor for the aver-
age working American. This is yet an-
other bill to sabotage the Affordable
Care Act and make healthcare more ex-
pensive for those who need it the most.
Expanding these health savings ac-
counts, which are simply investment
accounts, doesn’t cover basic
healthcare. It does not help the aver-
age American who needs true
healthcare.
This Republican legislation will not
help my constituents in Michigan. It
does not serve the need of access to
healthcare for America’s most vulner-
able. The bill does not serve seniors ei-
ther. It hurts them by drawing Medi-
care recipients into high-cost care.
In Michigan, 92 percent of Medicare
beneficiaries make under $50,000, and 14
percent are Black seniors who live
below the poverty line. We know sen-
iors can’t afford this.
We also know this bill will drain
more money from Medicare by adding
$60 billion to the deficit.
We need affordable care for everyone,
not unaffordable health plans for a few.
This bill would destabilize and destroy
affordable healthcare.
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, there is nothing in this
bill that is destructive at all. The en-
tire structure of the bill is invita-
tional. The bill presumes the status
quo in terms of the Affordable Care
Act, and it allows people to get in sync
with the Affordable Care Act, and it al-
lows them to save money in a tax-free
manner.
I am really surprised at the hyper-
bole, the overstatement, and the over
characterization. Nobody has answered
either, Mr. Speaker, if you will notice,
my admonition about the characteriza-
tion of junk insurance. To attribute
that claim, which we have heard from
a couple of speakers this afternoon,
against this bill is to attribute that
claim and that criticism against the
ACA, because the underlying bill
matches exactly what the ACA pur-
ports, that is, catastrophic coverage. It
simply says, if you have that coverage
and your deductibles take your breath
away, good news; you can save on a
tax-free basis.
So I think, with all due respect to
the talking point writers and all due
respect to the critics of this bill, I
think the entire debate would be up-
lifted somewhat if we were debating
the actual bill that is before us instead
of tweets and news feeds and so forth.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, as I close, I think back
some years ago when we were working
on ACA. It was one of our proudest
achievements. The Republicans, from
day one, were determined to destroy it.
ACA can be made better, but destruc-
tion is not improvement.
This bill, when you put it together, is
not only unpaid for, but would be a
step to try to undermine the basic
thrust of the ACA, to replace these
basic provisions with something much
less.
In a word, the Republicans are on the
wrong side of history, and the clock is
ticking.
b 1730
These bills, when you put them all
together, essentially say, these are an-
other way to undercut ACA. This is a
very, very weak—and I think worse
than a weak set of alternatives. They
have never been able to come up with a
comprehensive bill, and this effort is
the opposite. As we have mentioned,
relatively few people with lower in-
come can access these. So many of the
people who access HSAs are people who
can afford it.
We can make it better. But don’t
come here when you have had no alter-
native to say that this is something
that could replace ACA. You don’t pay
for it. You are reckless. This, as I said
earlier, is a reckless bill of the chair-
man of our subcommittee.
So I urge my colleagues to reject this
and to not be fooled. We Democrats
come to the floor with a sense of being
on the right side of history. What is
happening in this country is that more
and more of the public acknowledge it.
Compared to when we first started, I
remember going back home, there was
so much opposition, so much mis-
guided. But when people—20 million—
for the first time, in most cases, had
healthcare, the clock began to tick in
the direction of universal care.
You are trying to turn back the
clock, you Republicans, but it is tick-
ing more and more towards uni-
versality. That is what is happening in
this country. And this is becoming part
of the bedrock, the foundations of care
and of provisions for the benefit of the
American people as Social Security
was, as Medicare was, and as Medicaid
was.
You are going to pay the price for
your blind opposition. The public is
more and more aware, as their eyes
have been opened and as their health
has been protected, what this has
meant to millions of families in this
country—millions. I run into it every
day I go home, people who come and
say: Without healthcare coverage,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.093 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7665
July 25, 2018
where would I be? Not only financially,
but where would I be and what is so
dear to me, my health and the health
of our families and the health of our
kids?
I urge we Democrats to stand up tall
and say to the American public: The
ACA was a major historic step in the
right direction. The Republicans con-
tinue to try to destroy it. History is
showing that, once again, they were
moving in the wrong discretion.
Mr. Speaker, I urge that we reject
this bill and move proudly forward. We
put together this step. We are going to
continue to move forward.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to direct their re-
marks to the Chair.
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I served on the Ways
and Means Committee when the ACA
was passed, and I recall then-minority
ranking member Dave Camp from
Michigan, who went on to become the
chairman later, offered an alternative
to the ACA.
He inquired of then-chairman Rangel:
When are we going to get to the Repub-
lican alternative? When are we going
to get to the Republican alternative?
I remember this because I was sit-
ting—I think I had the same seat that
Mr. HIGGINS from New York has—down
in front on the left side of the dais.
Charlie Rangel evoked an old gospel
song. He said: Soon and very soon,
which is why I remember.
Now, soon and very soon never came
for that amendment. Soon and very
soon never came for the Republican al-
ternative to be considered in the Ways
and Means Committee.
Now what we are dealing with is the
reality of the Affordable Care Act. Mr.
Speaker, what we are proposing is to
say: Look, we have got some sugges-
tions; we think we can make this bet-
ter.
Is this reckless? I think not. I fun-
damentally reject that. When you ac-
cept the entire premise of the current
structure of the Affordable Care Act,
and you take something that pre-ex-
isted within the Affordable Care Act,
that is health savings accounts, and
you attach it and you expand it, where
is the defensiveness?
This is what is amazing to me about
this debate. This is why our country is
stuck. Our friends on the other side of
the aisle have created the Affordable
Care Act, and it is orthodoxy. To take
it on and to try to make improve-
ments—they say they want improve-
ments.
They say: Oh, let’s work together.
All afternoon with Ms. JENKINS here
on the House floor, she was managing
time of bills that were bipartisan in na-
ture, bipartisan as they went through
the committee, but you got none of
that veneer of bipartisanship as they
were discussed on the floor. They were
perceived as a direct attack at what?
Orthodoxy.
So notwithstanding the invitation to
work on both sides of the aisle, the
other side is making it very clear that
they are unwilling to take the struc-
ture of the ACA, to take favorable tax
treatment and help more people save
their own money and spare themselves
the results of a law that our friends on
the other side of the aisle said that you
could keep your doctor, you could keep
your coverage, and you would save
$2,500 per person—and, again, I reit-
erate, Mr. Speaker, did you notice
there was no answer to that charge this
afternoon?
I laid it out twice and now a third
time; and absolute silence.
Why? Because they oversold. Now
when they have got friends on this side
of the aisle who are saying: Look, we
can improve this. Let’s work here. No,
we don’t like the ACA, but we can work
through some of these things, then, all
of a sudden, it is stiff-arm. Then, all of
a sudden, it is insincere. Then, all of a
sudden, it is political.
This is good work, this is serious
work, and it is work that is designed to
bring relief to people who are suffering,
who have no interest in the nature of a
donkeys-and-elephants debate on the
House floor. Most people’s eyes glaze
over.
Most people say they want remedies.
This is a remedy that makes sense.
This is a remedy in sync with the ACA
in some ways. The responses we have
heard from the other side I don’t think
are persuasive.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of
H.R. 6311, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 1011,
the previous question is ordered on the
bill, as amended.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Ms. FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I have a motion to recommit at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentlewoman opposed to the bill?
Ms. FRANKEL of Florida. I am op-
posed in its current form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Ms. Frankel of Florida moves to recommit
the bill H.R. 6311 to the Committee on Ways
and Means with instructions to report the
same back to the House forthwith with the
following amendment:
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 10. RESTORATION OF MEDICARE TRUST
FUND SOLVENCY.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, no amendment made by this Act
shall take effect until the annual reports of
the Board of the Trustees of the Federal Hos-
pital Insurance Trust Fund established under
section 1817 of the Social Security Act and
the Federal Supplementary Medical Insur-
ance Trust Fund established under section
1841 of the Social Security Act indicate the
reduction of solvency of such trust funds by
reason of Public Law 115–97 (and the amend-
ments made thereby) have been reversed.
Ms. FRANKEL of Florida (during the
reading). Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent to dispense with the reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman is
recognized for 5 minutes in support of
her motion.
Ms. FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, this is the final amendment to the
bill which will not kill the bill or send
it back to committee. If adopted, the
bill will immediately proceed to final
passage, as amended.
Mr. Speaker, my motion will make
this bill much better. It is going to
delay this legislation from going into
effect until we clean up one of the
messes caused by the Republican tax
scam, the big giveaway to the richest
few in this country at the expense of
most Americans.
Now, listen to this. The 2018 Medicare
trustee report predicts that the Medi-
care trust fund will be depleted in
2026—3 years earlier than predicted in
last year’s report.
Now, Mr. Speaker, why is this? Not a
big surprise. The $2.3 trillion Repub-
lican tax cut for the benefit of corpora-
tions and billionaires has shortchanged
the longevity of the fund that pays for
the healthcare of 58 million seniors. It
is called Medicare, a program that
celebrates its 53rd year anniversary
this month, a system that seniors have
spent a lifetime paying into.
Just ask Eve in my hometown of
West Palm Beach who relies on skilled
nursing care, like the 1.8 million Eves
in this country; or Irving in Delray,
who had his prostate removed. Like Ir-
ving, 6.6 Americans rely on Medicare to
pay for their hospital visits every year.
Medicare helps to keep our grand-
mothers and grandfathers healthy and
repair them when they are sick. It al-
lows men and women who raised fami-
lies and built their country to retire in
dignity without paying every last dol-
lar for their needed well-care visit,
their blood pressure medicine, or their
hip replacement.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
do the right thing for the folks whom
we love and who love us, take the time
to fix this legislation, and put the
money back into the Medicare trust
fund, that was cruelly—I say cruelly—
stolen by the Republican tax scam, the
giveaway to the richest 1 percent and
the big corporate interests.
Let’s keep Medicaid alive and well.
Please support this motion to recom-
mit.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I claim
the time in opposition.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Illinois is recognized for 5
minutes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.095 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7666 July 25, 2018
Mr. ROSKAM. Mr. Speaker, I urge us
to reject this motion to recommit.
The hospital insurance trust fund
isn’t going to be insolvent purely be-
cause we are freeing Americans from
the individual mandate. This crisis has
been going on for decades.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Ms. FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 and clause 9 of rule XX,
this 15-minute vote on the motion to
recommit will be followed by 5-minute
votes on:
Passage of H.R. 6311, if ordered; and
Passage of H.R. 6199.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 187, nays
229, not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 375]
YEAS—187
Adams
Aguilar
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blum
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady (PA)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Capuano
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Crist
Crowley
Cuellar
Cummings
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny
DeFazio
DeGette
Delaney
DeLauro
DelBene
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Eshoo
Espaillat
Esty (CT)
Evans
Foster
Frankel (FL)
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al
Green, Gene
Grijalva
Gutiérrez
Hastings
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson, E. B.
Jones
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kihuen
Kildee
Kilmer
Kind
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee
Levin
Lewis (GA)
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lujan Grisham,
M.
Luján, Ben Ray
Lynch
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Matsui
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Moulton
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Nolan
Norcross
O’Halleran
O’Rourke
Pallone
Panetta
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Pingree
Pocan
Polis
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rosen
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan (OH)
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shea-Porter
Sherman
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tonko
Torres
Tsongas
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters, Maxine
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—229
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Banks (IN)
Barletta
Barr
Barton
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (MI)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady (TX)
Brat
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cloud
Coffman
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Comstock
Conaway
Cook
Costello (PA)
Crawford
Culberson
Curbelo (FL)
Curtis
Davidson
Davis, Rodney
Denham
DeSantis
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Donovan
Duffy
Duncan (SC)
Duncan (TN)
Emmer
Estes (KS)
Faso
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garrett
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Goodlatte
Gosar
Gowdy
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Griffith
Grothman
Guthrie
Handel
Harper
Harris
Hartzler
Hensarling
Herrera Beutler
Hice, Jody B.
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hultgren
Hunter
Hurd
Issa
Jenkins (KS)
Jenkins (WV)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson, Sam
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Knight
Kustoff (TN)
Labrador
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Lance
Latta
Lesko
Lewis (MN)
LoBiondo
Long
Loudermilk
Love
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
MacArthur
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
McMorris
Rodgers
McSally
Meadows
Messer
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Noem
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palmer
Paulsen
Pearce
Perry
Pittenger
Poe (TX)
Poliquin
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reichert
Renacci
Rice (SC)
Roby
Roe (TN)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rohrabacher
Rokita
Rooney, Francis
Rooney, Thomas
J.
Ros-Lehtinen
Roskam
Ross
Rothfus
Rouzer
Royce (CA)
Russell
Rutherford
Sanford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sessions
Shimkus
Shuster
Simpson
Sinema
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (TX)
Smucker
Stefanik
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Trott
Turner
Upton
Valadao
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Walters, Mimi
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoder
Yoho
Young (AK)
Young (IA)
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—12
Bass
Black
Blackburn
Cramer
Dunn
Ellison
Frelinghuysen
Hanabusa
Maloney, Sean
Palazzo
Speier
Walz
b 1807
Messrs. REED, KINZINGER, Mac-
ARTHUR, RUSSELL, BRAT, BISHOP
of Utah, and RICE of South Carolina
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
Mr. SOTO, Mses. JAYAPAL and
BROWNLEY of California, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Messrs. O’HALLERAN
and GOTTHEIMER changed their vote
from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoidably
detained. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 375.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I demand a
recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 242, noes 176,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 376]
AYES—242
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Banks (IN)
Barletta
Barr
Barton
Bera
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (MI)
Bishop (UT)
Blum
Bost
Brady (TX)
Brat
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cloud
Coffman
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Comstock
Conaway
Cook
Costello (PA)
Crawford
Cuellar
Culberson
Curbelo (FL)
Curtis
Davidson
Davis, Rodney
Denham
DeSantis
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Donovan
Duffy
Duncan (SC)
Duncan (TN)
Dunn
Emmer
Estes (KS)
Faso
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx
Frelinghuysen
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garrett
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (TX)
Goodlatte
Gosar
Gottheimer
Gowdy
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Griffith
Grothman
Guthrie
Handel
Harper
Harris
Hartzler
Hensarling
Herrera Beutler
Hice, Jody B.
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hultgren
Hunter
Hurd
Issa
Jenkins (KS)
Jenkins (WV)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson, Sam
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Knight
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
Labrador
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Lance
Latta
Lesko
Lewis (MN)
LoBiondo
Long
Loudermilk
Love
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
MacArthur
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
McMorris
Rodgers
McSally
Meadows
Messer
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Newhouse
Noem
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palmer
Paulsen
Pearce
Perry
Peterson
Pittenger
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.097 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7667
July 25, 2018
Poe (TX)
Poliquin
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reichert
Renacci
Rice (SC)
Roby
Roe (TN)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rohrabacher
Rokita
Rooney, Francis
Rooney, Thomas
J.
Ros-Lehtinen
Rosen
Roskam
Ross
Rothfus
Rouzer
Royce (CA)
Russell
Rutherford
Sanford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sessions
Shimkus
Shuster
Simpson
Sinema
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (TX)
Smucker
Stefanik
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Trott
Turner
Upton
Valadao
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Walters, Mimi
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoder
Yoho
Young (AK)
Young (IA)
Zeldin
NOES—176
Adams
Aguilar
Barragán
Beatty
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady (PA)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Butterfield
Capuano
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Crist
Crowley
Cummings
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny
DeFazio
DeGette
Delaney
DeLauro
DelBene
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Eshoo
Espaillat
Esty (CT)
Evans
Foster
Frankel (FL)
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Gomez
Green, Al
Green, Gene
Grijalva
Gutiérrez
Hastings
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson, E. B.
Jones
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kihuen
Kildee
Kilmer
Kind
Krishnamoorthi
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee
Levin
Lewis (GA)
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lujan Grisham,
M.
Luján, Ben Ray
Lynch
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Matsui
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Moulton
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Nolan
Norcross
O’Rourke
Pallone
Panetta
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Pingree
Pocan
Polis
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan (OH)
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shea-Porter
Sherman
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tonko
Torres
Tsongas
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters, Maxine
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—10
Bass
Black
Blackburn
Cramer
Ellison
Hanabusa
Maloney, Sean
Palazzo
Speier
Walz
b 1813
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RESTORING ACCESS TO
MEDICATION ACT OF 2018
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The un-
finished business is the vote on passage
of the bill (H.R. 6199) to amend the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 to include
certain over-the-counter medical prod-
ucts as qualified medical expenses, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 277, nays
142, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 377]
YEAS—277
Abraham
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Banks (IN)
Barletta
Barr
Barton
Bera
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (MI)
Bishop (UT)
Blum
Blumenauer
Bonamici
Bost
Brady (TX)
Brat
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cleaver
Cloud
Coffman
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Comstock
Conaway
Cook
Correa
Costello (PA)
Crawford
Crist
Cuellar
Culberson
Curbelo (FL)
Curtis
Davidson
Davis, Rodney
DeFazio
Delaney
Denham
DeSantis
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Donovan
Duffy
Duncan (SC)
Duncan (TN)
Dunn
Emmer
Estes (KS)
Faso
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx
Frelinghuysen
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garrett
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (TX)
Goodlatte
Gosar
Gottheimer
Gowdy
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green, Gene
Griffith
Grothman
Guthrie
Handel
Harper
Harris
Hartzler
Hensarling
Herrera Beutler
Hice, Jody B.
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hultgren
Hunter
Hurd
Issa
Jenkins (KS)
Jenkins (WV)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson, Sam
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Knight
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
Labrador
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Lance
Latta
Lesko
Lewis (MN)
Lipinski
LoBiondo
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Love
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Lujan Grisham,
M.
Lynch
MacArthur
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
McMorris
Rodgers
McSally
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Messer
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Newhouse
Noem
Nolan
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
O’Rourke
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Paulsen
Pearce
Perlmutter
Perry
Peterson
Pingree
Pittenger
Poe (TX)
Poliquin
Polis
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reichert
Renacci
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Roby
Roe (TN)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rohrabacher
Rokita
Rooney, Francis
Rooney, Thomas
J.
Ros-Lehtinen
Rosen
Roskam
Ross
Rothfus
Rouzer
Royce (CA)
Ruiz
Russell
Rutherford
Sanford
Scalise
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sessions
Shea-Porter
Shimkus
Shuster
Simpson
Sinema
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (TX)
Smucker
Stefanik
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Taylor
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Torres
Trott
Turner
Upton
Valadao
Vela
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Walters, Mimi
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoder
Yoho
Young (AK)
Young (IA)
Zeldin
NAYS—142
Adams
Barragán
Beatty
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady (PA)
Brown (MD)
Butterfield
Capuano
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Costa
Courtney
Crowley
Cummings
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Eshoo
Espaillat
Esty (CT)
Evans
Foster
Frankel (FL)
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Gomez
Green, Al
Grijalva
Gutiérrez
Hastings
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson, E. B.
Jones
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kihuen
Kildee
Kilmer
Kind
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee
Levin
Lewis (GA)
Lieu, Ted
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján, Ben Ray
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Matsui
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Moore
Moulton
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Norcross
Pallone
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Peters
Pocan
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Richmond
Roybal-Allard
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan (OH)
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Schakowsky
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Sherman
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tonko
Tsongas
Vargas
Veasey
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters, Maxine
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—9
Bass
Black
Blackburn
Cramer
Ellison
Hanabusa
Maloney, Sean
Speier
Walz
b 1820
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY7.028 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7668 July 25, 2018
PERMISSION FOR MEMBER TO BE
CONSIDERED AS FIRST SPONSOR
OF H.R. 1002
Mr. MCKINLEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that I may here-
after be considered as the first sponsor
of H.R. 1002, a bill originally intro-
duced by Representative DENT of Penn-
sylvania, for the purposes of adding co-
sponsors and requesting reprintings
pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from West Virginia?
There was no objection.
f
CAMBODIA DEMOCRACY ACT OF
2018
Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent that the
Committee on Foreign Affairs and the
Committee on the Judiciary be dis-
charged from further consideration of
the bill (H.R. 5754) to promote free and
fair elections, political freedoms, and
human rights in Cambodia, and for
other purposes, and ask for its imme-
diate consideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 5754
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Cambodia
Democracy Act of 2018’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Cambodia’s present political system
was established in 1991, after decades of in-
ternal conflict, by the United Nations-bro-
kered Paris Peace Accords. The first na-
tional elections under this system were ad-
ministered by the United Nations in 1993.
Hun Sen, the current Prime Minister of Cam-
bodia, has been in power in Cambodia since
before this time, serving as premier from
1985 to 1993, and as Prime Minister there-
after. Hun Sen has used his position to cling
to the pinnacle of power in Cambodia for 32
years, through tactics including coup d’état,
irregular election procedures, and the silenc-
ing of opposition voices.
(2) In Cambodia’s most recent general elec-
tions in 2013, Hun Sen’s Cambodian People’s
Party (CPP) maintained its parliamentary
majority by the smallest margin to date,
while a unified opposition Cambodia Na-
tional Rescue Party (CNRP) made substan-
tial gains. The Department of State’s Coun-
try Reports on Human Rights Practices for
2016 described Cambodia’s 2013 elections as
‘‘largely free of intimidation, in contrast to
previous national elections’’, yet also
‘‘fraught with irregularities’’. Subsequent
local elections marked similar setbacks for
the ruling CPP.
(3) Cambodia’s next general elections will
occur in June 2018. According to the 2017
Freedom in the World Report issued by Free-
dom House, in the intervening period Hun
Sen has overseen ‘‘a decisive crackdown on
the country’s beleaguered opposition and
press corps as his [CPP] prepared for na-
tional elections’’. Regional experts have
reached a general consensus that Hun Sen
and the CPP have undertaken this crack-
down to consolidate power ahead of an elec-
tion that may have ended their grip on
power.
(4) Hun Sen’s actions in late 2017 pushed
Cambodia further away from democracy. In
late August 2017, the regime shut down the
National Democratic Institute and expelled
its entire foreign staff from the country
within a week. Less than a week later, radio
stations carrying Radio Free Asia and Voice
of America were also shut down by the re-
gime. On September 3, 2017, authorities ar-
rested Kem Sokha, the leader of the CNRP,
and charged him with treason, allegedly for
participating in an American plot to under-
mine Hun Sen’s regime. Kem Sokha remains
in detention. On November 16, 2017, Cam-
bodia’s Supreme Court dissolved the CNRP,
eliminating the most popular and viable
challenger to Hun Sen’s regime. Subsequent
actions by Hun Sen have aimed to ‘‘cement
total control over Cambodian government
and business’’, according to Human Rights
Watch.
(5) Since the dissolution of the CNRP, both
the Department of State and the White
House have issued statements condemning
the Hun Sen regime’s actions to undermine
democracy and calling for Kem Sokha’s re-
lease. On November 16, 2017, the White House
announced that the United States would ter-
minate support for Cambodia’s National
Election Committee. On December 6, 2017,
the Department of State began imple-
menting visa restrictions for officials re-
sponsible for undermining Cambodian de-
mocracy. On February 27, 2018, the White
House announced further assistance reduc-
tions following Cambodian Senate elections
on February 25 which did not represent the
genuine will of the Cambodian people.
SEC. 3. SANCTIONS RELATING TO UNDERMINING
DEMOCRACY IN CAMBODIA.
(a) DESIGNATION OF PERSONS RESPONSIBLE
FOR UNDERMINING DEMOCRACY IN CAMBODIA.—
Not later than 180 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the President shall
apply the sanctions described in subsection
(b) on—
(1) each senior official of the Government,
military, or security forces of Cambodia that
the President determines has directly and
substantially undermined democracy in
Cambodia; and
(2) each senior official of the Government,
military, or security forces of Cambodia that
the President determines has committed or
directed serious human rights violations as-
sociated with undermining democracy in
Cambodia.
(b) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—
(1) ASSET BLOCKING.—The President shall
exercise all of the powers granted to the
President under the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.) to the extent necessary to block and
prohibit all transactions in property and in-
terests in property of a person designated
under subsection (a) if such property and in-
terests in property are in the United States,
come within the United States, or are or
come within the possession or control of a
United States person.
(2) VISA RESTRICTIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of Home-
land Security, shall continue to implement
the policy announced by the Department of
State on December 6, 2017, to restrict entry
into the United States of person involved in
undermining democracy in Cambodia, in-
cluding any person designated under sub-
section (a).
(B) EXCEPTION FOR MULTILATERAL ACTIVI-
TIES.—Persons otherwise restricted from
entry into the United States under this sec-
tion may be admitted if such admission is
necessary to comply with United States obli-
gations under the Agreement between the
United Nations and the United States of
America regarding the Headquarters of the
United Nations, signed at Lake Success June
26, 1947, and entered into force November 21,
1947, or under the Convention on Consular
Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and
entered into force March 19, 1967, or other
applicable international obligations of the
United States.
(3) PENALTIES.—The penalties provided for
in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person
that violates, attempts to violate, conspires
to violate, or causes a violation of paragraph
(1) to the same extent that such penalties
apply to a person that commits an unlawful
act described in subsection (a) of such sec-
tion 206.
(e) LIST OF DESIGNATED PERSONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall transmit to the appro-
priate congressional committees a list of
persons designated under subsection (a).
(2) UPDATES.—The President shall transmit
to the appropriate congressional committees
updated lists under paragraph (1) as new in-
formation becomes available.
(f) IMPLEMENTATION.—The President may
exercise all authorities provided under sec-
tions 203 and 205 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702
and 1704) to carry out this section.
(g) WAIVER.—The President may waive the
application of sanctions described in sub-
section (b) with respect to a person described
in subsection (a) if the President determines
and certifies to the appropriate congres-
sional committees that such waiver is in the
national interest of the United States.
SEC. 4. SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION OF
SANCTIONS.
(a) SUSPENSION.—The sanctions described
in section 3 may be suspended for up to one
year upon certification by the President to
the appropriate congressional committees
that Cambodia is making meaningful
progress toward the following:
(1) Ending government efforts to under-
mine democracy.
(2) Ending human rights violations associ-
ated with undermining democracy.
(3) Conducting free and fair elections
which allow for the active participation of
credible opposition candidates.
(b) RENEWAL OF SUSPENSION.—The suspen-
sion described in subsection (a) may be re-
newed for additional, consecutive 180-day pe-
riods if the President certifies to the appro-
priate congressional committees that Cam-
bodia is continuing to make meaningful
progress towards satisfying the conditions
described in such subsection during the pre-
vious year.
SEC. 5. SUNSET.
This Act shall terminate on the date that
is five years after the date of the enactment
of this Act.
SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means the Committee on For-
eign Affairs and the Committee on Financial
Services of the House of Representatives,
and the Committee on Foreign Relations and
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs of the Senate.
(2) UNITED STATES PERSON; PERSON.—The
term ‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) a United States citizen or an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence to
the United States; or
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
the United States or of any jurisdiction of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.104 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7669
July 25, 2018
the United States, including a foreign branch
of such an entity.
AMENDMENT OFFERED BY MR. ROYCE OF
CALIFORNIA
Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I have an amendment at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the amendment.
The Clerk read as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Cambodia
Democracy Act of 2018’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Prime Minister Hun Sen has been in
power in Cambodia since 1985 and is the long-
est-serving leader in Southeast Asia. Despite
decades of international attention and as-
sistance to promote a pluralistic, multi-
party democratic system in Cambodia, the
Government of Cambodia continues to be
undemocratically dominated by the ruling
Cambodia People’s Party (CPP), which con-
trols every agency and security apparatus of
the state.
(2) In 2015, the CPP-controlled parliament
passed the ‘‘Law on Associations and Non-
Governmental Organizations’’, which gave
the government sweeping powers to revoke
the registration of NGOs that the govern-
ment believed to be operating with a polit-
ical bias in a blatant attempt to restrict the
legitimate work of civil society. On August
23, 2017, Cambodia’s Ministry of Foreign Af-
fairs ordered the closure of the National
Democratic Institute and the expulsion of its
foreign staff. On September 15, 2017, Prime
Minister Hun Sen called for the withdrawal
of all volunteers from the United States
Peace Corps, which has operated in Cam-
bodia since 2006 with 500 United States vol-
unteers providing English language and
healthcare training.
(3) The Government of Cambodia has taken
several measures to restrict its media envi-
ronment, especially through politicized tax
investigations against independent media
outlets that resulted in the closure of The
Cambodian Daily and Radio Free Asia in
early September 2017. Additionally, the Gov-
ernment of Cambodia has ordered several
radio stations to stop the broadcasting of
Radio Free Asia and Voice of America pro-
gramming.
(4) Each of the five elections that have
taken place in Cambodia since 1991 were con-
ducted in circumstances that were not free
and fair, and were marked by fraud, intimi-
dation, violence, and the government’s mis-
use of legal mechanisms to weaken opposi-
tion candidates and parties.
(5) On September 3, 2017, Kem Sokha, the
President of the Cambodia National Rescue
Party (CNRP), was arrested on politically
motivated charges, including treason and
conspiring to overthrow the Government of
Cambodia, and faces up to 30 years in prison.
The CNRP’s previous leader, Sam Rainsy, re-
mains in exile. On November 16, 2017, Cam-
bodia’s Supreme Court dissolved the CNRP,
eliminating the CPP’s only viable chal-
lenger.
(6) The United States is committed to pro-
moting democracy, human rights, and the
rule of law in Cambodia. The United States
continues to urge the Government of Cam-
bodia to immediately release Mr. Kem
Sokha, reinstate the political status of the
CNRP and its 55 elected seats in the National
Assembly, and support electoral reform ef-
forts in Cambodia with free and fair elec-
tions in 2018 monitored by international ob-
servers.
SEC. 3. SANCTIONS RELATING TO UNDERMINING
DEMOCRACY IN CAMBODIA.
(a) DESIGNATION OF PERSONS RESPONSIBLE
FOR UNDERMINING DEMOCRACY IN CAMBODIA.—
Not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the President shall
apply the sanctions described in subsection
(b) on—
(1) each senior official of the Government,
military, or security forces of Cambodia that
the President determines has directly and
substantially undermined democracy in
Cambodia
(2) each senior official of the Government,
military, or security forces of Cambodia that
the President determines has committed or
directed serious human rights violations as-
sociated with undermining democracy in
Cambodia; and
(3) entities owned or controlled by senior
officials of the Government, military, or se-
curity forces of Cambodia described in (1)
and (2).
(b) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—
(1) ASSET BLOCKING.—The President shall
exercise all of the powers granted to the
President under the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.) to the extent necessary to block and
prohibit all transactions in property and in-
terests in property of a person designated
under subsection (a) if such property and in-
terests in property are in the United States,
come within the United States, or are or
come within the possession or control of a
United States person.
(2) VISA RESTRICTIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of Home-
land Security, shall continue to implement
the policy announced by the Department of
State on December 6, 2017, to restrict entry
into the United States of persons involved in
undermining democracy in Cambodia, in-
cluding any person designated under sub-
section (a).
(B) EXCEPTION FOR MULTILATERAL ACTIVI-
TIES.—Persons otherwise restricted from
entry into the United States under this sec-
tion may be admitted if such admission is
necessary to comply with United States obli-
gations under the Agreement between the
United Nations and the United States of
America regarding the Headquarters of the
United Nations, signed at Lake Success June
26, 1947, and entered into force November 21,
1947, or under the Convention on Consular
Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and
entered into force March 19, 1967, or other
applicable international obligations of the
United States.
(3) PENALTIES.—The penalties provided for
in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person
that violates, attempts to violate, conspires
to violate, or causes a violation of paragraph
(1) to the same extent that such penalties
apply to a person that commits an unlawful
act described in subsection (a) of such sec-
tion 206.
(e) LIST OF DESIGNATED PERSONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall transmit to the appro-
priate congressional committees a list of
persons designated under subsection (a).
(2) UPDATES.—The President shall transmit
to the appropriate congressional committees
updated lists under paragraph (1) as new in-
formation becomes available.
(f) IMPLEMENTATION.—The President may
exercise all authorities provided under sec-
tions 203 and 205 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702
and 1704) to carry out this section.
(g) WAIVER.—The President may waive the
application of sanctions described in sub-
section (b) with respect to a person des-
ignated under subsection (a) if the President
determines and certifies to the appropriate
congressional committees that such waiver
is in the national interest of the United
States.
SEC. 4. SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS.
(a) SUSPENSION.—The sanctions described
in section 3 may be suspended for up to one
year upon certification by the President to
the appropriate congressional committees
that Cambodia is making meaningful
progress toward the following:
(1) Ending government efforts to under-
mine democracy.
(2) Ending human rights violations associ-
ated with undermining democracy.
(3) Conducting free and fair elections
which allow for the active participation of
credible opposition candidates.
(b) RENEWAL OF SUSPENSION.—The suspen-
sion described in subsection (a) may be re-
newed for additional, consecutive 180-day pe-
riods if the President certifies to the appro-
priate congressional committees that Cam-
bodia is continuing to make meaningful
progress towards satisfying the conditions
described in such subsection during the pre-
vious year.
SEC. 5. SUNSET.
This Act shall terminate on the date that
is five years after the date of the enactment
of this Act.
SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means the Committee on For-
eign Affairs and the Committee on Financial
Services of the House of Representatives,
and the Committee on Foreign Relations and
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs of the Senate.
(2) PERSON.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘person’’
means—
(i) a natural person; or
(ii) a corporation, business association,
partnership, society, trust, financial institu-
tion, insurer, underwriter, guarantor, and
any other business organization, any other
nongovernmental entity, organization, or
group, and any governmental entity oper-
ating as a business enterprise or any suc-
cessor to any entity described in this clause.
(B) APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENTAL ENTI-
TIES.—The term ‘‘person’’ does not include a
government or governmental entity that is
not operating as a business enterprise.
(3) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) a United States citizen or an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence to
the United States; or
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
the United States or of any jurisdiction of
the United States, including a foreign branch
of such an entity.
Mr. ROYCE of California (during the
reading). Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent to dispense with the reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
The amendment was agreed to.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, was read the
third time, and passed, and a motion to
reconsider was laid on the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY7.030 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7670 July 25, 2018
PERMISSION TO PLACE INTO THE
RECORD AN EXCHANGE OF LET-
TERS ON H.R. 5754
Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent to place
into the RECORD an exchange of letters
with the Judiciary Committee on H.R.
5754.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I include in the RECORD an exchange
of letters.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, July 20, 2018.
Hon. EDWARD R. ROYCE,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ROYCE: I write with re-
spect to H.R. 5754, the ‘‘Cambodia Democ-
racy Act.’’ As a result of your having con-
sulted with us on provisions within H.R. 5754
that fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of
the Committee on the Judiciary, I forego
any further consideration of this bill so that
it may proceed expeditiously to the House
floor for consideration.
The Judiciary Committee takes this action
with our mutual understanding that by fore-
going consideration of H.R. 5754 at this time,
we do not waive any jurisdiction over subject
matter contained in this or similar legisla-
tion and that our committee will be appro-
priately consulted and involved as this bill
or similar legislation moves forward so that
we may address any remaining issues in our
jurisdiction. Our committee also reserves
the right to seek appointment of an appro-
priate number of conferees to any House-
Senate conference involving this or similar
legislation and asks that you support any
such request.
I would appreciate a response to this letter
confirming this understanding with respect
to H.R. 5754 and would ask that a copy of our
exchange of letters on this matter be in-
cluded in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill.
Sincerely,
BOB GOODLATTE,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 18, 2018.
Hon. BOB GOODLATTE,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN GOODLATTE: Thank you for
consulting with the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee and agreeing to be discharged from
further consideration of H.R. 5754, the Cam-
bodia Democracy Act, so that the bill may
proceed expeditiously to the House floor.
I agree that your forgoing further action
on this measure does not in any way dimin-
ish or alter the jurisdiction of your com-
mittee, or prejudice its jurisdictional prerog-
atives on this bill or similar legislation in
the future. I would support your effort to
seek appointment of an appropriate number
of conferees from your committee to any
House-Senate conference on this legislation.
I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 5754
into the Congressional Record during floor
consideration of the bill. I appreciate your
cooperation regarding this legislation and
look forward to continuing to work together
as this measure moves through the legisla-
tive process.
Sincerely,
EDWARD R. ROYCE,
Chairman.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members may have 5 legislative days
to revise and extend their remarks on
H.R. 5754.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speaker,
thank you for bringing this important and time-
ly legislation to the House Floor.
I want to begin by thanking Rep. YOHO, the
Chairman of the Asia and Pacific Sub-
committee, for authoring this bill, which is the
product of his important oversight work. I
would also like to recognize Rep. ALAN
LOWENTHAL for his tireless advocacy for this
bill, as well as Ranking Member’s ENGEL and
SHERMAN for their strong support.
In four days, Cambodians will vote for a
new head of government. Unfortunately, this
election will not be legitimate in any way. Hun
Sen and his thugs long ago decided the out-
come, by marginalizing, beating, and impris-
oning members of the opposition.
Since Cambodia’s deeply flawed elections in
2013, we have seen intensifying attacks on
Cambodians peacefully opposing their govern-
ment. Hun Sen’s thuggish regime continues to
crack down on political opposition and other
activists who oppose his rule. Freedom House
consistently rates Cambodia as ‘‘Not Free,’’
noting harassment of the regime’s political op-
position.
That’s putting it mildly. Three years ago, op-
position lawmaker and American citizen Nhay
Chamreoun was severely and brutally at-
tacked by plainclothes bodyguards, who re-
peatedly kicked and stomped him. He was
hospitalized for months. Several months later,
Kem Ley, a popular Cambodian political com-
mentator, was murdered in broad daylight for
his outspoken protests of the regime.
Over the last year, Hun Sen has dispatched
any notions of democracy in Cambodia. He
dissolved the opposition party, CNRP, ar-
rested its leader Kem Sokha—who now faces
spurious treason charges—and completely
dismembered the political system in Cam-
bodia.
Importantly, the Cambodia Democracy Act
of 2018 imposes sanctions on all members of
Hun Sen’s inner circle for their role in under-
mining democracy in Cambodia and commit-
ting serious human rights violations. Specifi-
cally, it bars these individuals from entering
the U.S. and blocks any assets or property
they may possess.
It will be up to the President to determine
who should be designated for these sanctions.
But given the brashness of this regime, we do
have a good idea of who the President should
target:
Hun Sen: Prime Minister, President of Cam-
bodian People’s Party (CPP); Sar Kheng:
Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior,
Vice President of CPP; Tea Banh: Deputy
Prime Minister, Minister of National Defense,
Member of the CPP; Aun Pornmoniroth: Min-
ister for Economy and Finance; Koeut Rith:
Secretary of State of Ministry of Justice; Sun
Chanthol: Minister of Public Works and Trans-
port; Prak Sokhonn: Minister of Foreign Af-
fairs; Om Yentieng: President of Anti-Corrup-
tion Unit attached to the Office of the Council
of Ministers, Advisor to the Prime Minister; Pol
Saroeun: Four-Star General, Member of the
Supreme Council of National Defense, Com-
mander-in-Chief of RCAF; Neth Savoeun: Di-
rector-General of the National Police, Member
of CPP Permanent Committee; Kun Kim:
Four-Star General, Deputy Commander-in-
Chief of RCAF, Chief of RCAF Joint General
Staff, Chief of Personal Advisers and Cabinet
of the Prime Minister; Sao Sokha: Four-Star
General, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of
RCAF, Commander of the National Royal Mili-
tary Police; Hing Bunheang: Four-Star Gen-
eral, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of RCAF;
Choun Sovann: Deputy Chief of National Po-
lice and Chief of Phnom Penh Municipal Po-
lice; Hun Manet: Deputy Chief of RCAF Joint
General Staff; Sok Puthyvuth: CEO of SOMA
Group conglomerate; and Hun Mana: Chair of
Bayon Height Media System.
Again, thank you Mr. Speaker for bringing
up this very important and timely legislation.
The people of Cambodia deserve far better
than the Hun Sen’s despotism. Political plu-
ralism will soon reach Cambodia, and this leg-
islation will not only help Cambodians attain
that goal, but will also send a strong signal
that Congress will not tolerate these human
rights abuses.
f
ZIMBABWE DEMOCRACY AND ECO-
NOMIC RECOVERY AMENDMENT
ACT OF 2018
Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent to take
from the Speaker’s table the bill (S.
2779) to amend the Zimbabwe Democ-
racy and Economic Recovery Act of
2001, and ask for its immediate consid-
eration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 2779
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Zimbabwe
Democracy and Economic Recovery Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’.
SEC. 2. RECONSTRUCTION AND REBUILDING OF
ZIMBABWE.
Section 2 of the Zimbabwe Democracy and
Economic Recovery Act of 2001 (22 U.S.C.
2151 note; Public Law 107–99) is amended by
striking ‘‘and restore the rule of law’’ and in-
serting ‘‘restore the rule of law, reconstruct
and rebuild Zimbabwe, and come to terms
with the past through a process of genuine
reconciliation that acknowledges past
human rights abuses and orders inquiries
into disappearances, including the disappear-
ance of human rights activists, such as Pat-
rick Nabanyama, Itai Dzamara, and Paul
Chizuze’’.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS.
Section 4(a) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘costly de-
ployment of troops to the Democratic Re-
public of the Congo’’ and inserting ‘‘private
appropriation of public assets’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) In October 2016, the Government of
Zimbabwe cleared a small hurdle in its long-
standing public sector arrears with the
IMF.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.106 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7671
July 25, 2018
SEC. 4. PROVISIONS RELATED TO MULTILATERAL
DEBT RELIEF AND OTHER FINAN-
CIAL ASSISTANCE.
Section 4(b)(2) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘to
propose that the bank should undertake a re-
view of the feasibility of restructuring, re-
scheduling, or eliminating the sovereign
debt of Zimbabwe held by that bank’’ and in-
serting ‘‘to support efforts to reevaluate
plans to restructure, rebuild, reschedule, or
eliminate Zimbabwe’s sovereign debt held by
that bank and provide an analysis based on
reasonable financial options to achieve those
goals’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘dol-
lar’’ and inserting ‘‘currency’’.
SEC. 5. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE UNITED
STATES-ZIMBABWE BILATERAL RE-
LATIONSHIP.
It is the sense of Congress that the United
States should seek to forge a stronger bilat-
eral relationship with Zimbabwe, including
in the areas of trade and investment, if the
following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The Government of Zimbabwe takes the
concrete, tangible steps outlined in para-
graphs (1) through (4) of section 4(d) of the
Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recov-
ery Act of 2001, as amended by section 6 of
this Act.
(2) The Government of Zimbabwe takes
concrete, tangible steps towards—
(A) good governance, including respect for
the opposition, rule of law, and human
rights;
(B) economic reforms that promote
growth, address unemployment and under-
development, restore livelihoods, ensure re-
spect for contracts and private property
rights, and promote significant progress to-
ward monetary policy reforms, particularly
with the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, and
currency exchange reforms; and
(C) identification and recovery of stolen
private and public assets within Zimbabwe
and in other countries.
(3) The Government of Zimbabwe holds an
election that is widely accepted as free and
fair, based on the following pre- and post-
election criteria or conditions:
(A) Establishment and public release, with-
out cost, of a provisional and a final voter
registration roll.
(B) The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission is
permitted to entirely carry out the functions
assigned to it under section 239 of
Zimbabwe’s 2013 Constitution in an inde-
pendent manner, and the chairperson meets
and consults regularly with representatives
of political parties represented in the par-
liament of Zimbabwe and the parties con-
testing the elections.
(C) Consistent with Zimbabwe’s 2013 Con-
stitution, the Defence Forces of Zimbabwe—
(i) are neither permitted to actively par-
ticipate in campaigning for any candidate
nor to intimidate voters;
(ii) are required to verifiably and credibly
uphold their constitutionally-mandated duty
to respect the fundamental rights and free-
doms of all persons and to be nonpartisan in
character; and
(iii) are not permitted to print, transfer, or
control ballots or transmit the results of
elections.
(D) International observers, including ob-
servers from the United States, the African
Union, the Southern African Development
Community, and the European Union—
(i) are permitted to observe the entire elec-
toral process prior to, on, and following vot-
ing day, including by monitoring polling sta-
tions and tabulation centers; and
(ii) are able to independently access and
analyze vote tallying tabulation and the
transmission and content of voting results.
(E) Candidates are allowed access to public
broadcasting media during the election pe-
riod, consistent with Zimbabwe’s Electoral
Act and are able to campaign in an environ-
ment that is free from intimidation and vio-
lence.
(F) Civil society organizations are able to
freely and independently carry out voter and
civic education and monitor the entire elec-
toral process, including by observing, record-
ing, and transmitting publicly-posted or an-
nounced voting results at the ward, constitu-
ency, and all higher levels of the vote tal-
lying process.
(4) Laws enacted prior to the passage of
Zimbabwe’s March 2013 Constitution that are
inconsistent with the new Constitution are
amended, repealed, or subjected to a formal
process for review and correction so that
such laws are consistent with the new Con-
stitution.
(5) The Government of Zimbabwe—
(A) has made significant progress on the
implementation of all elements of the new
Constitution; and
(B) has demonstrated its commitment to
sustain such efforts in achieving full imple-
mentation of the new Constitution.
(6) Traditional leaders of Zimbabwe ob-
serve section 281 of the 2013 Constitution and
are not using humanitarian assistance pro-
vided by outside donor organizations or
countries in a politicized manner to intimi-
date or pressure voters during the campaign
period.
SEC. 6. CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
Section 4(d) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘con-
sistent with’’ and all that follows through
‘‘September 1998’’;
(2) by striking paragraph (4); and
(3) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (4).
SEC. 7. REMOVAL OF AUTHORITY TO PAY LAND
ACQUISITION COSTS.
Section 5(a) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘, includ-
ing the payment of costs’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘thereto; and’’ and inserting a
semicolon;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) identify and recover stolen public as-
sets.’’.
SEC. 8. INCLUSION OF AUSTRALIA, THE UNITED
KINGDOM, THE AFRICAN UNION,
AND THE SOUTHERN AFRICAN DE-
VELOPMENT COMMUNITY IN CON-
SULTATIONS ABOUT ZIMBABWE.
Section 6 of the Zimbabwe Democracy and
Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amended
by inserting ‘‘Australia, the United King-
dom, the African Union, the Southern Afri-
can Development Community,’’ after ‘‘Can-
ada,’’.
SEC. 9. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ENFORCEMENT
OF SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOP-
MENT COMMUNITY TRIBUNAL RUL-
INGS.
It is the sense of Congress that the Govern-
ment of Zimbabwe and the Southern African
Development Community (referred to in this
section as ‘‘SADC’’) should enforce the SADC
tribunal rulings issued between 2007 to 2010,
including 18 disputes involving employment,
commercial, and human rights cases sur-
rounding dispossessed Zimbabwean commer-
cial farmers and agricultural companies.
The bill was ordered to be read a
third time, was read the third time,
and passed, and a motion to reconsider
was laid on the table.
f
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members may have 5 legislative days
to revise and extend their remarks on
S. 2779.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I want to thank Senators FLAKE
and COONS for their leadership and sus-
tained engagement on this issue. I also
want to thank Chairman SMITH and
Ranking Member BASS for their focus
on Zimbabwe at the Africa sub-
committee.
On July 30th, the people of Zimbabwe
will have the opportunity to vote for
their next president. As the first elec-
tion since Robert Mugabe, this is a piv-
otal moment for Zimbabwe. For 37
years, Zimbabweans have suffered
greatly under authoritarian rule and
economic devastation. The government
drove the economy into the ground and
violently suppressed any opposition to
their power.
With elections now just days away,
the situation in Zimbabwe should be
viewed with cautious optimism. I am
encouraged by some of the statements
and actions taken by the government.
President Mnangagwa, along with key
opposition candidates, signed a public
pledge to ensure peaceful elections.
The opposition is allowed to campaign
across the country, the voter roll has
been released for inspection, and U.S.
and international observers will be per-
mitted to observe the elections.
However, reports of voter intimida-
tion, efforts to politicize food aid, and
increased military presence in rural
polling stations are deeply concerning.
The people of Zimbabwe, as well as the
international community, remember
the horrific violence that occurred dur-
ing the 2008 elections. That cannot hap-
pen again.
That’s why this legislation is so crit-
ical. This bill makes important
changes to update the 2001 Zimbabwe
Democracy and Economic Recovery
Act. It lays out our expectations for a
free and fair election, as well as actions
needed to achieve key economic re-
forms. The expectations of the 2001 leg-
islation hold true today—Zimbabwe
must make credible progress towards
holding free and fair elections, restore
the rule of law, and ensure military
subordination to the civilian govern-
ment, among other desperately needed
reforms. These are realistic and univer-
sally recognized standards.
Both the government and the opposi-
tion must follow through on their
statements to hold a free, fair, and
credible election on July 30th. This is
an opportunity to chart a dramatic
new course for Zimbabwe. We urge the
next President to take bold and imme-
diate action to address key governance
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY7.034 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7672 July 25, 2018
and economic issues. We stand by the
people of Zimbabwe in their efforts to
see a more democratic, peaceful, and
prosperous Zimbabwe.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Mr. ROYCE of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent that when
the House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
f
CONGRATULATING R.D. KINSEY
(Mr. HILL asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HILL. Mr. Speaker, today I rise
to congratulate my good friend, R.D.
Kinsey, on becoming the first African
American to be elected as commander
of the American Legion Department of
Arkansas.
Kinsey is a Vietnam-era veteran of
the Air Force and a retired Federal
civil service employee. He is the found-
ing member of American Legion Post
74 and has been the post commander
every year since that founding in 2004.
He decided to step down this spring to
seek the State commander’s position.
He previously served as the vice
chairman of the National Legislative
Council of Arkansas and held numerous
appointments on the National Legisla-
tive Commission. He is a member of
the City of Sherwood Civil Service
Commission and is the founding presi-
dent of the Sherwood Citizens Police
Academy Alumni Association.
I am proud of my friend, Commander
R.D. Kinsey, who has proven his devo-
tion to community and our State and
veterans. He will be a great leader for
Arkansas’ American Legion.
f
HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES IN
PAKISTAN
(Mr. SCHIFF asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
call the House’s attention to ongoing
human rights abuses in Pakistan, par-
ticularly in the province of Sindh. For
years, political activists and religious
minorities in Sindh have faced daily
threats of forced conversion, disappear-
ances by security forces, and murder.
Hundreds of Sindhis remain unac-
counted for and others have been held
away from their families for months or
years to create a climate of fear and re-
pression. There is also a disturbingly
high incidence of terrorist violence
against religious minorities, which
Pakistani security forces have been un-
able or unwilling to prevent.
I call upon the administration to
prioritize these issues with Pakistan,
which is conducting their national
election today. The assault on religious
and ethnic minorities in Pakistan must
end, and the hundreds of people who
have been detained indefinitely must
be released.
f
RECOGNIZING ‘‘BLUEBONNET
BELLE’’
(Mr. WILLIAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, today I
want to recognize the famed Bluebonnet
Belle C–47 Skytrain in Burnet, Texas,
that I represent.
The Bluebonnet Belle was designed
and built in 1944. It flew more than 75
missions during World War II to carry
cargo, passengers, and evacuate casual-
ties.
The Highland Lakes Squadron Com-
memorative Air Force purchased the
Belle in 2002 where it then made its way
to Burnet, Texas, and has called the
Lone Star State home ever since.
As recently as last year, this aircraft
was used to transport food and supplies
to the good people of Texas who suf-
fered from Hurricane Harvey. It logged
13.6 flight hours going back and forth,
which is incredible for a plane of this
age.
Unfortunately, on Saturday, June 21,
as the plane headed for the Oshkosh
Air Show in Wisconsin, it crashed upon
takeoff before catching fire and even-
tually exploding.
By the grace of God, all 13 crew mem-
bers and passengers aboard the aircraft
survived and are now in good spirits
and safe.
I am thankful for the first responders
who tended the aircrew and to those
who helped contain the fire. I am sad
to say that the Bluebonnet Belle will
not be able to be restored. It is a huge
loss for Burnet and for Texas 25. We
will always remember this plane and
all it accomplished across the United
States and the world. It was a treasure
that cannot be replaced.
In God we trust.
f
AMERICAN GROWN FLOWER
MONTH
(Ms. PINGREE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. PINGREE. Mr. Speaker, as co-
chair of the House Cut Flower Caucus,
I rise today in recognition of July as
American Grown Flower Month.
Every year, U.S. consumers spend
billions of dollars on cut flowers, but I
think most would be surprised to hear
that just 20 percent of these flowers are
grown in the United States. The vast
majority are imported from Colombia
and other countries in South America
and Africa.
The U.S.-grown flower industry has
shrunk considerably in the last 30
years, but recently it has had a resur-
gence. As consumers have bought more
food from local farmers, they have
begun to ask where their flowers come
from as well.
The growth in consumer interest has
been an opportunity for many farmers
I represent to diversify and boost their
income. For example, Broadturn Farm
in my district has had so much success
selling flowers that it now has four
acres under cultivation and even offers
a flower Consumer Supported Agri-
culture, or CSA, share.
So, this month, I ask my fellow con-
sumers to ask themselves an important
question before their next flower pur-
chase: What better way to celebrate a
wedding, offer condolences, or show
your appreciation than with flowers
that are not only beautiful but also
meaningful in their connection to the
places where they grow and the people
who grow them.
f
b 1830
AMERICAN GROWN FLOWER
MONTH
(Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today as a co-chair of
the Congressional Cut Flower Caucus
to recognize July as the American
Grown Flower Month.
During the month of July, every
State is in the season of harvesting a
wide variety of beautiful flowers and
blooms. This makes July the perfect
month to celebrate America’s flower
farms in all 50 States and, specifically,
Holland America Flower Gardens, lo-
cated in my district.
Holland America Flower Gardens in
Woodland, Washington, is owned and
operated by four generations of Dobbe
family members. Their expertise in
flower bulbs allows for the harvesting
of several specialty crops, such as lil-
ies, freesias, peonies, and tulips. Most
important, all of their vibrant cut
flowers are American grown.
As a cosponsor of H. Res. 413, I sup-
port the designation of July as Amer-
ican Grown Flower Month and support
America’s flower farmers that range in
size and economic production, but
make up an ever-growing floriculture
industry. Flowers grown in the United
States create almost $42 million in eco-
nomic impact daily and support hun-
dreds of growers, thousands of small
businesses, and tens of thousands of
jobs in the United States.
In addition to the important eco-
nomic impact, this industry also has a
huge cultural impact.
f
UNDERSTANDING STORM SURGE
(Mr. MCNERNEY asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. MCNERNEY. Mr. Speaker, as we
enter the heart of hurricane season, it
is important to understand hurricane
storm surge.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY7.035 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7673
July 25, 2018
Storm surge is the abnormal rise in
water caused by hurricanes and the
deadliest part of the storm. For large
storms, mathematical models can pre-
dict a storm surge up to 48 hours before
landfall. However, a 48-hour window is
not sufficient for emergency manage-
ment to make decisions on an evacu-
ation order needed to save lives.
I recently met a young woman named
Cindi-Ann Findley who has been work-
ing on solutions to this problem as she
completes her undergraduate studies.
With a National Science Foundation
grant, Cindi-Ann is spending the sum-
mer exploring the sensitivities that
lead to errors in forecasts by simu-
lating previous storms using a detailed
operational model. She hopes to find
the characteristics that cause the larg-
est storm surge errors.
Her work illustrates just one way
that mathematics can be used to ap-
proach real-world problems and save
lives.
f
JOSH REDDICK AND MIRACLE
FIELD
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize the Hous-
ton Astro’s right fielder and a con-
stituent of the First Congressional Dis-
trict of Georgia, Mr. Josh Reddick, for
his contribution to his hometown: the
Josh Reddick Stadium.
Mr. Reddick is a highly successful
Major League Baseball player with a
World Series title and two Defensive
Player of the Year Awards.
But I am proud of Mr. Reddick for
continuing to make his community a
top priority and helping to improve the
quality of life for children with special
needs.
Last year, he donated $1 million to
build the state-of-the-art Josh Reddick
Baseball Stadium in Effingham Coun-
ty, which is accessible for all children,
including those with special needs.
On Saturday, July 21, the stadium of-
ficially opened, ready for play.
Thank you, Mr. Reddick, for your
gift to Effingham County and for your
desire to help all children enjoy the
game of baseball. Good luck during the
rest of this season in the majors.
f
HONORING DANA BOWMAN
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, John
Quincy Adams once said:
If your actions inspire others to dream
more, learn more, do more, and become
more, you are a leader.
Special Forces Sergeant Dana Bow-
man is the epitome of that leader, con-
tinuously inspiring those around him.
Indeed, he is a retired sergeant first
class with the U.S. Army Special
Forces and a member of the elite para-
chute team, the Golden Knights.
On February 6, 1994, while training
and descending at 300 miles per hour
from the plane that dropped him, he
collided midair with his teammate,
Sergeant Jose Aguillon. The result of
that horrendous collision was the un-
fortunate death of Sergeant Aguillon
and the severing of both of Sergeant
Bowman’s legs, one above the knee and
the other below.
Nine months following this deeply
tragic event, he became the first dou-
ble amputee to reenlist in the United
States Army.
I witnessed his fortitude firsthand
this past week at the 2018 opening of
the national Civilian Marksmanship
Program in Port Clinton, Ohio. On
July 9, at Camp Perry, during the be-
ginning of the shooting matches for
this year, Sergeant Bowman began the
program by parachuting from very
high with a gigantic American flag
that he helped unfurl as he landed on
Earth. After a few short minutes, Ser-
geant Bowman landed perfectly right
behind the podium. What a sight to be-
hold.
I say to my fellow countrymen,
truly, this man embraces the words,
‘‘Land of the free, home of the brave,’’
and teaches us all how to rise above ad-
versity and reach beyond whatever lim-
itations life may deliver to any of us.
Godspeed, Sergeant Bowman. You
make us proud to be Americans.
f
GLENVILLE STATE COLLEGE
TUITION
(Mr. MCKINLEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MCKINLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Glenville State Col-
lege in Glenville, West Virginia.
With an enrollment of 1,641 students,
Glenville State has emerged as a piv-
otal institution of higher education in
central West Virginia.
Under the leadership of its president,
Tracey Pellett, they stand out for their
efforts to reduce the cost of tuition,
thereby giving more students access to
an affordable education.
When we meet with students, their
number one concern is the amount of
debt that they are accumulating. That
is understandable.
Since 1987, nationwide tuition rates
have grown more than 213 percent. But
since 2016, while most colleges have
hiked their tuition, Glenville has fro-
zen their rates and even cut the cost of
summer courses by 25 percent.
For the upcoming school year, the
school plans on reducing tuition by a
full 2 percent. This could be a template
for other universities and colleges
across the country to follow.
I applaud Glenville State College for
its dedication to ensuring that every
student can access a quality, affordable
education.
WEEKEND VOTING
(Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania asked and was given permis-
sion to address the House for 1 minute
and to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, sadly, voter turn-
out in the United States ranks as one
of the lowest among developed demo-
cratic countries.
We know that low voter turnout re-
sults in frustration, apathy, and a de-
mocracy that is not truly representa-
tive of the public.
Fortunately, Mr. Speaker, there is
one relatively easy way that we can ad-
dress this and improve voter turnout,
and that is to switch to weekend vot-
ing. Weekend voting is a proven meth-
od that increases accessibility, engage-
ment, and turnout.
The reason why we vote on Tuesday
in the United States is because of a law
that has existed ever since 1845. It was
because we didn’t want to vote on the
Sabbath; it took a day to travel to the
county seat; and people needed to get
back home in time for market day on
Wednesday. Clearly, society has
changed a great deal in the last 173
years.
That is why I introduced the Louise
Slaughter Weekend Voting Act to offi-
cially change election day to the first
weekend after the first Friday in No-
vember. Weekend voting makes sense,
and our representative democracy
should demand it.
f
LOWER PREMIUM PLANS AND
HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
(Mr. ALLEN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, for far too
long, my colleagues on the other side
of the aisle have advocated for a one-
size-fits-all approach to healthcare.
But as we have learned of the failures
of ObamaCare, Federal Government
mandates do not work for the Amer-
ican people. They demand choice.
Part of the House Republican’s Bet-
ter Way agenda is to restore the doc-
tor-patient relationship and put pa-
tients back in control of their
healthcare decisions. That is what we
have done today.
I congratulate my colleagues on pas-
sage of H.R. 6311. H.R. 6311, the Increas-
ing Access to Lower Premium Plans
and Expanding Health Savings Ac-
counts Act, will provide more choice by
expanding health savings accounts to
help people plan and save for their
healthcare needs, while also assessing
lower cost healthcare plans.
Instead of paying high premiums,
Americans can save their hard-earned
money in tax-favored health savings
accounts. It also delays ObamaCare’s
tax on health insurers for an additional
2 years, providing relief from the pre-
mium increase caused by the tax itself.
Simply put, our current healthcare
system is failing the American people,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.118 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7674 July 25, 2018
and I believe this reform will lower the
cost of care while enhancing competi-
tion.
f
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA AAA
BOND RATING
(Ms. NORTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask the
House to celebrate the District of Co-
lumbia, one of only eight big cities
with a AAA bond rating. Indeed, only
22 of the States have a AAA bond rat-
ing.
This outsized performance should en-
courage Congress to recognize the D.C.
budget autonomy law, which would im-
prove D.C.’s credit profile even more.
Fully respecting D.C.’s budget auton-
omy also would mean lower taxes and
less Federal funds the District needs
from the Federal Government. I have
already gotten the rating agencies to
count as a positive to D.C.’s credit rat-
ing my annual provision in the D.C. ap-
propriation exempting D.C. from the
threat of shutdowns when the Federal
Government shuts down.
Seven-hundred thousand D.C. resi-
dents pay the highest Federal taxes per
capita in the United States. The rating
agencies have awarded D.C. for ‘‘exem-
plary fiscal governance.’’
Mr. Speaker, I ask the House to do
the same by recognizing D.C.’s budget
autonomy over its own 100 percent
local budget.
f
REQUEST TO ADDRESS THE HOUSE
FOR ONE MINUTE
Mr. MCKINLEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to address the
House for 1 minute.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
GALLAGHER). The Chair will not enter-
tain more than one 1-minute request
per Member per day.
f
COMMONSENSE GUN LEGISLATION
(Mr. SUOZZI asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, on August
14, it will be 6 months since the Park-
land shootings. It has been 5 years
since the Sandy Hook shootings. It has
been 25 years since the Long Island
Railroad massacre. And it has been 37
years since President Reagan was shot.
We need commonsense gun legisla-
tion in this country, legislation that
the vast majority of Americans sup-
port, legislation to plug some of the
holes in our commercial background
checks.
The good news is that high school
students and college students in my
district are calling attention to this
very important issue. I have been
meeting with them throughout the
year. They come to me and tell me
what it is like when there is a fire
alarm in their district.
When I was a kid and there was a fire
alarm at school, we would be excited to
go outside and see our friends and talk
to people. Instead, when they hear a
fire alarm, they figure out: Where can
I hide? Where can I go if this turns out
to be a catastrophe?
These students deserve our attention
from this body, Democrats and Repub-
licans working together to try to ad-
dress this very real problem in our
country. I am committed to doing it. I
hope my colleagues will as well.
f
b 1845
REAUTHORIZATION OF THE
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, to-
morrow will be a great day. We will in-
troduce the reauthorization of the his-
toric Violence Against Women Act. We
are excited about this introduction be-
cause so many women had an oppor-
tunity for almost a year and a half,
close to 2 years, to discuss, to invest,
to make suggestions, and to bring to-
gether this collaboration endorsed by
the national task force, a bipartisan
group of 35 organizations, from reli-
gious organizations, to Native Amer-
ican organizations, to organizations
that have been on the front lines of
protecting women or seeking to stop
the violence against women.
We have expanded the rape preven-
tion section, for the rising need for
that section as it relates to the
#MeToo movement, sexual assault, and
sexual harassment.
We are excited by the confidentiality
provisions that indicate that Federal
and State agencies that are receiving
grants must maintain the confiden-
tiality of those who have been victims.
Mr. Speaker, we invite the entire
House of Representatives to join us on
this historic occasion and support the
reauthorization of the Violence
Against Women Act, which will be in-
troduced in the very near future, to-
morrow.
f
NEGATIVE IMPACTS OF GOV-
ERNING BY CONTINUING RESO-
LUTION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2017, the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. WITTMAN) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the ma-
jority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the topic of this Spe-
cial Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Virginia?
There was no objection.
Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the body and my colleagues
for joining me today in highlighting
the negative impact that continuing
resolutions have on our Nation’s mili-
tary, on our national security, and on
how this Nation addresses the chal-
lenges in our military.
In fact, Mr. Speaker, I would argue
that, if you were to come up with a
way not to run a government, if you
were to come up with a way not to run
a business, you would come up with a
continuing resolution.
We know how problematic those con-
tinuing resolutions are for this Nation.
They damage our military readiness.
They damage us being able to make
long-term decisions. They put our sail-
ors, our marines, our soldiers, and our
airmen at risk.
This is not the way for this Nation to
do business. Yet, year after year after
year, we find ourselves without appro-
priations bills being done on time. We
find ourselves facing government shut-
downs. We find ourselves passing con-
tinuing resolutions in order to con-
tinue government operations.
This is not the way for us to conduct
this Nation’s business. It is not what
our military needs. It is not what we
must do to make sure there is cer-
tainty in the future for what this Na-
tion must do under Article I, Section 8
of our Constitution.
I have been asked by a number of
folks why we need to spend these dol-
lars on our Nation’s military, espe-
cially to you, ROB WITTMAN, because
you are a fiscal hawk. Tell us why the
spending is necessary.
Well, I can say this: We have been
through, now, almost 8 years of the
continuing resolution facade that is
brought to us under the guise of se-
questration. The Budget Control Act of
2011 was supposed to be the avenue to
make the tough decisions on spending
in this body. Yet, that didn’t happen.
And here we are, facing these auto-
matic budgets cuts every year for our
Nation’s military.
Instead of making those tough deci-
sions or setting the sequester aside, we
find ourselves in a situation where,
each year, it is another continuing res-
olution.
I would argue that this is absolutely
avoidable. It is avoidable by this body
making decisions on time to get appro-
priations bills passed out of the House,
get all those done prior to this body
going home for August recess. I want
to make sure that those things get
done.
I have come to the realization, too,
that this body has a variety of choices.
It can make the choice to properly
fund our Nation’s military. It can
make the choice to get appropriations
bills done on time. It can make the
choice to avoid this.
I would argue that, in order to be-
come a more effective and efficient
government, these choices have to be
made. I would argue that it is actually
Members of Congress who should suffer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.120 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7675
July 25, 2018
the consequences if these decisions
aren’t made on time. That is, if all 12
appropriations bill aren’t done out of
the House, I think Members should
have to stay in town until it is done. I
think we shouldn’t get to go home on
August recess until all 12 appropria-
tions bills are done.
Our men and women in the military
are required to do the job on time, and
it is a performance standard. They
don’t get to go on leave unless the mis-
sion is accomplished. It should be the
same for Members of Congress.
It is also about making priority deci-
sions, Mr. Speaker. Look at what this
body has to do, and we absolutely have
to perform our constitutional duty. We
have to get appropriations bills done to
fund our military. We have to make
sure we do that in context of also ad-
dressing the deficit and the debt.
I would make arguments that we
have seen that situation the last sev-
eral years where it is a matter of prior-
ities. It is a matter of looking at get-
ting both things done, but doing that
in a timeframe.
If you look at what a homeowner
might face, let’s say a homeowner owns
a two-story home and they find them-
selves in this situation. They find
themselves, as they drive up the drive-
way, knowing that their house has ter-
mites rife through the foundation,
knowing that before they got home.
But as they pull up in the driveway,
they find that the second floor of their
home is on fire.
Now, that homeowner, we know, is
going to make a priority decision, like
everybody else, and say: Well, what am
I going to do? Am I going to put the
second floor fire out, or am I going to
address the termites?
Well, everybody knows they are
going to put the fire out on the second
floor. They are going to call the fire de-
partment. They are going to do every-
thing they can to address the signifi-
cance and the priority of the situation
that they face in front of them. Then
they will make sure that they call the
pest exterminator to come in and get
rid of the termites.
That is the same situation this Con-
gress finds itself in, to make sure that
we take care of the most pressing issue
before us as a priority. That is funding
our Nation’s military, restoring readi-
ness, stopping continuing resolutions,
making decisions on appropriations on
time, getting that done before the end
of the fiscal year so we don’t have to do
a continuing resolution.
But it doesn’t in any way, shape, or
form change the scenario that we face
with the termites in the foundation.
The termites in the foundation of this
Nation are our deficit and our debt,
and those things, too, must be done.
They are also a priority, just not quite
as immediate as restoring military
readiness, as bringing in the fire de-
partment to put out the second floor
fire.
For us, the analogy to the fire de-
partment is us getting our job done on
time, because there is immediacy to
that. There is that requirement that
we take on the lack of military readi-
ness in this Nation, the challenges that
we face.
It is not coming just from this body,
Mr. Speaker. It is coming from Sec-
retary James Mattis. In January of
this year, Secretary Mattis said this:
As hard as the last 16 years have been,
no enemy in the field has done more to
harm the readiness of the U.S. military
than the combined impact of the Budg-
et Control Act’s defense spending cuts
and operating under continuing resolu-
tions. Those two, added together, cre-
ate the situation we find ourselves in
today.
Mr. Speaker, don’t think that our ad-
versaries don’t look at that and chuck-
le a little bit and say this is an entirely
avoidable situation. This is a situation
that the United States has put itself
in, that Congress has put itself in.
Don’t think that our adversaries
haven’t taken advantage of that.
Don’t think that China doesn’t look
at this and go: Wow, here is our chance
to catch up. Here is our chance to put
resources in the right places to gain on
the technological front.
In addition to what they steal from
us, they also take advantage of this
disparity in what we are not doing to
rebuild this Nation’s military readiness
and use this opportunity not only to
catch up with us but, in many areas, to
surpass us.
The same with Russia. While Russia’s
economy is much smaller, when we
mark time, when we stop making
progress in rebuilding our Nation’s
military, when we don’t properly fund
training, when we don’t properly main-
tain the equipment that we have, it
gives our adversaries an advantage.
Don’t think that Russia hasn’t taken
the same advantage of this situation to
not only catch up and, in other areas,
surpass us, even with the small econ-
omy that they have.
The same with North Korea, the
same with Iran, the same with anybody
out there that is looking to gain an ad-
vantage over the United States.
These continuing resolutions that
have happened over the past 9 or 10
years have left us in that situation,
where we have allowed training to at-
rophy. We have seen that manifest
itself in military units not having the
joint training opportunities that they
need to have the skills necessary, so
that, if we call them into action, they
can go with the full scope of abilities
to take on any challenge that they
may face.
We have an obligation as a Nation to
make sure that they have the best
training and the best opportunities
available, to make sure that they can
face their adversaries, that they can
fight to victory, and that they can
come home safe. We owe them nothing
less than that.
Continuing resolutions take re-
sources away from that. They create
uncertainty for military leaders to
know: Will I have the resources to put
in place the training? Will I have the
simple elements of training? Will I
have the fuel? Will I have the ammuni-
tion to make sure that it is a meaning-
ful training exercise?
Those things are lacking when you
have a continuing resolution. The
automatic budget cuts that come from
sequester also add to that.
When you look at our military hard-
ware and look at the time that it needs
to be maintained to make sure it is in
working order, so that when our men
and women in the military need it,
when we ask them to go into harm’s
way, they have systems that work,
they have systems that function at the
highest level to make sure that they
are successful. If we skip maintenance
availabilities, if we skip the time nec-
essary, if we delay maintenance, we
place risk right there in the hands of
our soldiers, sailors, marines, and air-
men.
We have seen, over the past 10 years,
our force structure rapidly dimin-
ishing. We see our force structure in
the Navy going from 11 carriers down
to nine carriers. That is going to hap-
pen over the next 30 years because we
haven’t made the commitment to
make sure that we are building carriers
faster than we are retiring them.
We also have to make sure that we
are maintaining those ships. That, too,
lends itself to problems—ships having
to be in port longer when we do main-
tain them because more things have
gone wrong, because we have missed
maintenance opportunities.
Our attack submarine force structure
is going to be reduced by 20 percent
over the next 10 years while, at the
same time, our adversaries are building
more submarines. They have sub-
marines with greater capabilities.
We are missing an opportunity there
to do what we need to do as a Nation.
I want to make sure that we are doing
those things, and I am going to talk a
little bit later on about the specifics
about where just the Chinese are sur-
passing our capabilities there within
the submarine realm. We have superi-
ority in the undersea world, but it
doesn’t come automatically. It doesn’t
come without commitment. It doesn’t
come without investment.
Those things absolutely have to hap-
pen, Mr. Speaker, in the years to come
and, I would argue, not just the years
to come, in the days to come, as we
look at the National Defense Author-
ization Act that, hopefully, will come
up tomorrow in the conference report
for this body to pass, as well as an ap-
propriations bill that will come up
that, hopefully, we will get passed
here. If not, we will face more con-
tinuing resolutions.
Now, I know my colleagues who are
here with me today express the same
reservations about the impact of con-
tinuing resolutions. I am honored to
have with us today the gentlewoman
from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO), and I yield
to the gentlewoman for her perspective
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.122 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7676 July 25, 2018
on what impacts continuing resolu-
tions have on this Nation.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I agree
with the gentleman from Virginia.
Continuing resolutions are a growing
threat to our national security. Yet,
for the past 17 years, Congress has
forced the Department of Defense to
begin the fiscal year under a con-
tinuing resolution 13 times.
b 1900
Continuing resolutions are designed
to temporarily fund the Federal Gov-
ernment if more time is needed to de-
bate and finish remaining appropria-
tions bills; however, they inhibit the
Defense Department planning for the
future. Not only do they harm us and
our ability to deter and defend against
emerging threats, but they also put our
national security in a gridlock.
Supporting defense programs through
prior year funding levels is wasteful
and inefficient. Think about it. Are our
family’s or business’ needs the exact
same as they were last year? the year
before that? Of course not, because as
we grow and develop, our needs change.
The short-term fixes of continuing
resolutions ultimately obstruct and
hinder the military and its responsi-
bility to secure our Nation. The con-
sequences of shutdown politics will ul-
timately compromise the Department
of Defense by inhibiting our military’s
ability to pursue long-term projects
and reforms.
The Department of Defense relies
upon multiyear contracts for fighter
jets like the F–35, missile defense sys-
tems, and other advanced weapons.
This is because contracts are usually
the most cost-effective means to pay
for military equipment.
At Luke Air Force Base, which is in
my district, I have heard repeatedly
how uncertainty in the defense budget
and the restrictions that come from
continuing resolutions have stalled the
Air Force’s F–35 fighter jet program.
This is not acceptable. We must change
how we do business and fund our single
most important responsibility in Con-
gress: our national defense.
We all agree that we must provide a
common defense for our country, and
we need to stop letting political
grandstanding get in the way of that.
We have worked too hard to begin re-
building our military in a meaningful
way to let shutdown politics put our
Nation at risk.
While I am pleased and proud at what
the House has done, that we have done
our job and voted to approve both the
National Defense Authorization Act
and the Department of Defense Appro-
priations bill for fiscal year 2019, our
work is not done. We must work with
our counterparts in the Senate to en-
sure these bills are signed into law.
We cannot stop falling back on con-
tinuing resolutions to determine our
military’s defense budget. We must
keep working for the men and women
who put their lives at risk every day to
defend our freedom.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague
from Virginia, Representative WITT-
MAN, for his commitment to our mili-
tary.
Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from Arizona, and I
would like to ask that she maybe
elaborate a little bit more.
I think the gentlewoman brings up a
great point about the impact on the
Air Force, with Luke Air Force Base
being there in her district, and the im-
pact on airmen, the impact on the job
that they do. I would love to have her
share a little bit more about the con-
versations that I know she has had a
lot with members of the military back
in her district, but especially there at
Luke Air Force Base, maybe elaborate
a little bit more on the specific im-
pacts that they deal with on a daily
basis there at Luke Air Force Base.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, yes, we
have Luke Air Force Base in my dis-
trict in Arizona. And it is not only a
powerful base for the defense of our Na-
tion; it is the largest training base for
our fighter jets in the entire Nation.
We have F–35s. Prior to that, we had F–
16s.
Just like everything else, just like a
family, we need to know what our
budget is long term, because we need to
train our fighter pilots. We need to
know how many hours of funding we
have to do that. We need to have a reli-
able amount of money that we can de-
pend on in order to enter contracts.
So this whole continuing resolution
thing, we really need to get past that.
I was the senate appropriations
chairman in Arizona, and I heard over
and over and over again from busi-
nesses that: We just need something to
rely on. We need something that is
steady.
And that is what we need. We need to
pass a budget that really puts the de-
fense of our country front and center
because, after all, that is Congress’
number one job.
Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I agree
fully with the gentlewoman from Ari-
zona, and I thank her so much for
being part of this Special Order this
evening.
Mr. Speaker, I think there are a
number of important points that the
gentlewoman from Arizona brings up.
And she talks about training. I think
training is one of those elements that
is absolutely essential for us to remem-
ber that that training doesn’t happen
by accident. It happens because of con-
certed efforts here in Congress, within
the Pentagon, within the service
branches, all the way down to the unit
level to make sure that training takes
place.
But it doesn’t take place when there
is uncertainty about funding, because
what is the first thing in a budget that
gets put on hold when it pertains to
our service branches? When they look
at uncertainty, what is the place where
they have the maximum flexibility? It
is training.
When you look at it, they have
money that is already obligated in pro-
grams to do things like build ships, to
build aircraft, but the one place where
they can move money around is for
training. I can tell you that that has a
tremendous impact on units at the unit
level, commanders trying to figure out:
How am I going to make sure my units
get the training?
As I spoke of earlier, it is not just
about tactical training; it is about
training at the strategic level. How do
you interact with other service
branches so, if you find yourselves in a
major conflict, you can work across
service branches to make sure you
have the proficiency to be successful on
that mission, to be successful in bat-
tle?
Those things are critical, and that
doesn’t come automatically. That
comes with repeated training at the
highest levels, and it comes with assur-
ance that the resources are going to be
there so our military leaders can plan
for that. We want to make sure that
that gets done on a timely basis.
I understand, too, that there is a lot
of hesitancy in folks to say: Well, if we
can’t reach a conclusion on spending
decisions, then the best thing to do is
a continuing resolution.
I would argue that that is not the
case. I would argue that this goes right
down to the command level. It goes to
our combatant commanders who have
to deal with this every day.
Our combatant commanders are
faced with threats that are on their
doorstep every day, and there is no
place where this threat is more appar-
ent on a daily basis than what our Pa-
cific Command faces with the aggres-
sion of the Chinese, with the aggres-
sion of North Korea there in the Pa-
cific.
Admiral Harris, the previous Com-
mander of PaCOM, I think said it ex-
traordinarily well. He said this:
‘‘The Pacific is the principal space
where submarines are the most impor-
tant warfighting capability we have.
As far as Virginia-class submarines, it
is the best thing we have. . . . My sub-
marine requirement is not met in the
Pacific Command, and I am just one of
many combatant commanders that will
tell you that. . . . ’’
That brings us back to the subject of
submarines. Attack submarines, our
ability to go undetected around the
world to sense what our adversaries do
and also to understand that that threat
is real, we have, today, an advantage in
the undersea world, but that advantage
continues to wane because we are not
making the progress in keeping up
with building submarines in relation to
retiring submarines. That, I think, is
key, Mr. Speaker.
I want to point to this chart on the
floor. I am going to walk there.
As we see from the chart, we see the
U.S. fleet of attack submarines, and we
see what happens when we come to
2029. We reach a low point, a low point
where this Nation only has 42 attack
submarines when we get to 2029.
You see the chart where our adver-
saries go. You see where the Chinese
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.124 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7677
July 25, 2018
go: a significant increase in submarines
because they see the value of sub-
marines; they see that attack sub-
marines give them a strategic advan-
tage in the Pacific.
It is pretty simple, folks. It is a geog-
raphy lesson.
The Pacific is water, and in order to
maintain strategic importance in that
region, you have to control the under-
sea domain. The Chinese understand
that. We used to understand it, until
now, when we see that our attack sub-
marine force is going down to a low of
42 submarines. We don’t get back to
where we need to be to get anywhere
close to the Chinese until 2050.
Now, what happens in the meantime
when the Chinese now surpass us, have
that strategic advantage? And I would
argue, when the Chinese have that
strategic advantage, it will embolden
them. They will look at this as an op-
portunity to say: Wow. The United
States is really not committed to a
naval presence in this area of the
world. We are not only going to express
that naval dominance in our territorial
waters, but we are going to even move
out into the South China Sea, move
into the Pacific, into the Indian Ocean,
even the Atlantic Ocean.
We look at how they are spreading
their influence and presence today. It
is all over the world, folks. So our sig-
nal that we are sending to them, say-
ing, ‘‘Hey, we are just not going to
build submarines; we are going to re-
tire them faster than we are building
them,’’ has an impact. And it gets ex-
acerbated when we have continuing
resolutions or we don’t make the com-
mitment necessary that comes with
getting appropriations bills passed on
time. This puts us at a strategic dis-
advantage.
If you add, now, attack submarines
with ballistic missile submarines—
which, by the way, we are starting
down the road to build the replacement
for our Ohio-class submarines that are
the most important part of the nuclear
triad, I believe, for this Nation—the
delta gets even bigger, because it is
going to be all we can do to build the
replacement submarines for the Ohio-
class.
But what is happening is that the
Chinese are building even more bal-
listic missile submarines. So if you add
attack submarines and ballistic missile
submarines, you have a number some-
where around 70 total submarines in
2020 that the Chinese will have.
They, potentially, are building at a
rate of five to six additional sub-
marines each year, combined attack
submarines and ballistic missile sub-
marines, which would put them in the
realm, by the time we get down in 2028,
well above 100 total submarines, where
we are going to be struggling with our
reduction in submarines at 42 and just
beginning to build the new ballistic
missile submarine, and in an area
where you hear from Admiral Harris
the most requested asset in the United
States military is the attack sub-
marine. It is where we have dominance.
It is where we are yielding dominance
with just the Chinese. That doesn’t
even include the Russians, who have
developed a very advanced ballistic
missile submarine, the Severodvinsk
class, that is an extraordinarily capa-
ble submarine.
If we don’t have attack submarines
to keep up with their submarines, a na-
tion that has a large stockpile in in-
ventory of nuclear weapons that are
deployed on submarines, then the ques-
tion becomes: If you combine that with
the Chinese, where does it leave this
Nation? It leaves us with a strategic
capability that is lacking in relation to
our adversaries.
And, folks, if you look at times in
the history of the world where there
have been conflicts between major
powers, those conflicts have been a re-
sult of a major imbalance between
those powers.
If we allow this imbalance to con-
tinue because Congress goes down the
road of continuing resolutions, which
continues to erode the ability for us to
deploy dollars to do things like build
submarines, if we don’t get past the se-
quester, which puts artificial reduc-
tions in our defense budget while, at
the same time, our adversaries are in-
creasing their efforts, we will find our-
selves in that situation in the not too
distant future where we say: How did
we get here? How did we find ourselves
in this strategic position where our ad-
versaries now don’t have to do a whole
lot to surpass us, where we embolden
our adversaries, where we put ourselves
in the position where are adversaries
say: It won’t take much for us to take
on the United States and do that suc-
cessfully?
That, I think, is the key of what we
have to address.
Mr. Speaker, I want to yield to my
colleague from Pennsylvania for his
perspective, because I think he has a
very unique perspective not just on
major powers, but specifically on where
Russia plays in this.
We talked about China, but I want to
yield to the gentleman from Pennsyl-
vania to get his perspective on how
this major power imbalance affects the
United States’ security, affects our
strategic ability to deter our adver-
saries, and I would like to recognize his
perspective.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. ROTHFUS).
b 1915
Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the gentleman from Virginia
for yielding. It wasn’t too long ago
that we had the gentleman visit our
district in western Pennsylvania to
talk to a number of folks in the defense
industry, and I just applaud him for his
very serious work on the Armed Serv-
ices Committee.
He is good to highlight the situations
that we come into when we see these
continuing resolutions, the damage it
does to our military, the need for long-
term planning, how we have threats
around the world, both emerging
threats that continue to evolve, but
there are our old adversaries and not-
so-old adversaries: Russia, China,
North Korea, Iran, and global terror
networks.
We could go on and on and on, but we
have to have a military that is ready
to respond. And we cannot be holding
our military budget hostage to any
other part of the Federal Government.
It makes no sense.
Speaking of one of those adversaries,
I want to talk a little bit about Russia,
because Russia has been in the news so
much lately. Mr. Speaker, I want to
talk about Russia and the threat it
poses to us and our allies.
For the past 40 years or so, I would
describe myself as a hawk when it
comes to Russia. As such, I would like
to welcome my friends from across the
aisle who are finally starting to ex-
press their concerns about the Russian
bear. The question I have is: What took
so long?
Russia has been an adversary of the
United States and the West for dec-
ades. I will spare the House a lengthy
history lesson and then, instead, focus
on the recent past. This is important
because in conversations I have had
back home, there are some constitu-
ents who are unaware of that history.
Next month will mark 10 years since
Russia invaded the Republic of Geor-
gia. In response to this, then-President
George W. Bush condemned the action
saying:
The territorial integrity and borders of
Georgia must be respected, just as those of
Russia or any other country.
Less than 7 months after the 2008
Georgia invasion, however, during the
opening days of the Obama administra-
tion, then-Secretary of State Clinton
presented a reset button to Russian’s
foreign minister, as if it was the prior
administration’s fault for Russia’s ag-
gression and consequent chilly rela-
tionship.
And mere months after hitting the
reset button, we learned President
Obama was shutting down a proposed
missile defense system in Poland and
the Czech Republic. Some reset.
Within the aura of this reset, a Rus-
sian bank paid Secretary Clinton’s hus-
band $500,000 for a 1-hour speech in
Moscow. That is some billable rate,
even for a Yale Law School graduate.
At the same time, a Russian com-
pany was preparing to take a control-
ling interest in Uranium One, a cor-
poration that held 20 percent of the
U.S’s uranium supply. That foreign ac-
quisition required the approval of the
Obama administration and Secretary
Clinton. Approval was granted.
Ultimately, The New York Times re-
ported that $2.3 million of contribu-
tions from Uranium One connections
flowed to the Clinton Foundation. But
that has not seemed to draw concerns
from the new Democrat Russia hawks
from across the aisle.
Later, as Secretary Clinton wrapped
up her State Department tenure in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.126 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7678 July 25, 2018
2012, President Obama, not aware that
a microphone was picking him up said
to then-Russian President Medvedev:
This is my last election. After my election,
I will have more flexibility.
And Medvedev responded:
I will relay that to Vladimir.
That would be Vladimir Putin. The
flexibility was about missile defense.
President Obama even mocked Mitt
Romney in a 2012 Presidential debate
after Romney identified Russia as our
biggest geopolitical threat.
President Obama glibly responded to
Romney: ‘‘And, the 1980s are now call-
ing to ask for their foreign policy back
. . . ’’
During President Obama’s second
term, we saw continued indifference to-
wards Russia, Crimea, Eastern
Ukraine, the downing of Malaysia Air-
lines Flight 17, Russian violations of
the Reagan-Gorbachev Intermediate-
Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, ceding
Middle East influence that fueled the
growth of ISIS, and failure to respond
to Bashar al-Assad’s use of chemical
weapons, to name a few. And not once
do I recall ever hearing a peep from my
friends across the aisle, even after
President Obama drew his infamous red
line.
Let’s compare the response to the
shooting down of Korean Airlines
Flight 007 to that of flight MH17. Bril-
liantly, U.N. Ambassador Jeane Kirk-
patrick publicly prosecuted and con-
victed Russia at the United Nations for
shooting down KAL Flight 007, which
killed 269 innocent civilians, including
Congressman Larry McDonald.
The KAL 007 shoot down dramati-
cally increased our resolve to collapse
the evil empire. However, the Obama
administration never thoroughly pros-
ecuted the case for Russia’s culpability
for the MH17 shoot down.
In the midst of all this, Russia was
plotting to interfere in our elections.
Ignoring the 1980s calling about the
foreign policy, the Obama administra-
tion did not take the Russia threat se-
riously. They never picked up the
voicemail that the 1980s left.
It was the last administration’s fail-
ure to understand the threat that Rus-
sia posed that virtually paved the way
for the aggressive Russia we see today.
Throughout the Obama administration,
Secretary Clinton and others failed to
confront Russian hostility, the result
of a reset button.
The reality is that Vladimir Putin
wants to sow discord in the West. He
would cause trouble to whoever was in
the White House. Interestingly, when
Putin said in Helsinki that he wanted
Trump to win, it was amazing to see
people accept his remarks without a
hint of skepticism, even though Putin
is a former KGB agent and a master of
disinformation. Let me repeat that.
Vladimir Putin is a former KGB agent
and a master of disinformation.
It is President Trump that wants to
arm Ukrainians. He is demanding that
Germany stop buying gas from Russia.
He is advancing American energy de-
velopment, as opposed to the Obama
administration that sought to curtail
it. And when Russia’s puppet, Assad,
used chemical weapons on his own peo-
ple, President Trump responded with
military force.
From that perspective, would Putin,
the master of disinformation, really
have preferred President Trump over
President Clinton? The American peo-
ple can draw their own conclusions.
While my friends across the aisle seem
to have awoken to the threat that Rus-
sia presents, going forward, I hope they
remain as concerned about Russia and
President Putin as they are about
President Trump.
For starters, they could show up by
helping to get to the bottom of the
Uranium One scandal. Meanwhile, on
our side of the aisle, we take Russia se-
riously and have done so for decades.
We are providing military assistance to
Ukraine. We are passing new Russian
sanctions legislation on top of what we
passed earlier this year. We are the
ones countering Russia’s influence in
the Middle East and their ally, Iran.
When it comes to checking Russia, it
is Republicans, not Democrats, who
have the established record of doing so,
and we will continue to do that for as
long as Russian hostility exists.
I simply implore President Trump to
be vigilant and clear and heed the con-
cerns of my fellow Republican legisla-
tors who have engaged on Russian mat-
ters for years.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
for his work on this area.
Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Pennsylvania for
outlining very in-depth the impact
that Russia has on the United States,
the responses that are needed to be
strong against Russian aggression,
against the things that they are trying
to do to destabilize this Nation.
I appreciate the gentleman’s leader-
ship there in pointing that out and
calling everyone to task to make sure
that we, as a Nation, are acting to
make sure we are doing the right
things, to make sure, too, we point out
past instances where there have been
inconsistencies in how this issue has
been addressed with previous adminis-
trations.
I deeply appreciate that. I think it is
an important part of our discussion
here today about what we have to do to
counter those threats, the obligation
this Nation has to counter those
threats. The gentleman has laid it out
very plainly, very succinctly, and very
clearly for what the obligation of this
Nation is, and calling upon our col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle to
be as committed to countering Russia
as we are on this side of the aisle. So I
thank the gentleman.
Mr. Speaker, I want to also point out
that it is not just the strategic impact
that continuing resolutions and lack of
on-time appropriations bills has on our
Nation strategically. We pointed those
out, the threats that are there, but also
the impact that it has at the individual
level; the impact that it has on sailors,
on soldiers, marines, and airmen.
We saw this past year in two ship col-
lisions where 17 sailors died on board
the USS Fitzgerald and the USS
McCain. And we see that there was a
contributory factor for the lack of
training on those ships, the issues of
material readiness on those ships that
goes back to continuing resolutions
and not adopting appropriations bills
on time.
The uncertainty that comes with
that and the lack of resources dedi-
cated for proper training, for proper
maintenance, did have a contributory
effect there. It didn’t create the sole
impact necessary for those unfortunate
incidents to occur, but it did con-
tribute to those incidents.
In avoiding continuing resolutions,
we can send a clear message to our men
and women in the military, to their
families, that this Nation is committed
to their wellbeing; that this Nation is
committed to them getting the mission
done; that this Nation is committed to
giving them the best; to give them the
tools that they need to succeed; to give
them the ability, when called upon, to
fight to victory and come home safe.
We, as a Nation, owe them nothing
less. And when we have continuing res-
olutions, or lack of adopting appropria-
tions bills on time, we are not sending
the message to them and their families
that we are committed to reducing
their risk. That is key for us to make
sure that we get that done. And it is
also a commitment that we have to
taxpayers to assure them that we will
spend money efficiently and effectively
to defend this Nation.
Continuing resolutions are not effec-
tive or efficient ways to spend money.
Not getting appropriations bills done
on time do not allow long-term plan-
ning.
And let me tell you, our adversaries
long-term plan. And they look at our
lack of long-term commitment here as
a vulnerability. And, indeed, it is. It is
a vulnerability not only for our Nation,
but it is a vulnerability that we see
manifested in the risks that our sail-
ors, soldiers, and marines face, and, ul-
timately, those who gave their lives in
avoidable accidents on board those
ships.
It is not just ships, Mr. Speaker. It is
also aircraft. We have seen an inordi-
nate number of aircraft crashes this
year and last year that are associated
with lack of maintenance on those air-
craft, in some instances, tangentially
associated with training. Those things
are preventable. They are preventable
if we adopt appropriations bills on time
for our Nation’s defense, and avoid con-
tinuing resolutions.
We must make sure that we get that
job done on time. And I can tell you
that it is not just Members that see it
that way, but it is also the Speaker. In
fact, PAUL RYAN was quoted just yes-
terday saying: ‘‘We really just want to
get the military funded on time, on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.128 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7679
July 25, 2018
budget, on schedule this year and
that’s the primary concern.’’
He pointed that out because that is
the primary concern for what we are
facing with getting appropriations bills
done on time. That is the primary con-
sideration in getting the National De-
fense Authorization Act conference re-
port out of the House tomorrow so that
it can get over to the Senate so that
they can get it done on time.
If this gets done this year, Mr.
Speaker, it will be the soonest it has
been done in almost 30 years.
Why is this year the exception? This
should be the rule. We should be get-
ting these things done early, getting it
done in time so that we can get an ap-
propriations bill done prior to the end
of the fiscal year. Those are obligations
that this Nation has to make sure that
we get that done on time.
b 1930
The NDAA has some very important
elements in it this year that are crit-
ical to our Nation’s military readiness,
critical to our getting the job done for
our men and women in the military,
and critical to making sure that we
can counter the threats that we know
are there from our adversaries. It ac-
celerates U.S. efforts to field conven-
tional prompt strike capability before
fiscal year ‘22. Those things are crit-
ical. That strike capability is the de-
terrence for our members of the mili-
tary. Those things absolutely must
happen, and this bill lets us get that
done.
It also focuses on rebuilding the nu-
clear deterrence of our Nation. Nuclear
deterrence is the way we keep our ad-
versaries at bay; and when they look at
us and don’t see a commitment there
that is expressed in getting appropria-
tions bills done on time and having
ourselves in these continuing resolu-
tions debacles year after year after
year, they look at it as a vulnerability.
It also allows us to improve our mis-
sile defense. An aging missile defense,
one that in comparison to upgrades by
our adversaries, put us in a terrible
strategic position.
Also enhancing our space
warfighting. The disparity that we
have in space operations with our ad-
versaries is mind-boggling. The only
way that we close that delta is to make
the commitment and put the resources
in place on time.
Mr. Speaker, I want to put in per-
spective where we are today and the
waste that occurs with a continuing
resolution.
I will conclude my remarks with the
comments of Secretary Richard Spen-
cer that he outlined on our behavior
that this body has put in place since
2011. He actually came before the
House Armed Services Committee and
said this, he said:
We have put $4 billion in a trash can,
poured lighter fluid on it, and burned it. $4
billion is enough to buy a squadron of F–35s,
two Arleigh Burke-class destroyers, 3,000
Harpoon missiles. It is enough money to buy
us additional capacity that we need today in
order to counter the threats that we find
ourselves facing around the world. Instead,
it’s lost because of inefficacy in the ways of
the continuing resolution.
Mr. Speaker, this is an entirely
avoidable situation, one that Congress
year after year after year finds itself in
a position to address, yet chooses not
to. It is not just a single continuing
resolution. Last year we found our-
selves in a situation of having four con-
tinuing resolutions that took us 6
months into the budget year and then
finally coming up with an appropria-
tions bill that finished the year with 6
months of funding that was supposed
to take place over 12 months.
So, Mr. Speaker, not only did you
miss out on the certainty with the first
6 months of funding that was done by
continuing resolutions, but now you
take 12 months’ worth of money and
try to pack it into 6 months, and we
wonder why there is inefficiency there.
We wonder why money is pushed out
the door in ways that waste money.
The Secretary of the Navy pointed it
out and showed us the ills of our ways,
and what we can do to avoid this, what
we can do to make sure that resources
will get to the right place, get there on
time, can be efficiently deployed where
there is certainty in what our military
needs to plan for the long-term needs
that this Nation has left unaddressed,
for the long-term needs of rebuilding
readiness.
It hasn’t happened, Mr. Speaker, and
it is entirely avoidable. We have that
full ability in our grasp to make sure
this doesn’t happen again.
Again, if we were to come up with
the worst way to run a business and
with the worst way to run a govern-
ment, it would be a continuing resolu-
tion. It is avoidable.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues
that when the National Defense Au-
thorization Act conference report
comes up before this body that they
vote ‘‘yes,’’ that we do that this year in
the quickest timeframe we have done
in nearly 30 years.
And that when the Defense Appro-
priation bill comes before this body—
after the Senate puts together what-
ever they will put together—that we
must get the defense of this Nation
funded prior to the end of the budget
year.
If we do that, then the 17 billion addi-
tional dollars that we put towards
helping our soldiers, our sailors, our
marines to do the job we ask them to
do will be there. To deter our adver-
saries around the world, the resources
in order to accomplish that will be
there. To do anything less is a dis-
service to this Nation. To do anything
less is a disservice to the men and
women who serve in our military. To
do anything less is disrespectful to
their commitment to our Nation, and
the commitment that their families
make to this Nation.
We can do better. We must do better.
And we have an opportunity in the
weeks to come to do better.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to show
the same kind of commitment for this
Nation’s military through no con-
tinuing resolutions and through pass-
ing appropriations bills for our defense
on time. That same commitment
should be shown by us as the commit-
ment by our brave men and women in
uniform.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
FEDERAL EMPLOYEE UNIONS
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
GARRETT). Under the Speaker’s an-
nounced policy of January 3, 2017, the
gentlewoman from the District of Co-
lumbia (Ms. NORTON) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the mi-
nority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
any extraneous material on the subject
of my Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia?
There was no objection.
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I come to
the floor today to speak to two issues.
One, is the dagger thrown at the heart
of the right of Federal employees to or-
ganize. The second will be ICE raids
that randomly rounded up residents of
the District of Columbia without a
warrant and without any cause.
Let me proceed first to the gang-up
on Federal employees by the executive
and Republicans in the House to under-
mine the rights of Federal unions to
represent Federal employees.
We have seen Republicans for years
try to weaken the rights of Federal em-
ployees. Certainly, we have seen them
go at unions before. But this time, they
have gone even further. The intention
to destroy the right of a union to rep-
resent Federal employees is the clear
intent of my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle.
I shall explain why that intent is so
obvious this evening. The American
Federation of Government Employees
had a rally today. Attending also were
many other employee unions, but the
AFGE led the rally because of the
acute danger that the current work of
the Republican House and the Presi-
dent present to the right to organize
and to be represented.
Federal employees are represented in
virtually every category of work by the
AFGE. If we look at what the Presi-
dent and the House Republicans are
doing, it is clear that they have de-
clared war on their own Federal em-
ployees. They have done it by striking
at the heart of the right to be rep-
resented by a Federal union.
I will explain how they have moved
against that right, but, first, let me ex-
plain where that right comes from and
why there is any such right at all.
You certainly don’t have that kind of
right in the business sector. You can’t
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.129 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7680 July 25, 2018
go to the business sector and say: Hey,
look, I have a right to have a union
here.
You have to fight for it, and I might
add, so do Federal unions have to fight
for it. They have to get their cards and
the Federal employee votes. But there
is an important trade-off here. The
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, recog-
nizing that the Government did not
want to allow Federal workers the
right to strike—which is a constitu-
tional right—designed a system which
is indeed a trade-off. You will give up
the right to strike, and, in return, you,
Federal employees, will have the right
to be represented by a union if you win
a union election and the Federal Gov-
ernment will not oppose your right to
organize.
That is very important because em-
ployers in the private sector, of course,
do oppose. I don’t mean to say that
Federal agencies don’t try their best to
see that an agency doesn’t get rep-
resentation, but they cannot simply
keep that from occurring. That is the
trade-off from the Civil Service Reform
Act.
One of the most important aspects of
the right to represent Federal employ-
ees is to use official time-on-the-job to
represent employees to settle matters
with a Federal agency. That is the
whole reason that this right was given
in the first place. Even apart from a
right to strike, if you have an em-
ployee who has a grievance, there has
got to be some way to make sure that
grievance is attended to.
Official time use, by another Federal
employee operating as a volunteer, al-
lows such matters to be settled in a
peaceful way without a strike. What
the official time means is, an employee
says: With no pay, I agree to help other
employees through the system to have
their matter brought to the agency and
somehow dealt with. They either win
or they lose or they settle. Employees
often don’t understand the system.
They don’t use the system every day,
so a volunteer works to help them use
the official time.
Now, official time only means that
that volunteer employee is given time
from his or her work to represent this
person. Does that mean the person
doesn’t have any work? It does not. It
is a real sacrifice, Mr. Speaker. That
person isn’t given a lesser workload,
that person has to find a way to get
that done and to represent employees
as well, or to trade off with another
employee who will also represent em-
ployees.
Remember, this is to keep labor
peace and to keep the Federal Govern-
ment working so that there is a civ-
ilized way to settle a matter between
the Federal employer and an employee.
But the AFGE has had to turn to the
courts in order to get this right en-
forced.
Why in the world would that be nec-
essary given the Civil Service Reform
Act of 1978?
It is going to be necessary because
what is being proposed in this House is
in violation of that act.
I shall explain. Republicans today are
so intent on destroying unions—under-
stand, unions are not nearly as power-
ful as they once were decades ago—but
Republicans are so intent on destroy-
ing unions that in the case of Federal
employees, they are using the two
branches of Government at once—re-
member, they control three—the two
political branches of Government to
destroy the representation of a union.
They control the executive, they con-
trol the House, they control the Sen-
ate. So they pull all stops, using all of
their energy and all of their power
against their own Federal workers.
I think of it as a two-fisted approach.
One fist is pending on this House floor,
as I speak. Indeed, it is due to come to
the House floor in September. It is a
bill I fought in committee along with
many other members.
You can’t just abolish official time to
represent employees, because the Civil
Service Reform Act gives them that
right.
This is why I think that what the
House does in this bill cannot stand,
because what it does is to so reduce the
amount of time, so-called official time,
that you can help many employees get
through the system. You are like a
lawyer. The employee is fresh to the
system, so he or she needs somebody to
tell the employee how to get through
the system.
But if there is so little time, while
you are helping one employee who may
be using up all the time that the House
Republican bill would give, which is
one-quarter of the time that is now
being allowed.
Where did they get that figure from?
Nowhere.
b 1945
It is just a matter of not being able
to wipe it all out, so let’s wipe out al-
most all of it. It gives so little time to
represent all those who need to go
through the system with the help of a
volunteer employee that I do not be-
lieve, for a moment, that this matter
will stand. That is why I think the
AFGE was right to go to court now. I
will tell you in a moment why it has
gone to court, even though this bill has
not passed the House, as I speak.
Not only is so little time given that
you couldn’t possibly handle all of
those who have issues or grievances—it
is only a quarter of the time an em-
ployee has, that has been previously
spent helping other employees to get
through the process. There also is an
enforcement mechanism in the House
bill that is truly vicious.
If you go into overtime in helping an-
other employee, you will do so at your
own risk, because you will lose your
pension credits if you devote more than
the amount of time prescribed in this
bill. That loss of pension credits is also
without due process and arbitrary.
That also is why I believe this bill
can’t stand. But my Republican friends
are so anxious to cripple Federal em-
ployee unions that they also have
asked for the other fist, a Trump exec-
utive order.
If you look at this executive order,
which is essentially the same thing as
the pending bill, you can’t help but
ask: Why two fists on these Federal
workers? Why get the President and
the Republican House to promise to do
the same thing? How many branches,
how many arms of government do you
need to try to stamp out the rights of
Federal employees?
I believe I know why the House has
turned to President Trump. The House
bill is so extreme, so clearly illegal, in
my judgment, that it will be difficult
to get it through the Senate. So, the
President, who obviously has control
over the workforce, is being asked to
do the same thing by executive order.
I don’t believe he can do it. I don’t
believe he can just wipe out official
time, if not all of it, so much of it, so
that employees cannot be served. But
the President may have preempted the
House bill, that may come on the floor
in September, by his executive order
against official time.
If you play chess though, watch out,
because he has hopped right into it.
Now that he has signed an executive
order, now that he has come forward
with an executive order, he has allowed
the AFGE to make a brilliant move.
Before the ink was dry on the execu-
tive order, the AFGE had gone to
court, in a brilliant chess move. And I
have no doubt that they will win in
court because the flaws of the bill are
so clear. I think courts will agree with
AFGE. Had the Republicans tried to
kill official time and the Senate or to
get the same thing through an execu-
tive order, you have the same problem,
even perhaps worse.
The executive order is a clear viola-
tion of the Civil Service Reform Act.
Understand why the act has worked
for so many decades. It is because of
labor peace, to use a word that is often
used to describe why unions have been
important in the Federal sector. You
need labor peace. You don’t need
strikes or disruption by Federal em-
ployees.
But you have got to have a tradeoff.
That tradeoff is adequate representa-
tion through a formal process. If that
formal process is cut to smithereens
and you leave a figment of it in place,
don’t think that the Federal courts
will be fooled by that. This process has
worked, but it won’t if you make it im-
possible to do the job that the Civil
Service Reform Act prescribes, and
that is to represent Federal employees.
Now, the unions aren’t fools. They
recognize they can’t depend on the
House or the President. They also rec-
ognize there is an election coming up
and they know that, at least as of the
moment, the people are there to cor-
rect for issues either ignored in this
House or by threats like the pending
bill and the executive order on official
time that threatens their rights.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.140 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7681
July 25, 2018
The all-powerful Federal Government
has absolutely nothing to lose by al-
lowing its employees, who have so lit-
tle authority, fair access to a process
that does no more than allow them to
be heard before all-powerful Federal
agencies.
What could the largest employer in
the world be afraid of?
It looks as if it is afraid of its own
employees, ordinary citizens rep-
resented also by Members of the House
and the Senate, who ask for no more
than a process and, if I may say so, a
fair process to be heard, a process that
does not show anything like guaran-
teed winning, but it is at least a proc-
ess.
Well, perhaps these employees are to
be feared after all because today they
showed up in great numbers. Remem-
ber, they showed up on the streets of
Washington, D.C., but there are mil-
lions of them throughout the United
States. They showed up in a fighting
mood, fighting back.
I am pleased to come to the floor to
represent the thousands of employees
who showed up. I am simply one among
hundreds of Members of the House who
will always show up for workers when
their rights are being threatened.
As it turns out, the American Fed-
eration of Government Employees rep-
resents both D.C. employees of the D.C.
government and Federal employees of
the Federal Government and I am
proud to represent them all.
All that my Republican friends have
done is raise their fighting spirit,
which has already shown that our
chances of taking back the House of
Representatives have grown every sin-
gle day.
The second issue I want to say a word
about has to do with indiscriminate
raids of the kind we have never had in
the United States of America before.
These are raids on residents. I have
seen their effect here, so I will talk
about these residents living in the Dis-
trict of Columbia.
When you hear of such raids and in-
discriminate arrests, perhaps you will
understand why cities like the District
of Columbia have declared themselves
to be sanctuary cities that protect,
particularly, their immigrant residents
from arbitrary action, recognizing that
they will not be able and do not wish to
protect them when, in fact, there is a
right to take them back to where they
came from. But that is not what I am
talking about this evening.
In the District of Columbia, at least
a dozen individuals were arrested last
week when it is clear that they would
not have been arrested had there been
a warrant or had anything but racial
profiling—racial and ethnic profiling, I
might add—been used, a brazen act.
As it turns out, some of the people
arrested were, for example, MS–13. So
far as the numbers show, that is 37.
Those are people for whom they had a
warrant. Those are people for whom
there is probable cause that they com-
mitted a crime. But that is 37 out of
132. They never could have gotten the
rest of these residents without indis-
criminate racial profiling.
What did they do?
First of all, they went to predomi-
nantly Latino D.C. neighborhoods, and
they went there for a reason. They
snatched what appeared to be anyone
on the streets who looked like the peo-
ple they wanted, based on race or ap-
pearance.
When you have, in the United States,
police picking up people based on their
appearance, you understand what a po-
lice state looks like. The reaction will
be, I am sure, intimidation from going
into the streets of your own city.
Now, ICE boasts that it went looking
and found people who present a signifi-
cant security threat, but they were
only able to show 37 such people. When
you round up citizens without a war-
rant and without probable cause based
on what they look like, that is what
you get: indiscriminate arrests, arrests
based on appearance, arrests where you
cannot possibly show a significant pub-
lic safety threat.
I am not here to say that MS–13 or
others who pose such a threat should
not be arrested. I am here to say that
breaking up families is an outrageous
way to enforce a law and does not, in
fact, do so.
The Washington field office was re-
sponsible for this roundup, and they
have indicated the people whom they
arrested.
I am not here on this floor this
evening to defend—here I am reading
from people they say they arrested—
the El Salvadoran national identified
as a high-ranking MS–13 member.
I am not here on this floor to defend
a Bolivian national who has four prior
convictions for rape and intercourse
with a victim under 13. They are not
what I am here talking about.
b 2000
I am here talking about people who
were in the streets minding their own
business, with no criminal arrests,
with no criminal background, with
families at home waiting for them.
Yes, we have got to deport people
from this country, even if they come in
ways that we could otherwise under-
stand. Deportation has to occur. It oc-
curred in the last administration.
Some were deported right at the bor-
der. I am not here making the case to
open the borders wide open and let ev-
erybody in.
But the courts have already turned
around the procedures now being em-
ployed, because every day you read in
the papers and see on television how
many families have been disunited,
children and parents broken up, par-
ents deported without their children.
The authorities are still looking to
unite hundreds of children with their
parents. That just isn’t what we do in
the United States of America.
Since one of these roundups occurred
here in the Nation’s Capital, and the
shame is that it would occur in the
Capital of the United States, I thought
it was my responsibility to come to
this floor to call it out and to indicate
that these raids are one of the reasons
why the District of Columbia will al-
ways be a sanctuary city—not a city
for MS–13, not a city for those who
should be deported, but a city for those
who have a right to go through a lawful
process.
We will not stand for residents to be
rounded up in the streets. That means
that each and every one of us could be
rounded up in the streets based on
what we look like. We will not have it.
We will resist it.
There is a way to deport people.
There is a way to make sure that you
come into this country legally and to
make sure that you are deported if you
do not.
The wrong way to do it, the way that
we cannot tolerate, is to go to police
state tactics, unknown before in our
country, and particularly police state
tactics in the Capital of the United
States, Washington, D.C.
So, Mr. Speaker, as the House pre-
pares to go home later in the week,
these are two issues I felt I had to put
before this body. I would hope that we
all would think of better ways to ac-
complish our ends.
If our problem is with Federal em-
ployees, let’s deal with that problem
and not try to nullify a statute that
took into account our differences, the
Civil Service Reform Act.
As for Hispanics and other immi-
grants being snatched off the streets, I
would hope that I do not stand alone in
saying tonight that that is not the
American way. There are hundreds of
jurisdictions that are with us as sanc-
tuary cities to stand and say that that
is not the American way. I am pleased
that the courts of the United States
have protected sanctuary cities just as
these cities have protected residents
from arbitrary treatment in the United
States of America.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2017, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. BILI-
RAKIS) for 30 minutes.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the topic
of my Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Florida?
There was no objection.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, as co-
chair of both the Hellenic Caucus and
the Congressional Hellenic-Israel Alli-
ance, I rise tonight with my colleagues
to provide an update on one of the
United States’ most strategic allies,
the Republic of Cyprus.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.141 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7682 July 25, 2018
Sadly, Mr. Speaker, this year marks
the 44th anniversary of the illegal inva-
sion and occupation of 40,000 Turkish
troops in Cyprus. Turkey, a NATO ally,
must cease its inflammatory rhetoric,
normalize relations with the Republic
of Cyprus, and commit to peacefully
working toward a negotiated solution.
Greek and Turkish Cypriots, Mr.
Speaker, deserve an end to the sense-
less division and occupation.
Despite the challenge of continued
occupation, Cyprus has long been a
strong and faithful ally of the United
States. Due to Cyprus’ unique geo-
political role in the eastern Mediterra-
nean, it is in the best interests of our
country, the United States of America,
to support peace and the end of this il-
legal occupation. Cyprus’ special geo-
political position stems from its loca-
tion at the southeasternmost corner of
the EU.
The eastern Mediterranean is turbu-
lent, Mr. Speaker, but holds a promise
of significant opportunity. Cyprus’ sta-
tus as an EU member state, as well as
its excellent longstanding relations
with its neighbors, enhances its stra-
tegic importance to the United States.
Cyprus has taken steps in recent
years to facilitate international part-
nerships and demonstrated an impres-
sive ability to serve as a catalyst in
the development of mutually beneficial
goals among countries in the region
and around the globe.
Of equal importance, Cyprus also en-
joys a longstanding record of serving as
an unwavering U.S. ally by promoting
regional stability, energy security, and
counterterrorism efforts. Regional sta-
bility is a necessary precursor to at-
tainment of its full economic, social,
and strategic potential.
Moderate countries in the eastern
Mediterranean have an obligation to
strengthen their ties because, the
stronger the bonds, the greater the op-
portunity for building a more pros-
perous, peaceful future.
As discussed by Cyprus’ Foreign Min-
ister Nikos Christodoulides, Cyprus
recognizes the importance of regional
stability. Along with Greece, it has
spearheaded efforts to create trilateral
cooperation mechanisms with mod-
erate countries of the region, including
Israel, Egypt, Jordan, and Lebanon.
This initiative has been one of the
most successful developments of the
past decade and has laid the foundation
for regional cooperation on a variety of
priority goals that are crucial to the
international community. These tri-
lateral discussions are now common-
place, and the meetings are taking
place at regular intervals, creating and
facilitating the development of mutu-
ally beneficial partnerships around a
broad range of areas, including eco-
nomic cooperation, culture, and edu-
cation.
Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel
and Prime Minister Tsipras joined
President Anastasiades in Nicosia in
May for a trilateral meeting. Cur-
rently, preparations are under way for
a trilateral meeting between Cyprus,
Greece, and Egypt in Crete, and in De-
cember with Israel.
Minister Christodoulides has ex-
plained that the central tenets of the
trilateral cooperation are neither ex-
clusionary nor exclusive; additionally,
they are not directed against any coun-
try but, instead, are utilized as an op-
portunity for promoting enhanced co-
operation.
As with everything in life, there is no
one-size-fits-all approach, as you know,
Mr. Speaker, but each trilateral meet-
ing has been crafted to meet the needs
of participating countries when it
makes sense to do so.
Additionally, Cyprus has taken the
lead to include countries from outside
the regions to further economic, social,
and international goals. For example,
Cyprus, Greece, and Israel have ex-
panded their talks to include Italy and
the European Commission in negotia-
tions on energy-related issues. The
benefits from these regional develop-
ments positively impact participating
countries as well as the United States
of America and the international com-
munity as a whole.
Cyprus holds the potential to play an
important role in international energy
security, Mr. Speaker, which is obvi-
ously a natural interest to the United
States of America. The discovery of hy-
drocarbons in the eastern Mediterra-
nean has motivated countries within
the region to work together in order to
maximize the benefit of these natural
resources.
The U.S. Geological Survey assess-
ments indicate the eastern Mediterra-
nean region holds large quantities of
natural gas and oil. It is in the United
States’ best interest, in my opinion,
Mr. Speaker, to ensure that these re-
sources held by an allied nation con-
tribute to the availability of affordable
energy. This development can help en-
sure the long-term financial sustain-
ability of the region.
Minister Christodoulides, again, also
heralds the work of Egypt, Israel, and
Lebanon, in partnership with Cyprus,
again, to formulate their own exclusive
economic zones, or EEZ, which has cre-
ated greater transparency based on
international law, outlined new eco-
nomic border structures, and estab-
lished a proven framework for coopera-
tion around a common goal.
This framework also created the nec-
essary legal and institutional struc-
tures to attract investment in Cyprus
by major oil and gas companies.
ExxonMobil, Eni, Total, Noble Energy,
and Shell have entered into agreements
with Cyprus for exploratory drilling
and development work. Energy expan-
sion in Cyprus holds even greater fu-
ture potential, and it will compete di-
rectly with Russian energy in the re-
gion.
Cyprus is also close to concluding
agreements for the export of natural
gas from its Aphrodite reservoir in its
EEZ to Egypt and the plants there in
Egypt. It is also concluding an inter-
governmental agreement with Egypt
that will create a direct, underwater
pipeline to carry Aphrodite’s natural
gas to Egypt.
Similarly, the East Med pipeline
project will allow for the transfer of
natural gas, by an underwater pipeline,
from Israel and Cyprus to Greece via
Crete and from Greece to Italy.
Energy potential and its accom-
panying economic benefit has become a
tool of cooperation and alignment of
initiatives that would create an econ-
omy of scale and invite investment
while meeting the energy security
needs of the region.
Cyprus has also proven itself as an
important partner in the global war
against terrorism. Since their incep-
tion, the trilateral meetings led by Cy-
prus have always included counterter-
rorism cooperation as a priority. Min-
ister Christodoulides, again, correctly
asserted earlier this year that it is not
enough to secure one’s country and
borders; close cooperation with reliable
and like-minded partners is also nec-
essary.
Cyprus has entered into a close dia-
logue with its regional neighbors to
create a unified approach to battling
terrorist ideology, understanding that
there are no firm barriers to the spread
of radical indoctrination, especially
given the advent of social media, Mr.
Speaker.
Cyprus is participating in a number
of international efforts, including the
Coalition Against the Islamic State
and the Aqaba Process. Minister
Christodoulides further noted that Cy-
prus has actively, and in cooperation
with some of its European allies, pro-
vided military assistance and non-
military support to international ef-
forts in the African region of the Sahel.
b 2015
Cyprus has cooperated with the U.S.
in providing specialized training assist-
ance to officials from neighboring
countries and collaborated closely with
Egypt. The training revolves mostly on
civilian type of expertise, in customs
and border controls.
Additionally, Cyprus has provided
training on the identification and con-
tainment of various chemicals, as well
as better storage and handling of dan-
gerous substances. Cyprus has also ex-
plored collaborative efforts to counter
violent extremism and radicalization
in an attempt to attack the problem at
its root.
In recent years, Cyprus has invested
a great deal of energy and resources in
education and the exposure of its com-
munities to the historical roots of anti-
Semitism and racism. This is an in-
valuable investment, not only because
it is the right thing to do, Mr. Speaker,
but because it is the best proven way
to prevent radicalization and violence.
Cyprus is committed to remain at
the forefront of these efforts. After suf-
fering a profound financial crisis not
long ago, the previous decade, Cyprus
has undertaken significant reforms
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.134 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7683
July 25, 2018
under the great, capable leadership of
President Anastasiades that have sta-
bilized and strengthened the country’s
economy and its banking sector.
The result of these reforms, coupled
with other government policies and the
ingenuity of the very special Cypriot
people, is that the Cypriot economy is
experiencing strong growth and is one
of the fastest growing economies in Eu-
rope.
The future is bright for Cyprus. They
are really a great model to go by.
Again, the future is bright for Cyprus
and its banking sector.
This is the fourth year in a row, Mr.
Speaker, that they have had positive
GDP growth. The EU predicts that real
GDP growth is expected to reach 3.6
percent in 2018 and 3.3 percent in 2019.
Unemployment continues to shrink
with the rate being cut in half to 8 per-
cent since the financial crisis, and it
was a crisis, there is no question. I
talked to many people who live on the
island and many relatives here in the
United States of those folks, and they
went through a lot, but they recovered.
Cyprus can survive, Mr. Speaker. It
is surviving without dependence on
Russian money. Russian deposits have
dropped nearly 50 percent and make up
just 5 percent of the three largest
banks’ portfolios.
Cyprus has been actively promoting
policies to counter money laundering
and terrorist financing activities. The
powers and tools of the regulators,
principally the Central Bank of Cyprus,
the office of the attorney general, and
financial intelligence units have been
greatly upgraded.
As a result, the Cyprus banking sec-
tor has significantly improved ulti-
mate beneficial ownership trans-
parency, greatly reduced its depend-
ency on foreign deposits and trans-
actions, and terminated accounts that
do not meet its rigorous new standards.
Ending the illegal occupation of Cy-
prus, Mr. Speaker, would safeguard the
country’s independence while ampli-
fying its bridge-building capacity.
What a capacity it has. They have done
so much. So just think, if there was re-
unification, Mr. Speaker.
Again, further stabilizing and bring-
ing peace to the region, it is in our na-
tional interests, Mr. Speaker. All of
which, again, makes Cyprus an even
stronger ally of the United States.
After stalling earlier this year, reuni-
fication efforts are once again under-
way. Former U.S. Deputy Secretary of
Homeland Security Jane Holl Lute has
recently been appointed the U.N.’s new
special adviser in the Cyprus reunifica-
tion talks.
Ms. Lute plans to tour Nicosia, Ath-
ens, and Ankara this month and pro-
vide an assessment to the U.N. Sec-
retary General Antonio Guterres on
whether there is potential for the as-
sumption of negotiations on the issue
of reunification.
The Republic of Cyprus has been a
steadfast ally, and Cypriots of all back-
grounds desire an end to the senseless
division of their homeland. Today, the
United States, despite Erdogan’s pro-
vocative language and actions, still en-
joys a unique role as a partner for both
Cyprus and Turkey. As an honest
broker to both sides, we can help them
see that a unified future for Cyprus is
far more promising than the present di-
vision.
Our relationship with our allies must
be based on shared values and mutual
respect. At the core, the rule of law
must be respected above all else.
I encourage the Greek and Cypriot
leaders to keep up the hard work of
unifying a people divided for more than
a generation. Tough and important
issues remain, but, hopefully, this ille-
gal occupation will come to an end.
A reunified island nation would serve
as a spark for further cooperation and
economic stability. In short, it would
unleash the region’s incredible poten-
tial.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from New York (Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY), co-chair of the Hellenic
Caucus. She is a founder, along with
my father, Michael Bilirakis, of the
Hellenic Caucus and also a member of
the Congressional Hellenic-Israel Alli-
ance.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good
friend and co-chair of the Hellenic Cau-
cus for all his hard work on this Spe-
cial Order and for his hard work in
Congress and on so many issues. He has
been a leader for Greece, Cyprus, Flor-
ida, and the United States, and is a
strong and effective leader here in Con-
gress.
Mr. CICILLINE, who is here rep-
resenting the Democratic side, has
been a strong advocate and leader, not
only in this but in so many areas in our
caucus, in our Congress, and in so
many ways.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to show my
strong and unwavering support for the
U.S.-Cyprus relationship.
As co-chair of the Hellenic Caucus
along with Mr. BILIRAKIS, I would be
remiss if I did not mention the tragic
wildfires that tore through Greece yes-
terday, killing dozens, and injuring and
displacing hundreds more. I am heart-
broken by the loss of life and destruc-
tion these rapidly moving fires left in
their wake, and I send my deepest con-
dolences, along with all of my col-
leagues in Congress, to the Greek peo-
ple at this time.
I know that the Hellenic American
community, many of whom are my
constituents, are affected by this dis-
aster as well and have already begun
efforts to help.
I want to thank, especially, my fel-
low Hellenic Caucus co-chair, Rep-
resentative GUS BILIRAKIS from the
great State of Florida, for organizing
this Special Order hour, and also the
Congressman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE) for joining him in organizing
it.
I founded the caucus with his father,
former Representative Mike Bilirakis,
in 1996, and it remains one of the larg-
est and most active caucuses in Con-
gress. We founded this caucus after
Turkey invaded EMEA. It seemed like,
every other day, there was a major cri-
sis that came to the floor of Congress,
and we felt it was important to really
find where our supporters were.
I am proud that, since this caucus
has been founded, no single bill has
been taken to the floor that in any way
hinders or rolls back rights to Greece
or Cyprus.
Cyprus is one of our staunchest allies
in the world. Strengthening our alli-
ance must remain a constant foreign
policy priority for the United States.
We must acknowledge a solemn anni-
versary last week. It has been 44 years
since the illegal, terrible, unjust inva-
sion by Turkish troops into the north-
ern third of the nation of Cyprus. To
this day, the island and the people liv-
ing on either side of the U.N.-mon-
itored buffer zone remain separated.
There are 40,000 Turkish troops occu-
pying northern Cyprus today. It is un-
just; it is wrong; and they should be re-
moved.
They pose a looming threat that the
Cypriot people have been forced to live
with each and every day. Negotiations
on reunification, unfortunately, are
stalled for now, after some signs of
progress early last year.
Turkish troops are undeniably a hin-
drance to peace. No just and lasting
settlement for either Greece or Turk-
ish Cypriots can be achieved with the
presence of the Turkish military.
We are here today to show the sup-
port of the U.S. Congress for a
bicommunal, bizonal federation that is
in the best interests of the United
States, the entire Eastern Mediterra-
nean, and, most of all, Cypriots them-
selves.
Two years ago, I joined a congres-
sional delegation led by ILEANA ROS-
LEHTINEN, the former chair of the For-
eign Relations Committee, to Cyprus.
As we toured along the buffer zone, or
the so-called Green Line that parti-
tions the country, the ghost towns of
Famagusta and Varosha illustrated the
drastic impact that a divided Cyprus
has on its people.
I would call it a lost opportunity and
lost economic advancement. It is lit-
erally a deserted ghost town on one of
the most beautiful beaches in the
world, one of the most beautiful towns
in the world. Yet, I have constituents
who I represent who crawled out of
Famagusta on their bellies as Turkish
planes were dropping bombs after
them, and their dream is to go back to
their homeland.
But it is a wasteland. When you pass
the Green Line into the occupied area,
it is like totally deserted. It is like a
lost economic opportunity, lost living
style, lost life. When you see it, it is a
visualization of so many opportunities
lost for this great country, the time
wasted and the development foregone
because of this extended conflict and
separation between the Greek and Cyp-
riot areas and the Turkish areas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:22 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.136 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7684 July 25, 2018
Some may not be aware that the
buffer zone is patrolled now by U.N.
peacekeeping forces. The U.S. must
maintain its financial support for these
forces that are keeping peace in Cy-
prus. It is an effective investment, es-
pecially now, and it is needed.
There are numerous examples of
Turkish aggression in the Eastern Med-
iterranean. Violations of Greek air-
space and territorial waters are com-
monplace. Turkey continues to intimi-
date and interfere with the companies
operating in Cyprus’ exclusive eco-
nomic zone and violates Cyprus’ sov-
ereign claims to its territory.
Fortunately, there are near-term ini-
tiatives that Congress is pursuing right
now to defend Cyprus’ stability and
sovereignty. The NDAA conference re-
port released Monday includes a provi-
sion to study lifting the arms embargo
on Cyprus that has been in place since
1987.
I think we need to go much further
than that. I think the embargo should
be lifted today, and I am proud to be an
original cosponsor of Representative
CICILLINE’s bill to do just that. This
study will hopefully be at least a step
in the right direction.
The NDAA also prohibits the sale of
F–35 fighter jets to Turkey. That provi-
sion is long overdue, and that is in the
defense budget that we will be consid-
ering today and tomorrow.
Cyprus is a vital U.S. partner in glob-
al and regional security, economic co-
operation, and energy development. I
am proud to be a champion of this rela-
tionship in Congress through the Hel-
lenic Caucus and to have the support of
so many of my Hellenic American con-
stituents in that effort.
Mr. Speaker, I see my colleague, Mr.
CICILLINE, representing the great State
of Rhode Island is here. He is an incred-
ible leader in this caucus, the leader of
our messaging unit, and, in so many
other ways, an important leader in this
Congress.
b 2030
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from Rhode Island
(Mr. CICILLINE), a great advocate for
Cyprus. We have cosponsored legisla-
tion together.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Florida for yield-
ing.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman from New York for her co-
chairmanship of this caucus. Both Mr.
BILIRAKIS and Mrs. MALONEY have been
great champions on this issue, and I
am honored and privileged to work
with them.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to join both of my
colleagues in celebrating the impor-
tant relationship between the United
States and Cyprus and in highlighting
the critical role our partnership with
Cyprus plays in advancing both of our
nations’ national security interests.
The Republic of Cyprus is a strategic
partner to the United States in the
eastern Mediterranean region and an
effective ally combating threats posed
by terrorism and nuclear proliferation.
Through information sharing, train-
ing programs, counterterrorism activi-
ties, and increased cooperation on en-
ergy policy, our relationship with Cy-
prus allows us to advance our Nation’s
interests, defend against the rise of ter-
rorism and regional actors who seek to
take steps counter to American inter-
ests, and to promote the ongoing close
cooperation between the United States
and Europe.
The U.S. participates in a number of
joint exercises with Cyprus, including
annual multinational search and res-
cue and crisis management exercises,
and we coordinate training programs
for Cyprus in explosives management
and disposal, cybersecurity, counter-
terrorism, and maritime safety and se-
curity.
We work closely with our Cypriot al-
lies to combat the spread of weapons of
mass destruction and foster an effec-
tive international nonproliferation re-
gime.
In 2015, we joined Cyprus as members
of the Proliferation Security Initiative
in cohosting a regional nonprolifera-
tion workshop focusing on inspecting
and identifying proliferation material.
We are also joining Cyprus in providing
more secure sources of domestic energy
for Cyprus and all of Europe.
American companies are playing a
valuable role in energy exploration ac-
tivities in Cyprus’ exclusive economic
zone in order to help provide Europe
with potential alternatives to Russian
gas and oil. Yet, despite this critical
partnership between our two countries,
the United States has had in place an
arms embargo against the island of Cy-
prus since 1987.
This policy was initially intended to
prevent an arms race on the island
with Turkey, following Turkey’s 1974
invasion of Cyprus and its subsequent
occupation of the northern territory,
in order to provide space for reunifica-
tion talks. However, more than 30
years since the embargo was first im-
plemented, Turkey still has more than
30,000 troops occupying the northern
territory of Cyprus, reunification talks
have not produced intended results,
and the U.S. is unable to maintain a
full security relationship with a key
partner in combating terrorism.
On top of this, Turkey continues to
threaten Cyprus’ energy exploration by
continually harassing drilling vessels
in the EEZ. Assistant Secretary of
State for European and Eurasian Af-
fairs, Wess Mitchell, has said that this
harassment cannot be tolerated.
We need to enact policies that
strengthen our relationship with Cy-
prus and counteract dangerous ele-
ments in the region which threaten our
national security interests and the in-
terests of our allies in the eastern Med-
iterranean.
Last year, I introduced legislation to
lift the three-decade-old embargo on
Cyprus, which would allow us to
strengthen the partnership that we
have built with the Republic of Cyprus.
Our inability to provide Cyprus with
necessary equipment needed to defend
its sovereignty and its economic inter-
ests threatens our own national secu-
rity.
Lifting the arms embargo will allow
Cyprus to better establish itself as a
frontline state for Western security in-
terests, defend itself from external
threats, and ensure Cyprus is no longer
forced to seek assistance for its defense
from countries like Russia. Cyprus is
an invaluable partner, and we need to
make sure that we are treating it as
such.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues
for organizing this opportunity to
highlight the importance of the U.S.-
Cypriot relationship, and I look for-
ward to working with them, with our
State Department, and with the Cyp-
riot Government to continue to part-
ner in important ways.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Rhode Is-
land for those remarks. He is a great
advocate for Cyprus.
Cyprus is a great partner, a great
strategic ally, and will continue to be.
We wanted to highlight that this
evening, and I think we have.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
titles was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 2278. An act to amend the Public Health
Service Act to provide grants to improve
health care in rural areas; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
f
SENATE ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
The Speaker announced his signature
to enrolled bills of the Senate of the
following titles:
S. 2245. An act to include New Zealand in
the list of foreign states whose nationals are
eligible for admission into the United States
as E–1 and E–2 nonimmigrants if United
States nationals are treated similarly by the
Government of New Zealand.
S. 2850. An act to amend the White Moun-
tain Apache Tribe Water Rights Quantifica-
tion Act of 2010 to clarify the use of amounts
in the WMAT Settlement Fund.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 34 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, July 26, 2018, at 9 a.m.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25JY7.137 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7685
July 25, 2018
5768. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — National Emission Stand-
ards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the
Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
Residual Risk and Technology Review [EPA-
HQ-OAR-2016-0442; FRL-9981-06-OAR] (RIN:
2060-AS92) received July 20, 2018, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
5769. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Approval of California Plan
Revisions; Northern Sonoma County Air Pol-
lution Control District; Stationary Source
Permits [EPA-R09-OAR-2018-0171; FRL-9980-
01-Region 9] received July 20, 2018, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
5770. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Flonicamid; Pesticide Tol-
erances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2017-0224; FRL-9977-82]
received July 20, 2018, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
5771. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s final rule — Magnuson-Stevens Act
Provisions; Fisheries Off West Coast States;
Pacific Coast Groundfish Fishery; 2017-18 Bi-
ennial Specifications and Management Meas-
ures; Amendment 27; Correction [Docket No.:
160808696-799-03] (RIN: 0648-BG17) received
July 23, 2018, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. THORNBERRY: Committee of Con-
ference. Conference report on H.R. 5515. A
bill to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2019 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense and for military con-
struction, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other
purposes (Rept. 115–874). Ordered to be print-
ed.
Mr. BYRNE: Committee on Rules. House
Resolution 1027. Resolution providing for
consideration of the conference report to ac-
company the bill (H.R. 5515) to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2019 for military
activities of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense activi-
ties of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes (Rept. 115–
875). Referred to the House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr.
CAPUANO, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. EDDIE BERNICE
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms.
TITUS, and Mr. TAKANO):
H.R. 6501. A bill to secure Federal access to
scientific literature and other subscription
services by requiring Federal agencies and
legislative branch research arms to make
recommendations on increasing agency li-
brary access to serials, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform.
By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (for him-
self, Mrs. BLACK, Mr. CROWLEY, Mr.
GRIFFITH, and Mr. BEN RAY LUJÁN of
New Mexico):
H.R. 6502. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to establish a program
to allow qualified group practices to furnish
certain items and services at qualified
skilled nursing facilities to individuals enti-
tled to benefits under part A and enrolled
under part B of the Medicare program to re-
duce unnecessary hospitalizations, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means, and in addition to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts:
H.R. 6503. A bill to authorize the President
to provide assistance to the Governments of
Haiti and Armenia to reverse the effects of
deforestation, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. CLYBURN (for himself, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
GENE GREEN of Texas, Mr. MEEKS,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
FUDGE, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, Ms. BASS, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Ms. PLASKETT, Mr. DAVID SCOTT
of Georgia, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr.
VEASEY, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. EVANS, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. CLAY, Mr. RUSH,
Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama,
and Ms. ADAMS):
H.R. 6504. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the increase in
unrelated business taxable income by
amount of certain fringe benefit expenses; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. KHANNA,
Ms. DELAURO, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. POCAN, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Ms. ADAMS, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. BASS,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. CAS-
TRO of Texas, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. CRIST, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. ELLISON, Mr.
EVANS, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, Mr. AL GREEN of
Texas, Mr. GUTIÉRREZ, Ms.
HANABUSA, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. EDDIE BERNICE
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
LANGEVIN, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Ms. LEE, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. LEWIS of
Georgia, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms.
MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New
Mexico, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Ms. MOORE, Mr. NADLER,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. NOLAN, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. RYAN of Ohio, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Ms.
SHEA-PORTER, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, Ms. TITUS, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
VEASEY, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California,
Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
JEFFRIES, and Ms. FRANKEL of Flor-
ida):
H.R. 6505. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to require the Secretary
of Health and Human Services to negotiate
prices of prescription drugs furnished under
part D of the Medicare program; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. HOLDING, Ms. GABBARD,
and Mr. BERA):
H.R. 6506. A bill to provide for United
States actions to advance the United States-
India strategic relationship; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
(for himself and Mr. KELLY of Penn-
sylvania):
H.R. 6507. A bill to amend the Oil Region
National Heritage Area Act to reauthorize
the Oil Region National Heritage Area, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 6508. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for the public
disclosure of charges for certain hospital and
ambulatory surgical center treatment epi-
sodes; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr.
LYNCH, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, and Mr. LANGEVIN):
H.R. 6509. A bill to require all newly con-
structed, federally assisted, single-family
houses and town houses to meet minimum
standards of visitability for persons with dis-
abilities; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah (for himself,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. SIMPSON, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. STIVERS,
Ms. HANABUSA, Mr. YOUNG of Alaska,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. COOK, Ms. TSONGAS,
Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr.
WEBSTER of Florida, Ms. SINEMA, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mr. WELCH, Mr. CRAMER,
Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. COLE, Mr. LYNCH,
Mr. HURD, Ms. MENG, Mr. CURTIS, Mr.
COSTA, Mr. REICHERT, Mr. KIND, Mrs.
LOVE, Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM
of New Mexico, Mr. AMODEI, Ms.
FRANKEL of Florida, Mr. TIPTON, Mr.
PANETTA, Mr. STEWART, Ms. SEWELL
of Alabama, Mr. THOMPSON of Penn-
sylvania, Ms. DEGETTE, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Ms.
NORTON, Mrs. HANDEL, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. UPTON, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, Mr. ROGERS of Ala-
bama, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mrs.
COMSTOCK, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. PAUL-
SEN, Mr. TURNER, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Ms. BONAMICI, and Mr. NOLAN):
H.R. 6510. A bill to establish, fund, and pro-
vide for the use of amounts in a National
Park Service and Public Lands Legacy Res-
toration Fund to address the maintenance
backlog of the National Park Service, United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of
Land Management, and Bureau of Indian
Education, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources, and in ad-
dition to the Committees on Education and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L25JY7.000 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7686 July 25, 2018
the Workforce, and Transportation and In-
frastructure, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. BARTON (for himself and Mr.
RUSH):
H.R. 6511. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Energy to carry out a program to lease
underutilized Strategic Petroleum Reserve
facilities, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
H.R. 6512. A bill to authorize the Attorney
General to establish a five-year pilot pro-
gram to make grants to local educational
agencies for the hiring of school resource of-
ficers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and the Workforce, and
in addition to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for him-
self, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
PALMER, Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr. BYRNE,
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama, and Mrs.
ROBY):
H.R. 6513. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1110 West Market Street in Athens, Alabama,
as the ‘‘Judge James E. Horton, Jr. Post Of-
fice Building‘‘; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Government Reform.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for her-
self, Mr. DONOVAN, Mr. LUETKEMEYER,
and Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico):
H.R. 6514. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Small Business Administration
to establish a pilot program for certifying
the status of a small business concern as a
small business concern owned and controlled
by socially and economically disadvantaged
individuals, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Small Business.
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 6515. A bill to limit private antitrust
damages against occupational licensing
boards, to promote beneficial reforms of
State occupational licensing, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and the Workforce, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
H.R. 6516. A bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to estab-
lish a permanent, nationwide summer elec-
tronic benefits transfer for children program;
to the Committee on Education and the
Workforce.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself and Mr.
VALADAO):
H.R. 6517. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to direct the Organ Pro-
curement and Transplantation Network to
establish and implement reforms to the cri-
teria for liver allocation so that such alloca-
tion is not based on the donor candidate’s
place of residence or listing, except to the
extent necessary to avoid wasting organs,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself, Mr.
FASO, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
KILDEE, Mrs. LOVE, Mr. SIRES, and
Mr. SUOZZI):
H.R. 6518. A bill to require the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration to im-
plement a national employer notification
service; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 6519. A bill to withdraw certain Fed-
eral lands and interests located in Pima and
Santa Cruz counties, Arizona, from the min-
ing and mineral leasing laws of the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 6520. A bill to designate certain public
lands in the Sonoran Desert of the State of
Arizona as national conservation areas and
wilderness areas, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 6521. A bill to establish the Great
Bend of the Gila National Monument in the
State of Arizona, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 6522. A bill to establish the Santa
Cruz Valley National Heritage Area, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself and Mr.
GALLEGO):
H.R. 6523. A bill to amend title 39, United
States Code, to provide that the United
States Postal Service may not close or con-
solidate any postal facility located in a ZIP
code with a high rate of population growth,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Government Reform.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr.
BEN RAY LUJÁN of New Mexico, Ms.
HERRERA BEUTLER, and Mr. MCKIN-
LEY):
H.R. 6524. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to streamline enroll-
ment of certain Medicaid providers and sup-
pliers across State lines, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia (for himself
and Mr. GUTIÉRREZ):
H.R. 6525. A bill to prohibit discrimination
in higher education against certain undocu-
mented students on the basis of immigration
status, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and the Workforce, and
in addition to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LOEBSACK:
H.R. 6526. A bill to establish an Office of
Rural Education Policy in the Department of
Education, make other modifications to Fed-
eral law to improve rural schools, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and the Workforce, and in addition to
the Committee on Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCEACHIN (for himself, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. NADLER, Mr. MEEKS,
Mr. SOTO, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. GUTIÉRREZ, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. VEASEY,
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. MENG, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. PALLONE,
Ms. DELAURO, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. PANETTA, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. LEWIS of Georgia, Mr.
LANGEVIN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. VELA,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mr. RICHMOND, and Mr. SMITH of
Washington):
H.R. 6527. A bill to provide access to coun-
sel for children and other vulnerable popu-
lations; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MOULTON (for himself, Mr.
KEATING, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. GRIJALVA,
and Mr. HUFFMAN):
H.R. 6528. A bill to amend the Magnuson-
Stevens Fishery Conservation and Manage-
ment Act to provide fisheries disaster relief
for commercial fishery failures that are due
to certain tariffs imposed by other countries,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. NORMAN:
H.R. 6529. A bill to prohibit the use of Fed-
eral funds by the Department of Health and
Human Services to award a grant to study
cigar flavors; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Ways and Means, Education and
the Workforce, and Natural Resources, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. PANETTA (for himself and Mr.
KNIGHT):
H.R. 6530. A bill to prohibit the use of funds
to withdraw the United States from the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on
Armed Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
H.R. 6531. A bill to strengthen the disclo-
sure requirements for creditors under the
Truth in Lending Act; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mr. ROKITA (for himself and Mr.
WEBSTER of Florida):
H.R. 6532. A bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act to update and improve eli-
gibility criteria for the Social Security Dis-
ability Program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Ways and Means, and in
addition to the Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SARBANES (for himself and
Mr. POLIS):
H.R. 6533. A bill to amend the Lobbying
Disclosure Act of 1995 to require an indi-
vidual to register as a lobbyist under such
Act if the individual is employed or retained
by a client for making more than one lob-
bying contact over a 2-year period and to
treat legislative, political, and strategic
counseling in support of lobbying contacts as
lobbying activity under such Act, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on House
Administration, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. GUTIÉRREZ, Ms. LEE,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. POLIS, Ms. SHEA-
PORTER, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mr. KHANNA, and Mr. RUSH):
H.R. 6534. A bill to phase out the use of pri-
vate military contractors; to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the
Committees on Armed Services, and Intel-
ligence (Permanent Select), for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. SHEA-PORTER:
H.R. 6535. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to prevent certain alcohol
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L25JY7.100 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7687
July 25, 2018
and substance misuse; to the Committee on
Education and the Workforce.
By Mr. SMUCKER (for himself and Mr.
FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida):
H.R. 6536. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to provide for an H-2C
nonimmigrant classification, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, and in addition to the Committees on
Ways and Means, and Oversight and Govern-
ment Reform, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California
(for herself, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. COHEN, Ms. LEE, Mr. RUSH, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
ELLISON, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. RYAN
of Ohio, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. SERRANO, Mr. CAPUANO, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, and Mr. BLUMENAUER):
H.R. 6537. A bill to require the Secretary of
Education to annually report on the Federal
civil rights violations of educational institu-
tions, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and the Workforce.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr.
NORMAN):
H.R. 6538. A bill to authorize certain long-
term contracts for Federal purchases of en-
ergy; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Oversight and Government Reform, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. LESKO:
H. Res. 1026. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
Medicare and Social Security provide an es-
sential benefit for current enrollees and
should be strengthened for future genera-
tions; to the Committee on Ways and Means,
and in addition to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself, Mr.
JORDAN, Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia,
Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina, Mr.
BIGGS, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
DESJARLAIS, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. POSEY,
and Mr. PERRY):
H. Res. 1028. A resolution impeaching Rod
Rosenstein, the Deputy Attorney General of
the United States, for high crimes and mis-
demeanors; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. KIL-
MER, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. BRADY of
Pennsylvania, Mr. CASTRO of Texas,
Mr. RYAN of Ohio, and Ms. LOFGREN):
H. Res. 1029. A resolution reaffirming the
United States-Australia diplomatic, secu-
rity, and economic relationship; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida
(for himself, Mr. CONNOLLY, and Mr.
POE of Texas):
H. Res. 1030. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the territories of Abkhazia and South
Ossetia are a part of the sovereign state of
Georgia and condemning the decision by the
Syrian Arab Republic to recognize these ter-
ritories as independent of Georgia; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. ROSEN (for herself, Mr. PAL-
LONE, Mr. NEAL, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia, Mr. NADLER, Mr. HOYER, and
Ms. PELOSI):
H. Res. 1031. A resolution authorizing cer-
tain Committees of the House of Representa-
tives to intervene in the case of Texas v.
United States, No. 4:18-cv-00167-O (N.D. Tex.)
and authorizing the Office of General Coun-
sel of the House to represent such Commit-
tees in such intervention; to the Committee
on Rules.
By Mr. SCHIFF (for himself, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Ms. NORTON, Ms. KAPTUR, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. KILMER, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
COHEN, Ms. TITUS, and Mr. SHERMAN):
H. Res. 1032. A resolution supporting infant
nutrition through improved breastfeeding
practices; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
238. The SPEAKER presented a memorial
of the Senate of the State of California, rel-
ative to Senate Joint Resolution No. 26, urg-
ing the U.S. Congress to act favorably in re-
gard to legislation to have the Mare Island
Naval Cemetery transferred to the U.S. De-
partment of Veterans Affairs and that the
National Cemetery Administration restore
the cemetery to national cemetery standards
and provide for perpetual care of the facility
as dictated by those standards; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
239. Also, a memorial of the Senate of the
State of California, relative to Senate Joint
Resolution No. 23, urging the U.S. Depart-
ment of Defense, the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services to implement
and the U.S. Congress to require, if nec-
essary, a resolution between the federal Cen-
ters for Medicare and Medicaid Services and
TRICARE to immediately restore data shar-
ing and to waive the one-year timely filing
restriction for all claims caught in this stop-
page; jointly to the Committees on Armed
Services, Energy and Commerce, and Ways
and Means.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 6501.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska:
H.R. 6502.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1.
By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts:
H.R. 6503.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, U.S. Constitution
By Mr. CLYBURN:
H.R. 6504.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 6505.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
H.R. 6506.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania:
H.R. 6507.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, which gives Congress the
power ‘‘to regulate Commerce with foreign
Nations, and among the several states, and
within the Indian Tribes.’’
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 6508.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
Constitution of the United States grants the
Congress the power to enact this law.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 6509.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Sec. 8, Clause 18
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
H.R. 6510.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, section 3, clause 2
By Mr. BARTON:
H.R. 6511.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
H.R. 6512.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama:
H.R. 6513.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Postal Clause in Article 1, Section 8,
Clause 7 of the Constitution
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 6514.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
the power granted to Congress under Arti-
cle I of the United States Constitution and it
subsequent amendments, and further clari-
fied and interpreted by the Supreme Court of
the United States.
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 6515.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8.
By Mrs. DAVIS of California:
H.R. 6516.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.R. 6517.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the Constitution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L25JY7.100 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7688 July 25, 2018
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER:
H.R. 6518.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 6519.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 6520.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 6521.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 6522.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution. [Page H1125]
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 6523.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, §§ 1 and 8.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
H.R. 6524.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8—to provide for the gen-
eral welfare and to regulate commerce
among the states
By Mr. LEWIS of Georgia:
H.R. 6525.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. LOEBSACK:
H.R. 6526.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause I of Section 8 of Article I of the
Constitution
By Mr. McEACHIN:
H.R. 6527.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. MOULTON:
H.R. 6528.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States
By Mr. NORMAN:
H.R. 6529.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 6530.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
H.R. 6531.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I; Section 8; Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution states: ‘‘The Congress shall have
Power To regulate Commerce with foreign
Nations, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes.’’
By Mr. ROKITA:
H.R. 6532.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. SARBANES:
H.R. 6533.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion under the General Welfare Clause.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 6534.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution (Clause 14), which grants Congress
the power to ‘‘make Rules for the Govern-
ment and Regulation of the land and naval
Forces.’’
By Ms. SHEA-PORTER:
H.R. 6535.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause XVIII—To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. SMUCKER:
H.R. 6536.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 3 of section 8 of article 1 of the Con-
stitution
By Ms. MAXINE WATERS of Cali-
fornia:
H.R. 6537.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 1 of the U.S.
Constitution and
Article 1, Section 9, clause 7 of the U.S.
Constitution.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 6538.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which hall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 113: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 176: Mr. ARRINGTON and Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 217: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 246: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 305: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 392: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 444: Mr. GRIJALVA and Mrs. TORRES.
H.R. 490: Mr. SESSIONS.
H.R. 671: Mr. DELANEY and Mr. LAWSON of
Florida.
H.R. 756: Mr. KNIGHT.
H.R. 936: Ms. SINEMA.
H.R. 964: Mr. STIVERS, Mr. CRIST, Mrs.
MURPHY of Florida, and Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 1102: Mr. MOULTON and Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 1111: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1144: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 1150: Mr. ESTES of Kansas.
H.R. 1272: Mr. COHEN and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1291: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 1300: Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 1318: Mr. CALVERT and Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 1322: Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 1421: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Mr.
ROTHFUS.
H.R. 1439: Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 1540: Mr. DAVIDSON.
H.R. 1563: Mr. LYNCH and Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 1615: Mr. CAPUANO, Ms. GABBARD, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. DELANEY,
Mr. TAKANO, Mr. KIND, Mr. GUTIÉRREZ, Mr.
NADLER, Mr. KILMER, and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1661: Mr. CLYBURN.
H.R. 1759: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 1776: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1881: Mr. GOSAR and Mr. GOHMERT.
H.R. 1884: Mr. BOST and Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 1960: Mr. TAKANO, Mr. NADLER, and
Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 2049: Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 2234: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 2267: Mrs. MURPHY of Florida, Mr.
GARAMENDI, and Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRIS-
HAM of New Mexico.
H.R. 2392: Mr. NADLER and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2401: Mr. GUTHRIE.
H.R. 2439: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2472: Ms. MAXINE WATERS of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 2589: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H.R. 2633: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 2651: Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 2840: Mr. GUTIÉRREZ, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
BEN RAY LUJÁN of New Mexico, and Mr.
RICHMOND.
H.R. 3124: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 3239: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 3270: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 3272: Ms. FUDGE, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. COLLINS of New York.
H.R. 3303: Ms. SINEMA.
H.R. 3325: Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, and Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 3395: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 3473: Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California
and Mr. SERRANO.
H.R. 3530: Mr. LOEBSACK and Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia.
H.R. 3602: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York and Mr. CAPUANO.
H.R. 3608: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 3635: Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of
Texas.
H.R. 3671: Mr. EVANS and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3751: Mr. DELANEY.
H.R. 3798: Mrs. LESKO and Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 3919: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 3960: Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 3984: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 4022: Mr. PAYNE, Mr. UPTON, and Mr.
PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 4077: Mrs. LOVE and Mr. CAPUANO.
H.R. 4107: Mr. WILLIAMS, Ms. MATSUI, Mr.
CURBELO of Florida, Mr. HARPER, Mr. POSEY,
and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 4229: Mr. BERGMAN.
H.R. 4382: Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 4444: Mr. YOUNG of Iowa.
H.R. 4454: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 4556: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 4691: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 4693: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 4732: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 4944: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 5011: Mr. GUTIÉRREZ and Mr.
MOULTON.
H.R. 5037: Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 5138: Mr. SMUCKER.
H.R. 5145: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 5155: Mr. HIMES, Mr. KIND, Ms. SEWELL
of Alabama, Mr. CONNOLLY, Miss RICE of New
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY7.040 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7689
July 25, 2018
York, Mr. PETERS, Mr. POLIS, Mr. BERA, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr. SCHRADER,
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. O’HALLERAN,
and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 5304: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 5365: Ms. SINEMA.
H.R. 5372: Mr. BARR.
H.R. 5389: Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of
New Mexico.
H.R. 5500: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 5506: Mr. YOUNG of Iowa.
H.R. 5508: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 5561: Mr. KILMER and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 5595: Mr. LABRADOR, Mr. GROTHMAN,
Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. GUTH-
RIE, and Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 5671: Mr. YOUNG of Alaska, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. LOBIONDO, Mr. HIMES, and
Mr. KIND.
H.R. 5818: Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. MEEKS, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. LAR-
SON of Connecticut, and Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 5922: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 5963: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. CUELLAR, Mrs. MURPHY of
Florida, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 5977: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 5988: Mr. DAVIDSON.
H.R. 6016: Mr. CARTWRIGHT and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 6031: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Mr. KATKO, Mr. THORNBERRY, and
Mr. AMODEI.
H.R. 6043: Mr. HUNTER and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 6071: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 6080: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 6086: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. CUMMINGS,
and Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 6097: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 6145: Mr. LEWIS of Georgia.
H.R. 6166: Ms. SINEMA.
H.R. 6179: Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. ALLEN, Mr.
GIBBS, and Mr. PALMER.
H.R. 6220: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 6239: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD and Mr.
SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 6263: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 6265: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 6267: Mr. KILMER and Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ.
H.R. 6274: Mr. POLIS and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 6275: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 6287: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
POLIQUIN, Mr. JENKINS of West Virginia, Mr.
PALLONE, Mr. KATKO, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Mr. COLE, and Mr. COLLINS of New
York.
H.R. 6326: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, and Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia.
H.R. 6337: Mr. COHEN and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 6340: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 6360: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 6378: Ms. STEFANIK and Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 6396: Ms. SINEMA.
H.R. 6409: Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. GOSAR,
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. BABIN,
Mr. NORMAN, Mr. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
GIBBS, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. HULTGREN,
Mr. MCCLINTOCK, Mr. YOHO, and Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 6410: Mr. HECK, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 6417: Ms. CHENEY, Mr. GRAVES of Lou-
isiana, Mr. PITTENGER, and Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia.
H.R. 6430: Mr. DONOVAN.
H.R. 6435: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mrs. DAVIS of
California, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. POCAN, Mr. COHEN, Mr. JOHNSON
of Georgia, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr. COO-
PER, Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California, Ms.
ESHOO, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. MEEKS, Ms. SHEA-PORTER, and Mr. HAS-
TINGS.
H.R. 6450: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. ROGERS
of Alabama, and Mr. ALLEN.
H.R. 6451: Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. FLEISCHMANN,
and Mr. POE of Texas.
H.R. 6455: Mrs. COMSTOCK.
H.R. 6458: Mr. NORMAN and Mr. ROGERS of
Alabama.
H.R. 6463: Mr. FRANCIS ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 6469: Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee.
H.R. 6474: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 6476: Mr. GIBBS.
H.R. 6482: Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia, Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. RICE of South
Carolina, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. POSEY,
and Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 6495: Mr. HECK.
H. Con. Res. 72: Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHN-
SON of Texas, Ms. JACKSON LEE, and Mr. BAR-
TON.
H. Con. Res. 110: Ms. BORDALLO and Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina.
H. Res. 69: Mr. VELA.
H. Res. 624: Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, and Mr. DUNN.
H. Res. 745: Mr. UPTON, Mr. BISHOP of Utah,
Mr. RUSSELL, and Mr. SHIMKUS.
H. Res. 757: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H. Res. 763: Mr. CURT AND MR. LOBIONDO.
H. Res. 910: Ms. FRANKEL of Florida and
Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H. Res. 967: Mr. CHABOT, Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana, and Mr. ROE of Tennessee.
H. Res. 981: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
H. Res. 1005: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H. Res. 1008: Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. AL GREEN of Texas, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Ms. SHEA-PORTER,
Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California, Ms. TITUS,
Mr. RASKIN, Ms. JACKSON LEE, and Mr.
DEUTCH.
H. Res. 1010: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H. Res. 1018: Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. KIND, Mr.
LEVIN, Mr. DOGGETT, and Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
f
DELETION OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 2069: Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 5957: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY7.045 H25JYPT2
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 115th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5315
Vol. 164 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JULY 25, 2018 No. 125—Book II
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Honorable TOM
COTTON, a Senator from the State of
Arkansas.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
O God, You are our God. We can stay
composed even in a storm because of
Your presence. We need You and stay
thirsty for You, for Your power and
glory uplift us.
Give our lawmakers the gift of Your
steadfast love, blessing them beyond
all that they can ask or imagine. May
they praise Your Name each day. As
they depend on You, empower them to
confront life’s challenges and hard-
ships, knowing that they are never
alone. Lord, satisfy their souls with
good things, transforming the mundane
into the meaningful. Purify their
hearts, revealing to them Your plans
for the prosperity of our Nation and
world.
We pray in Your loving Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. HATCH).
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the following letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, July 25, 2018.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable TOM COTTON, a Sen-
ator from the State of Arkansas, to perform
the duties of the Chair.
ORRIN G. HATCH,
President pro tempore.
Mr. COTTON thereupon assumed the
Chair as Acting President pro tempore.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
spoke yesterday about the bipartisan
cooperation that has made it possible
for us to return to a regular appropria-
tions process. Collaboration got the
four measures we are now considering
through the subcommittee and full
committee process, thanks to the ef-
forts of Chairman SHELBY, Senator
LEAHY, and the subcommittee leaders,
Senators MURKOWSKI, COLLINS, HOEVEN,
and LANKFORD.
On the floor, bipartisanship let us
turn to legislation by consent and kick
off the amendment process with several
votes yesterday. If we can keep it up,
we will soon take four more big steps
toward our goal of funding the Federal
Government the right way and avoid-
ing another omnibus.
Yesterday, I mentioned that the leg-
islation before us addresses two press-
ing national needs: rebuilding Amer-
ica’s infrastructure and bolstering the
fight against opioids. But that is far
from the whole story. These measures
cover about one-eighth of the total dis-
cretionary spending for next year.
They fund a long list of key services
that Americans depend on every day—
everything from food safety inspec-
tions to child nutrition programs, to
the Forest Service and national parks.
Communities in all 50 States are con-
nected to this legislation.
Here are a few of the provisions that
will be particular cause for celebration
in my home State of Kentucky: $37 bil-
lion toward rural development, includ-
ing support for rural businesses, and
loans and grants to improve rural in-
frastructure for electricity, telephone,
and broadband internet in communities
in Kentucky and all across the coun-
try; another $1 billion in grants to help
communities invest in highways,
bridges, and other infrastructure
projects, with a guarantee that 30 per-
cent of this funding would go into rural
areas; more funding for the Abandoned
Mine Land Pilot Program, which helps
communities reclaim abandoned coal
mines and put that land to better use;
more funding and a sharper Federal
focus on controlling the evasive Asian
carp that threaten local prosperity and
water safety in Kentucky Lake and
Lake Barkley in Western Kentucky;
and more help for the Kentuckians who
battle the scourge of opioids every day.
The legislation funds the FDA’s ef-
forts to intercept illegal drugs, the
DEA’s program for high-intensity traf-
ficking areas, and increased training
for first responders.
It also contains a provision I secured
directing the Department of Housing
and Urban Development to encourage
more access to transitional housing op-
portunities for individuals recovering
from substance abuse disorder.
I could go on. The ways the bill be-
fore us would assist families and com-
munities across Kentucky are prac-
tically countless, and the same is true
for every State in our country.
That is why every Member under-
stands the importance of appropria-
tions. Funding the Federal Govern-
ment—matching resources with urgent
challenges—is one of Congress’s most
important responsibilities. I am proud
of the appropriations process that is
underway, and I am especially proud of
all of the ways the resulting legislation
will deliver for the American people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:37 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.000 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5316 July 25, 2018
JOB GROWTH
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
another matter, we are discussing the
difference between rhetoric and results
when it comes to our economy. Yester-
day, I described how my Democratic
friends spent the Obama years talking
about the importance of rebuilding
American manufacturing. They talked
about it, but it is the actions of this
united Republican government that
have made it easier for manufacturers
to expand and hire.
It is on our watch that optimism
among U.S. manufacturers has hit the
highest level that one survey has ever
recorded. Well, it turns out that there
are quite a few areas where this Repub-
lican government is helping to deliver
victories that our Democratic friends
spent 8 years talking about.
In his 2010 State of the Union Ad-
dress, President Obama proclaimed
that job growth would be the No. 1
focus of the coming year. He said that
‘‘the true engine of job creation in this
country will always be America’s busi-
nesses’’ and that government’s role was
to ‘‘create the conditions necessary for
businesses to expand and to hire more
workers.’’
Recognizing American job creators as
the true engines of prosperity and giv-
ing them room to succeed sounds good
to me. It sounded good to almost ev-
eryone, in fact.
But once again, the policies didn’t
match the rhetoric. Instead, the Obama
administration twice set all-time
records for the number of pages in the
Federal Register, and those pages had
consequences. By constantly moving
the regulatory goalposts, government
eroded the certainty businesses need to
invest and to hire.
Washington, DC, restricted farmers’
and ranchers’ control over water on
their own property. Bureaucrats over-
whelmed small banks and credit unions
with a rule book designed for Wall
Street, and an outdated Federal Tax
Code held back job creation and made
America much less competitive.
On Democrats’ watch, Americans had
to wait out an economic ‘‘recovery’’
that was insufficient, slow, and left
whole parts of the country way behind.
Remember the rhetoric and then re-
member the facts. Republicans have al-
ways agreed that job creation must be
a top priority, but we have a better
idea about how to actually help make
it happen. The Republican Congress
has used the Congressional Review Act
to slash 17 burdensome regulations.
That is on top of the administration’s
own Executive actions. We have passed,
and the President has signed, major
changes to Obamacare and to Dodd-
Frank, and we passed generational tax
reform that puts more hard-earned
money in the pockets of working fami-
lies and gives job creators more flexi-
bility.
So what is happening on our watch?
Just a few days ago, the number of
Americans newly filing for unemploy-
ment benefits hit the lowest level in
more than 48 years. Let me say that
again. Newly filing for unemployment
benefits hit its lowest level in more
than 48 years. Here is how CNN charac-
terized the Labor Department’s most
recent jobs report:
The U.S. economy keeps adding jobs at a
blistering pace. . . . The job market is so
good, many people who had previously given
up looking are starting to look again.
According to Gallup, the percentage
of Americans saying now is a good time
to find a quality job hit its highest
level in 17 years. That is not just rhet-
oric but actual results, due to the hard
work of American workers and job cre-
ators, with an assist from this Repub-
lican government.
Unfortunately, this pro-growth agen-
da hasn’t gotten much support from
across the aisle. Not a single Demo-
crat—not one—voted for the tax reform
that helped to turn rhetoric about jobs
into actual jobs.
There was hardly any Democratic
support for the regulatory house-
cleaning that has given job creators
more confidence to stay on American
soil, grow their businesses, and add
jobs.
So all of us agree with the rhetoric,
but not everyone supported the policy
agenda that has helped to deliver these
results for the American people.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Morning business is closed.
f
INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, FINAN-
CIAL SERVICES, AND GENERAL
GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senate will resume consideration of
H.R. 6147, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 6147) making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, environ-
ment, and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses.
Pending:
Shelby amendment No. 3399, in the nature
of a substitute.
Murkowski amendment No. 3400 (to amend-
ment No. 3399), of a perfecting nature.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, we
are officially on day No. 2 of the second
tranche of an appropriations package.
We have before us the Interior Sub-
committee’s appropriations bill, the
Financial Services, the T-HUD—Trans-
portation, Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—and Agriculture. So it is a good
combination. It is a good package. It is
a strong package. It is a series of ap-
propriations bills that moved through
the full Appropriations Committee sev-
eral months back. Most of these bills
advanced either unanimously, as the
Interior Appropriations Subcommit-
tee’s bill did, or with a strong bipar-
tisan show of support out of com-
mittee.
For those who have followed the ap-
propriations process over the years,
you know it is somewhat unprece-
dented to be able to advance these
spending bills through the full com-
mittee process, much less to do so in a
manner that surely shows the bipar-
tisan approach this committee has
taken in this fiscal year.
I acknowledge and recognize the
work of Chairman SHELBY and his vice
chairman, Senator LEAHY from
Vermont, for the truly collaborative
process they have encouraged all of us
to work toward.
There was an agreement, an under-
standing, that our appropriations proc-
ess had not been the model of good gov-
ernance, of legislating, that we would
have liked it to have been, that we
would expect it to be, and that our col-
leagues—much less the American pub-
lic—would expect it to be.
With a very determined effort, the
group of appropriators who came to-
gether earlier made a very strong and
firm commitment that we were going
to get this process back on track. With
the leadership of the chairman and the
vice chairman, that is exactly where
we are. We were able to move a smaller
minibus, if you will, a month ago. That
is now moving through that conference
process. It is not an easy process, we
recognize, but nothing around here is
easy. If it is worth doing and doing
well, it is going to take a little bit of
work. We have done that work, and to
be here on the 25th of July—to be at a
place at which the Senate is poised to
advance seven of the appropriations
bills out of the Senate—is really quite
unprecedented.
In my remarks on the floor on Mon-
day evening, I noted that this was the
first time since 2010 we had seen an In-
terior Appropriations Subcommittee’s
bill being brought to the floor of the
U.S. Senate. That is a long time. That
is too long a time not to have had a
fulsome process, a process wherein we
not only demonstrate the good work
that we as appropriators have done but
wherein our colleagues who are not on
the committee also view that good
work, weigh in, offer their thoughts,
offer their amendments, and are a part
of the broader, whole process.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.002 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5317
July 25, 2018
How did we get here from there—
from a point at which we, effectively,
were not legislating as we knew we
were capable of doing?
There was an agreement, a commit-
ment, that we were going to stand
down on some of the more controver-
sial riders—in other words, those ini-
tiatives that were not actual appro-
priations but were more in line with
authorizing within the appropriations
bill.
There has been a history around here
of seeing a level of authorization, and
sometimes that level of authorization
on an appropriations bill has created
enough controversy that it has ground
the whole process to a halt. So stand-
ing down on some of these initiatives,
on some of these riders, has been an
important part of how we have come to
be where we are today.
We talk about the need to keep out
the poison pills. We have joked—it is
not really a joke; it is the reality—that
one Member’s priority is another Mem-
ber’s poison pill. So how do we work
our way through that process?
We will have an opportunity to take
up, at least for discussion, some of
those priorities that may be signifi-
cant, and Members have a great deal of
desire to see them advance. Members
on the other side will look at that and
say that is too toxic—you can’t go
there; you can’t do that. How we navi-
gate through that will take a little bit
of legislating.
I would ask Members—I would urge
Members—to please come to us as their
bill managers, whether for the Interior
appropriations issues or for the Finan-
cial Services issues. Senator LANKFORD
is the chairman of that committee. Go
to Senator HOEVEN on Ag and to Sen-
ator COLLINS on Transportation, Hous-
ing and Urban Development—T-HUD. I
would urge Members to come to us
with their issues, their concerns, their
amendments. Let’s work through
them. Let’s get them through the proc-
ess.
Yesterday, we were able to advance
four amendments. Some might say,
well, that is not very much, but I
would suggest to you that we are get-
ting started. We are getting started in
a good way, in a positive way, in an en-
couraging way, and we want to encour-
age that good, forward activity.
We all know the most prized com-
modity around here is time and floor
time. We don’t have unlimited time on
the floor to take up this package of
measures. So help us get to the point
at which we can work through those
issues that we need to in order to bring
to the floor that which will require a
vote. We will help you and do so in a
way that, I think, will do honor to the
appropriations process, do honor to the
legislative process—again, what we
know around here to be regular order.
Unfortunately, I think we have seen
that regular order has been less and
less regular. It has become extraor-
dinary because we just don’t practice it
enough. We want to get back to that,
and we have the opportunity to do so.
We have demonstrated that with one
package, and we are in the midst of
demonstrating that this week. I look
forward to the full cooperation of
Members as we advance.
I see my friend and colleague, the
vice chairman of the Appropriations
Committee, is on the floor. Again, I ac-
knowledge his great leadership in
working with the chairman of the full
committee, in really getting us back to
a place where we can be proud of our
process.
With that, I yield to my friend, the
Senator from Vermont.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I simply
say to the Senator from Alaska, in my
having had the honor of serving here
with both her father and with the
former chair of the Appropriations
Committee, Senator Stevens, that I
hear her saying things that are very
similar to what I had heard both of
them say. Perhaps Senator Stevens—
rest his soul—would have said it with a
little bit more emphasis, especially if
he had been wearing his ‘‘Incredible
Hulk’’ tie, but the Senator from Alaska
is one of those who believes in the Sen-
ate working the way it should and get-
ting things done, and I compliment her
efforts.
Senator SHELBY and I made a pact
that we would try to get these appro-
priations bills through, which is some-
thing that had been stalled for years.
The Senator from Alaska has been es-
sential, as have been a number of Sen-
ators on both sides of the aisle, in our
getting that accomplished. We have
gotten our bills through. Almost all of
them have passed the Appropriations
Committee unanimously. I joke that
sometimes you can’t get a unanimous
vote around here that the Sun will rise
in the East, but here is a case in which
we have shown that it can.
The Senator from Alaska is abso-
lutely right in that one person’s poison
pill may be another person’s essential,
but we have worked it out. If we can
get the appropriations bill through—
and I realize the other body is going on
a 6-week vacation, but I hope there will
be some who stay around. We are going
to be here. We could conference some
of these bills and get them passed. I
think it would encourage the country
to see both bodies do what we have
done here in the Senate. It would im-
prove how the government runs.
I share the frustration of heads of De-
partments, whether here in this admin-
istration or any other administration,
who never know whether their appro-
priations are going to pass. How do
they plan? How do they spend money?
Where do they go?
We can make this process work the
way it is supposed to work.
I see the distinguished Democratic
leader on the floor, but I do want to
compliment the Senator from Alaska
for her efforts in making this possible.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Democratic leader is recog-
nized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I
thank my friend and colleague from
Vermont for yielding and my colleague
from Alaska, as well, for allowing me
to interrupt their very important and
bipartisan debate.
NOMINATION OF BRETT KAVANAUGH
Mr. President, 8 years ago, when
Elena Kagan was nominated to the Su-
preme Court, Senate Republicans said:
We must get all of her documents from
the Clinton Library and have enough
time to analyze them so that we can
determine whether she should be a Jus-
tice. The Republican leadership did not
say some of the documents; they did
not say a subset of the documents; they
did not say the documents for just one
administrative job; they said all of her
documents.
I showed this letter yesterday to my
friend who is now the chairman of the
Judiciary, Senator GRASSLEY. He said
it is totally different. He is a man of
integrity, but I know there are times
he gets twisted by his leadership and
the President to do things that aren’t
consistent, and this is one of them.
The Republicans didn’t ask only for
certain documents. They asked for all,
and we are asking for all. This is one of
the most important positions in the
world and certainly in America.
Shouldn’t we know everything? It is
not just some of the stuff and some of
the stuff that the White House wants
us to know—but everything.
Our friends on the other side of the
aisle demanded all of the documents
for Justice Kagan. The Democrats
agreed. It was the right thing to do.
And because Elena Kagan had nothing
to hide, she went happily forward and
said: Go right ahead. Now Republicans
ought to do the same thing for Judge
Kavanaugh, particularly if he has noth-
ing to hide.
For the last week, Senator FEINSTEIN
has been ready to jointly request the
same documents of Judge Kavanaugh
that Republicans demanded of Justice
Kagan, but our Republican colleagues
are dragging their feet and refusing to
agree. They are the reason this whole
activity has been slowed down. It is not
Democratic obstruction. It is the
Democrats’ desire for transparency and
openness that the Republicans are
blocking. They are being the obstruc-
tionists.
The Republicans’ rationale is—they
are downplaying Judge Kavanaugh’s
role as White House Staff Secretary.
They argue that we don’t need to see
documents from that part of his career,
although they have no argument
against it. They think we don’t need
them. We think we do. Why not show
them to us?
Here is what Judge Kavanaugh him-
self has said. He said that ‘‘my 3 years
as Staff Secretary for President Bush—
were the most interesting and in many
ways the most instructive.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.004 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5318 July 25, 2018
Kavanaugh himself said that the very
documents we want to see and Repub-
licans are blocking us from seeing are
the most instructive. Shouldn’t the
American people see the writings of
what their own nominee calls the most
instructive?
As Staff Secretary, Kavanaugh said
he ‘‘participated in the process of put-
ting together legislation.’’ He drafted
and revised Executive orders. He con-
sulted on judicial nominations, includ-
ing the replacement of Chief Justice
Rehnquist. Isn’t that something we
want to know—what his thoughts were
about who should be a Justice?
Wouldn’t that really inform us of what
kind of Justice he might be?
He was one of the most senior offi-
cials in the Bush White House, 1 of
only 17 out of hundreds of Presidential
aides who were paid the maximum
White House salary. I am sure he de-
served it. That is not the issue. The
issue is that he was an extremely high-
ranking official there. This is not look-
ing at when he was some clerk. It was
a major, defining part of his career.
So here we go. Once again, Repub-
licans are against transparency and are
against the full record for one of the
world’s most powerful positions, which
will last a lifetime. All of this
stonewalling on getting Judge
Kavanaugh’s records from his time as
Staff Secretary raises these looming
questions: What are Judge Kavanaugh
and the Republicans hiding? Why are
Republicans hiding his full record from
the Senate and the American people?
What don’t they want us to see? What
don’t they want the American people
to see? Is there something there so
damning that it might defeat Judge
Kavanaugh’s nomination? If there is,
we are entitled to see it. If there is not,
then what is the problem with moving
forward?
Just last week, we saw our Repub-
lican colleagues defeat a judicial nomi-
nation based on something that nomi-
nee wrote in college. Are they really
going to turn right around and say that
the nominee for the highest Court in
the land doesn’t need to release docu-
ments that he wrote far later in his ca-
reer when his views were far more
formed?
This is about transparency. This is
about making sure the Senate does its
job in the right, complete, and open
way. Democrats have made a com-
pletely reasonable request for docu-
ments—the same request we agreed to
when the shoe was on the other foot.
We are being consistent. Our Repub-
lican colleagues are being hypocritical.
What was good for them in the minor-
ity when President Obama nominated
someone is good for us in the minority
when President Trump nominates
someone. I will repeat the old saying
from the Farmers’ Almanac and else-
where: What is good for the goose is
good for the gander. It applies so, so
well in this situation.
Our request is eminently reasonable.
The quickest way to get this nomina-
tion moving forward is to get the docu-
ments and records, and it is for Leader
MCCONNELL and Chairman GRASSLEY to
agree to our request.
Mr. President, parenthetically, just
today, we saw that the White House
doctored the transcript and, sup-
posedly, the tape of what Mr. Putin
said right after the President and he
met. It was sort of like an autocratic
country, a nondemocracy. That is what
dictators do; they change the facts and
change the record. Are our Republican
colleagues—so many of them who have
stood for transparency—going to join
this coverup of records and truth be-
cause they don’t like the results? That
is not America. That is not the Amer-
ica the American people know and
love.
FARMER BAILOUT
Mr. President, on the farmer bailout,
yesterday, President Trump announced
a $12 billion bailout for farmers who
have been hurt by the President’s eco-
nomic policies. Obviously, the farmers
are hurting or the President wouldn’t
have done this.
The drawbacks of this particular pol-
icy aside, the bailout is another exam-
ple of the President chasing his own
tail. It is becoming a leitmotif in this
administration: President Trump’s im-
pulsiveness and incompetence, his lack
of thoroughness and study of an issue,
lead him to act impulsively. He creates
a massive problem, and then he is
forced to hastily contrive a way to
make it look as if he is saving the day.
The irony of this policy should not be
lost on anyone. The President’s bailout
is like a Soviet-style program in which
the government props up an entire sec-
tor of the economy. That characteriza-
tion is one that I spoke of this morning
to several colleagues, and I have now
been told one of my Republican col-
leagues used the same characteriza-
tion—Soviet-style program. The Free-
dom Caucus, the Koch brothers—this is
not what even the hard right in Amer-
ica stands for.
Knowing this administration, they
will design a bailout to help only mas-
sive agribusinesses that will use the
money for stock buybacks. Knowing
this administration, family farmers are
likely to be left to suffer.
It was not so long ago that our Re-
publican friends complained bitterly
about picking winners and losers in the
market. What is the President doing
here? He is picking winners and losers.
The President’s policies have hurt
scores of Americans. He proposes a
massive bailout in this case but tries
to slash health insurance for tens of
millions of middle-class Americans. He
pushes a bailout in this case, but his
budgets continue to decimate infra-
structure, education, healthcare, envi-
ronmental protection, and more. I
would say that is picking winners and
losers.
The President’s bailout is another ex-
ample of President Trump lighting the
fire and grabbing the nearest thing off
the shelf to douse it and then patting
himself on the back as to what a great
guy he has been. It is not good policy,
it is not good politics, and it is incred-
ibly telling of this administration’s
failure to anticipate the consequences
of its decisions.
One more point: If you talk to our
farmers, they would rather have long-
term contracts and good markets. A
bailout and storing all these agricul-
tural products on the shelves will lower
prices and cause the people we sell to
overseas to find other suppliers and
sign contracts with them. In the long
term, it is going to make things worse.
Where does the bailout stop? What
about people who use steel and alu-
minum? What about other goods that
have been targeted by our foreign com-
petitors? Are they going to get bailouts
too? Is it going to go up from $12 bil-
lion to $50 billion to $100 billion? Amaz-
ingly, are our Republican colleagues—
this is so against their principles—
going to go along? We shall see.
RUSSIA
Mr. President, there is one more
point on Russia. After President
Trump’s inexplicable behavior in Hel-
sinki last week, many of us were forced
to wonder whether President Putin had
something on President Trump because
his behavior was so obsequious in front
of Putin.
Well, now it seems it is not just a few
Democrats who are wondering. Yester-
day’s Quinnipiac poll showed that 51
percent of Americans believe that the
Russian Government has compromising
information about President Trump.
That is astounding. Our leading enemy
has information, compromising infor-
mation, and then our President acts
obsequiously. Whoa, where are we in
this country?
Let me repeat that poll. A majority
of Americans believe the Russian Gov-
ernment has something on President
Trump. That is astounding. The fact
that millions of Americans are won-
dering if our President is compromised
by our leading adversary is a message
to the White House: America wants
you to be tough with President Putin.
The President will say: Oh, this is
fake news. This is made up.
Well, President Trump, if Putin has
nothing over you, why aren’t you being
tough with him? The best way to show
that Putin has nothing over you is for
you to stand up to him—not to be so
obsequious and fawning and not to in-
vite him here to the White House this
fall.
There should be no more accepting of
Putin’s denials over a consensus of
American intelligence, no more bend-
ing over backward to avoid criticizing
Putin for interfering in our election,
and no more one-on-one meetings with
Putin where no one else—not the intel-
ligence community, not our military
leaders, not the Congress, and not the
least of which, the American people
know what was said or agreed to.
The writing is on the wall for the
White House. This White House keeps
reaching new lows. The American peo-
ple, so disturbed by the President’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.006 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5319
July 25, 2018
posture toward Russia, believe that
President Trump may be compromised
by our biggest enemy. I don’t think
that has ever happened, certainly in
my memory, in my lifetime, and I can’t
remember an incident in history where
this has happened this way.
President Trump ought to reverse
course immediately. He can start by
revoking his invitation to President
Putin to visit the White House this
fall.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
ZIMBABWE DEMOCRACY AND ECO-
NOMIC RECOVERY AMENDMENT
ACT OF 2018
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 499, S. 2779.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will report the bill by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2779) to amend the Zimbabwe De-
mocracy and Economic Recovery Act of 2001.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Foreign Relations, with an amend-
ment to strike all after the enacting
clause and insert in lieu thereof the
following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Zimbabwe De-
mocracy and Economic Recovery Amendment
Act of 2018’’.
SEC. 2. RECONSTRUCTION AND REBUILDING OF
ZIMBABWE.
Section 2 of the Zimbabwe Democracy and
Economic Recovery Act of 2001 (Public Law 107–
99; 22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended by inserting
‘‘to enable Zimbabweans to reconstruct and re-
build Zimbabwe and come to terms with the past
through a process of genuine reconciliation that
acknowledges past human rights abuses and or-
ders inquiries into disappearances, including
the disappearance of human rights activists,
such as Patrick Nabanyama, Itai Dzamara, and
Paul Chizuze’’ before the period at the end.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS.
Section 4(a) of the Zimbabwe Democracy and
Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘costly de-
ployment of troops to the Democratic Republic
of the Congo’’ and inserting ‘‘private appropria-
tion of public assets’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) In October 2016, the Government of
Zimbabwe cleared a small hurdle in its long-
standing public sector arrears with the IMF.’’.
SEC. 4. PROVISIONS RELATED TO MULTILATERAL
DEBT RELIEF AND OTHER FINAN-
CIAL ASSISTANCE.
Section 4(b)(2) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘to pro-
pose that the bank should undertake a review of
the feasibility of restructuring, rescheduling, or
eliminating the sovereign debt of Zimbabwe held
by that bank’’ and inserting ‘‘to support efforts
to reevaluate plans to restructure, rebuild, re-
schedule, or eliminate Zimbabwe’s sovereign
debt held by that bank and provide an analysis
based on reasonable financial options to achieve
those goals’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘dollar’’
and inserting ‘‘currency’’.
SEC. 5. ADDITIONAL CERTIFICATION REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR ASSISTANCE.
Section 4(d) of the Zimbabwe Democracy and
Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amended—
(1) by amending paragraph (2) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(2) PRE- AND POST-ELECTION CONDITIONS.—
The following pre- and post-election conditions
are met:
‘‘(A) Establishment and public release, with-
out cost, of a provisional and a final voter reg-
istration roll.
‘‘(B) The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission is
permitted to entirely carry out the functions as-
signed to it in section 239 of Zimbabwe’s 2013
Constitution in an independent manner, and
the chairperson meets with and consults regu-
larly with representatives of political parties
represented in the parliament of Zimbabwe and
those parties contesting the elections.
‘‘(C) Consistent with Zimbabwe’s 2013 Con-
stitution, the Defence Forces of Zimbabwe—
‘‘(i) are neither permitted to actively partici-
pate in campaigning for any candidate nor to
intimidate voters;
‘‘(ii) are required to verifiably and credibly
uphold their Constitutionally mandated duty to
respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of
all persons and to be nonpartisan in character;
and
‘‘(iii) are not permitted to print, transfer, or
control ballots or transmit the results of elec-
tions.
‘‘(D) International observers, including from
the United States, the African Union, the
Southern African Development Community, and
the European Union—
‘‘(i) are permitted to observe the entire elec-
toral process prior to, on, and following voting
day, including by monitoring polling stations
and tabulation centers; and
‘‘(ii) are able to independently access and
analyze vote tallying tabulation and the trans-
mission and content of voting results.
‘‘(E) Candidates are allowed access to public
broadcasting media during the election period,
as provided in Zimbabwe’s Electoral Act, and
candidates are able to campaign in an environ-
ment that is free from intimidation and violence.
‘‘(F) Civil society organizations are able to
freely and independently carry out voter and
civic education, and to monitor the entire elec-
toral process, including by observing, recording,
and transmitting publicly-posted or announced
voting results, including at the ward, constitu-
ency, and all higher levels of the vote tallying
process.’’;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (5) as
paragraphs (8) and (9), respectively;
(3) by striking paragraph (4);
(4) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.—Zimbabwe has
held an election that is widely accepted as free,
fair, and credible by independent international
and domestic civil society monitors, and the
president-elect is free to assume the duties of the
office.
‘‘(4) UPDATING STATUTES.—Laws enacted prior
to passage of Zimbabwe’s March 2013 Constitu-
tion that are inconsistent with the new Con-
stitution are amended or repealed or are subject
to a formal process for review and correction so
that such laws are consistent with the new Con-
stitution.
‘‘(5) UPHOLDING THE CONSTITUTION.—The
Government of Zimbabwe—
‘‘(A) has made significant progress on the im-
plementation of all elements of the new Con-
stitution; and
‘‘(B) has demonstrated its commitment to sus-
tain such efforts in achieving full implementa-
tion of the new Constitution.
‘‘(6) ECONOMIC REFORMS.—The Government of
Zimbabwe has demonstrated a sustained com-
mitment to reforming Zimbabwe’s economy in
ways that will promote economic growth, ad-
dress unemployment and underdevelopment,
and restore livelihoods, including significant
progress toward monetary policy reform, par-
ticularly with the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe,
and currency exchange reforms.
‘‘(7) ROLE OF TRADITIONAL LEADERS.—Tradi-
tional leaders of Zimbabwe observe section 281
of the 2013 Constitution and are not using hu-
manitarian assistance provided by outside donor
organizations or countries in a politicized man-
ner to intimidate or pressure voters during the
campaign period.’’; and
(5) in paragraph (8), as redesignated by para-
graph (2) of this subsection, by striking ‘‘con-
sistent with’’ and all that follows through ‘‘Sep-
tember 1998’’.
SEC. 6. REMOVAL OF AUTHORITY TO PAY LAND
ACQUISITION COSTS.
Section 5(a) of the Zimbabwe Democracy and
Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘, including
the payment of costs’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘thereto; and’’ and inserting a semi-
colon;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) identify and recover stolen public as-
sets.’’.
SEC. 7. INCLUSION OF AUSTRALIA AND THE
UNITED KINGDOM IN CONSULTA-
TIONS ABOUT ZIMBABWE.
Section 6 of the Zimbabwe Democracy and
Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amended by
inserting ‘‘Australia, the United Kingdom,’’
after ‘‘Canada,’’.
SEC. 8. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ENFORCEMENT
OF SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOP-
MENT COMMUNITY TRIBUNAL RUL-
INGS.
It is the sense of Congress that the Govern-
ment of Zimbabwe and the Southern African
Development Community (referred to in this sec-
tion as ‘‘SADC’’) should enforce the SADC tri-
bunal rulings from 2007 to 2010, including 18 dis-
putes involving employment, commercial, and
human rights cases surrounding dispossessed
Zimbabwean commercial farmers and agricul-
tural companies.
SEC. 9. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE UNITED
STATES-ZIMBABWE BILATERAL RELA-
TIONSHIP.
It is the sense of Congress that the United
States Government is optimistic about the possi-
bility for a stronger bilateral relationship with
Zimbabwe, including in the areas of trade and
investment, if—
(1) the Government of Zimbabwe takes con-
crete, tangible steps outlined in paragraphs (2)
through (6) of section 4(d) of the Zimbabwe De-
mocracy and Economic Recovery Act of 2001, as
amended by section 5 of this Act; and
(2) takes concrete, tangible steps towards—
(A) good governance, including respect for the
opposition, rule of law, and human rights;
(B) economic reforms such as respect for con-
tracts and private property rights; and
(C) identification and recovery of stolen pri-
vate and public assets within Zimbabwe and
abroad.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the com-
mittee-reported amendment be with-
drawn, the Flake amendment at the
desk be agreed to, and the bill, as
amended, be considered read a third
time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.007 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5320 July 25, 2018
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The committee-reported amendment
in the nature of a substitute was with-
drawn.
The amendment (No. 3541) in the na-
ture of a substitute was agreed to, as
follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Zimbabwe
Democracy and Economic Recovery Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’.
SEC. 2. RECONSTRUCTION AND REBUILDING OF
ZIMBABWE.
Section 2 of the Zimbabwe Democracy and
Economic Recovery Act of 2001 (22 U.S.C.
2151 note; Public Law 107–99) is amended by
striking ‘‘and restore the rule of law’’ and in-
serting ‘‘restore the rule of law, reconstruct
and rebuild Zimbabwe, and come to terms
with the past through a process of genuine
reconciliation that acknowledges past
human rights abuses and orders inquiries
into disappearances, including the disappear-
ance of human rights activists, such as Pat-
rick Nabanyama, Itai Dzamara, and Paul
Chizuze’’.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS.
Section 4(a) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘costly de-
ployment of troops to the Democratic Re-
public of the Congo’’ and inserting ‘‘private
appropriation of public assets’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) In October 2016, the Government of
Zimbabwe cleared a small hurdle in its long-
standing public sector arrears with the
IMF.’’.
SEC. 4. PROVISIONS RELATED TO MULTILATERAL
DEBT RELIEF AND OTHER FINAN-
CIAL ASSISTANCE.
Section 4(b)(2) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘to
propose that the bank should undertake a re-
view of the feasibility of restructuring, re-
scheduling, or eliminating the sovereign
debt of Zimbabwe held by that bank’’ and in-
serting ‘‘to support efforts to reevaluate
plans to restructure, rebuild, reschedule, or
eliminate Zimbabwe’s sovereign debt held by
that bank and provide an analysis based on
reasonable financial options to achieve those
goals’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘dol-
lar’’ and inserting ‘‘currency’’.
SEC. 5. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE UNITED
STATES-ZIMBABWE BILATERAL RE-
LATIONSHIP.
It is the sense of Congress that the United
States should seek to forge a stronger bilat-
eral relationship with Zimbabwe, including
in the areas of trade and investment, if the
following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The Government of Zimbabwe takes the
concrete, tangible steps outlined in para-
graphs (1) through (4) of section 4(d) of the
Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recov-
ery Act of 2001, as amended by section 6 of
this Act.
(2) The Government of Zimbabwe takes
concrete, tangible steps towards—
(A) good governance, including respect for
the opposition, rule of law, and human
rights;
(B) economic reforms that promote
growth, address unemployment and under-
development, restore livelihoods, ensure re-
spect for contracts and private property
rights, and promote significant progress to-
ward monetary policy reforms, particularly
with the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, and
currency exchange reforms; and
(C) identification and recovery of stolen
private and public assets within Zimbabwe
and in other countries.
(3) The Government of Zimbabwe holds an
election that is widely accepted as free and
fair, based on the following pre- and post-
election criteria or conditions:
(A) Establishment and public release, with-
out cost, of a provisional and a final voter
registration roll.
(B) The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission is
permitted to entirely carry out the functions
assigned to it under section 239 of
Zimbabwe’s 2013 Constitution in an inde-
pendent manner, and the chairperson meets
and consults regularly with representatives
of political parties represented in the par-
liament of Zimbabwe and the parties con-
testing the elections.
(C) Consistent with Zimbabwe’s 2013 Con-
stitution, the Defence Forces of Zimbabwe—
(i) are neither permitted to actively par-
ticipate in campaigning for any candidate
nor to intimidate voters;
(ii) are required to verifiably and credibly
uphold their constitutionally-mandated duty
to respect the fundamental rights and free-
doms of all persons and to be nonpartisan in
character; and
(iii) are not permitted to print, transfer, or
control ballots or transmit the results of
elections.
(D) International observers, including ob-
servers from the United States, the African
Union, the Southern African Development
Community, and the European Union—
(i) are permitted to observe the entire elec-
toral process prior to, on, and following vot-
ing day, including by monitoring polling sta-
tions and tabulation centers; and
(ii) are able to independently access and
analyze vote tallying tabulation and the
transmission and content of voting results.
(E) Candidates are allowed access to public
broadcasting media during the election pe-
riod, consistent with Zimbabwe’s Electoral
Act and are able to campaign in an environ-
ment that is free from intimidation and vio-
lence.
(F) Civil society organizations are able to
freely and independently carry out voter and
civic education and monitor the entire elec-
toral process, including by observing, record-
ing, and transmitting publicly-posted or an-
nounced voting results at the ward, constitu-
ency, and all higher levels of the vote tal-
lying process.
(4) Laws enacted prior to the passage of
Zimbabwe’s March 2013 Constitution that are
inconsistent with the new Constitution are
amended, repealed, or subjected to a formal
process for review and correction so that
such laws are consistent with the new Con-
stitution.
(5) The Government of Zimbabwe—
(A) has made significant progress on the
implementation of all elements of the new
Constitution; and
(B) has demonstrated its commitment to
sustain such efforts in achieving full imple-
mentation of the new Constitution.
(6) Traditional leaders of Zimbabwe ob-
serve section 281 of the 2013 Constitution and
are not using humanitarian assistance pro-
vided by outside donor organizations or
countries in a politicized manner to intimi-
date or pressure voters during the campaign
period.
SEC. 6. CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
Section 4(d) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘con-
sistent with’’ and all that follows through
‘‘September 1998’’;
(2) by striking paragraph (4); and
(3) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (4).
SEC. 7. REMOVAL OF AUTHORITY TO PAY LAND
ACQUISITION COSTS.
Section 5(a) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘, includ-
ing the payment of costs’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘thereto; and’’ and inserting a
semicolon;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) identify and recover stolen public as-
sets.’’.
SEC. 8. INCLUSION OF AUSTRALIA, THE UNITED
KINGDOM, THE AFRICAN UNION,
AND THE SOUTHERN AFRICAN DE-
VELOPMENT COMMUNITY IN CON-
SULTATIONS ABOUT ZIMBABWE.
Section 6 of the Zimbabwe Democracy and
Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amended
by inserting ‘‘Australia, the United King-
dom, the African Union, the Southern Afri-
can Development Community,’’ after ‘‘Can-
ada,’’.
SEC. 9. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ENFORCEMENT
OF SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOP-
MENT COMMUNITY TRIBUNAL RUL-
INGS.
It is the sense of Congress that the Govern-
ment of Zimbabwe and the Southern African
Development Community (referred to in this
section as ‘‘SADC’’) should enforce the SADC
tribunal rulings issued between 2007 to 2010,
including 18 disputes involving employment,
commercial, and human rights cases sur-
rounding dispossessed Zimbabwean commer-
cial farmers and agricultural companies.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
know of no further debate on the bill.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. There being no further debate,
the bill having been read the third
time, the question is, Shall the bill
pass?
The bill (S. 2779), as amended, was
passed.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, FINAN-
CIAL SERVICES, AND GENERAL
GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019—Continued
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
will just take a few moments as we are
waiting for greater discussion about
our appropriations package that is on
the floor.
TRIBUTE TO MARGE MULLEN
Mr. President, the community of
Soldotna, AK, in South Central Alas-
ka—what we call the Kenai Penin-
sula—is going to be celebrating their
Progress Days this weekend. On Fri-
day, we have a homestead community
barbecue, where a very special indi-
vidual will be recognized as the first fe-
male homesteader in Soldotna.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.009 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5321
July 25, 2018
Now, when most of us around here
think about homesteading, we might
go back to when President Lincoln
signed the 1862 Homesteading Act. This
enabled over 1.6 million people to stake
their claim on Federal lands. Perhaps,
if you are an Alaskan, you recall that
homesteading became legal back in
1898. That was when President McKin-
ley signed legislation to extend home-
steading to what at that time was still
the District of Alaska. It was not until
decades later that we became a State.
What most people do not realize is
that while the days of the wild West
are certainly over here in the lower 48,
the tradition of homesteading is still
very, very much alive, and certainly we
see that in Alaska.
So I would like to take just a couple
of minutes this morning to share the
story of an Alaskan homesteading icon,
Marge Mullen. Again, it is Marge who
will be recognized this weekend at
Progress Days in Soldotna. In fact, on
July 27, she will be recognized by the
mayor of Soldotna, Mayor Anderson.
July 27 will be recognized as ‘‘Marge
Mullen Appreciation Day.’’
Marge was born in Chicago in 1920.
According to the Peninsula Clarion,
the local newspapers there on the
Kenai Peninsula, Marge claims that
she remembers seeing an article on
Alaskan homesteading in the Chicago
Daily News back in 1947. The idea must
have seemed really appealing to her be-
cause after she read that article, she
and her husband Frank, who was a
pilot during World War II, bought a
small plane, and they headed north to
plant their roots. That was quite a trek
back in the late 1940s, to fly in a small
aircraft.
They landed in Alaska. They walked
65 miles through some pretty tough
terrain. They then settled their home-
stead on Soldotna Creek, making
Marge the first woman to live in
Soldotna under the Homestead Act.
It wasn’t too many years after they
arrived in Alaska that, sadly, Marge
lost her husband Frank to polio. It cer-
tainly would have been easier at the
time for her to just pack up and head
back to Chicago, but Marge was a pret-
ty independent, strong-headed woman,
and she made that brave choice to re-
main on her homestead.
Just to kind of paint a picture of
what we are talking about back in the
early 1950s, to make sure everybody un-
derstands the significance of a decision
like that, you can either stay out there
in some pretty open and still very wild
areas or you can go back to Chicago.
Homesteading has always been a life-
style that is based on self-sufficiency.
You have to be able to handle things on
your own. It is a difficult task any-
where. It was difficult, as we saw, for
the initial homesteaders around the
lower 48 States, but there are some ad-
ditional challenges, perhaps, in Alaska.
There are some pretty tough winters
that people go through. Temperatures
are somewhat unforgiving in the win-
ter months, as we know.
Marge faced a cost of living that was
three to four times higher than she
knew down in the lower 48. When you
are out there, you live every day know-
ing that wildlife is just right outside
your door, and that if something goes
wrong, there is not a lot of help. There
is no aid in the event of an emergency.
So whether it is a bear that has threat-
ened you and your family or whether it
is just the rigors of living on your own
with no assistance and no help, it can
be a lonely life, but it can be a very
life-building experience, and Marge cer-
tainly developed that.
Marge learned to hunt on her own, to
chop wood, carry water, and grow food
to safeguard the health, the warmth,
and the safety of herself and her four
children.
Trust me when I say that Marge
overcame challenges that many of us—
even some hearty Alaskans—could not
imagine. But she overcame those chal-
lenges in an Alaska that was far less
modern than the Alaska our visitors
see today.
While Marge is widely known as a
pioneer homesteader, she is also known
throughout the community of Soldotna
for many other contributions. She
began the town’s first roadside litter
pickup program. She was involved at a
lot of different levels. She served as the
chair of the local planning commission.
She helped to establish the Kenai Pe-
ninsula Conservation Society. She
eventually became its president. In
2010, Marge was honored for her accom-
plishments when she was rightly in-
ducted into the Alaska Women’s Hall
of Fame.
Marge’s contributions continue
today. She is 98 years old. She is re-
vered as Soldotna’s unofficial histo-
rian. She acts as the chair of the local
historical society. You have to figure
that she knows everything that went
on in the region. She was part of every-
thing that went on in the region. She is
really history in the flesh, bringing the
early days of Soldotna to life through
her teachings and digital lessons.
Again, as I mentioned, the Soldotna
city mayor has proclaimed July 27 as
‘‘Marge Mullen Appreciation Day.’’ As
the community of Soldotna comes to-
gether to celebrate Marge’s legacy, I
think it is only appropriate that we in
the Senate should come to know a lit-
tle bit of her history as well and join in
the recognition.
I offer my thanks and my best wishes
to Marge Mullen as she continues influ-
encing her community and the State of
Alaska.
I thank my colleagues for letting me
share this tribute this morning.
I see that no Members are on the
floor yet. Again, I would encourage
folks to take a look at the bills that we
have in front of us—the Interior, the
Financial Services, the Agriculture,
and the T-HUD. Let’s have an oppor-
tunity to consider the amendments
that we can take up and allow for the
process to go forward in a fulsome and
a constructive way.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
RUSSIAN ELECTION INTERFERENCE
Mr. REED. Mr. President, as we con-
sider the appropriations minibus this
week, I rise to emphasize once again
the importance of acknowledging and
addressing the threat of interference in
our election systems. In particular,
Congress must address the continuing
threat of Russian hybrid attacks
against our democratic institutions.
It is difficult to overstate the need to
shore up support for democratic insti-
tutions here, and around the world, in
light of President Trump’s recent for-
eign policy failures. In the last week or
so, the President has attempted to de-
rail the NATO summit by insulting our
allies and demanding that they imme-
diately double their contributions,
thrown a wrench into Brexit negotia-
tions and seemingly endorsed a new
Prime Minister for the United King-
dom, and then embraced Russian Presi-
dent Vladimir Putin in Helsinki.
President Trump stood shoulder to
shoulder with President Putin, while
the world looked on, and chose to take
the word of an autocrat and KGB agent
over the assessments of the American
Intelligence Community on Russia’s in-
terference in our elections. By indulg-
ing President Putin’s fabrications, he
also gave credence to Putin’s propa-
ganda on Crimea and Syria, Russia’s
use of chemical agents against civil-
ians, and its violations of its arms con-
trol obligations. This failure to stand
up for America’s interests and those of
our allies and partners was a derelic-
tion of the President’s responsibilities
that will continue to undermine our
national security.
President Trump’s erratic and divi-
sive actions are undermining that
which makes us strong. Our Nation,
our allies, and our partners around the
world benefit from the world order that
the United States created after World
War II. We draw strength from our al-
lies and from participation in inter-
national institutions. We are not weak-
ened by them; we are strengthened by
them.
While the President later took low-
energy steps to walk back and obfus-
cate his words on Russian interference,
he soon took to Twitter again to ag-
gressively attempt to discredit the in-
vestigations into Russian election in-
terference and into his own campaign.
Regardless of what President Trump
may say or tweet, we must be abso-
lutely clear: The threat of Russian in-
terference in our democracy is not a
‘‘hoax’’ or a ‘‘witch hunt,’’ and Con-
gress and the States must act now to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.010 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5322 July 25, 2018
address the real threat of another for-
eign intrusion into our elections.
Indeed, the findings of the intel-
ligence community’s assessment were
clear, and I quote:
We assess Russian President Vladimir
Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016
aimed at the US presidential election. Rus-
sia’s goals were to undermine public faith in
the US democratic process, denigrate Sec-
retary Clinton, and harm her electability
and potential presidency.
This problem is not behind us. In-
deed, President Trump should listen to
the national security officials whom he
appointed and a Republican-controlled
Senate confirmed. The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence, former Republican
Senator Dan Coats, issued multiple
public warnings this month, including
stating that the warning signs about
Russian cyber attacks ahead of our
midterm elections are, in his words,
‘‘blinking red again,’’ akin to before 9/
11. Last week, FBI Director Chris-
topher Wray stated: ‘‘Russia attempted
to interfere with the last election and
. . . continues to engage in malign in-
fluence operations to this day.’’ When
asked last week whether Russia is still
targeting the United States, Depart-
ment of Homeland Security Secretary
Kirstjen Nielsen said: that the United
States ‘‘would be foolish to think [the
Russians] are not. They have the capa-
bility. They have the will. We’ve got to
be prepared.’’
The private sector also validates
these concerns. At last week’s Aspen
Security Forum panel, Tom Burt,
Microsoft’s Vice President of Customer
Security and Trust, told an audience
that Microsoft already has detected
cyber attacks against three candidates
running for Congress this fall. These
attacks looked very much like those
phishing attacks that Russian agents
used against Democrats in 2016.
This Chamber faces a stark choice:
We can listen to the American Intel-
ligence Community and nonpartisan
experts, acknowledge the indictments
and guilty pleas of 32 people and 3 com-
panies by the special counsel, and heed
the ongoing warnings of Republican na-
tional security official—all of whom
agree that our democracy is under at-
tack. Or we can trust the words of
Vladimir Putin, online trolls and con-
spiracy theorists, and President
Trump—who insist in the face of evi-
dence that Russia is not attacking our
democracy. For my part, I don’t think
that is a very difficult choice.
Securing our elections should not be
a partisan issue. Election security is
national security, and the States need
our help to defend our elections against
these attacks. The fiscal year 2018 om-
nibus included $380 million in State
election security grants, and all 55 eli-
gible States and territories requested
funding. To date, 100 percent of the
funds have been requested and 90 per-
cent of the funds have been disbursed.
Yet concerns remain.
On Monday, 21 state attorneys gen-
eral, including the Attorney General of
my home State of Rhode Island, wrote
to the House and Senate to ask for ad-
ditional assistance to secure the 2018
midterm elections against cyber at-
tacks. I understand Senator LEAHY in-
tends to offer an amendment to the Fi-
nancial Services and General Govern-
ment title of the minibus legislation
this week that would provide $250 mil-
lion in additional State election secu-
rity grants. These grants could provide
States additional and much needed re-
sources to update voting equipment
and secure election systems. I am a co-
sponsor of this amendment and believe
that Congress should pass it and con-
tinue to listen to the States and take
further steps to ensure that our
foundational democratic institutions
are secure against foreign actors.
With that, Mr. President, I yield the
floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF BRETT KAVANAUGH
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, earlier
this month, President Trump an-
nounced his choice to fill the vacancy
left by the retirement of Justice An-
thony Kennedy, and he told us that
nominee would be Judge Brett
Kavanaugh of the DC Circuit Court of
Appeals.
During this short period of time—
just a little over 2 weeks—we have seen
some of our friends across the aisle at-
tempt to tank Judge Kavanaugh’s con-
firmation before it really has a chance
to get started, certainly before they
have a chance to meet him. Five of our
colleagues across the aisle announced
their opposition to any Supreme Court
Justice President Trump might nomi-
nate—anybody; fill in the blank. Then,
once the President chose Judge
Kavanaugh, 15 more fell into lockstep
with the first 5, so now we have 20 of
our Democratic colleagues, before they
have even had a chance to meet the
judge, who have announced their im-
placable opposition.
I thought that would pretty much
take the cake until I saw reported this
morning that one of our colleagues
across the aisle said that to support
Judge Kavanaugh would make you
complicit in evil. It is hard to take
statements like that seriously. To me,
that is completely unhinged and de-
tached from any reality. This is the
same judge who was confirmed in 2006
by a substantial bipartisan vote to
what many have called the second
most important court in the Nation.
My advice to some of our friends across
the aisle who are engaged in this kind
of super-heated rhetoric is, get a grip.
Get a grip.
The strategy we have seen on the
other side hasn’t worked too well. They
have targeted the nominee’s character,
but then they have had to deal with the
fact that this nominee is a standup guy
and a good father. Multiple fact-check-
ers debunked claims regarding his legal
views, as well as the timing of his con-
firmation, so it seems like our col-
leagues have moved on.
Now it seems like it is all about the
paper. It is all about documents. We
have heard from some of our colleagues
requesting that every email, every
memo, every document that ever
crossed Brett Kavanaugh’s desk be dis-
gorged and produced in the course of
this confirmation proceeding. Ignore
the fact for a minute that when he was
confirmed to the DC Circuit Court of
Appeals, they didn’t request any of the
documents from when he was Staff Sec-
retary for the President of the United
States, but now, for some mysterious
reason, they could well be hiding the
smoking gun they will use to derail his
confirmation—or at least so they are
acting.
In the course of my legal career—I
served for 13 years as a judge on the
trial court and appellate courts in
Texas—I have seen phishing expedi-
tions before, and this is the very defini-
tion of a phishing expedition.
I agree with our colleagues who say
all relevant documents need to be pro-
duced—and should be and will be pro-
duced in a perfectly normal part of
confirming a judicial nominee. But
that is the key—the documents need to
be reasonably related to the confirma-
tion process.
Our friend the minority leader from
New York sees things differently.
There is no surprise there. Yesterday,
he scolded me personally, as well as
other Republican colleagues. He said
that we are guilty of applying an enor-
mous double standard when it comes to
producing documents in a judicial con-
firmation hearing. He compared the
confirmation of Justice Kagan to
Judge Kavanaugh’s.
Let’s rewind the clock. It is true that
Republicans wanted to see Justice
Kagan’s documents and review them
before holding a hearing on her con-
firmation for the Supreme Court, but it
wasn’t the range of documents we are
talking about with Kavanaugh. Her sit-
uation was dramatically different.
First, she had never served as a judge
before, as Judge Kavanaugh has. He
has a vast judicial record—300 opinions,
12 years on the DC Circuit Court of Ap-
peals. He has a vast record when it
comes to his activities as a judge. You
would think that would be a good place
to start. We thought it was important
to review relevant records for Justice
Kagan at the White House because we
didn’t have judicial opinions to review.
For Justice Kagan, we needed mate-
rials to understand her legal philos-
ophy and style of reasoning, and we
had to use what actually existed at the
time.
I will say that the Solicitor General
files—she was Solicitor General of the
United States and represented the U.S.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.011 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5323
July 25, 2018
Government in front of the Supreme
Court. Virtually none of that was
touched. We recognize that those attor-
ney-client communications should be
respected.
Second, for Justice Kagan’s con-
firmation, Republicans and Democrats
alike agreed that not every single exec-
utive branch document was relevant
and important to her confirmation
process. In that respect, I will tell my
friend the minority leader that is not a
double standard; that is the same
standard. It should be the same stand-
ard.
Republicans and Democrats got to-
gether in the case of Justice Kagan and
agreed that records from her time at
the Solicitor General’s Office were too
sensitive and privileged and that they
shouldn’t be made available to the Sen-
ate in connection with her confirma-
tion. Instead, the Senate decided it was
more appropriate to focus on records
from Justice Kagan’s time at the White
House Counsel’s Office and the Office of
Domestic Policy. So, too, we would say
that Brett Kavanaugh’s documents
that he authored, that he contributed
to at the White House Counsel’s Office,
subject to any privileges that might
pertain, should be fair game. So there
is already well-worn precedent when it
comes to executive branch records—
which should be on-limits and which
should be off-limits. We observed that
in the case of Justice Kagan, and we
would argue that the same consider-
ation should be applied to the
Kavanaugh nomination.
Third, in the past comment of mine
Senator SCHUMER was referring to yes-
terday, I was talking specifically about
tens of thousands of documents in ref-
erence to Justice Kagan. In the end,
173,000 documents were produced on her
behalf. By the way, that is nowhere
close to the ‘‘gazillion’’ that the junior
Senator from Alabama has alleged was
produced during the Kagan confirma-
tion. It wasn’t a gazillion; it was
173,000. It might have seemed that way
because that is a lot of documents. The
stacks of paper were stacked high. But
the truth is, much fewer than a
gazillion were produced—173,000. Com-
pare that to the document production
for Justice Gorsuch when he was con-
firmed. That was roughly 182,000 docu-
ments. That is a high number as well,
but it pales in comparison to what our
Democratic friends are asking for in
the case of Judge Kavanaugh.
The truth is, our friends across the
aisle are picking numbers out of the
air, talking about potentially millions
of documents. The senior Senator from
California has named 1 million as her
magic number, and that is the min-
imum amount of documents she said
she expects to be produced.
As I said, we all know that Judge
Kavanaugh, in addition to serving as a
judge on the DC Circuit Court of Ap-
peals and in addition to working in the
White House Counsel’s Office, served as
Staff Secretary to the President. Many
documents crossed his desk while he
worked in that job. But the effort to
insist on every document that he
touched from the time he was at the
Bush White House as Staff Secretary is
ludicrous. It is ridiculous. It is nothing
less than a phishing expedition de-
signed to delay his confirmation until
after the Supreme Court reconvenes in
early October.
Do our colleagues really seriously
need to see every piece of paper that
crossed his desk? Is what President
Bush had for dinner 14 years ago rel-
evant to how Judge Kavanaugh will
serve on the Court? I am sure there is
a copy of the White House mess menu
as part of those documents, but those
aren’t his documents in the sense that
he didn’t create them, he didn’t con-
tribute to them. He was sort of a traf-
fic cop—a very important traffic cop—
in terms of the documents that went
across the President’s desk.
Our friend, the senior Senator from
Connecticut, for example, seemed to
suggest that every piece of paper that
crossed his desk is important. He said
he wants to see any documents that
have Judge Kavanaugh’s name on
them, whether he was a direct recipi-
ent or a sender or he was copied.
If somebody sent a document to him,
how is that relevant to Judge
Kavanaugh’s qualifications, something
sent to him by somebody else that he
didn’t contribute to and he didn’t au-
thor?
Well, based on that rationale, if
Judge Kavanaugh were cc’d on an
email about somebody’s birthday party
down the hall, apparently some of our
friends across the aisle think that in-
formation is absolutely crucial to this
confirmation hearing. Well, that is just
not right, and it is ridiculous.
Just as the Judiciary Committee
quickly processed Justice Kagan’s
nomination in 2010—somebody who
spent a number of years at the Clinton
White House—I am confident we could
do the same if we got together and
worked at it in the case of Judge
Kavanaugh.
Under Chairman GRASSLEY’s leader-
ship, the Judiciary Committee will
work to produce hundreds of thousands
of documents for Members to conduct a
thorough review. I am confident of
that.
We met with the White House Coun-
sel yesterday to talk about the strat-
egy for producing the documents that
are relevant to the confirmation proc-
ess, but there is no better evidence of
exactly what kind of judge ‘‘Justice
Kavanaugh’’ will be than the opinions
he has written on the DC Circuit Court
of Appeals.
The committee will receive thou-
sands of documents that are relevant
and important to the confirmation
process. Senators and their staff will be
able to review them, and Senators will
be able to ask questions. I guarantee
Chairman GRASSLEY will hold a full
and fair hearing before the Judiciary
Committee when we convene for the
purposes of the confirmation hearing.
We will be able to ask—all of us—on
a bipartisan basis, the hard questions
everybody wants to ask, and at the end
of the process, which I am hopeful will
take place this September, the Senate
will act, and Judge Kavanaugh will be-
come Justice Kavanaugh.
Beyond the document production,
there is another wrinkle in the con-
firmation process that has emerged,
and it hinges on the nominees’s views
on Executive power. I spoke a little bit
about that yesterday, but there is just
another thing to mention.
I am referring to a 1999 transcript of
a panel discussion in which Judge
Kavanaugh discussed the case United
States v. Nixon, which forced then-
President Nixon to turn over the Wa-
tergate tapes. It was a significant
event in our Nation’s history.
My friend the minority leader has
provocatively questioned whether
Kavanaugh would have let Nixon off
the hook. Well, no, he wouldn’t, and
neither did the Supreme Court of the
United States—just the contrary. That
is what we expect from the courts:
independent legal judgment, whether it
is the most humble among us or wheth-
er it is the President of the United
States.
In a speech in a law review article,
Judge Kavanaugh praised the unani-
mous ruling in the Nixon case. His
views have been further confirmed by
those who have worked closely with
him over the years. They have said
that to Judge Kavanaugh, Nixon was
one of the most significant cases in
which the judiciary stood up to the
President.
So enough already. Enough with all
the distractions, the hyperventilation,
the fishing expeditions, and let’s get to
work. Let’s keep this process moving
forward on a bipartisan basis. Let’s roll
up our sleeves. Both Justices
Sotomayor and Gorsuch were con-
firmed in 66 days. If you applied that
standard to Judge Kavanaugh, that
would mean we would vote on his nom-
ination on September 13, but we will
have plenty of time to vet this nominee
and to review the relevant documents
that have some bearing on his quali-
fications and his experience and fitness
to serve as a member of the Supreme
Court.
I hope our Democratic colleagues
will take advantage of the opportunity
to meet with Judge Kavanaugh and to
talk to him for themselves and see that
he is an accomplished jurist and, per-
haps even more importantly, an en-
tirely decent human being. He is one
who will faithfully and fairly apply the
laws written and uphold our Constitu-
tion.
I know the senior Senator from West
Virginia has agreed to do that, and I
express my personal appreciation to
him for breaking up this boycott,
which has, I guess, been commanded by
the highest authorities—the Demo-
cratic leader—to not meet with the
judge until we get all the documents
we are asking for.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.013 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5324 July 25, 2018
Well, in addition to the Senator from
West Virginia, the junior Senator from
Delaware has also said he will meet
with the judge, as has the senior Sen-
ator from Indiana, and I appreciate
that. I think they will find a lot of
comfort in meeting with the judge, and
they will be able to get some answers
to their questions.
I look forward to continuing our vet-
ting process and voting to confirm
Judge Kavanaugh this fall.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO CHANDLER MORSE
Mr. FLAKE. Mr. President, in Janu-
ary of next year, when I cast my final
vote and look back on 18 years in the
House and the Senate, one of the
things I will value most are the friend-
ships made during my time here.
I have been fortunate to have an in-
credible staff to work with for every
year that I have been here: from the in-
terns who answer the phone calls, not
all of those phone calls pleasant, mind
you, to the staff assistants who make
constituents and visitors feel welcome
in my office and in the Capitol; to of-
fice managers who make things run
smoothly and build comradery among
the staff and the team; to legislative
correspondents who skillfully explain
the nuances of bills and resolutions I
have sponsored or those I have avoided;
to legislative assistants who delve deep
into the issues, much deeper than I
have the time or sometimes the incli-
nation to dig into; to a press shop that
tries and often succeeds in making me
look better and more thoughtful than I
am; to legislative directors who try to
focus my attention on issues where I
might make a bit of a difference; to
schedulers who gently remind me,
without judging, of family birthdays
and anniversaries and who keep me out
of the middle seat more often than not;
to expert staff in Arizona who endure
protests and provide skilled outreach,
sometimes to lonely posts across the
State; to caseworkers who work to
solve Medicare, Social Security, vet-
eran, and immigration issues for con-
stituents who later thank me in the
grocery store for tireless work that I
scarcely knew was done.
Now, to keep this ship moving in the
right direction, there has to be a leader
at the helm who is accomplished and
skilled, equal parts firm and kind. It
has been my good fortune that Chan-
dler Morse has filled that role for many
years. Chandler will be leaving for
greener pastures at the end of this
month.
Chandler first came to my House of-
fice in 2005 as a legislative assistant. I
remember looking at his resume and
wondering if his background at the Na-
tional Association of Homebuilders
would lend itself to working on a
broader legislative agenda. But as soon
as I met Chandler, I knew that he had
the intellect and the work ethic to do
whatever I asked of him. I have never
been disappointed.
Chandler moved from legislative as-
sistant to legislative director to deputy
chief of staff and, eventually, to chief
of staff here in the Senate. Along the
way, he has handled natural resource
issues, trade issues, homeland security
issues, U.S.-Cuba policy issues, and,
perhaps most difficult and vexing of
all, immigration issues.
The Members and staff making up
the Gang of 8 in 2013 relied heavily on
Chandler’s work and expertise during
months of negotiations that led to the
successful passage of a good bipartisan
bill.
I would like to think that Chandler
has enjoyed climbing aboard the Marc
train in Baltimore to come to work in
Washington every day. I would like to
think that, but about this I am certain:
He is much happier climbing back on
that train every night because he
knows that his beautiful wife Annie
and his precious kids, Parker and
Talie, are waiting for him to come
home.
I know that as much as he likes
drafting good amendments, blocking
bad legislation, or crafting lame puns
about earmarks or wasteful spending,
Chandler would prefer to be hiking or
camping with his family or taking in
the outdoors in his beloved Maine. This
speaks well for his priorities.
When Chandler Morse takes his leave
at the end of next week, this institu-
tion will lose a loyal public servant.
My Senate office will lose a leader and
a mentor, but as for me, I will retain a
friend for life, and for that I am grate-
ful.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
ERNST). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF BRETT KAVANAUGH
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I
want to start today by sharing a story
that is very personal to me and that
has informed my work and my values
ever since it happened. When I was in
college, a friend of mine—we were close
and lived together in the dorm—went
out on a date. She was raped. She got
pregnant. She didn’t know where to get
a safe abortion, and she wasn’t
wealthy. So she knew she couldn’t af-
ford it, either. The botched procedure
she ended up having left her, at a very
young age, unable to bear children.
I saw my friend hurt and frightened,
alone and unable to get the care she
needed because someone else’s beliefs
mattered more under our laws than her
health and her future. That impacted
me a lot, and it has stayed with me to
this day.
Let me tell you a few other stories.
This is the story of a woman I met just
a few weeks ago. When she was 23, fresh
out of college, she became pregnant
while living paycheck to paycheck in
what she described as ‘‘an extremely
unhealthy and volatile relationship.’’
She and her partner realized they
were not ready to be parents and
couldn’t afford to raise a child, so they
drove to a Planned Parenthood a few
miles from her apartment. There, she
was informed of her options. She was
treated with respect and kindness and
got a safe, legal abortion. Today, she is
a writer and an editor and the mother
of an adorable little boy, with another
child on the way.
Here is another story. This young
woman became pregnant in her first se-
mester of college after a contraceptive
failure. Having a baby would not only
have meant dropping out of college but
returning to an abusive home. She was
grateful to be in New Jersey when this
happened, where she could get an abor-
tion without a waiting period and
where there are a number of providers.
She wrote that abortion access was
‘‘critical in allowing me to determine
my life path’’ and in escaping the abu-
sive household she had grown up in.
Finally, there is the story of a part-
ner in a major law firm who was al-
ready the mother of a 3-year-old child.
She was thrilled to find out she was
pregnant with another child. But head-
ed into the sixth month of her preg-
nancy, she and her husband were told
that because of a rare heart defect,
there was, in the best case scenario,
just a 10-percent chance of the preg-
nancy making it to term, and there
was less than a 1-percent chance of
their baby making it to its first birth-
day—with no hope of a reasonable qual-
ity of life.
There is no right answer when it
comes to decisions like these. Some
women, some families choose one way;
some, another. But this woman and her
husband made the decision to end the
pregnancy. It was their family, their
future—her choice. She says she knows
she did the right thing for her and her
family, as difficult as it was.
A year later, she gave birth to a
healthy son. She wrote: ‘‘I have shared
my story with my children and hope
that should my daughter ever find her-
self in a position similar to mine, she
will enjoy the same rights that were
available to me.’’
There are decades between my col-
lege friend’s story and the three I just
told and the historic ruling in Roe v.
Wade, which affirmed that our Con-
stitution protects a woman’s right to
control her own healthcare decisions.
Roe and the rulings that have upheld it
make clear what women across the
country know at their core to be true—
that reproductive freedom is essential
to a woman’s ability to control her fu-
ture, plan her family, and contribute to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.014 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5325
July 25, 2018
her community in all the ways she may
choose to, as those three women were
able to.
Reproductive freedom means women
are more able to participate equally
and fully in our country. And while I
can’t adequately express how frus-
trating it is to have to assert this in
the 21st Century, we are stronger today
because women in the United States
are treated more equally than we were
in the 1970s. In fact, former Federal Re-
serve Chair Janet Yellen—the only
woman to hold this position in the Re-
serve’s 100-year history—has said that
our country’s economic growth in the
last half-century was in large part due
to women joining the labor force, and
to continue the growth we have seen,
we will need to do more to ensure that
more women have a level playing field
in the workplace and in society as a
whole.
But the progress women have made—
and the prospect of future progress—
truly hangs in the balance. Today, I
want not only to emphasize how real
this threat is but also to paint a pic-
ture of how much more unequal life
would be for women in the United
States of America should Judge
Kavanaugh be confirmed and add a
fifth vote on the Supreme Court for
overturning Roe v. Wade and rolling
back reproductive rights women have
had for more than four decades.
Let me say it again. The threat to
women’s reproductive rights is fright-
eningly real. It is real because, unless
Democrats and Republicans come to-
gether, President Trump will follow
through on his promise to overturn
Roe.
On the campaign trail, Candidate
Trump assured extreme, anti-choice
special interest groups that he would
implement their agenda if elected. He
established a litmus test for Supreme
Court nominees and released a list of
potential picks, each of whom had dem-
onstrated opposition to a woman’s
right to choose.
He said that under his Presidency,
Roe would be overturned automatically
once he had the opportunity to appoint
Justices because they would all be pro-
life. He said that women should be pun-
ished for having abortions. He chose a
Vice President, MIKE PENCE, whose
views on women and women’s health
are about as antiquated as smelling
salts—and far more damaging.
Candidate Trump aligned himself un-
equivocally with those who want to
roll back women’s rights. And while
President Trump has broken promise
after promise to workers and families,
he has never once wavered in following
through for those anti-choice special
interests.
He has done virtually everything he
can to chip away at women’s constitu-
tionally protected reproductive rights
from the Oval Office, whether it is pro-
posing a domestic gag rule that would
allow the government to interfere in
provider-patient relationships, at-
tempting time and again to defund
Planned Parenthood, or trying to allow
virtually any employer to decide to ex-
clude birth control coverage from their
employer-sponsored coverage.
I could go on.
Anyone who says President Trump
isn’t applying an anti-choice litmus
test in this nomination or thinks it is
unclear where President Trump’s alle-
giance lies when it comes to women’s
health should take a look at what he
has said and done. Unless they willfully
ignore the facts, they will quickly real-
ize that the President, far beyond any
modern President, has championed the
anti-choice cause and has found ex-
actly what he is looking for in Judge
Kavanaugh—a fifth vote to overturn
Roe v. Wade.
The best evidence that Judge
Kavanaugh would overturn Roe is that
extreme, anti-choice groups vetted his
likelihood to do exactly that and sent
him straight to President Trump.
But I do want to address a few as-
pects of Judge Kavanaugh’s records
that, to me, expose how unqualified he
is to make decisions that will impact
women from all backgrounds for gen-
erations to come. When I examine the
record and history of a Supreme Court
nominee, I hope to see a breadth of life
experience, the ability to walk in
someone else’s shoes. Judge Kavanaugh
has not demonstrated either of those
qualities.
In expressing support for Justice
Rehnquist’s dissent in Roe—where the
Justice argued for allowing restrictions
on women’s reproductive rights—
Kavanaugh agreed with the idea that if
a right is not explicitly stated in the
Constitution, it must be ‘‘rooted in the
traditions and conscience of our peo-
ple.’’ But he made clear that he does
not believe a woman’s right to choose
is rooted in the traditions or the con-
science of our people.
I am deeply concerned about who
Judge Kavanaugh thinks about and
trusts when he imagines the traditions
and conscience of our people and makes
those decisions accordingly.
His opinions from the bench only
heighten my concern. In one opinion,
Judge Kavanaugh ruled to allow the
Trump administration to block a preg-
nant 17-year-old who arrived alone at
our borders from accessing an abortion
until the government could place her
with a sponsor. He felt she needed a
‘‘support network’’ around her before
she was capable of making that deci-
sion, even though she had been seeking
an abortion for months and had al-
ready met State level requirements.
In another opinion, he expressed the
belief that if a woman’s employer
doesn’t believe in birth control, that
employer shouldn’t even have to fill
out a one-page form to allow the
woman to get birth control coverage
directly from her own insurer.
The ‘‘traditions’’ and ‘‘conscience’’
Judge Kavanaugh referred to may be,
in his mind, that of historically power-
ful, very wealthy White men—first in
powdered wigs and then in suits—who
never faced the challenges women in
these cases face. These women matter,
too, and they deserve a Justice who ac-
counts for their rights and liberties in
his or her decisions.
Unfortunately, Judge Kavanaugh’s
opinions indicate he will not do so. In-
stead, they display a fundamental lack
of trust in women’s abilities to make
their own healthcare decisions. They
also show something more: a very poor
understanding of the unequal economic
and social realities women continue to
face in our country, despite the
progress we have made, and the degree
to which these differences make it all
the more important that women be
trusted and treated equally under the
law, independently, and in their own
right.
If an employer tries to deny his em-
ployee affordable birth control because
he thinks he knows better or if a politi-
cized Federal agency is detaining a
young woman in hopes that it can im-
pose its beliefs on her or if a woman
does not want to carry her rapist’s
child to term, our Nation’s laws must
affirm her autonomy because our laws
are her place of last resort.
But under Judge Kavanaugh’s vision
for our country, based on his assess-
ment of traditions and conscience,
women wouldn’t have that last resort.
Instead, a woman’s ability to get repro-
ductive healthcare would overwhelm-
ingly depend, as it did before Roe, on
whether she could afford it and, there-
fore, disproportionately on her race
and ZIP Code as well.
Our country as a whole would see
outcomes like those we are already
seeing in States like Texas and Mis-
sissippi, where abortion access is heav-
ily restricted under policies Judge
Kavanaugh has referenced approvingly.
While women with resources have more
options, women without resources see
the providers where they had received
affordable contraception and
healthcare closed down because of anti-
abortion politics.
Reproductive healthcare—from sex
education, to birth control, to abor-
tion—becomes a privilege for the
wealthy, rather than the right of every
woman, regardless of who she is. That
isn’t fair. It is not right, and it truly
isn’t what people in this country want.
President Trump said that Roe is a
‘‘50–50’’ issue in the United States. He
is wrong. People in our country—
Democrats, Republicans, women and
men of all ages and backgrounds—over-
whelmingly understand that abortion
is a deeply personal decision, one our
laws should allow women to make, just
as every American’s bodily autonomy
should be their own concern and not
their government’s. Despite what the
White House would have us believe,
this is not a country that wants to fol-
low President Trump, Vice President
PENCE, and five male Supreme Court
Justices back to 1972.
The only way to stop this from hap-
pening is for people to take action. I
urge anyone who is concerned right
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.016 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5326 July 25, 2018
now—women or men—to make that
clear, loudly and immediately. If you
have a story that shows why reproduc-
tive rights matter in our country,
share it. If you haven’t signed up to
vote—or told your friends to—do it.
One year ago this week, three of my
Republican colleagues stood with
Democrats and stopped President
Trump’s effort to enact TrumpCare,
which would have gutted protections
for patients with preexisting condi-
tions, ended Medicaid as we know it,
and more. That happened because peo-
ple across the country knew what was
at stake and spoke up, despite how
long the odds seemed. That is what we
need now. I am confident we can suc-
ceed again if people who care show it.
The last story I will tell is one I hope
women and men today will be able to
tell their daughters and their grand-
daughters decades from now, should
they ever need to hear it. It is that our
country went through an extremely
frightening time when one of the many
rights on the verge of being taken
away was a woman’s right to choose.
We thought about them—our daughters
and granddaughters—and how impor-
tant it is that each one of them be
treated equally under our country’s
laws and have the opportunity to
achieve the goals they set out to
achieve. We did everything we could to
fight back, and we didn’t let it happen
on our watch. I hope we make that our
story.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
OPIOID EPIDEMIC
Ms. WARREN. Madam President, this
week, we hit a milestone, but not the
kind of milestone you celebrate. Near-
ly 1 year ago, the Commission ap-
pointed by President Trump to exam-
ine the opioid crisis recommended that
the President declare a national public
health emergency to help combat the
epidemic.
The Commission, led by former Re-
publican Governor Chris Christie, said:
The first and most urgent recommendation
of this Commission is direct and completely
within your control. Declare a national
emergency.
Yet the President dragged his feet.
While he twiddled his thumbs, thou-
sands of Americans continued to die
from drug overdoses—over 115 people a
day. Finally, in October of 2017, the
President formally declared what we
already knew—that the crisis was a
public health emergency worthy of
Federal action.
The first declaration the President
issued lasted for 90 days, but during
those 90 days, nothing changed. The
President didn’t take action. Ameri-
cans continued to suffer, and more peo-
ple died day, after day, after day. On
January 24, 2018, the first emergency
declaration expired. So the President
had his HHS Secretary sign a second
one. Then, before another 90 days ran
out, on April 24, the administration
signed a third one.
Yesterday, another 90 days later, on
July 24, 2018, we began the fourth con-
secutive period of public health emer-
gency due to the opioid crisis—9
months since the original declaration,
9 months during which more than 30,000
people have likely overdosed and died,
all while the President and his admin-
istration have given us a lot of talk but
no action.
Our communities are on the frontline
of this epidemic, and they are working
hard to fight back, but they can’t do it
alone. They need funding, support, and
new tools. I have worked with my
Democratic colleagues to make sure
that communities have what they need
in this fight.
Time and again, we have pressured
congressional leadership for additional
funding to help States and local com-
munities address this epidemic, and the
pressure has worked. I have secured
millions of dollars, not just for opioid
addiction and prevention and treat-
ment but for increased mental health
services, including the biggest increase
in funding for the community mental
health services block grant in history.
I have passed bipartisan legislation
to reduce the number of unused opioids
that sit in medicine cabinets. Since
that legislation has become law, I have
continued to work across the aisle,
with Senator CAPITO, to make sure it
has actually been implemented, and we
are still working on that today.
I have also introduced legislation to
send $100 billion in extra resources to
fight this epidemic—right to the com-
munities and Tribes that need the help
the most.
I am in this fight because commu-
nities in Massachusetts and all across
this country deserve it. Yet President
Trump is not in this fight. The Presi-
dent has made a lot of promises about
the opioid crisis, but time and again,
this President has broken his promises.
Take the first time he declared the cri-
sis an emergency. The President held a
big event and talked a big game. Then
he produced no tangible plan and no
new commitment of Federal money be-
yond meager funds that were left over
from responding to other public health
emergencies and disasters.
Declaring the crisis a national emer-
gency was the top recommendation of
the President’s opioid commission, but
it was not the only recommendation.
The Commission’s final report included
56 recommendations that it asked the
administration and Congress to imple-
ment as soon as possible. Nearly all of
those recommendations required the
administration’s involvement and lead-
ership.
So what has come of those 56 rec-
ommendations?
Who knows. At best, maybe a few
have been implemented. The majority
seems to have just been ignored.
Even members of the Commission
itself have called out this administra-
tion’s shameful lack of action. Former
Congressman Patrick Kennedy stated
that the Commission’s work has been
turned into a ‘‘charade’’ and a ‘‘sham.’’
Why is the Trump administration re-
fusing to take this crisis seriously?
Why?
To start, it doesn’t help that the ad-
ministration has put people in charge
of addressing this emergency who lack
the relevant experience in public
health or addiction. Apparently,
Kellyanne Conway is running the show,
but she is also, apparently, running
multiple other shows at the same time.
Not only is the opioid crisis not Ms.
Conway’s full-time responsibility, but
she has also reportedly pushed aside
drug policy experts and made com-
ments about addiction that are not evi-
dence-based. James Carroll, President
Trump’s nominee to run the Office of
National Drug Control Policy, or
ONDCP, also appears to have no experi-
ence in public or behavioral health pol-
icy.
Let’s not forget that the ONDCP is
the agency that President Trump has,
essentially, proposed to eliminate by
cutting 95 percent of its funding. This
is also the agency with such a high
staff turnover that, earlier this year, a
24-year-old with no public health expe-
rience was promoted to Deputy Chief of
Staff while the position of Chief of
Staff remained unfilled. This is also
the agency that has not released its re-
quired annual drug strategy for the
last 2 years running.
That is a lot, but as if that is not
enough, the Trump administration has
taken repeated steps to undermine the
very programs that are critical to
fighting the opioid crisis.
The President has tried to slash the
healthcare coverage for millions of
Americans who have preexisting condi-
tions—conditions like addiction issues.
He has tried to cut hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars out of Medicaid, which
provides coverage for two out of every
five non-elderly adults who have opioid
addictions. He has proposed slashing
funding for health workforce programs,
for the Prevention and Public Health
Fund, and for mental health pro-
grams—all critical in addressing the
epidemic.
Time after time, I have asked the ad-
ministration to explain the work it is
supposedly doing on this crisis. I have
asked John Kelly for clarification
about Kellyanne Conway’s role—no re-
sponse. I have asked Ms. Conway di-
rectly about her role—no response. I
have asked the administration about
its progress on implementing the
opioid commission’s recommenda-
tions—no response. To me, it looks like
a whole bunch of nothing—just empty
words and broken promises.
While the President plugs his ears
and closes his eyes, Americans are
dying. There were 42,000 people who
died of drug overdoses in this country
in 2016. From July 2016 to September
2017, across the country, emergency
room visits for opioid overdoses, on av-
erage, jumped 30 percent, but only 1 in
10 individuals in need of specialty ad-
diction treatment is actually able to
access it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.017 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5327
July 25, 2018
There is no shortage of steps we
could take right now in tackling this
crisis. We have confronted large-scale
public health crises before, and we have
made a difference.
Back in the 1980s, the death toll from
a poorly understood and stigmatized
disease grew larger and larger. For
years, the Federal Government refused
to act as Americans died. That disease
was HIV/AIDS. Yet activists and their
loved ones demanded action, and in
1990 the Federal Government finally
made a meaningful investment by pass-
ing the Ryan White Comprehensive
AIDS Resources Emergency Act. The
AIDS epidemic isn’t over, but HIV is no
longer a death sentence. Thanks to the
Ryan White CARE Act, all who need
treatment and support can get it re-
gardless of their ability to pay.
With Representative ELIJAH CUM-
MINGS, I have introduced legislation
that is modeled on the very successful
Ryan White CARE Act, and we will
apply it to fighting the opioid epi-
demic. The Comprehensive Addiction
Resources Emergency Act would invest
$100 billion over the next 10 years to
ensure that every single person who
deals with addiction can get the help
they need, period.
If President Trump wanted to
prioritize this problem and make a dif-
ference in the opioid epidemic, he could
do it. He has the power. He could im-
plement his own Commission’s rec-
ommendations. He could send meaning-
ful budget requests to Congress. He
could appoint qualified, hard-working
people to tackle the problem. Yet he
will not do any of those things as he is
all talk, no action. While he keeps ex-
tending meaningless emergency dec-
larations, Americans are dying.
People with addictions—and their
families—deserve more. Our commu-
nities demand more. It is time to stop
nibbling around the edges and to get to
work on this problem.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, it is
time for the Senate and the U.S. De-
partment of Education to get serious
about the student loan crisis in Amer-
ica.
This is a crisis in Illinois. It is a cri-
sis in Iowa, in Nevada. You pick the
State. Student loan debt is now a larg-
er debt in the United States than cred-
it card debt. Add up all of the debt that
Americans owe on credit cards, and it
will not reach the amount of student
loan debt that is carried by students
and their families.
More than 44 million Americans have
student loan debt. The total amount is
$1.5 trillion. As I mentioned, it is larg-
er than America’s cumulative credit
card debt—second only to the mort-
gages that we owe on our homes across
the United States.
An American who graduated from
college in 2015, with a 4-year degree,
owed an average of $30,100. That debt is
often much higher for many Americans
if they decide to go on to graduate
school or if they are unfortunate
attendees at the for-profit colleges and
universities. Across the United States,
there are many of these for-profit insti-
tutions. You should remember them. It
is 9 percent of young people who come
out of high school who end up at for-
profit colleges and universities, while
33 percent of all of the college students
who default on student loans come out
of the same schools—for-profit col-
leges. This is 9 percent and 33 percent.
Why?
It is that they are so darned expen-
sive—dramatically more expensive
than are community colleges or other
universities. No. 2, they don’t care if
you finish. They would just as soon you
didn’t. No. 3, if you finish, you get a
worthless diploma and can’t find a job.
So there you are, stuck with your debt.
Yet this is about student loans in
general, not just about for-profit vic-
tims.
I hear from students, young and old,
who have had to forgo homeownership
and hold off starting families because
of their massive student loan debts. In-
creasingly, I have been hearing from
parents and grandparents who, in ges-
tures of goodwill and kindness, cosign
on the loans on behalf of those children
or grandchildren who are students.
Guess what. Grandma and Mom are
now trying to pay off that student loan
debt because the student can’t.
Earlier this year, Chairman Jerome
Powell of the Federal Reserve said the
student debt crisis absolutely could
hold back economic growth in Amer-
ica—the student loan crisis. We need to
take action on it. We rarely even try,
but today I am going to try.
Earlier this year, in March, I tried to
offer an amendment on the Senate
floor to help student borrowers. At
that time, the Senate had a bill up to
provide regulatory relief—breaks—to
banks. I thought it was only fair that
the Senate also consider taking a look
at the student debt crisis. I was
blocked from getting a vote on my
amendment. I am not giving up.
I am filing an amendment today to
the Financial Services and General
Government bill that is part of this ap-
propriations package pending on the
floor of the Senate. My amendment
deals with an important part of the
student loan problem—the treatment
of student loans in bankruptcy.
If you borrow money for a vacation
house, lose your job, and have no
money, you file bankruptcy, and your
mortgage is discharged. If you borrow
money for a car, and you can’t pay off
the car—you lose your job—you file for
bankruptcy, and your auto loan is dis-
charged. How about a boat? If you take
out a loan to buy a boat and file for
bankruptcy, it is discharged.
I will tell you that there are only a
handful of things you can borrow
money for that you cannot discharge in
bankruptcy no matter how bad things
get, and one of them is student loans.
Currently, most types of debts can be
discharged in bankruptcy but not stu-
dent loans.
Up until 1976, all student loans were
fully discharged in bankruptcy, but
since then, the law has been changed.
Now if you have student debt, you are
going to carry it to the grave. You can-
not discharge it in bankruptcy.
In 1998, Congress determined that
Federal student loans would be non-
dischargeable in bankruptcy unless the
borrower could demonstrate that he or
she faced an ‘‘undue hardship’’—that is
a quote, ‘‘undue hardship.’’ But we
didn’t define it; we left it up to the
courts. That is a problem.
Most students don’t even try to pur-
sue the undue hardship exception be-
cause of the difficulty and expense of
meeting the standard of proving undue
hardship in bankruptcy court.
Listen to what the Wall Street Jour-
nal said last month. It found that in
2017, only 473 student loan borrowers in
the United States out of 44 million
asked for relief from their student debt
in bankruptcy—473 out of 44 million.
The Journal found only 16 bankruptcy
cases that year where a judge actually
ruled on student loan debt—16 cases
out of 44 million borrowers—and in
only 3 of those cases did the judge can-
cel the debt. What do you think your
odds are in taking your student loan
debt to bankruptcy court when 3 out of
473—out of 44 million—actually had
their debt discharged?
A big reason the undue hardship path
is difficult for student borrowers is be-
cause the Department of Education
contracts out the collection of the debt
to companies like Educational Credit
Management Corporation. This is a
student loan guaranty agency that col-
lects on defaulted Federal student
loans. This company is notorious for
aggressively challenging and appealing
borrower claims of undue hardship in
bankruptcy court because it doesn’t
want to see the loans discharged. So
many students don’t even try to fight
them because they know they are
going to lose.
Here is what my amendment does.
My amendment would bar the use of
Federal funds to pay contractors, such
as the one I named, to contest undue
hardship claims in bankruptcy court
when the claims are brought by spe-
cific categories of borrowers who face
severe undue hardship.
Let me tell you the categories I am
trying to protect. These are people who
are deeply in debt with student loans
and are coming to court asking for re-
lief from their student loans. You tell
me whether you think these Americans
deserve a break when they go to bank-
ruptcy court on their student loans.
The first category is veterans who have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.019 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5328 July 25, 2018
been deemed unemployable because of
a service-connected disability; No. 2,
family caregivers of a veteran or an el-
derly or disabled family member; No. 3,
people who are receiving Social Secu-
rity disability or whose only income is
Social Security; and No. 4, borrowers
who have finished school but have
spent at least 5 years with an income
of less than $24,000 a year. Those are
the four categories.
Wouldn’t you agree that you would
start with groups just like these and
say: Give them a break. This disabled
veteran has reached a point where he
can’t pay back this loan. Don’t have
these agencies hounding this poor fel-
low for the rest of his life.
By stopping these Federal loan guar-
anty agencies from contesting and liti-
gating these undue hardship claims in
bankruptcy court, we can at least give
these hard-hit student borrowers a
chance to seek an undue hardship dis-
charge in bankruptcy.
My amendment also includes a provi-
sion preventing Federal funds from
being provided to a for-profit college if
the college receives more than 85 per-
cent of its revenue from Federal
sources, including the Department of
Veterans Affairs GI bill and Depart-
ment of Defense tuition assistance
funds.
Currently, for-profit colleges are able
to receive 90 percent of their revenue
from Federal sources—the most heav-
ily subsidized, private, for-profit com-
panies in America. They can add the GI
bill in on top of it, to add insult to in-
jury. It makes no sense. It incentivizes
for-profit colleges to aggressively re-
cruit veterans and servicemembers in
order to get extra money from the Fed-
eral Government and provide very lit-
tle in return.
Not only would this provision help
protect students, it would result in
long-term cost savings to the Federal
Government.
I say to my colleagues, I bet you
have all given a speech on student
loans. Haven’t we all? When young peo-
ple come in, burdened with debt, and
say ‘‘I don’t know what to do with my-
self. I can’t pay off this debt. I can’t
even buy a car. I am living in my par-
ents’ basement. I thought I was sup-
posed to be a college graduate with a
big life ahead of me. What are you
going to do about it, Senator?’’ if you
say ‘‘Well, I wish there were something
we could do,’’ you will get your chance
today. There is something you can do.
It is the amendment I am offering.
This issue of student loan debt is
challenging. Let’s not run away from
it. Let’s face it honestly. Let’s give at
least these four groups, including dis-
abled veterans and the caregivers who
watch them, an opportunity to get
their student loans discharged so they
can get on with their lives.
I am going to keep at this and keep
raising this issue until we get the posi-
tive change the students and their fam-
ilies deserve.
I yield.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 3093
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 477, S. 3093. I ask
unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time and passed
and that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Hawaii.
Ms. HIRONO. Madam President, re-
serving the right to object, this bill
being offered by my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle is a partisan, po-
litical stunt designed to distract the
American people from the crisis cre-
ated by Donald Trump’s zero tolerance
policy.
Almost 3,000 children have been
ripped from the arms of their parents
and traumatized by the President’s
cruelty. This bill would allow the
Trump administration to continue to
traumatize children by forcing them,
possibly indefinitely, into so-called
family detention centers.
By offering this proposal, our col-
leagues are calling for the extended in-
carceration of children. This bill would
invalidate the Flores settlement,
which has ensured the humane treat-
ment of children for decades. It offers
no specifics on what constitutes ade-
quate detention conditions and no
mechanism for monitoring them. The
bill says the families will be given
‘‘suitable living accommodations’’ and
‘‘access to drinking water and food’’
and that services will be offered that
are ‘‘necessary for the adequate care of
a minor child,’’ but it does not say who
determines what is suitable, whether
adequate nutrition will be offered to
the children, and who will decide what
is necessary. These so-called standards
are not good enough when the welfare
of children is involved.
This bill would also authorize the
Border Patrol to separate families for
the most minor offenses that have
nothing to do with parenting or the
safety of the children. It puts form
above substance and gives DHS no dis-
cretion about when detention is most
appropriate or when alternative means,
such as ankle bracelets or other moni-
toring programs, might be better.
The so-called family unit residential
centers in the bill are essentially fam-
ily jails.
We have heard from the American
Academy of Pediatrics and other ex-
perts about how these children will be
traumatized for life. We should be lis-
tening to these experts and stop giving
the Trump administration a free pass
to harm immigrant children.
I look at the policies of this adminis-
tration and at bills like this one, and I
wonder how my colleagues are able to
stomach our government treating fam-
ilies in these awful ways. And we have
witnessed this kind of treatment in
America over the last several weeks.
The President refers to families of
children fleeing war, gang violence,
and poverty as ‘‘infesting’’ our coun-
try. I hear echoes from the darkest
parts of America’s past when African-
American slaves were depicted as mon-
keys, Chinese laborers in the 1870s were
referred to as ‘‘pouring forth’’ from
their ‘‘Asiatic hive,’’ and Japanese
Americans penned up like animals for
the crime of their heritage during
World War II.
This mindset of viewing these immi-
grant families as subhuman does not
exist in a vacuum; it has a history and
a context we cannot shy away from. It
is because of that history that I have
continued to demand not just an end to
the detention of children and families
but also to demand accountability
from Donald Trump’s government.
Last week, the Judiciary Committee
had a closed-door briefing with officials
from the Departments of Justice,
Health and Human Services, and Home-
land Security. We didn’t get straight
answers to our questions—mainly, why
is this happening in our country in the
first place? Why were these children
separated from their parents? Why do
we have ICE agents taunting these al-
ready traumatized children? Why?
Why? Why?
We need and indeed we should de-
mand to hear from these officials in
public and under oath. I urged Chair-
man GRASSLEY to have a public over-
sight hearing on this issue with all of
the relevant agencies. The chairman
has now scheduled this long-overdue
hearing for July 31 with representa-
tives from the Department of Home-
land Security, the Department of
Health and Human Services, and the
Department of Justice.
It is critical that we hear from the
witnesses because after separating
nearly 3,000 children from their fami-
lies, they are now chaotically scram-
bling to comply with judicial orders to
reunite these families. The administra-
tion would not be reuniting these fami-
lies without being forced to do so by
the court. They continue on their cruel
path, undermining American values,
and along this path, they have trauma-
tized thousands of children and their
families, likely forever.
This administration needs no further
tools to continue these cruel policies.
To continue to enable Donald Trump to
pursue his anti-immigrant agenda
makes us all complicit in his cruelty
and injustice.
For these reasons, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Ms. HIRONO. I yield to the Senator
from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I
would like to ask the Senator from Ha-
waii a question through the Chair.
When the Senator is referring to the
number of children who are currently
forcibly separated from their parents
by our government, is the Senator re-
ferring to the 2,551 children between
the ages of 5 and 17 who were reported
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.021 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5329
July 25, 2018
by this administration as of this past
Monday?
Ms. HIRONO. Yes, I am.
Mr. DURBIN. Is the Senator referring
to the fact that 1,634 families are pos-
sibly eligible for reunification, accord-
ing to this administration?
Ms. HIRONO. Yes, I am.
Mr. DURBIN. And that leaves 917
families with children forcibly sepa-
rated by our government from their
parents, who, according to this admin-
istration, may not be eligible for reuni-
fication?
Ms. HIRONO. That is correct.
Mr. DURBIN. We are also told there
are some 463 parents who are ‘‘not in
the United States’’—children taken
away from them, and they have been
sent out of the United States?
Ms. HIRONO. Yes.
Mr. DURBIN. Incidentally, the ad-
ministration reported 37 children in its
custody who have not been matched
with a parent?
Ms. HIRONO. Again, correct.
Mr. DURBIN. And we are being asked
to reduce the standards of care for
these children by this unanimous con-
sent request?
Ms. HIRONO. Exactly. It is a con-
tinuation of the cruelty and the dehu-
manization of children.
Mr. DURBIN. I thank the Senator
from Hawaii.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that Senator HELL-
ER and Senator CORNYN may join in a
colloquy with myself.
Mr. DURBIN. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from North Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, I
want to talk about my motivation for
offering this unanimous consent re-
quest.
The people listening to the debate
may not understand, but we have a
courtesy in the Senate where we make
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
aware of our intent.
Before I do that, I yield the floor to
Senator DURBIN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 3263
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I
have a unanimous consent request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator will state it.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I am
making clear to my friend from North
Carolina, as well as to the other Mem-
bers on the floor, that I would like to
have this colloquy. I would like to
make a formal unanimous consent re-
quest, and then we can enter into de-
bate or colloquy, as the Chair would
allow, if I may proceed.
I ask unanimous consent that the
Senate proceed to the immediate con-
sideration of S. 3263 introduced earlier
today; that the bill be considered read
a third time and passed, and the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table with no inter-
vening action or debate.
This is a bill which embodies the
Keep Families Together legislation by
Senator FEINSTEIN, A Fair Day in
Court for Kids Act by Senator HIRONO,
and additional measures which I will
then describe later when we go to col-
loquy and debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from North Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, Re-
serving the right to object, I first wish
to acknowledge that Senator DURBIN
has worked hard to address the DACA
issue. I don’t think there is a lot of
daylight between Senator DURBIN and
me on the need for a path to citizen-
ship and having the DACA legislation
move forward. I think there are voices
trying to come together to try to come
up with a just solution to a myriad of
immigration issues.
However, this particular unanimous
consent request is in reference to, I
think, a bill that was introduced ear-
lier today, and we have not had an op-
portunity to study it. I think it is an-
other positive step in the process of
maybe bridging the gap, but in the ab-
sence of being able to analyze it and
reconcile it against the bill I am ac-
tively involved in that the Senator
mentioned, I have to object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from North Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that Senator HELL-
ER, Senator CORNYN, and I be allowed
to enter into a colloquy.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, re-
serving the right to object, I would like
there to be some exchange, something
even perilously close to a debate on the
issue. I would be happy if the Senator
would reframe his unanimous consent
request for that purpose, and I would
be happy to agree to it under those cir-
cumstances.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, is
there an objection?
Mr. DURBIN. I object to the original
unanimous consent request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from North Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, I was
trying to explain to those who are
watching this what is going on. What is
going on is, we actually have a very
collegial environment, where we come
to the floor and ask unanimous consent
on something, and if somebody doesn’t
object, the bill moves out of the Cham-
ber. We don’t surprise people. We in-
form them so they are able to come to
the floor and register their objection,
which is exactly what Senator HIRONO
did today. So you could ask yourself,
why would I come down here and offer
up something I knew was going to be
objected to and not move forward? Be-
cause I think it is pretty important for
people to understand we are making
progress, and it is pretty important to
keep this issue and this discussion ac-
tive in the U.S. Congress because Con-
gress needs to act.
Regardless of where you are on the
Trump administration’s position, it is
Congress’s job to set long-term clarity.
It is our job to set policy that can’t
move based on who happens to be in
the White House. It is our job to fix the
immigration problem, not the Presi-
dent’s. This is the first step, in a num-
ber of things we need to do, to fix the
failed immigration system in this
country and to fix what I think are le-
gitimately some injustices going on.
I have to disagree—I think it is inter-
esting—and I look forward to reading
the measure Senator DURBIN put forth
for unanimous consent. In his com-
ments, he said a part of the baseline
language came from a bill I have been
working on with Senator FEINSTEIN,
the Keep Families Together and En-
force the Law Act.
What we are trying to do is figure
out a reasonable, fair way to keep fam-
ilies together, to have families
prioritized so they can go before a
judge and determine whether they have
a legitimate asylum claim, and to
move as expeditiously as possible.
So this bill—if you heard Senator
HIRONO, you would think it is some
heartless, uncaring—I think the words
were ‘‘partisan political stunt.’’
Let me just tell my colleagues brief-
ly—and I know Senators HELLER and
CORNYN will speak as well—this bill has
agreement on most of the provisions.
We want to make absolutely certain
that if the families have to be kept to-
gether while they are going through
the adjudication process, that it is in
proper facilities. We want to make sure
that if the parents want their children
with them while they are being de-
tained—which is, on average, about 40
to 60 days before they get their case
cleared—then they can.
We also want that time period to be
reduced, which is why we agree that we
need to add an aggregate of about 700
judges to draw the backlog down, but
until the backlog gets drawn down,
parents with children get to the front
of the line. We want to make sure there
are an adequate number of attorneys—
about two and one-half to every one
judge we are adding—so we don’t get
clogged up in the courts.
This discussion about indefinite de-
tention is just simply patently false.
We are talking about a matter of 40 to
60 days. We want to draw that backlog
down even further. We want to make
sure these images of people being held
in tent cities never occurs. We want to
make sure we have adequate family fa-
cilities while they are being detained
going through a legal process.
We want to also do the one thing I
heard in Senator HIRONO’s comments—
I am not an attorney, I believe Senator
HIRONO is—but it is false. The fact is,
there is a court order that actually
prevents children from being detained
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.022 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5330 July 25, 2018
for more than 20 days. So now we have
this catch-22, where you detain the par-
ents because they crossed the border il-
legally. They are being detained to
process their immigration case, and
they happen to have children, but you
can’t keep children for more than 20
days, so that is why the separation is
occurring.
We are not talking about eliminating
the whole Flores agreement. What we
are saying is, we need to have very
clear language that allows us to keep
these children with their parents who
are being detained pending court proce-
dures. These are not unaccompanied
children who would still be subject to
Flores and who would be placed in the
community within about 20 days, but
there are other reasons—including
some of the 2,500 or so whom Senator
DURBIN mentioned—we may need to
keep them a little bit longer.
For example, what if their parent or
guardian has been convicted of human
trafficking or child abuse or some
other charge, and we need to make sure
it is the right setting for that child to
go to? We are holding the same stand-
ards for these guardians or these par-
ents that we do for any American cit-
izen when we are trying to determine
whether that child is going to be in a
safe setting. Those are the sorts of
things we put into place within nar-
rowly tailored language, which is, my
understanding right now, the only
sticking point.
I came to the floor today to propound
this unanimous consent request so we
can start having this discussion in
front of the American people, and we
put pressure on ourselves to solve this
problem.
This is not a problem for the Presi-
dent to fix. It is Congress’s problem for
the President to fix, and then it is the
administration’s responsibility to act
on the will of Congress.
So I am going to continue to work
with people on both sides of the aisle to
do everything I can to eliminate the
partisanship, the polarizing rhetoric,
and fix this problem for these children
who deserve and must be—should be—
with their parents and put them in a
setting that I think is respectful and
safe.
I yield the floor to Senator HELLER.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nevada.
Mr. HELLER. Madam President, I
begin by thanking Senator TILLIS for
his leadership on this issue. I also
thank him for bringing this to the Sen-
ate floor so we can have this discus-
sion, so we can bring to the forefront
this issue and try to solve it.
I also thank and acknowledge the
leadership of the majority whip in his
efforts. I know being here today, the
opportunity to have this discussion, is
based on his efforts and his concern for
this very issue also.
Let me begin by saying nobody wants
to see children separated from their
families—period. I don’t think there is
anybody in this Chamber who enjoys or
does want to see that occur. So that is
why I am joining my colleagues to call
up and pass the Keep Families To-
gether and Enforce the Law Act.
While America is a nation of laws, we
are also a nation with heart, and Ne-
vadans have a lot of heart. I heard from
over 3,500 of my constituents from
across the State sharing their concerns
about these families being separated.
My constituents spoke to families split
apart at the border, and some were
held in southern Nevada, and they
were, frankly, asking for help. So their
being unified with their children is a
top priority.
As my colleagues probably know, I
am a father, and I am also a grand-
father. I understand why parents want
to be and should be with their children.
There is nothing more important than
keeping a family unit together.
Now I, like many of my colleagues
who are on the floor today, support
border security as part of any type of
immigration reform, but I also strong-
ly believe our country has a rich his-
tory because we have always been a na-
tion of immigrants. Our culture is rich
because so many families have come to
the land of opportunity seeking a bet-
ter life.
In fact, in my Washington, DC, office,
I have two staffers who are naturalized
citizens, who came here as children
with their families seeking better op-
portunities. These individuals who im-
migrated to our country came from
parents who worked hard to provide
their children with opportunities. We
are, after all, the land of opportunity.
While we are just, we are also fair.
The Keep Families Together and En-
force the Law Act ensures that families
will not be separated at the border.
Specifically, the legislation allows the
Department of Homeland Security to
keep accompanied children under the
age of 18 with their families in residen-
tial centers.
It also would prioritize family immi-
gration cases and would add 225 new
immigration judges to expedite pro-
ceedings for families who have been ap-
prehended at the border.
In addition to keeping children and
their parents together, the legislation
ensures that any family who has been
separated will be reunified.
Unlike other proposals—which I be-
lieve risk making our current immi-
gration problem worse—this legislation
actually solves the problem by keeping
families together, while also ensuring
the integrity of our immigration laws.
I look forward to this bill being
signed into law to make permanent the
policy of keeping families together and
reunifying these families, while still
ensuring that our immigration laws
are enforced.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President,
there is an important difference be-
tween legal and illegal immigration,
and they shouldn’t be confused. We
should all, as Americans, celebrate
legal immigration. In fact, the United
States is the most generous country in
the world. We naturalize almost 1 mil-
lion new citizens each year, many of
whom serve in the military and other-
wise serve their newly adopted country
and are rewarded, in part, by an expe-
dited path toward legalization, toward
naturalization.
As a result of the deadlock in the
U.S. Senate, the drug cartels that traf-
fic in illegal drugs and other contra-
band—they traffic in migrants, they
traffic in children—are celebrating
today because we have a big problem
that apparently we are unable to solve,
and the status quo is simply unaccept-
able. It is dangerous, it is deadly, and
it is killing people—not only the people
who attempt the perilous journey from
Central America up through Mexico
and into the United States but also the
drugs that are sold by these same
criminal organizations that are, in the
words of one expert, ‘‘commodity ag-
nostic.’’
This is part of their business model.
This is how they make money, and
they are celebrating today because the
very reasonable solution that our col-
league from North Carolina has pro-
posed has been rejected out of hand
with no real alternative being sug-
gested.
This is the same mentality, I fear,
that calls for the abolition of ICE. You
might as well ask for the abolition of
the Austin Police Department or the
Dallas Police Department or the San
Antonio Police Department. It is an in-
vitation to lawlessness. Unfortunately,
there are some who believe that the
status quo is better than the very rea-
sonable, rational solution offered by
our colleague.
Let me explain why objecting to this
commonsense legislation imperils the
life and well-being of children. Under
the current law, unless this very rea-
sonable solution is embraced, children
are sent across the border unaccom-
panied by their parents because the
traffickers know and the parents know
that if they pay thousands of dollars to
these criminal organizations, their
child will be transported from Central
America across Mexico and into the
United States, and if they make it here
under the current law, the Border Pa-
trol needs to process this child—some
of whom are 17 years of age and older,
and for all practical purposes they are
young men.
They need to be handed over to
Health and Human Services for place-
ment with a sponsor here in the United
States. Recently the New York Times
pointed out that the United States had
lost track of 1500 of the children that
had been placed with sponsors. Nobody
knows what happened to them because,
under the current law, the government
doesn’t have to do a criminal back-
ground check. The sponsor with whom
this child is placed doesn’t have to be a
citizen, and there is simply no infra-
structure in place and no system in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.024 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5331
July 25, 2018
place to monitor the status of these
children in the hands of these adult
sponsors to make sure they appear at
their subsequently noticed immigra-
tion hearing so that they can present a
legitimate claim, if they have one, to
asylum or some other immigration
benefit.
All President Trump has said is that
we are going to enforce our laws
against illegal immigration. So if you
come into the country as a parent with
a child, the parent, being legally re-
sponsible, is going to be prosecuted.
That is what the law calls for as passed
by Congress and signed by the Presi-
dent.
The child will be protected under the
law that I mentioned earlier. They will
be placed with a sponsor if the parent
or the person who claims to be a parent
is going to be prosecuted. Part of what
we have been struggling with is the re-
fusal on the part of some of our col-
leagues to actually try to solve this
problem, to keep those families to-
gether so that they can be kept in a hu-
mane, clean family detention facility
pending a hearing in front of an immi-
gration judge. If they have legitimate
claims, then those can be rewarded.
The status quo guarantees that the
criminal organizations that profit from
transporting people, drugs, and other
contraband across the border win. That
is guaranteed by the status quo. It is
also that we don’t fix the problem asso-
ciated with unaccompanied minors or
minors who come with somebody who
claims to be their parent.
So let’s say we put the families back
together, which is our goal. Everyone
agrees with that goal. We don’t have
detention facilities for those individ-
uals to be detained pending a hearing
in front of an immigration judge, so
they are released and told to come
back for a hearing months, maybe
years, in the future. Well, it shouldn’t
surprise anybody that the vast major-
ity of people don’t show up for their
hearings. They simply use this flaw in
our immigration system and the status
quo in order to exploit gaps in our legal
immigration system, and it is dan-
gerous.
I regret that rather than embracing a
solution, there has been an objection to
this very reasonable proposal, which
would add additional immigration
judges and move these families to the
head of the line so that they can
present their case before the judge,
rather than just releasing them into
the vast American landscape. Many of
them will never be heard from again. I
think it is a terrible lost opportunity.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic whip.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, let
me try to give this some perspective.
Let me start with something I hope we
all agree on. There are three things
about immigration that Democrats and
Republicans can agree on. Let’s see if
we can say those three things and all
agree.
We need border security in the
United States. We cannot have open
borders; we need border security.
No. 2, if someone coming into Amer-
ica is dangerous, we don’t want them
here, and if there is someone undocu-
mented in America who is dangerous,
we want them to leave. Those two
things I think both parties can agree
on.
The third thing really gets to the
heart of it. We need comprehensive im-
migration reform. It is not a matter of
solving the issue of the day; it is a
matter of looking at all of our immi-
gration laws and making them work.
The Senator from North Carolina has
probably heard what I have heard from
our friends in agriculture. Whether it
is ranching or dairy or picking fruit,
they need migrant labor. Americans
are many not stepping up to take that
backbreaking work, and they need
help. That is one example.
We need comprehensive immigration
reform. Let’s take a look at the whole
package.
I spent 6 months with Senators JOHN
MCCAIN, CHUCK SCHUMER—four Demo-
crats, four Republicans. We wrote a
comprehensive immigration reform
bill. From start to finish, it was a bi-
partisan bill. It passed on the floor of
the Senate with 68 votes 5 years ago,
and the Republicans refused to con-
sider it in the House of Representa-
tives.
We still need comprehensive immi-
gration reform. We ought to be work-
ing on that together. We ought to take
that bill, reintroduce that bill, and
make that our starting point.
The last point I want to make is
about the current issue we face. Let’s
put this issue into perspective. First, I
am sorry, but I disagree with my friend
from North Carolina and the Senator
from Texas, who say that this is our
job to fix or, as the Senator from Texas
said, we created this problem in Con-
gress. That is not true.
The zero-tolerance policy that has
led us to this moment of debate was
created by President Trump, Attorney
General Sessions, Stephen Miller, and
others. It went into effect in April. We
decided then, as official policy stated
by the United States, that we would
physically, forcibly separate children
from their parents.
We argued that they are all criminals
if they show up at the border. That is
not the case. Some people legitimately
come to our borders seeking asylum
status. They are not criminals, per se,
and to treat them as such and take
their kids away is unwarranted. But
that was our policy.
So 3,000 children were forcibly re-
moved from their parents starting in
April, and what happened next? These
children were sent off into the system.
The parents were sometimes held,
sometimes tried, sometimes deported,
and there was a furor that rose across
the United States. People said: What
are we doing? Why did we take that
nursing child away from the mother?
Why did we take that little toddler
away from his father? What are we
doing here? What is our goal?
The opposition from both political
parties—Republicans and Democrats—
got so intense that this President did
something he almost never does. He re-
versed his position. He said: We are not
doing the family separation policy any-
more. That is the end of it.
But it wasn’t soon enough. There
were 3,000 kids at that point separated
from their parents and spread across
the United States. There was one I
knew of in Chicago. A woman from the
Congo was being held in California. Her
6-year-old daughter had been sent to
Chicago. That is how I learned about
the case. There are cases like that all
over the United States.
Then a Federal judge stepped in. We
are here today because that Federal
judge said: Enough—we want these par-
ents reunited with their kids now.
He set some deadlines. Four weeks
ago, he said: All kids under the age of
5 need to be reunited with the parents
they were taken away from. He set
that goal with a deadline of 2 weeks
ago. Our government identified only
103 out of the 3,000 who were under the
age of 5, and they reunited fewer than
60 of them. As for the rest of them, it
is uncertain what is going to happen to
those kids under the age of 5 who were
separated from their parents.
Now there is a vast number beyond
that; 2,500-plus kids are out there, and
this judge from San Diego stated that
as of tomorrow, July 26, all of those
kids are to be reunited with their par-
ents too.
Guess what. We are in a position
where that is not going to happen. It
physically can’t happen. Our govern-
ment can’t do it. Here is the heart-
breaking secret that we now know: Our
government separated these children
from their parents without any means
of reuniting them, without keeping in-
formation about where the parents
were going to be, where the children
are going to be when the day would
come that the mother would get her
baby back in her arms. We have no
process for that. That, to me, is inex-
cusable and disgraceful.
If you order a package on Amazon
this afternoon, they give you a track-
ing number. Tomorrow, if you want to
know where it is, you go to Amazon,
put in the tracking number, and you
will know where your package is.
We sent infants, toddlers, and young
kids all across the United States with-
out a tracking number, and now we are
trying desperately to reunite them. As
I mentioned earlier to Senator HIRONO,
there are 37 kids out there about whom
this government has admitted: We
don’t know where the parents are. We
can’t put this back together again.
What are we going to do with these
kids?
That is why we are on the floor to
talk about this current crisis. It wasn’t
a crisis created by Congress. It was cre-
ated by the Trump administration with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.026 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5332 July 25, 2018
a zero tolerance policy. Attorney Gen-
eral Sessions and others were so proud
of it, as they took the kids away from
the parents, and they didn’t keep
records. They tossed these infants, tod-
dlers, and children out into the bureau-
cratic sea and said: Start swimming or
sink.
I met some of these kids in Chicago.
There were 10 of them. Kids will be
kids. They looked like regular kids sit-
ting around the table. Two little girls
came in, and I thought at first they
were twins because their hair was iden-
tical and they were about the same
size. When I looked more closely, I saw
that they weren’t.
We asked in Spanish: Are you sisters?
The little girl said: No, amigas. No, we
are friends. These two little girls had
attached themselves to one another.
One was from Honduras and one was
from Chiapas, Mexico. They were hold-
ing on for dear life to one another’s
hand as they walked around this place
because that was their connection;
that was all they had to hang on to.
They were taken away from their par-
ents. I don’t know what happened to
those two little girls.
As a grandfather of 6-year-old twins,
I looked at those little girls and
thought, I know kids just like them,
and I love them to pieces. I can’t imag-
ine being physically, forcibly separated
away from those kids by any govern-
ment. That is what we have done.
So I say to the Senator from North
Carolina, let’s find some things we can
agree on. Let me suggest some things.
Let’s increase the number of immigra-
tion judges. Let’s do it on a merit basis
so that we can get professional people
who know what they are doing—not po-
litical appointments.
Secondly, let’s say that every child
who appears in an administrative hear-
ing is going to have an attorney next
to them. It is embarrassing to me as an
American to think of a 6-year-old, 10-
year-old, or 12-year-old standing before
an administrative judge with an inter-
preter, trying to figure out what is
about to happen to them. We are better
than that in America. We ought to
make sure we are going to do much
better than that in America.
Beyond that, we have to talk about
what we do that is humane—that fol-
lows the Flores decision. Just wiping it
away—there are no standards for hu-
mane treatment for those kids. We
have to have standards. We have to
make sure that they will be placed in
areas we can be proud of, that they will
be treated fairly, humanely, in the
right way, which I am sure you want
and I want too.
Those are things we can work on.
Several weeks ago, we met and sent a
list of questions to the administration
to start our bipartisan conversation.
They never got back to us. I think it
has been a month now. I think it is
time.
If you want to rekindle this bipar-
tisan conversation, count me in, but
let’s do it with the information, and
let’s try to do it with a common pur-
pose.
The last point I will make is this. If
you want to make sure that somebody
shows up at a hearing, 95 percent of
those who are supposed to show up for
these hearings do show up if you do one
of three things. If you provide them
with an attorney who gives them ad-
vice, they will come back for the hear-
ing. If you provide them with coun-
seling services—for example, programs
that have been run by the Lutheran
family services or the Catholic family
services—they will show up for the
hearing. Or if you provide, in some
cases, an ankle monitor, they will
come back for a hearing. So it isn’t a
question of whether they are going to
be lost in the system. We know this
works. Let’s make use of it. It is a
heck of a lot more humane than sepa-
rating families by thousands of miles.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HELLER). The Senator from Virginia.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise
today on another subject, but I want to
touch on the conversation that has
been going on here on the floor.
I agree with my colleague, my friend,
the Senator from Illinois. Our country
is better than this.
I had an opportunity to visit one of
the facilities in Virginia where some of
the children who had been separated
were placed. It was a good facility, and
they were well cared for, but it still
begged the question of unaccompanied
minors being separated from their fam-
ilies.
I saw on a news report today that
some of the children have been re-
united, but for close to 1,400 of these
kids, the determination has been made
that they should not be reunited with
their parents. What does it mean to
those kids? What does it mean to those
families? What does it also mean, then,
to our country’s obligation to take
care of these kids since we are now say-
ing that we are not going to reunite
them with their families? Not only
from a moral sense, but does that mean
that we pick up a long-term obligation
on these children? If there had been a
really thought-through policy, I think
we would have had some of these an-
swers on the front end.
So I join my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle who want to get to a bipar-
tisan solution set here. I think the im-
ages that have been etched on so many
Americans’ minds when they saw the
images of children being separated
from their moms and dads at such an
early age actually led to a moral gag
reflex. Regardless of what party Ameri-
cans support, or even if they support
the President, I think there was an
overwhelming sense that this is not
who we are as a people.
I am willing to meet anyone halfway
to make sure that these kids who have
been separated are reunited, but, more
importantly, that our country is never
again put in this circumstance where
we are, in a sense, put on stage, not
only for the American people but for
the rest of the world. This is not who
we are as Americans.
SUPPORTING FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
Mr. President, the reason I came to
the floor today is on another subject
that I think is of extreme importance.
I rise today with great gratitude for
the men and women all across our
country who serve our Federal Govern-
ment.
Virginia is home to 178,000 of these
public servants. Also in Virginia we
have over 90,000 Active-Duty members
of our military. While many of our
Federal employees in Virginia live in
the DMV, or in the greater Capital re-
gion, the truth is that even in a State
like ours, the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia, 79 percent of our Federal work-
ers live outside the beltway.
As someone who has spent longer in
business and in management than I
have as a Senator, I know one of the
things that any good business leader
does—or, for that matter, what I tried
to do when I was Governor of the
State—is how you treat your work-
force, and that reflects in the quality
of service that the workforce provides
to its customers. In this case, the cus-
tomers of the Federal Government are
the American people.
The work of our Federal Government
and the way our Federal Government
invests in its workforce—the way we
manage and invest in human capital—
is not by any means a partisan matter.
For that matter, coming from the
Commonwealth of Virginia, a State
with so many Federal workers, it is not
by any means a parochial issue. This is
an issue that impacts all Americans—
all Americans who pay taxes, who fol-
low our laws, and who expect the Fed-
eral Government to work for them and
to work well and in an efficient man-
ner.
That is why I also rise today with
great concern about recent efforts by
this administration to scapegoat and
undermine the work of our Federal em-
ployees.
It started with hiring freezes that
threw a wrench into the day-to-day op-
erations of nearly every Federal agen-
cy. Frankly, this wrench was thrown in
with no apparent benefit to the tax-
payers at large. It continued with Ex-
ecutive orders undermining workforce
protections for Federal workers and
their ability to organize as part of a
union and to have that collective voice
heard in terms of representations with
management. It culminated last month
with the Trump administration’s plan
to freeze Federal employee pay and cut
retirement benefits for 2.6 million Fed-
eral retirees and survivors—2.6 million
Federal retirees and survivors having
their retirement benefits cut. This is
the thanks our Federal employees get
for their service.
President Trump campaigned on a
promise to drain the swamp, but the
great irony is that the most glaring in-
stances of failure and corruption at the
Federal level in recent months have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.028 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5333
July 25, 2018
not come from career Federal employ-
ees. They have come from appointees
installed by this administration.
Look no further than the EPA, where
the American people saw some of the
most blatant examples of swamp-like
behavior in the waste and abuse from
former EPA administrator Mr. Pruitt.
We also saw that, with few excep-
tions, those at the EPA with the cour-
age to stand up and say ‘‘this is not
OK’’ were not appointees but were ca-
reer Federal employees. For some, that
meant they were either demoted or re-
assigned in retaliation, all because
they had the courage to speak up and
do what was right. This is the thanks
that our Federal employees got for
their service, for trying to protect tax-
payer funds, for their service of trying
to prevent waste and fraud, and for
their service of trying to point out the
swamp-like behavior of Mr. Trump and
his appointee Scott Pruitt.
Unfortunately, these issues don’t ap-
pear to be confined to the walls of one
agency or one rogue administrator. We
have seen disturbing reports of Trump
political appointees purging career em-
ployees at the State Department and
at the Veterans’ Administration. These
reports should concern all of us—Re-
publicans and Democrats alike—who
believe in good and honest government
by and for the people.
Now, my hope is that we can stop
this ongoing onslaught on our Federal
workforce. We will have differences,
but as somebody who has spent longer
in business than I have in government,
if you want your workforce to do well,
you need to reward those who do well
and challenge and penalize those who
don’t perform, but not take these broad
brushstrokes that unfortunately have
come out of this administration, frank-
ly, undermining both the performance
and the morale of Federal employees
who serve day in and day out without
a lot of recognition.
Before I close, I want to make an-
other comment on this subject, because
there is one part of our Federal Gov-
ernment, in particular, where naked
partisanship threatens not only the
functioning of the government but
really the rule of law itself. I am
speaking, of course, about the at-
tacks—ad hominem, in most cases—
against our Federal law enforcement
agencies and our intelligence commu-
nity.
The intelligence community, as we
know, was founded 71 years ago tomor-
row, when President Truman signed
the National Security Act. That date,
July 26, also marks the 110th birthday
of the FBI, as well as Intelligence Pro-
fessionals Day, a time to show our
gratitude to those brave men and
women who keep us safe every day—if
only this gratitude, which I know is
shared by people on both sides of the
aisle, were shared by our current Com-
mander in Chief.
Unfortunately, in the months since
Russia attacked the very institutions
of our democracy, we have seen some of
the most bizarre reactions from the
President and his allies. Instead of
uniting our country behind the cause
of defending democracy and bringing
our adversaries to justice, this Presi-
dent has led an all-out attack on the
credibility of the FBI, the Justice De-
partment, and our intelligence commu-
nity, demeaning career FBI officials
who have saved countless American
lives over their careers and impugning
the motives of Special Counsel
Mueller, perhaps the most respected
Federal lawman of this generation.
Worst of all, we saw the President of
the United States stand on stage with
Vladimir Putin last week and publicly
side with Putin over the career men
and women of our intelligence commu-
nity, many of whom risk their lives on
a daily basis in order to keep our coun-
try safe. This is the thanks they get for
their years of service, oftentimes—par-
ticularly folks in the intelligence com-
munity—without any recognition.
The men and women of the FBI, the
Department of Justice, and the intel-
ligence community deserve better. All
of our public servants deserve better
than what we have seen from this ad-
ministration.
My advice for this President, if he is
really serious about draining the
swamp, is to leave our Federal employ-
ees alone and to take a good look at
some of the folks he has appointed
within his own administration.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.
CALLING FOR THE RELEASE OF PASTOR ANDREW
BRUNSON
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I am here
again this week to fulfill a promise I
made after becoming deeply involved
in a situation involving a Presbyterian
minister who has been held in prison
since 2016 in the country of Turkey.
I have traveled to Turkey a couple of
times, and I have met Pastor Brunson.
He is from an area in Western North
Carolina. He is actually a part of a
church affiliated with the Reverend
Billy Graham. He has been a mis-
sionary in Turkey for about 20 years.
In October 2016, he was incarcerated
and accused of being a part of plotting
the coup attempt—an illegal act for
which people who were involved should
be held accountable, but he was not
one of them—and, also, suspected of
terrorist activities.
Back in the late winter, after almost
19 months in prison without charges,
after the indictment was issued, he was
concerned that the American people
were going to look at this indictment
and turn their back on him. I felt like
I needed to be able to look him in the
eye and tell him nothing could be fur-
ther from the truth. So I traveled to
Turkey and met with him in a prison
outside of Izmir to tell him that I
would continue to be his voice and that
I spoke for a number of Senators who
are also concerned with this. More
than 70 signed onto a letter expressing
their concern. This is not a partisan
issue. This is about the illegal incar-
ceration of a Presbyterian minister in
a NATO ally, Turkey.
Pastor Brunson has been imprisoned
656 days, counting today. We just got
word this morning that the Turkish
authorities have agreed to release him
on house arrest. So we are going to get
him out of the situation he has been in
for about 16 or 17 months, in a cell de-
signed for 8 people that had 21 in it.
Now he is at least going to be able to
be under house arrest and held outside
of prison.
For as long as I am in the Senate, I
will come to this floor every week and
advocate for Pastor Brunson and a
number of other people who are de-
tained in Turkey for what I believe are
inappropriate reasons—reasons that
wouldn’t keep you in jail overnight in
the United States.
Under the emergency authorities
that President Erdogan had, they were
swept up and some have been con-
victed. We have a NASA scientist who
also has family in Turkey. He was ar-
rested when he was over there, appar-
ently for being a conspirator in the
coup attempt. We have State Depart-
ment staff and Turkish nationals who
worked with our State Department and
our Embassy over there who are in
prison. We have to have a watchful eye
on everybody.
I am glad that the Turkish Govern-
ment is moving in the right direction
with Pastor Brunson, but he is still ef-
fectively detained. Now it is under
house arrest. So I will continue to
work for Pastor Brunson’s release, but
I also want to make sure that the other
people who are, in my opinion, illegally
and inappropriately detained in the
Turkish prison system also have a
voice here in the U.S. Senate.
Again, I appreciate the Turkish offi-
cials taking this step to release Pastor
Brunson and to put him on house ar-
rest, but I will guarantee that, for as
long as I am a U.S. Senator and there
is somebody detained in Turkey, they
will have a voice here in the U.S. Sen-
ate.
I hope that by next week or in the
next couple of weeks Pastor Brunson is
back in the United States, and I hope I
don’t have a reason to come to this
floor and speak on his behalf and be his
voice.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
NOMINATION OF BRETT KAVANAUGH
Mrs. ERNST. Mr. President, I rise
today to voice my support for the nom-
ination of Brett Kavanaugh to the Su-
preme Court of the United States.
As the final arbiter of the Constitu-
tion, the Supreme Court has a sacred
duty of ensuring equal justice under
the law to the American people. The
Supreme Court wields the immense
power of judicial review. Alexis de
Tocqueville described this power of the
Supreme Court when he called it ‘‘a
more imposing judicial power than was
ever constituted by any other people.’’
As Members of the Senate, it is not
often that we get the opportunity to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.030 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5334 July 25, 2018
give our advice and consent on the con-
firmation of Supreme Court Justices.
It is even rarer that we get the oppor-
tunity to confirm someone as highly
qualified and well-respected as Brett
Kavanaugh.
I am especially impressed by Judge
Kavanaugh’s interpretation of the Con-
stitution as it applies to the ever-en-
croaching power of Federal agencies.
Even before the people of Iowa sent me
to Washington, I was horrified by the
impact increasingly burdensome regu-
lations imposed on hard-working men,
women, and businesses. This was im-
posed by unleashed Federal bureau-
crats.
An excellent example of this is the
infamous waters of the United States
rule promulgated by the Obama EPA.
The Obama administration’s bloated
definition of the waters of the United
States would have put 97 percent—97
percent—of Iowa under EPA jurisdic-
tion. Even a tire track filled with
water on an Iowa farm would have been
subject to Federal regulation.
Federal agencies have been allowed
to implement such destructive regula-
tions in part due to the Supreme Court
giving them deference. While a certain
degree of deference is needed, I am con-
cerned that a too-broad deferential
standard separates the people of the
United States from Washington bu-
reaucrats. It fails to place an adequate
check on executive and administrative
power.
Throughout his career as both a
highly respected legal scholar and a
judge on the esteemed DC Circuit
Court of Appeals, Judge Kavanaugh has
written critically of widening the scope
of this already far-reaching deferential
standard. He wrote in part that this
deference ‘‘encourages the Executive
Branch to be extremely aggressive in
seeking to squeeze its policy goals into
ill-fitting statutory authorizations and
restraints.’’ This could not have been
what the Founders intended when they
developed our Constitution and our
government. I could not agree more
with Judge Kavanaugh’s concerns. I
look forward to the Judge’s level-
headed leadership and thinking on the
Supreme Court.
In addition, I was proud to hear that
Judge Kavanaugh has had the chance
to work with Iowans. State Represent-
ative Mary Ann Hanusa, who rep-
resents the city of Council Bluffs, had
the opportunity to work with Judge
Kavanaugh when he served as Staff
Secretary in the White House. Rep-
resentative Hanusa describes Judge
Kavanaugh as hard-working, dedicated,
and impartial in his duties—all traits
that I require in a Supreme Court Jus-
tice.
Under Chairman GRASSLEY’s leader-
ship, I believe that we will have a thor-
ough, timely, and successful confirma-
tion process, just as we did with Neil
Gorsuch. I urge my colleagues to put
aside partisan gimmicks and games
and support the confirmation of Brett
Kavanaugh.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
SUPPORTING FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I want
to thank a very dedicated group of
folks—the Federal employees working
for us, the American people. As Federal
employees gather this week, I want to
remind the country about the vital
work being done each and every day by
these hard-working public servants.
It is no secret that organized labor is
under attack. The bargaining rights,
the hard-earned benefits, the safe
working conditions, and the fair pay of
American workers are under attack
from folks right here in Washington,
DC, and in State capitols around the
country. We aren’t ones to run away
from a fight. That is why, when the ad-
ministration proposed to freeze hiring
across Federal agencies, I and others
pushed back. I knew that across-the-
board freezes would hurt their ability
to serve the American people and do
the job within government that the
American people expected. Then, when
bad National Labor Relations Board
nominees came before the Senate, I
voted no. I have been proud to stand
with our Federal workforce—our hard-
working Federal workforce—as we
fight to protect those government em-
ployees.
As ranking member of the Senate
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, I have
been working with them to address
chronic workforce shortages that are
plaguing veterans’ clinics across the
United States. While building capacity
within the VA to ensure we uphold our
commitment to those who serve, we
need to staff those very facilities.
I have also been honored to work
with our friends in labor to address dis-
parities in Federal benefits and pay.
Congress must make sure that whether
you are a Border Patrol agent or a TSA
worker, you get the same workforce
protections as other members in our
Federal forces.
I am committed to defending our
workers, holding Washington account-
able, and fighting for a stronger Fed-
eral workforce each and every day be-
cause that is what the American people
expect.
With that, Mr. President, I yield the
floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF BRETT KAVANAUGH
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, when
President Trump nominated Brett
Kavanaugh to serve on the Supreme
Court, I believe he made an excellent
choice. Judge Kavanaugh has served on
the DC Circuit Court for 12 years. He
has distinguished himself as a careful,
independent, and very intelligent
judge.
This was a headline in the Wall
Street Journal on July 10, 2018. They
took a look at his record, and this is
what they predicted: ‘‘Trump’s Nomi-
nee Will Be an Intellectual Leader On
the Bench.’’ I had a chance to meet
with him today, and that is exactly
what I think. I think they got it com-
pletely right. The newspaper pointed
out that he has written opinions that
span nearly every significant constitu-
tional issue.
Judge Kavanaugh has such a strong
reputation that courts around the
country actually have relied on his
opinions. When you look at his whole
record, he has written about 200 major-
ity opinions for the DC Circuit Court,
on which he serves. He has only been
reversed one time by the Supreme
Court. The Supreme Court has actually
been much more likely to agree with
Judge Kavanaugh. In at least 13 dif-
ferent cases over the dozen years he
has served on the DC Circuit Court,
they have adopted his legal reasoning
in their own Supreme Court rulings. To
me, that makes him a mainstream
judge.
In one case involving the separation
of powers, Judge Kavanaugh disagreed
with the opinion of two other circuit
judges. He looked at the text of the
Constitution and at the original mean-
ing of those words, which is, to me,
what a judge ought to be doing. He
wrote that the ‘‘Framers of our Con-
stitution took great care to ensure
that power in our system was separated
into three branches.’’ That is one of
the things he and I talked about
today—the three branches of govern-
ment the Founding Fathers created to
separate the powers within our system.
In that writing, Judge Kavanaugh went
on to stress the importance of the Con-
stitution’s checks and balances—the
fundamental principles on which our
democracy was founded. The Supreme
Court agreed with Judge Kavanaugh’s
reasoning, and the Court cited his work
several times in reaching their own Su-
preme Court decision.
There was another case that dealt
with a regulation that was written by
the Environmental Protection Agency.
Judge Kavanaugh found that the Agen-
cy exceeded its authority under the law
when it wrote its regulation. He wrote:
‘‘It is not our job to make the policy
choices and set the statutory bound-
aries, but it is emphatically our job to
carefully but firmly enforce the statu-
tory boundaries.’’ What are the bound-
aries? It is our job to enforce them, not
to set them.
Again, the Supreme Court took a
look at this, looked at his writings
from the DC Circuit Court, and they
agreed with Judge Kavanaugh’s rea-
soning.
One constitutional scholar pointed
out that ‘‘Judge Kavanaugh commands
wide and deep respect among scholars,
lawyers, judges, and justices.’’ Another
legal scholar said that Judge
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.031 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5335
July 25, 2018
Kavanaugh is ‘‘one of the most learned
judges in America on a variety of
issues, ranging from theories of statu-
tory interpretation to separation of
powers.’’ A third law professor agreed.
This professor called Judge Kavanaugh
‘‘a true intellectual—a leading thinker
and writer on the subjects of statutory
interpretation and federal courts.’’
Here is what we know about Judge
Kavanaugh. It is clear that he is a per-
son of strong character. We hear this
from people who have known him in
the community and people who have
worked with him for years in the court.
It is clear that Judge Kavanaugh has
exactly the right approach, in my opin-
ion, to being a judge. He said it very
plainly in a speech last year. He said
that a judge’s job is to interpret the
law, not to make the law or make pol-
icy. That is what judges are supposed
to do. I think that is the standard
Americans should be applying to any-
one who is nominated to this high posi-
tion.
Then you look at the endorsements
from legal scholars, and you look at
the number of times the Supreme
Court has followed his opinions, fol-
lowed his reasoning, followed his
thought pattern. It is clear that Judge
Kavanaugh has the incredibly strong
intellect that we want in a Supreme
Court Justice. When we see someone
who commands this kind of respect
from the experts, I think Senators need
to take that into consideration.
I met with Judge Kavanaugh, as I
said, early this morning. I enjoyed a
long discussion on various topics relat-
ing to the law—the Constitution, the
separation of powers. I hope my Demo-
cratic colleagues will meet with him as
well.
I look forward to having a full and
thoughtful confirmation process. I ap-
preciate the opportunity to discuss this
topic.
150TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE WYOMING
TERRITORY
Mr. President, I come to the floor
today to commemorate the 150th anni-
versary of the creation of the Wyoming
Territory. On July 25, 1868, Congress
authorized the Territory that would
become the State of Wyoming. Thou-
sands of people were headed West along
the new rail lines that were being
built. In fact, the first territorial Gov-
ernor noted that it was the first time
America had carved out a new Terri-
tory as a result of the railroad coming
through. People were eager to settle in
the new Territory and build new lives,
seek their fortunes, and raise their
families.
What they found when they reached
the Wyoming Territory was a place of
incomparable beauty. An observer at
the time talked about the fertile valley
of rivers and streams. That continues
today. This observer at the time
praised the gorges of its majestic
mountains.
It wasn’t just the natural beauty of
Wyoming that drew people there, how-
ever; it was the natural resources as
well. When the Senate was debating
the creation of the Territory, one of
the things they talked about right here
in this body, right here in this room,
was the potential future for the area.
These natural resources would help
power America’s expansion West. One
Senator talked about the valuable
springs of petroleum and about the
abundant coal deposits. That was 150
years ago—valuable petroleum and
abundant coal deposits.
These same natural resources still
help power the American economy
today, 150 years later. Wyoming is
America’s largest producer of coal, and
we are one of the biggest in producing
oil and natural gas. Over the past cen-
tury and a half, the people of Wyoming
have provided America with gold, dia-
monds, and uranium as well.
From the very beginning, from day
one, scientists have flocked to Wyo-
ming to explore our natural resources.
Some of the first government-spon-
sored geological surveys took place in
what is now Yellowstone National
Park. Today students and scholars
come from around the world to study
at the University of Wyoming. Yellow-
stone is one of the world’s most treas-
ured places to visit. More than 4 mil-
lion people visited there this past year.
Once Congress created the Wyoming
Territory, we lost no time in orga-
nizing and setting ourselves up as a
model for the rest of the country. One
of the first acts of new territorial legis-
lature was to actually grant equal
rights to women for the first time in
American history. That is why Wyo-
ming today is still known as the Equal-
ity State. Women served on juries. We
had the first female justice of the
peace. We had the first woman elected
Governor of any State.
We are a small State by population,
but when you look at these things that
we have contributed throughout our
history, you can see why we are very
proud to call Wyoming home. Wyoming
has always been a place where people
are driven by hope and by optimism
about the future. This optimism is an
essential part of who we are today.
The polling company Gallup found
recently that Wyoming is the most
confident State in the country when it
comes to America’s economy. People in
Wyoming are cheerful, they are upbeat,
and they are optimistic.
One hundred fifty years ago, the Wy-
oming Territory was the frontier. The
people of Wyoming still have that same
pioneering spirit today. We are patri-
otic Americans. We work hard to care
for our families, for our neighbors, and
for our communities. I congratulate all
of the people in the State of Wyoming
today on this historic milestone. One
hundred fifty years ago today, Con-
gress acted to create the Wyoming Ter-
ritory. That spirit of Wyoming and the
culture of Wyoming have sustained us
this whole time, and they will continue
for many years into the future.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
NOMINATION OF CHARLES RETTIG
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, last
week, the Finance Committee met to
consider the nomination of Charles
Rettig to be the Commissioner of the
Internal Revenue Service. Charles
Rettig is a highly qualified man whom
I have long believed had near universal
support from the members of the com-
mittee.
I suppose it should not be surprising,
but my colleagues on the other side of
the aisle were finally able to find an
excuse for why they couldn’t support
this well-qualified practitioner. My
friends on the other side, including
Ranking Member WYDEN, announced a
newfound opposition to Mr. Rettig,
based not on anything he has done, nor
on anything he hasn’t done. Instead,
they decided to broadly oppose Mr.
Rettig because of a recent regulatory
change at the Treasury Department.
Now, some of you may be scratching
your heads wondering how, if he hasn’t
been confirmed yet, does he have any-
thing to do with this new regulatory
change? I know it is puzzling. When
you get into the weeds, it becomes
clear that my friends have just been
looking for an excuse to keep this well-
qualified practitioner from heading up
the IRS when our country needs him
the most.
Democrats also raised extraneous
news reports of a Russian person alleg-
edly infiltrating the NRA and poten-
tially infusing domestic organizations
with so-called ‘‘dark money.’’
Interestingly, though, they seem not
to be at all concerned with the subse-
quent revelations that the very same
person had meetings with at least one
Federal Reserve official and at least
one high-level official in the Treasury
Department during the Obama admin-
istration. Evidently, for Democrats,
when it comes to activities that are
quite concerning, the concerns vanish
when the activities involve officials in
a Democratic administration.
The point is, none of the Democrats’
concerns or opposition have anything
to do with Mr. Rettig, and as his nomi-
nation moves forward, I will continue
to talk about his incredible qualifica-
tions to be our IRS Commissioner as
we move through his nomination proc-
ess.
Today, I want to take a minute to
address the Treasury Department’s ac-
tions. By way of background, the
Treasury Department changed an out-
dated Nixon administration rule that
required certain tax-exempt organiza-
tions to report the names and address-
es of taxpayers who made substantial
donations. This requirement did not
arise out of a current statute, it isn’t
useful for tax administration, and it
unnecessarily puts taxpayer informa-
tion at risk. Cognizant of these issues,
the Treasury Department changed that
rule. Not such a dramatic change, but
to hear my Democratic colleagues
react, you would think the Department
repealed the Bill of Rights or sold our
democracy down the river.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.033 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5336 July 25, 2018
That is why I think it is critical to
note that, despite the rule change, the
IRS still has access to this information
should the agency need it. Of course,
you would never know that when lis-
tening to my friends on the other side
of the aisle as they cherry-pick their
facts, but for the rest of us, I think we
should all take a step back, take a deep
breath, and consider what has actually
taken place.
Back in 1969, Congress amended the
Internal Revenue Code requiring
501(c)(3) charities to file an annual re-
turn that includes the names and ad-
dresses of substantial contributors.
This rule makes perfect sense. After
all, taxpayers receive a tax deduction
for these donations, so the IRS needs
to be able to verify that individual tax-
payer has actually donated what they
said they did. It is a great tax fraud
prevention tool.
However, this taxpayer information
is extremely sensitive and must be
safeguarded from a data breach or
other improper revelation. That is why
Congress chose to prohibit public dis-
closure of this information.
Then, 2 years later, in 1971, President
Nixon’s Treasury Department issued
further regulations extending this re-
quirement to contributions made to
501(c)(4), (5), and (6) organizations.
For those who don’t stay up late at
night reading the Tax Code for fun,
these organizations include social wel-
fare, labor, and agricultural organiza-
tions, as well as chambers of com-
merce.
This regulation went beyond what is
required by the statute and, thus, be-
yond what Congress wrote when requir-
ing noncharity, tax-exempt organiza-
tions to disclose personally identifiable
taxpayer information; namely, the
names, addresses and donations for
anyone who contributed $5,000 or more
to that particular social welfare orga-
nization. Remember, these contribu-
tions are not tax deductible, so the IRS
has less need for this information. It is
key to remember that the law gen-
erally requires the returns of tax-ex-
empt organizations be made publicly
available.
Taken together, this means the IRS
has been forcing the collection of infor-
mation it doesn’t need that can easily
get leaked out and cause problems for
the IRS, the organizations, the indi-
vidual donors, and the American people
generally. As such, and in order to
avoid these important privacy issues,
the IRS has had to spend very precious
time and resources redacting this in-
formation; again, information the
agency did not need to collect in the
first place and that does no good in
helping thwart tax evasion or fraud. In
the end, this process has turned into a
disproportionate amount of work and
expense of taxpayer dollars with few
benefits in return.
All of that, while not the most excit-
ing topic for a dinner conversation, is
what brings us to today. All of that is
why the IRS has been looking at
changing this requirement during and
since the Obama administration.
The IRS has broadly noted three rea-
sons for this change: First, as I men-
tioned, the IRS doesn’t need the per-
sonally identifiable information of
these donors to carry out its mission.
While this information was helpful to
administering the gift tax in 2015, the
Congress changed the law on the appli-
cation of the gift tax, so it is no longer
relevant here, and that change was
broadly bipartisan.
Second, requiring the reporting of
donor information consumes a lot of
time and money both at the IRS as
well as the tax-exempt organizations.
This directly conflicts with our goal of
making the IRS more efficient and
helpful for American taxpayers.
Third, schedule B returns with per-
sonally identifiable information of do-
nors have a tendency to leak. This
poses a risk to taxpayer privacy, it cre-
ates a liability for the IRS, and it
erodes the trust of the American people
in our tax collection agency. This risk
is very real. Since 2010, the IRS is
aware of at least 14 breaches that re-
sulted in the unauthorized disclosure of
this type of information. Mind you,
those are cases we know of.
That is why, earlier this month, the
Trump administration listened to the
agency’s concerns, contemplated the
facts, and did what any sane govern-
ment should do. It enacted changes
that would help the IRS focus on what
is important instead of needlessly risk-
ing resources and private taxpayer in-
formation.
The administration was wise enough
to accept the idea that arose out of the
Obama administration. That is just
good government. Yet, if you have lis-
tened to my Democratic colleagues
these past few days, you would think
democracy, as we know it, has been de-
stroyed. You might even think the IRS
and the Trump administration have
been bought and paid for by this nebu-
lous so-called dark money.
The truth is, these attacks are just a
partisan stunt because even if you be-
lieve in intricate weaving of a con-
spiracy theory, it ignores the plain fact
that the IRS actually still has access
to donor information if it wants it.
Nothing is being deleted.
Instead, leaks of sensitive taxpayer
information will be less common, the
IRS is less likely to become a political
beach ball smacked back and forth
across the aisle, and this administra-
tion had the common sense to take up
a Democratic President’s work to
eliminate pointless busy work for the
IRS and tax-exempt organizations.
Honestly, if this isn’t good govern-
ment, I don’t know what is. Let’s ig-
nore this pointless obstruction and get
back to work. After all, there is a lot
to do.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, it is al-
ways an honor to follow the President
pro tempore of the Senate on the Sen-
ate floor.
I am here to talk about the work we
are working through and what—for
decades would actually be an under-
statement—for a couple of centuries
was the principal work of the Congress,
which was to set our priorities by how
we spend the money people have en-
trusted us with.
Today I want to talk specifically
about the importance of transpor-
tation, and the ag bill is in here, too—
the agricultural bill. Certainly, those
things come together in a way that al-
lows us to be competitive or don’t
come together in a way that doesn’t
allow us to be as competitive as we
would like to be.
There is no question that our Na-
tion’s infrastructure is not what it
should be. The Interstate Highway Sys-
tem, built under the leadership of
President Eisenhower, some of it is
now over seven decades old, a lot of it
over five decades old. It is not where it
should be. It has outlived the projected
life, and that is a good thing. The con-
struction and repair are better than
thought to be at the time, but they are
not the kinds of things that are going
to last forever.
It has been reported that we have a
backlog of at least $836 billion in high-
way and bridge infrastructure, just
that part of our infrastructure.
I am the chairman of the Commerce
Committee’s Subcommittee on Avia-
tion. The Chair and I serve on that
committee, and on that committee, we
believe there is at least $100 billion in
airport infrastructure projects. There
are all kinds of airports all over the
world that you can fly into or fly out
of, and as you come back into the
United States, you realize how far we
are behind.
Location is important to us. In fact,
Winston Churchill said at one time,
talking about the United States, that
the United States of America was the
best located country in the world. We
have the Pacific Ocean on one side and
the Atlantic Ocean on the other. We
have neighbors north and south whom
we have learned to cooperate with and
live with. We could turn to the Pacific,
if that is where the opportunities were.
We could turn to the Atlantic.
Winston Churchill pointed out that
the Mississippi River, which runs
through the center of our country, is
maybe the greatest waterway in the
world, in terms of the system that cre-
ated transportation from the very
start. The Mississippi River and all the
tributary valleys there were incredibly
well located.
But all of these things can benefit us
if we make the most of them, but it is
possible to make the least of them. If
you get to the water or if you get to
the river and you get on it and you can
use it and it becomes an avenue of
commerce, it is an opportunity. If you
get to the water and you can’t get on
it, it is an obstacle.
That is sort of what all these things
are when we talk about transportation.
Are we going to talk about obstacles or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.034 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5337
July 25, 2018
opportunities? What are we going to do
with inadequate and deficient infra-
structure that really does impact
whether local communities can com-
pete or not?
Back to the thoughts about the map
of America and where our State is lo-
cated, Missouri is really at the hub of
where a lot of the natural infrastruc-
ture of the country come together, and
also the No. 2 and No. 3 biggest rail
yards in America are in our State. No.
2 is in Kansas City, and No. 3 is in St.
Louis. The interstate highways come
together there.
Chairman COLLINS and her com-
mittee worked on this part of the bill—
a bill where all four committees have
brought a product to the floor that we
can vote for and that we get a chance
to amend. We get a chance to talk
about how this could have been made
better and maybe find a way to make it
better or maybe find a way to realize
that, now that I understand the argu-
ments, it is a better bill than I
thought. That is the importance of get-
ting that to the floor.
The bill provides $1 billion for BUILD
Grants. Those were previously known
as TIGER grants. At least 30 percent of
that billion dollars is to benefit rural
areas. This is particularly the kind of
program we had benefited from. The
program funded the Champ Clark
Bridge over the Mississippi River in
Louisiana, MO, and the bridge over the
Missouri River at Washington, MO.
They all benefited from TIGER Grants.
There is another $49.3 billion for crit-
ical highway infrastructure. That is an
increase of $3 billion over the author-
ized level. This program will provide
our State with $79 million more in Fed-
eral funding increases for roads,
bridges, and freight programs. High-
ways and roads are generally still
largely a State problem. This bill en-
courages States to do things that they
might not quite be able to do other-
wise.
We have 3,000 bridges in our State
deemed structurally deficient. I think
it is the highest number of bridges any-
where because we have more than 3,000
bridges that are structurally deficient
and there are thousands of bridges
more than that.
The bill provides $175 million in dis-
cretionary spending, combined with
$140 million in mandatory spending to
support Essential Air Service commu-
nities. Those communities can almost
support their own commercial system,
but not quite, and still have an argu-
ment that they need it. In Missouri,
Joplin, Cape Girardeau, and Kirksville
all benefit from that Essential Air
Service Program. The airport in Co-
lumbia is benefiting right now with re-
habilitating runways from that pro-
gram.
The bill provides some capital invest-
ment grants that allow some help with
transit projects.
As far as ag infrastructure is con-
cerned, we have the chairman of the
Agriculture Appropriations Sub-
committee on the floor right now. For
ag to work, you have to have an infra-
structure that works. The world price
of grain is the world price of grain less
what it costs you to get it there. The
way you win that competition is to
have a transportation network that
works in a way that allows you to be
more competitive than anyone else. If
you could arrive with a quality product
and get it there cheaper than anybody
else can, you get that marketplace.
We don’t want to forget broadband.
As we think about rural America
today, broadband is as important as
the telephone was 70 years ago. We fig-
ured out how to get telephones to peo-
ple that were a long way from the near-
est telephone, or until they got a tele-
phone, a long way from the nearest
telephone pole. We figured that out,
and we need to figure out rural
broadband just as well. If you can’t get
the high-speed information you need,
you may be doing something that you
don’t have to go to an office to do, like
commodity trading, but you do have to
have instantaneous information to do
it effectively.
As for rural Missourians, we have 3
percent of the rural population in our
State, and half of that population
doesn’t have access to high-speed inter-
net. That is behind the rest of the
country, and our State is trying to
catch up. If we can take advantage of
these broadband pilot grants that en-
courage everybody to catch up, we will
catch up faster than we would other-
wise.
This bill provides distance learning
and telemedicine grants as part of our
rural community development, and
there are rural development commu-
nity facilities grants in here. We are
benefiting from that, and we hope to
see that program continue. We received
rural development community facili-
ties grants for things like police facili-
ties, road construction equipment, and
healthcare facilities in Dent County,
Scotland County, Livingston County,
Grundy County, and Schuyler County.
All of those kinds of things would still
be out there to compete for if we pass
this bill.
It includes $1.25 billion for the Rural
Development Water and Waste Disposal
Program to be developed in rural Mis-
souri. We have eight communities right
now benefitting from that. Every level
of government—local, State, and Fed-
eral—as well as the private sector,
really has to continue to recognize the
importance of infrastructure—the in-
frastructure we see on top of the
ground, the infrastructure we don’t see
below the ground, and the broadband
infrastructure that some people have
and other people don’t. That is how we
compete.
This bill largely is a bill about com-
petition. Certainly, the transportation
and ag parts of this bill are about com-
petition. We need to do what we can to
strengthen our overall infrastructure
and our transportation network, to
boost economic growth, to create jobs,
and to be sure that we are more com-
petitive where I live and where you live
and all over our country. That is what
this bill is about.
I am really pleased that, for the first
time in a long time, every Member of
the Senate has a right to come to the
floor and say: Here is how we can spend
this money better. Our goal should be
to take what we have been entrusted
with and spend it in the way that bene-
fits the country in the most effective
way. I think this bill goes a long way
in the right direction to do that. I am
certainly looking forward to sup-
porting it when it comes to final pas-
sage and looking carefully at every
amendment anybody offers to see if
that is not a better idea than those of
us on the Appropriations Committee
had.
I see that my friend from West Vir-
ginia is here.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from West Virginia.
Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, I am
really pleased to be on the floor today
to join my fellow Senator from Mis-
souri to talk about, as a fellow member
of the Appropriations Committee, what
I think are the real highlights and the
good parts about the fact that the
process is moving but also what is con-
tained within the process.
Senator BLUNT did a great job, I
think, of explaining some of the more
detailed areas that are important to
the entire Country but also to his area.
I am going to do the same for my State
of West Virginia.
I want to commend the committee
leadership, both the committee chairs
and the ranking members, and our Sen-
ate leadership, both Senator MCCON-
NELL and Senator SCHUMER, for moving
this process forward and for making
good on the promise that we are going
to return the appropriations process to
regular order.
I tried it to explain it in a radio
interview today. I found myself saying:
Well, of course, we would be doing this
every year, because appropriating
money every year is one of the core
missions of the Congress. It kind of
hasn’t worked out that way. This
progress that we are making on these
four bills and the three previous bills, I
think, are an indicator that we will
have overwhelming bipartisan support.
Each of these bills was written under
the budget agreement that we passed
and President Trump signed into law.
These bills address a broad range of
national concerns and priorities. They
highlight areas that we found bipar-
tisan agreement and support on. I am
also happy that many of these bills not
only have national priorities, but a lot
of the national priorities are focused
toward different States—rural Amer-
ica, urban America, agriculture Amer-
ica, highly technical jobs, et cetera.
Since my first days in the Senate, I
have been committed to doing all that
I can to advance the issues that help
the Mountain State, including improv-
ing our economy and making room for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.037 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5338 July 25, 2018
growth and development, fighting bur-
densome and overreaching environ-
mental regulations that have crippled
our coal industry, improving
broadband access in our rural commu-
nities and across the States, and fight-
ing the opioid epidemic that has dis-
proportionately affected my State of
West Virginia and is devastating so
many families and communities not
only in our State but across the coun-
try.
The bills under consideration today
include resources and directions to ad-
dress each of these priorities and many
others.
In our Omnibus appropriations act of
2018, we made a significant investment
in a pilot project at the USDA to im-
prove rural broadband in unserved and
underserved areas. The State of West
Virginia is right in there in terms of
lack of broadband deployment in our
most rural areas. The Agriculture ap-
propriations bill in this minibus builds
on those investments and provides an
additional $400 million into that pilot
program.
Closing the digital divide has been
one of my top priorities. I started my
Capito Connect plan to talk about the
progress that can be made. This pilot
program will help us to build on that
progress and connect areas that pre-
viously lacked service, making that
the highlight of the bill for me.
We had a hearing today about 5G in
the Commerce Committee and about
how much faster speeds and more ad-
vanced technology can improve the
economy and how it can be extrapo-
lated to the numbers of jobs and the
numbers of dollars into the economy. I
am a firm believer that technology is
going to drive this, but for those areas
that are still left behind or are still on
the wrong side of the digital divide,
certainly, the program within the
USDA is going to be a big boost.
I have already had several conversa-
tions with USDA to make sure they un-
derstand the unique challenges that we
face in West Virginia when it comes to
connectivity and so that they continue
to keep these challenges in mind as
they move forward on the pilot pro-
grams.
Every Senator here could make an
argument on what their particular
challenges are. One of the challenges
that we face that some of our mid-
westerners don’t face as much is our
terrain. We are not called the Moun-
tain State for nothing. It is hard to
drive from one place to another with-
out being in a mountain. If you don’t
live on a hill, you live in the valley.
That creates challenges for
connectivity that technology is going
to drive. I am very encouraged about
this. I am very encouraged, not just
about the broadband part of agri-
culture but the rural development,
water, and electricity infrastructure
and about opposing cuts to several pro-
grams that have been very helpful to
our rural communities.
West Virginia, as does every State,
also has challenges and opportunities
in the transportation sector. I see the
chairman of the Transportation Sub-
committee here, Senator COLLINS. She
has done great work on the T-HUD ap-
propriations bill. Some of these—cer-
tainly, the Airport Improvement Pro-
gram and the Contract Tower Pro-
gram—are very important to our
smaller airports as well as to our cit-
ies, which receive the CDBG funding.
They provide ways to improve commu-
nities and ways to move forward with
the housing and development we need.
Also, just in a smaller sense, they help
the rail service by ensuring we have a
ticket agent in Charleston for Amtrak.
It sounds like a small thing, but it is
good for tourism and good for our city
and good that our Hinton Railroad
days will be able to go on uninter-
rupted.
One thing that has been interrupted
in the last several years is any kind of
sustained economic progress in our
coal and energy sectors—the result, I
believe, of the previous administra-
tion’s never-ending war on coal.
Thanks to the new administration,
that war is over. This bill will help us
in making sure that what remains will
give us a fair and even playing field.
The Interior portion of this bill en-
sures that the EPA returns to its core
mission of environmental cleanup. The
Interior bill, which, I should note,
passed the subcommittee by 31 to 0—
everybody voted for it in committee—
also emphasizes the need to fund the
deferred maintenance of our national
parks. This is something for which I
have long advocated. We are at a point
at which we are really going to make a
significant difference here.
The Secretary of the Interior is real-
ly devoted to this, as is the President.
This is very much a bipartisan effort.
It restores proposed cuts to the Clean
Water and Drinking Water State Re-
volving Funds and grants programs
that are tremendously helpful to
States and localities. Some of these
grants are not very large, but they
make the difference of there being
clean, drinkable water and water sys-
tems as opposed to having to bring
your water in, which, in this day and
age, in my opinion, in our country
shouldn’t be happening.
The bill also includes funding to con-
tinue a pilot program through the
Abandoned Mine Lands Funds to invest
in projects that will strengthen our
local economies. Obviously, this has
been very helpful in West Virginia and
in Pennsylvania. We have a lot of aban-
doned mine land area that needs rec-
lamation, that needs repurposing, and
this program is very helpful for that.
The final bill is the Financial Serv-
ices and General Government bill. I
served as the chair of the FSGG bill in
the last Congress, during the fiscal
year 2018 budget. I was pleased that the
funding levels we placed in fiscal year
2018 have remained and that some of
the priorities have remained in fiscal
year 2019, including a historic increase
for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking
Areas, called the HIDTA Program. This
is out of the White House’s Office of
National Drug Control Policy, where
you get a coordinated effort from your
State, local, and Federal law enforce-
ment to stop the illegal flow of drugs
into our country, which is literally
killing a generation and is killing a lot
of our communities.
We have an increase in there for
drug-free communities, something that
is a ground-up program, where your
communities get together and ask:
How do we solve this problem we have
in our small communities? This in-
crease, I think, demonstrates a com-
mitment to the Office of National Drug
Control Policy and a rejection of the
proposed elimination of the ONDCP.
In having been a Member who voted
for the historic tax cuts and tax relief
we passed in December, I want to make
sure the IRS can implement this so we
don’t have a glitch or a hitch while
people are getting more money back
when filing their new taxes. The IRS
needs these resources. It just so hap-
pens that a lot of those IRS workers
actually live and work in the State of
West Virginia, so this will have a great
impact, I think, in my region.
As one can see, we are doing the peo-
ple’s business by taking up and debat-
ing these appropriations bills. I think
the committee is functioning, and the
Senate floor is already functioning
with three bills having gone out and
there having been the opportunity for
everybody to have weighed in, yea or
nay. That is kind of why we are sent
here, isn’t it? We are sent here to ex-
press an opinion, to vote, to make the
thoughts of our constituents and our
own thoughts known. I am even proud
that a lot of the resources we are going
to be addressing in these bills will help
to address very important West Vir-
ginia priorities.
I look forward to the continuing de-
bate on amendments, to the continuing
openness of the process, and to the con-
tinuing cooperation and dedication of
spirit to do the work we have been sent
to do—to appropriate the money, to
prioritize our tax dollars, and to show
the efficiency and care that every sin-
gle one of our taxpayers deserves. That
is what we are doing today.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from New Mexico.
Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, I just
want to take a moment and, in par-
ticular, thank my colleagues from Kan-
sas and Colorado, as well as my col-
league from New Mexico, Senator
UDALL, and especially Senator MORAN
of Kansas, as well as Senator ROBERTS
and Senator GARDNER and Senator
BENNET, all for their efforts on behalf
of the Southwest Chief line.
Long-distance passenger rail routes,
like the Southwest Chief, literally con-
nect millions of Americans from across
the country who live in rural commu-
nities to the rest of the Nation. They
do that culturally, and they do that
economically.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.038 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5339
July 25, 2018
Each year, the Southwest Chief in
New Mexico, for example, brings thou-
sands of Boy Scouts from all across our
great Nation to the Philmont Scout
Ranch and generates economic activity
in every community along the way,
whether it is in Las Vegas or Lamy or
Albuquerque—you name it. In many
cases, long-distance routes provide the
only affordable transportation alter-
natives to highways for rural residents,
particularly the elderly and the dis-
abled.
I thank all of my colleagues from
these States for standing up for long-
distance passenger rail, for working to
reject any proposals that would sus-
pend long-distance rail service and lit-
erally send rural residents back to the
back of the bus.
We have a disconnect in this country
between the rural and the urban econo-
mies, between the center of the heart-
land and the coasts in this country,
particularly economically. If we are
going to combat this, we have to invest
in the transportation infrastructure
and the information infrastructure
that can make a difference in rural
communities.
This is not the time to be turning our
backs on rural communities with re-
gard to passenger rail and transpor-
tation. That would be an absolute trav-
esty for small communities all through
the heartland, whether you are talking
about Kansas or Colorado or New Mex-
ico—or, really, from one end of the
Southwest Chief all the way to Chi-
cago, to the West Coast, in Arizona and
California.
I thank all of my colleagues who
have been fighting for this issue. It is
incredibly important to so many of my
constituents in New Mexico. I urge ev-
eryone to support the Moran-Udall
amendment. It is absolutely critical.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from New Mexico.
AMENDMENT NO. 3414, AS MODIFIED, TO
AMENDMENT NO. 3399
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to call up amend-
ment No. 3414, as modified with the
changes that are at the desk.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Is there objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from New Mexico [Mr. UDALL]
proposes an amendment numbered 3414, as
modified, to amendment No. 3399.
Mr. UDALL. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the reading of the amend-
ment be dispensed with.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The amendment, as modified, is as
follows:
(Purpose: To express the sense of Congress
relating to the importance of long-distance
passenger rail routes)
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. It is the sense of Congress
that—
(1) long-distance passenger rail routes pro-
vide much-needed transportation access for
4,700,000 riders in 325 communities in 40
States and are particularly important in
rural areas; and
(2) long-distance passenger rail routes and
services should be sustained to ensure
connectivity throughout the National Net-
work (as defined in section 24102 of title 49,
United States Code).
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I very
much thank Senator HEINRICH for
being down here and talking about
what this really means. I know Senator
MORAN is also on the floor.
Amtrak is designed to connect our
communities. Whether we live in
Raton, NM, Dodge City, KS, or Los An-
geles, CA, it connects our commu-
nities. I am pleased to offer this
amendment with my friends from Kan-
sas and Colorado because the South-
west Chief connects our communities,
and we will continue to work together
to support this national service.
There is no doubt we will have a
strong bipartisan vote to support our
long-distance rail lines. If Amtrak
thinks that replacing railcars with
buses will solve its problems, well, that
is no way to run a railroad. I hope Am-
trak’s leadership appreciates that we
will not back down in our support of
our rail network and that we can work
together to find solutions to their
problems.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I com-
mend the Senators who are the authors
of this amendment. The Senator from
Kansas, Mr. MORAN, has discussed this
issue with me many times, as have the
Senators from New Mexico who feel
very strongly about it as well. I know
the Senators from Colorado are also co-
sponsors.
As chairman of the subcommittee
with jurisdiction over the funding for
Amtrak, I support this amendment.
Amtrak’s national network is vital for
the hundreds of communities across
the country it serves, particularly in
the more rural areas of our country.
At a hearing I chaired this past May
with the ranking member, Senator
REED, Amtrak committed to not mak-
ing service changes in advance of new
authorizing legislation. It also com-
mitted to consulting with the commu-
nities it serves before making changes
that would affect the residents of those
communities. We fully expect Amtrak
to stand by the commitments that
were made at our May hearing.
This amendment conveys our long-
standing support for long-distance pas-
senger rail service, and I encourage my
colleagues to adopt it.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Rhode Island.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise in
support of this amendment.
Amtrak’s Long-Distance Routes
serve as critical connections on our na-
tional rail network in 39 States and the
District of Columbia. In fact, they are
the only intercity trains in 24 States
where Amtrak operates. In many parts
of the country, Amtrak is the only af-
fordable option for long-distance trav-
el, particularly for the elderly and peo-
ple with disabilities.
Senator COLLINS and I have worked
in a very bipartisan fashion to fund
Amtrak’s National Network at record
levels over the past 2 fiscal years, and
this bill provides $1.29 billion to con-
tinue those services.
Amtrak should use this funding to
improve the quality and service of
Long-Distance Routes around the
country. I urge my colleagues to sup-
port this amendment.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Kansas.
AMENDMENT NO. 3433 TO AMENDMENT NO. 3399
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I call up
amendment No. 3433.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will report.
The assistant bill clerk read as fol-
lows:
The Senator from Kansas [Mr. MORAN] pro-
poses an amendment numbered 3433 to
amendment No. 3399.
Mr. MORAN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the reading of the amend-
ment be dispensed with.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To prohibit the use of funds to
revoke certain exceptions)
At the appropriate place in division C, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to revoke an
exception made—
(1) pursuant to the final rule of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture entitled ‘‘Exceptions to
Geographic Areas for Official Agencies Under
the USGSA’’ (68 Fed. Reg. 19137 (April 18,
2003)); and
(2) on a date before April 14, 2017.
AMENDMENT NO. 3414, AS MODIFIED
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, before I
make remarks on this amendment, I
express my gratitude to my colleagues
from New Mexico, to Senator REED,
who is the ranking member, and to
Senator COLLINS, the chair of the ap-
propriate Appropriations sub-
committee, for working so closely with
me and my colleagues in regard to rail
service, the Southwest Chief, from Chi-
cago to Los Angeles, which transports
people through Kansas and through
Colorado and through New Mexico. We
have had a bipartisan effort from the
Senators of those three States to make
certain that service continues into the
future. I am very grateful for their sup-
port.
I ask my colleagues, the other Sen-
ators, to support the Moran-Udall
amendment.
AMENDMENT NO. 3433
Mr. President, I rise to urge my col-
leagues to support my amendment to
force the USDA to continue honoring
its existing agreement between grain
handling facilities and official inspec-
tion services.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.040 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5340 July 25, 2018
Following the passage of legislation
to reauthorize the U.S. Grain Stand-
ards Act, the Department of Agri-
culture amended its regulations and
changed the treatment of grain facili-
ties using inspection services located
outside their defined, designated geo-
graphic areas.
The USDA’s decision to alter the way
it had been doing business has dis-
rupted existing agreements and long-
standing working relationships be-
tween grain handlers and grain inspec-
tors. Also, the change has decreased
the efficiency of inspections and re-
duced grain elevator operators’ flexi-
bility to coordinate with inspection
services.
This amendment would not allow the
USDA to revoke any additional agree-
ments that are currently in place. To
be clear, these grain elevators are still
using USDA-sanctioned, official inspec-
tion agencies. The inspection agencies
in question have agreed to perform in-
spections outside of the designated geo-
graphic areas.
The question we will soon be voting
on is whether USDA ought to honor
those exceptions already made to grain
facilities and their inspectors. This is a
commonsense amendment to make cer-
tain USDA does so—honors its commit-
ments—and that grain facilities are af-
forded the best possible service from
the Department of Agriculture.
I urge my colleagues to support this
amendment.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
question is on agreeing to the Moran
amendment.
Ms. COLLINS. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Is there a sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The assistant bill clerk called the
roll.
Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator
is necessarily absent: the Senator from
Arizona (Mr. MCCAIN).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH)
is necessarily absent.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 98,
nays 0, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 168 Leg.]
YEAS—98
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Corker
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Donnelly
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Flake
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Harris
Hassan
Hatch
Heinrich
Heitkamp
Heller
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McCaskill
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Nelson
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Rounds
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott
Shaheen
Shelby
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NOT VOTING—2
Duckworth McCain
The amendment (No. 3433) was agreed
to.
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 3414, AS MODIFIED
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
question is on agreeing to the Udall
amendment No. 3414, as modified.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Is there a sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator
is necessarily absent: the Senator from
Arizona (Mr. MCCAIN).
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
TOOMEY). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 95,
nays 4, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 169 Leg.]
YEAS—95
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Corker
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Donnelly
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Flake
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Harris
Hassan
Hatch
Heinrich
Heitkamp
Heller
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McCaskill
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Nelson
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Rounds
Rubio
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Scott
Shaheen
Shelby
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—4
Lee
Paul
Sasse
Toomey
NOT VOTING—1
McCain
The amendment (No. 3414), as modi-
fied, was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, we are
continuing to make progress on this
package of appropriations bills. Speak-
ing for the managers on this side of the
aisle—the Republican chairman of the
subcommittee—I request that our col-
leagues file amendments at the desk by
1 p.m. tomorrow.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I join my
chairman, Senator COLLINS, in request-
ing that all of our colleagues file their
amendments by 1 p.m. tomorrow after-
noon so that we can continue to make
progress on this bill. Again, I thank
the chairman for her great leadership.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
(The remarks of Mr. JONES and Mr.
ALEXANDER pertaining to the introduc-
tion of S. 3266 are printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Statements on Intro-
duced Bills and Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. ALEXANDER. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
GARDNER). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H.R. 772
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H.R. 772, which was received
from the House. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Blunt substitute amend-
ment at the desk be agreed to and that
the bill, as amended, be considered
read a third time and passed and that
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, re-
serving the right to object to the Sen-
ator’s request, families should have ac-
cess to simple, straightforward infor-
mation so they can make the food
choices that are right for them.
I was very glad to see that after 7
years of delays and foot-dragging, 7
years of objections from Republicans
who didn’t want to allow this common-
sense law to be fully implemented, in
May of this year, we finally saw this
law implemented—by a Republican ad-
ministration, no less. Yet, today, be-
fore us now is a proposal—however well
intended it may be—that would take us
backward.
This bill would undermine nutrition
labeling. It would punish businesses
along the way that have already fully
implemented the law and would carve
out an entire category of businesses
from providing labeling in their stores.
It would bar the FDA from conducting
the oversight we all count on it to do.
It would weaken consumer protections
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.043 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5341
July 25, 2018
as well as protections for States and lo-
calities.
Frankly, why? This is a solution in
search of a problem. Restaurants
across this country are already pro-
viding labeling, and the FDA has made
it clear that it intends to work with,
not against, businesses in imple-
menting the law. Furthermore, many
States and localities have required ca-
loric labeling for years, and not one
restaurant chain has been sued.
So I am going to keep advocating for
families being able to have access to
clear, transparent nutrition informa-
tion.
I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, in 2010,
legislation passed that mandated na-
tional calorie menu labeling standards
for chain restaurants and similar retail
food locations, like grocery stores.
Many of us know that there are many
different ways that foods are prepared
and sold to customers. We can see all
kinds of examples by walking around
the Capitol Complex itself, let alone
through one’s neighborhood grocery
store. As a result, it would be almost
impossible to have a one-size-fits-all
rule.
Before I mention what the Blunt-
Alexander-King substitute amendment
would have done, to which the Senator
from Washington State has objected,
let me, first of all, address the House-
passed bipartisan bill that has been
pending on the Senate’s calendar.
Senator KING joined me in intro-
ducing the bipartisan Common Sense
Nutrition Disclosure Act here in the
Senate—the same bill that has already
passed in the House. The bill is not just
bicameral but bipartisan, meaning
Democrats and Republicans have spon-
sored legislation in the Senate and
Democrats and Republicans have
passed the same legislation in the
House. My Democratic colleague from
Missouri cosponsored the initial bill.
The House-passed bill would not ex-
empt pizza delivery and it wouldn’t ex-
empt supermarkets or grocery stores
or convenience stores or others from
menu labeling requirements.
There are always all kinds of things
that are talked about here. What the
House bill and what the Blunt-Alex-
ander-King bill would do, which is
pending in the Senate, is recognize
that there are unique differences in
business types and product offerings to
allow for more flexibility in different
kinds of business models providing
their customers with calorie informa-
tion. This would still happen under our
bill, but it would happen in a more ef-
fective way so that it meets the cus-
tomers’ needs. The goal here should be
the customers’ receiving the informa-
tion rather than exactly where the in-
formation is placed in a one-size-fits-
all or in a one-location-fits-all kind of
format.
The campaign on this issue of misin-
formation has run pretty wild. There is
a group saying that what we are trying
to do is exempt restaurants and others
from menu labeling. They clearly
haven’t read the bill that Senator
ALEXANDER and I and Senator KING
have introduced. I would like to go on
record as saying what the amendment
does.
First and foremost, it does not im-
pact the delay of that menu labeling
final rule that went into effect this
year. Again, it does not impact the
delay or stop the menu labeling final
rule. The Blunt-Alexander-King amend-
ment provides those who have to im-
plement the rule with the regulatory
flexibility to implement the rule and
provide the information to their cus-
tomers in the most useful manner. The
amendment also provides protection
against frivolous lawsuits. That is real-
ly all it does. Those are two big things,
but they are two not very complicated
things.
I have been working on this issue for
a number of years. I am disappointed
that we have been unable to move a
commonsense measure here in the Sen-
ate.
I thank Senator KING for working
with me on this issue, and I thank Sen-
ators MCCASKILL, HEITKAMP, and DON-
NELLY—all Democrats—along with Sen-
ator KING, for joining me as bipartisan
cosponsors.
I also thank Chairman ALEXANDER,
who is the chair of the authorizing
committee, who has joined with me
and others in finding a commonsense
path forward to ensure we provide the
information to consumers in the most
effective way, while providing the
flexibility in implementation and pro-
tection from lawsuits, not only on the
information but on some highly tech-
nical piece of the rule that really
wouldn’t have an impact if anybody
were to have the information or not.
Senator ALEXANDER has been a leader
on this. I know he is as disappointed as
I am that we can’t move forward with
the House-passed bill, for I spent a lot
of time on it.
I turn now to my friend Senator
ALEXANDER, the chairman of the Sen-
ate HELP Committee, to make what-
ever comments he wants to make.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
thank Mr. BLUNT, the Senator from
Missouri, for his leadership on these
commonsense provisions that would
help literally hundreds of thousands of
restaurants, grocery stores, conven-
ience stores, pizza stores, and other
food retailers as they work to comply
with the Food and Drug Administra-
tion’s menu labeling rule.
I am very disappointed that some
Democrats have blocked Senator
BLUNT’s commonsense legislation. He
has worked hard on it and has taken a
piece of legislation that had bipartisan
support in the House of Representa-
tives. He has worked with Senator
KING of Maine in a bipartisan way.
Nevertheless, there have still been ob-
jections.
When Democrats passed the Afford-
able Care Act in 2010, they included a
provision that mandated nutrition la-
beling in restaurants and food retailers
that have over 20 stores nationwide.
The proposed rule was published in De-
cember 2014, and the final menu label-
ing rule went into effect on May 7, 2018.
The final rule required restaurants na-
tionwide to display calories on menus
and menu boards and have additional
nutrition information available upon
request. Senators BLUNT and KING and
I support consumers having access to
nutrition information to make
healthier, more informed dietary
choices for themselves and their fami-
lies.
While I commend the FDA for ad-
dressing concerns raised during the
process in the final rule, a few signifi-
cant problems remain unaddressed, in-
cluding the following: employees being
subject to criminal penalties for incon-
sistencies in calorie information; a
clear amount of time for restaurants to
correct violations before enforcement;
restaurants being subject to frivolous
civil lawsuits for minor violations; and
flexibility for restaurants where a ma-
jority of orders are placed online.
To address those concerns, Senators
BLUNT and KING, here in the Senate,
and a bipartisan group in the House, as
Senator BLUNT has outlined, intro-
duced the bipartisan Common Sense
Nutrition Disclosure Act. The idea was
to make the menu labeling rule more
workable for restaurants and to make
access to information on nutrition
easier for customers.
The act, led by Representatives
CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS and Loretta
Sanchez, passed the House twice—both
times with strong bipartisan votes and
most recently in February with a vote
of 266 to 157, with 152 Republicans and
32 Democrats in support.
However, after Senate Democrats
raised concerns that the House bill
would further delay the implementa-
tion of the rule, Senator BLUNT and I
worked out a targeted solution to help
give restaurants the flexibility and cer-
tainty they would need to comply with
the rule without delaying its imple-
mentation or enforcement.
Our substitute provisions include the
following:
No. 1, they clarify legal liability.
For example, if I am a 21-year-old
manager at the Chick-fil-A in Chat-
tanooga, I would be pretty hesitant to
sign a statement, as is currently re-
quired by the rule, that could subject
me to criminal and financial penalties
if one of my employees were to put
extra slices of cheese on a sandwich.
Today, the rule requires a restaurant
manager to certify that the restaurant
makes menu items a certain way to
meet the posted nutritional values.
Our amendment changes that. It no
longer puts an individual employee on
the hook for a meal item that doesn’t
match its posted calorie count. Our
amendment maintains the requirement
for restaurant headquarters to certify
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.051 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5342 July 25, 2018
that the nutrient analysis of menu
items is complete and accurate.
It is nearly impossible for menu
items to be prepared in precisely the
same way every time, and individuals
should not be at risk of criminal and fi-
nancial penalties based on small dif-
ferences in how menu items are pre-
pared.
No. 2, they establish a clear timeline
for corrective actions.
If the FDA finds a violation of a sign
being out of place or discrepancies in
the calorie content, it is reasonable for
a store to have a clear timeframe to
fully correct the violation without
being subject to penalties. This provi-
sion would clarify that restaurants
have 30 days to correct violations, and
if, after 30 days it is not resolved, the
FDA could move ahead with enforce-
ment action.
No. 3, they protect restaurants from
frivolous lawsuits for minor violations.
This provision clarifies, let’s say, if a
consumer determines that a chicken
sandwich labeled as having 500 calories
actually has 550 calories, the Federal,
State, or local enforcement authorities
could take action, but prevents the
consumer from suing the restaurant for
damages. This protects restaurants
from facing frivolous lawsuits or class
action lawsuits that result in years of
litigation and settlements on minor
discrepancies that rarely benefit the
consumers.
No. 4, they allow access to nutrition
information online.
If you are ordering a pizza for your
family, there is a good chance that you
are placing that order online or on a
mobile app and that it is being deliv-
ered to your home. Restaurants with
over 75 percent of orders placed online
should not have to invest in maintain-
ing and updating in-store menu boards
only a small portion of customers will
ever use.
To summarize, the intent of the FDA
menu labeling rule was about increas-
ing consumer access to nutrition infor-
mation, not about finding minor prob-
lems to trigger fines and penalties on
local businesses.
These provisions are based on bipar-
tisan legislation introduced in both
Chambers, passed twice in the House of
Representatives, to accommodate the
diverse business models in the food in-
dustry and provide certainty to res-
taurants and their employees.
These four provisions in the Blunt-
King legislation were carefully nego-
tiated to address concerns of Demo-
cratic Members, to ensure Americans
will soon be able to access nutrition in-
formation, and will not delay or stop
FDA’s ability to implement or enforce
the menu labeling requirements.
I am disappointed some of our Demo-
cratic colleagues rejected these com-
monsense provisions that would have
helped restaurants provide calorie
counts for Americans and that would
have made it easier for those Ameri-
cans to obtain that information.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Delaware.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, while
our colleagues from Tennessee and
Missouri are here, I just want to tell
you that along with LISA MURKOWSKI
and Tom Harkin, I worked on this issue
when we were debating the Affordable
Care Act.
As I recall, a provision on menu la-
beling was included not just in the Fi-
nance Committee version of the bill
but also in the version that came
through the Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions Committee. That was
adopted out when we did the Affordable
Care Act—I want to say around 2009,
2010, 2011—and it has taken a long time
for the FDA and other regulatory bod-
ies to figure out how to actually imple-
ment our legislation.
The reason we adopted legislation is
that we spend a whole lot more money
on healthcare in this country than
many other developed nations. In the
United States, we spend 18 percent of
our GDP—18 percent. In Japan, they
spend 8 percent of their GDP. If you
look at people in Japan—I have lived
there and worked there as a naval
flight officer. When you look at the
people in Japan, compared to us, they
are less obese.
We have a huge problem. One out of
three people in our country are over-
weight or obese, including kids. Hence,
we decided we weren’t in the business
of telling people what they should eat
or shouldn’t eat, but the idea of trying
to inform people what they were eating
and to work with the restaurants and
grocery stores and others to try to
make this happen is something that
was close to my heart and certainly
close to LISA MURKOWSKI’s heart and
Tom Harkin’s heart.
I am not one of the people who has
objected to what I think Senator
BLUNT is proposing, but I am still deep-
ly interested in the issue and would
welcome a chance to be involved with
my colleagues from Mississippi and
Tennessee going forward, if they would
like, and I am sure Senator MURKOWSKI
would feel the same way.
That is not why I came to the floor,
but thank you very much and bon
appetit.
Mr. President, what I did come to the
floor for was to talk about something I
think is important to almost all of us.
Back in the late sixties—actually
early seventies—I served two tours in
Southeast Asia during the Vietnam
war, and the highlight for us every day
was mail call. Every day, every week
we looked forward to what we would
get from our families and friends back
home. We even welcomed getting credit
card bills. Just having some connection
to the mainland was always welcomed
then.
Today we have troops scattered
around the world. They still get mail
call. It is not as important to them. It
is not as meaningful to them. They
still get packages and that kind of
thing—letters, birthday cards, and so
forth—but it is not as important to
them as it was to us.
We communicate a lot differently
now. Folks who are deployed around
the world can use Skype. They can use
the internet. They can use text mes-
saging and all kinds of ways to commu-
nicate with their families, loved ones,
and others.
Having said that, the Postal Service
is still vital to an industry that sup-
ports about 8 million jobs in America.
It is a trillion-dollar industry, and it is
especially important in rural parts of
our country.
We are a nation, where most of us
live—I think something like 75 percent
of Americans live within about 100
miles of one of our coasts. Think about
that. Seventy-five percent of Ameri-
cans or so live within 100 miles of our
coasts. That means we have a lot of
rural areas in the eastern part of our
Nation, the central part of our Nation,
and the western part of our Nation. For
a lot of those folks, they don’t have
broadband—so they don’t have internet
connection—and so the mail is espe-
cially important for them.
There are places like Alaska where
they even get their food by the mail,
and there are places, I understand, in
Maine, especially up along the Cana-
dian border, where the mail service is
enormously important.
So as we look at not just reorganiza-
tion of our government, but as we look
at the Postal Service, there are some
people who are interested in
privatizing, and the President has
talked a bit about privatizing. There
has been talk about that for years.
Senator COLLINS is on the floor. She
and I have worked for a number of
years to try to make sure the Postal
Service has what it has and what it
needs to be successful and vibrant, to
be able to generate enough money to
meet their obligations, to modernize
their vehicle fleet—which on average is
about 25 years old—and to be able to
modernize the mail processing centers
that used to handle mostly first-class
mail. Now they handle just a lot of
packages and parcels. We want to make
sure they have the infrastructure to
meet that opportunity today.
Today I am here to talk about an
amendment that is important to the
American people, to rural and small
towns, and to our economy. However,
apparently, some of our Republican
friends will not allow a bipartisan
amendment to be considered for a vote.
The amendment was offered by Sen-
ator HEITKAMP, Senator MORAN, and
myself. The goal of our amendment is
pretty simple, and that is to protect
American taxpayers from misguided ef-
forts to privatize the Postal Service.
Frankly, I think this amendment
should be an easy vote for all of our
colleagues. Yet a couple of our Repub-
lican colleagues are reluctant to tell
their constituents that they support
rural and small America losing their
postal services.
We know privatizing the Postal Serv-
ice would be a disaster, maybe not for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.052 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5343
July 25, 2018
all American consumers but for a lot of
them, especially in parts of America
that I talked to, where there are not
too many people but a lot of land, and
people are separated by wide expanses
in those States. But privatizing the
Postal Service would be a disaster for a
number of Americans, especially those
in rural parts of America.
It would be a devastating blow to the
trillion-dollar mailing industry, which
persists around this country, which
was built around this country, and
which is built on the mailing industry.
It would put more than 8 million
American jobs in jeopardy—not just
jobs in the Postal Service but jobs
across our economy. The number of
people working in the U.S. Postal Serv-
ice is down by at least one-third over
the last 10 years—by at least one-third.
The number of mail processing centers
has been cut in half. The number of
full-time post offices that are oper-
ating 5 or 6 days a week, let’s say, from
8 in the morning to 5 in the afternoon,
the number of those post offices that
will have full service full time is down
by at least one-third. The Postal Serv-
ice has worked to rightsize their infra-
structure and their distribution net-
work to meet the demand for their
services today, but you don’t have to
take my word for it because, for years,
privatization efforts have been over-
whelmingly opposed by stakeholders
across the board. That is not just by
the Postal Service, not just by people
working in the Postal Service but by
industry that uses the Postal Service,
by small businesses—not just by big
businesses but small businesses—by
unions, and by the American people as
a whole.
The Trump administration has just
put forward a government reorganiza-
tion plan that included a recommenda-
tion to privatize the Postal Service.
Since the founding of this country and
the creation of the Postal Service, we
have maintained that every American
should have equal access to the mail,
regardless of whether the Postal Serv-
ice were to be privatized. That will no
longer be a promise we can make to
Americans who do not live in urban
centers. Yet we have companies, such
as UPS and FedEx, that use the Postal
Service to get to most homes in Amer-
ica for the final stretch of delivery. For
a lot of folks who get service by UPS
and FedEx, the folks who actually de-
liver the packages and the parcels the
last mile are with the Postal Service,
and that is a piece of their business. It
is a constructive way for them to work
with these other businesses to get the
job done, almost as partners.
If we do privatize the Postal Service,
the only places where it will be profit-
able will be where it retains mail deliv-
ery. Let me say that again. If we were
actually to privatize the Postal Serv-
ice, the only places where it will be
profitable will be where it retains post-
al or mail delivery.
If we allow the Postal Service to be
privatized, I can’t imagine we will be
able to maintain Alaska Bypass mail
or delivery to Hawaii or to rural mail
routes around the Canadian border in
Maine because, for a private company,
the costs would outweigh the profits,
and they are in business to make
money.
We cannot let that happen. Everyone,
regardless of location, age, race, gen-
der, should have equal access to what
is an essential American service.
For any colleague of mine—of ours—
who wants to help rural communities,
who wants to protect the rights of
American consumers, and who wants to
bolster our economy, this should be a
no-brainer.
With that, I yield the floor.
I see the Senator from the State of
Iowa—which has great mail service—
who knows of which I speak.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
NOMINATION OF BRETT KAVANAUGH
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, this
morning I listened to the remarks by
Senator SCHUMER, the minority leader,
and for a minute, while listening to
him, I was worried that Senator Harry
Reid was back disguised as Senator
SCHUMER. After all, I used to hear a lot
of false comments about the Judiciary
Committee’s work from the mis-
informed former minority leader.
This year, the minority leader first
fretted that this Senator, as chairman
of the Judiciary Committee, would be
‘‘twisted by leadership’’ in the course
of reviewing Judge Kavanaugh’s nomi-
nation to the Supreme Court. Of
course, that is false, but it was strange
to hear a complaint about leadership
intervening in committee business
from a Democratic leader who appears
to be doing just that.
As far as his other comments on the
Supreme Court confirmation process, I
would like to reiterate a few points I
made over the last couple of weeks.
The Senate Judiciary Committee will
have a thorough, modern, and efficient
process for reviewing Judge
Kavanaugh’s qualifications. As I ex-
plained yesterday, Senators already
have access to Judge Kavanaugh’s 307
opinions that he offered over a 12-year
period of time when he was a DC Cir-
cuit Court judge, the hundreds more
opinions he joined, and of course the
6,168 pages of materials he submitted
as part of his Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee questionnaire.
For the benefit of the public, if you
want to get into the weeds on this
stuff, you can go to the Judiciary Com-
mittee’s website and get all of this in-
formation that I just mentioned. These
materials are the most relevant to as-
sessing Judge Kavanaugh’s legal think-
ing.
We expect to receive more than 1
million pages of documents from Judge
Kavanaugh’s time in the White House
Counsel’s Office and the Office of Inde-
pendent Counsel. This will be the larg-
est document production in connection
with a Supreme Court nominee ever.
By comparison, we received only about
170,000 pages of White House records for
Justice Kagan.
Democratic leaders want gratuitous
and unnecessary paper from Judge
Kavanaugh’s time as White House Staff
Secretary. This is an unreasonable re-
quest, and I think they know it.
Democratic leaders are already com-
mitted to opposing Judge Kavanaugh.
We have minority Leader SCHUMER
himself saying he would fight Judge
Kavanaugh ‘‘with everything he’s got.’’
Yesterday one colleague said that
supporting Judge Kavanaugh is
‘‘complicit’’ and ‘‘evil.’’ That is quite
an offensive statement. It doesn’t
sound like they are interested in as-
sessing Judge Kavanaugh’s qualifica-
tions in the way everybody ought to
approach this—with an open mind.
Their bloated demands are an obvi-
ous attempt to obstruct this confirma-
tion process.
It gets worse. The Democratic lead-
ers are even demanding to search each
and every email from other White
House staffers that even mentions
Judge Kavanaugh while he served in
the White House. That is beyond unrea-
sonable. Such a request would not help
us understand this nominee’s legal
thinking. And shouldn’t that be what
we are concentrating on? If you want
to know what kind of a Justice a per-
son is going to be on the Supreme
Court, that involves his approach to all
of the legal matters that he has to con-
front now and if he gets on the Su-
preme Court.
The Obama administration, with
Senate Democrats’ strong backing, re-
fused to approve such records for Jus-
tice Kagan’s confirmation. And this
stunning demand is clear evidence that
the Democratic leaders aren’t inter-
ested in anything but obstruction.
Democratic leaders insist on all of
these extra documents because the
Senate received Justice Kagan’s rel-
evant White House records in 2010. But
let me point out to my colleagues that
there is a significant difference be-
tween this nominee, who has served 12
years already on the court and Justice
Kagan, who was not a judge. Of course,
with Justice Kagan not being a judge,
there was no judicial track record for
us to follow. She was an esteemed dean
of the law school at Harvard Univer-
sity. That is very prestigious and
shows a lot of high qualifications, but
it is not the record of a judge for us to
look to.
There was a higher need for addi-
tional information that might shed
light on her legal thinking then. Judge
Kavanaugh, by contrast, has offered
more than 300 opinions and joined in
hundreds more.
The Staff Secretary is undoubtedly
an important and demanding position,
as Judge Kavanaugh himself and many
others have said. But Staff Secretary
documents are not very useful in show-
ing Judge Kavanaugh’s legal thinking.
His primary job as Staff Secretary at
the White House was not to provide his
own advice. Instead, he was primarily
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.054 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5344 July 25, 2018
responsible for making sure that docu-
ments prepared by other executive
branch offices were presented to the
President.
In addition to being the least rel-
evant to assessing Judge Kavanaugh’s
legal thinking, the Staff Secretary doc-
uments contain among the most sen-
sitive White House documents. They
contain information and advice sent di-
rectly to the President from a wide
range of policy advisers.
Democratic leaders now say they
want to follow the so-called ‘‘Kagan
standard,’’ but they seem to forget how
we approached that nomination. Re-
publicans and Democrats alike agreed
to forgo a request for her Solicitor
General documents because of their
sensitivity.
Senators LEAHY and Sessions, be-
cause they were the ranking Repub-
lican and chairman at the time, came
to that agreement, even though Justice
Kagan had no judicial record to review.
And they agreed to these terms despite
Justice Kagan’s own statement that
her tenure in the Solicitor General’s
office would provide insight into the
kind of Justice she would be.
Obviously, with his long record on
the DC Circuit, Judge Kavanaugh
doesn’t have this problem. There is
plenty of paper for people to observe
the kind of person we could expect him
to be on the Supreme Court.
The need for confidentiality is sub-
stantially higher for documents pass-
ing through the Staff Secretary’s office
than the Solicitor General’s office.
Under the precedent set by Justice
Kagan, we shouldn’t expect access to
Staff Secretary records. We already
have access to a voluminous judicial
record, and we will have access to the
largest document production for a Su-
preme Court nominee ever.
The Democrats’ demands for even
more documents are unreasonable and
clearly intended to obstruct this con-
firmation process.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
ROUNDS). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
PLASTIC GUNS
Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, if we
didn’t have enough to worry about, as
the Presiding Officer and this Senator
have to worry about cyber security in
our capacity on the Armed Services
Committee; if we didn’t have enough to
worry about, with all that is happening
where Americans are being threatened
to be exchanged—some of our dip-
lomats—for questioning, which, in ef-
fect, would be putting them outside of
the United States and suddenly sub-
jected to being scooped up and kid-
napped, to be put into the Russian
criminal situation; if we didn’t have
enough to be worried about, with ev-
erything the American people are fac-
ing every day, including a trade war
that is starting to hurt the economies
of hard-working American families; if
we didn’t have enough to worry about,
wouldn’t it be nice that we would only
have to worry about that? But now we
have to worry about 3D printing—
printing hard plastic guns that cannot
be detected by all the detectors at the
airports that we are frequently encoun-
tering as we go through TSA. And that
is not even speaking of all of the pro-
tections that are around this building,
right here, in trying to keep harm from
being done to otherwise hard-working
Americans, a lot of them right here in
this Capitol complex. But replicate
this throughout all of the govern-
mental entities, including courthouses,
city halls, obviously airports, seaports,
the entrances into military bases, and
it goes on. How about courtrooms—it
goes on and on.
Now there is the capability of 3D
printing, and the blueprints for putting
together a 3D printed gun are now
going to be allowed to go up on the
internet on August 1. I don’t under-
stand why that is being allowed.
It is true that there are plans that
are out there, because when there is
anything, it is going to get out there
on the internet. But to say as a matter
of governmental policy that we are not
going to try to stop something that we
try to stop every day in our activities,
such as going into an airport or a gov-
ernment building, and we are going to
suddenly put the plans out there so
that people can go around and manu-
facture, with hard plastic, a gun that
looks like this or some variant thereof.
If you grab the handle here, you can
see, there is the trigger. If you do that,
you suddenly have a lethal weapon
that can’t be detected by a metal de-
tector.
What are we coming to? It is hard to
overstate how dangerous these plastic
guns can be. And you say: Well, maybe
it is just like the Clint Eastwood movie
about 25 years ago that depicted the
Secret Service protecting the Presi-
dent. You say: Well, you could catch
the bullet, even though that bullet got
through, disguised as a keychain.
Now you don’t have to have metal
bullets because you can create such a
hard plastic that it would serve the
same purpose, and we are going to put
up on the internet plans on how to put
this together and to manufacture it.
It goes without saying that the metal
detectors can’t detect plastic, which
means that a person concealing a dead-
ly weapon could sail through security
screenings without setting any alerts
off.
So with everything we have invested
in TSA—we have aviation as our juris-
diction on the Commerce Committee,
of which Senator THUNE is the chair-
man—people can walk onto airplanes
with deadly plastic guns. People could
walk into schools.
What have we been doing since there
have been all of these shootings in
schools? We have been talking about
hardening schools. It wouldn’t do any
good if people could walk into schools
with deadly plastic guns. We wouldn’t
know about it. Somebody could come
into this building. Somebody could be
sitting right up there in that Senate
Gallery, and we wouldn’t know about
it.
Many of us have recognized this dan-
ger for years. It was prophetic in that
Clint Eastwood movie. In fact, we have
a law on the books that requires all
firearms to be manufactured with a
metal part recognized by metal detec-
tors. But there is a loophole in that
law. Manufacturers can skirt the rules
by simply attaching a removable metal
piece to a plastic gun, and the con-
sumer can remove that metal remov-
able part.
So this Senator will file a bill that
would close that loophole by requiring
at least one major component of the
gun be made with enough metal to be
detectable by a standard airport secu-
rity screener. That is just common
sense.
But that doesn’t get to the greater
problem of putting the plans out on the
internet. These plastic guns are a clear
and present danger to the security of
our communities, and the Trump ad-
ministration has just acted to make it
easier for people to manufacture these
plastic guns in private, endangering ev-
erybody.
Last week, the Justice Department
and the State Department abruptly
settled a 3-year-long battle to prevent
a self-proclaimed anarchist from post-
ing blueprints on how to make 3D
printed guns, including an AR–15 semi-
automatic rifle, online for the public to
access and download.
Let me say what that was. The U.S.
Department of Justice and the U.S.
State Department abruptly settled a
legal battle to prevent that. The ad-
ministration’s decision in that settle-
ment paves the way for the man to
post his blueprints online on August 1.
Once those blueprints go live, we will
never get them back. When the genie
gets out of the bottle, you can’t stuff
him back in.
The administration’s decision is in-
explicable, and it is dangerous. That is
why this Senator and, I suspect, some
other Senators have written to the De-
partment of Justice demanding an-
swers from the AG as to why his law-
yers capitulated, after years of winning
in the courts, to the deranged demands
of plastic gun designers hell-bent on
fundamentally undermining American
security. I can’t say it any clearer or
any blunter.
That is why I am speaking out today,
and that is why I am speaking with the
Administrator of TSA tomorrow to
urge him to consider how in the world
he is going to catch these at the air-
ports. That is why I am filing a bill as
soon as possible to severely restrict the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.055 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5345
July 25, 2018
publication of detailed, technical sche-
matics for these deadly 3D-printed fire-
arms. We already impose strict restric-
tions on posting bomb instructions on-
line. If you can’t post bomb instruc-
tions, why in the world should you be
able to post instructions on how to
manufacture that?
So this Senator from Florida is here
urging the Trump administration to
suspend that settlement immediately.
Our colleagues are going to fight tooth
and nail to prevent these blueprints
from getting published, but the power
to stop the blueprints before August 1
rests squarely with the Trump admin-
istration.
I never thought I would have to come
to the Senate floor to make a speech
like this, but this is no-fooling time,
and the clock is ticking. This is July
25, and the deadline for when those
prints will go up on the internet is Au-
gust 1.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I sug-
gest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The assistant bill clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
SUPPORTING FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, first, I
want to thank Senator COLLINS for her
generosity on time. I know we are try-
ing to schedule a vote, and I am appre-
ciative of that.
I am joined on the floor by Senator
CARDIN, one of the best advocates for
people in this body and especially for
Federal workers, who have contributed
so much, and we will talk about that.
Senator HIRONO, from Hawaii, is also
joining us. Senator VAN HOLLEN, Sen-
ator MURRAY, Senator KAINE, and Sen-
ator CORTEZ MASTO will join us a little
later in a different venue, and Senators
TESTER and WARNER spoke earlier
today.
We stand here on behalf of dedicated
public servants who get up every day
to work for the American taxpayers.
They are men and women who support
our Armed Forces and support our vet-
erans. They make sure that Social Se-
curity checks go out and Medicare is
taking care of seniors. They ensure
that our food, medicines, and drinking
water are safe. They protect our na-
tional security. They work in institu-
tions like the NIH, the CDC, and
NIOSH, or the National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health, in
Cincinnati. They are in community-
based outpatient clinics. They are in
VA centers. They are in Social Secu-
rity offices in most of our States.
These are American workers who
have dedicated their lives to service.
They serve Republicans and Demo-
crats. They serve Commanders in
Chief, regardless of party. Many of
these workers are in Washington, but
millions more are in the 50 States.
We have 52,000 Federal workers in
Ohio contributing to our State and
local communities. Nearly one-third of
those workers are veterans. The Fed-
eral Government makes special allow-
ances to hire veterans, especially at
hospitals in Chillicothe, Dayton, Cin-
cinnati, Columbus, and Wade Park in
Cleveland, and at the community-based
outpatient clinics in places like Mans-
field, Springfield, Zanesville, Akron,
and Parma.
These are workers doing their jobs on
behalf of the American people, but,
shamefully, these are public servants
under attack from this administra-
tion—as if Federal workers are not
Americans, as if Federal workers are
not people, as if Federal workers are
just a cost to be minimized. The ad-
ministration has issued Executive
order after Executive order to restrict
those workers’ freedoms to advocate
for themselves and for taxpayers in the
workplace.
They made it easier for short-term
political appointees to retaliate
against nonpartisan career public serv-
ants. Think about that. This President
has brought in lots of very ideologi-
cally charged political appointees who
have retaliated against nonpartisan ca-
reer public service—people who make
sure that Social Security checks go
out, who serve veterans, who make
sure we do public health the way we
should as a nation.
These decisions create an atmosphere
where whistleblowers who report fraud
fear being punished and fear being fired
for shining a light on abuse. In the
past, workers have had flexibility to
use their time to benefit taxpayers, but
these Executive orders severely limit
workers’ ability to discuss problems at
the workplace, including ways of im-
proving efficiency in the workplace and
including inefficiencies and waste.
This is all part of a larger attack on
workers in this country, a larger at-
tack on the labor movement. We know
that the White House, more and more,
is looking like a retreat for corporate
executives of some of the largest com-
panies in the country who center their
attacks on workers and the labor
movement.
Corporate special interests have
spent decades stripping workers of
their freedom to organize for fair wages
and benefits they have earned.
My colleagues talk about freedom all
the time. How about the freedom to
band together and speak as one strong-
er voice in the workplace to get better
treatment, better wages, and better
benefits?
Make no mistake. An attack on pub-
lic service unions is an attack on all
unions, and an attack on unions is an
attack on all workers—and I mean all
workers. Whether you punch a time-
sheet or swipe a badge, whether you
make a salary or earn tips, whether
you are on a payroll or whether you are
a contract worker, whether you are a
temporary worker, working behind a
desk, on a factory floor, or behind a
restaurant counter, the fact is that all
workers across this country are feeling
the squeeze, and hard work doesn’t pay
off.
For decades now, we have seen what
happens when workers have no power
in the workplace. Corporations view
American workers as a cost to be mini-
mized instead of as a valuable asset to
invest in. We know that workers are
more productive than ever. We know
that corporations are making more
profit than ever. We know that execu-
tive compensation has exploded
through the roof, but we know that
workers’ wages have stagnated and
workers’ benefits have declined. We
know that. The last thing we should be
doing is spreading that mindset—those
attacks on workers—to attacks on pub-
lic servants.
Workers power our economy. They
make the government work for tax-
payers. We need to stand up for the
American workers—whether it is a
Federal worker, a restaurant private
sector worker, somebody working at
NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleve-
land, somebody waiting tables in Day-
ton, or somebody working in an office
in Mansfield—not make it harder for
them to do their jobs.
I thank my colleagues for standing
with these women and men who do
tough jobs on behalf of the American
people.
I yield the floor for Senator CARDIN
from Maryland.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, first, let
me thank Senator BROWN for his ex-
traordinary leadership on behalf of not
just the Federal workers but on behalf
of all Americans. Our Federal workers
are the frontline of public service. I ap-
plaud their work. Our Federal work-
force is the best national public work-
force in the world. They do their work
more professionally.
They are civil servants, which means
that they are immune from the poli-
tics, favoritism, or patronage, and they
do their work with great pride. I am
very proud of the Federal workforce in
my State of Maryland. There are many
reasons I am proud, along with Senator
VAN HOLLEN, to represent the State of
Maryland, but one of the reasons is
that we proudly represent almost
136,000 Federal workers who live in the
State of Maryland. They do incredible
work.
They are the doctors at NIH, who are
discovering how to deal with the dis-
eases of the world and how to make us
healthier and safer. They are the sci-
entists at Goddard Space Flight Cen-
ter, who are discovering the mysteries
of space and how we can use that not
only to discover what is happening in
space but also to use that technology
here at home. They are the profes-
sionals at the Social Security Adminis-
tration, who are helping our seniors
get the benefits they so much depend
upon. They are the professionals at the
FBI, who are keeping us safe.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.059 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5346 July 25, 2018
I can go through all of the different
Federal agencies. There is the FDA,
which deals with food safety and drug
safety, and the work being done at
EPA for cleaner air and cleaner water.
These are the frontlines that provide
the services to the people of our Na-
tion. They do it at great sacrifice. It is
not easy, as we all know, to serve in
the public sector today.
There has been an all-out assault by
the Trump administration on our Fed-
eral workforce. They are not only hurt-
ing our Federal workforce, but they are
hurting our country. The pay freezes,
the hiring freezes, and the proposed
cuts to benefits say to those who want
to serve their Nation in public service:
Maybe this is not the right field for
you.
We are seeing a hollowing out of our
Federal workforce. It is becoming
older. Let me point out that when you
look at the Federal workforce in Mary-
land, it looks like the demographics of
the State of Maryland. That is not true
for all of our employers. The gender is
basically 50–50. Over 40 percent of the
workforce are minority.
As Senator BROWN pointed out, a
much larger percentage of veterans are
in our Federal workforce than in the
general workforce, and, yes, they are
providing services to our veterans, and
it is public service also. So it is a rep-
resentative group.
We are finding that the President’s
policy is one of the most anti-govern-
ment policies that we have ever seen
from any President. I went through
some of the specifics that concern us;
that is, the fact that our Federal work-
force has already contributed greatly
to the deficit in tens of billions of dol-
lars they have been asked to con-
tribute. Even though they did not
cause the deficit, they have contrib-
uted to it.
They have had to go through seques-
tration and government shutdowns,
with the uncertainty that comes with
those issues. Just recently, in May,
there were the President’s Executive
orders, and they need to be brought
out. They are absolutely outrageous—
three Executive orders. There was a
court hearing today that was held, and
I am hopeful the courts will intervene.
They deal with so-called official time,
collective bargaining rights, and the
rights of our employees to some form
of due process, all of which are jeopard-
ized.
As I said earlier to some of our Fed-
eral workers, this is not just about try-
ing to bust unions. This is about bust-
ing democracy. I say that because the
civil service laws were passed for a rea-
son. We don’t want to see cronyism and
corruption with patronage in our Fed-
eral workforce. That is why we have a
civil service law. In order for the em-
ployees to be protected, they have the
voluntary right to join together in a
union. Those unions don’t have all the
full rights you would normally have in
private sector employment, but they
do have rights. There are collective
bargaining agreements.
Part of their responsibility, for ex-
ample, is that their representatives
represent all of the employees, not just
those who choose to join the unions.
That is why on official time, they can
take care of their responsibilities as it
relates to the entire workforce, but
they are prohibited, as always, to use
official time for union activities.
What does President Trump do in his
Executive order? He tries to restrict
the official time for official work. He
tries to restrict the ability for Federal
workers to join unions. He tries to
make it more difficult to protect the
rights of the workers. It not only vio-
lates collective bargaining agreements,
but it violates Federal law. We need to
speak out against that type of action.
I want to mention one other point, if
I may. The administrative law judges
are one of our frontline defenses
against abuses in our agencies, where
you can get an independent review of
findings. One of the major concerns
that we see coming up is that there is
a politicizing of the ALJ judges by this
administration, in that what they are
attempting to do is to influence the se-
lection of ALJ judges by the agency
and that the removal can be done for
political reasons. This violates the
basic protections that we have in our
system.
Our Federal workforce is the front-
line of public service in this country.
All of us are very proud of what we do
as elected officials, but the frontline is
really the Federal workforce out there
doing the public work. As I said earlier,
they are the best in the world at pro-
viding governmental services. They de-
serve our thanks and support, not the
type of action that has been suggested
by the Trump administration.
I am proud to stand with my col-
leagues on the floor today to say thank
you to our Federal workforce. We are
going to stand with them to make sure
they are treated fairly by the Federal
Government.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). The Senator from Hawaii.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I thank
Senator BROWN for his continued lead-
ership in the fight to protect our Fed-
eral workforce and for organizing this
time for us to speak on such an impor-
tant issue.
Over the past year and a half, Donald
Trump and his administration have
launched a concerted attack on Federal
workers and the unions that fight on
their behalf. There appear to be no
lengths to which Donald Trump and
the anti-union, moneyed interests who
support him will not go to attack and
try to eviscerate protections for work-
ing people.
Here are some examples. In one of his
first acts in office, Donald Trump insti-
tuted an across-the-board Federal hir-
ing freeze that impacted the work of
critical agencies such as the Veterans
Administration, the State Department,
and the Department of Defense.
Then the President appointed Neil
Gorsuch to join the anti-worker major-
ity on the Supreme Court. This deci-
sion paid off when Justice Gorsuch pro-
vided the decisive vote intended to gut
public sector unions in Janus v.
AFSCME.
As a side note, Mark Janus—the pub-
lic employee who served as the front
man for the Koch brothers in the land-
mark Janus case—has left his job with
the Illinois Department of Healthcare
and Family Services and now works for
the Koch brothers. Is that a coinci-
dence? I think not.
The administration has demoted or
reassigned dozens of senior agency
leaders tasked with serving our vet-
erans and protecting our environment.
The President has left thousands of
critical positions across the govern-
ment unfilled. He has presented a legis-
lative program as well. The President’s
fiscal year 2019 budget proposes to
freeze Federal workers’ wages, slash
their benefits, and undermine their
rights in the workplace.
In late May, as mentioned, the Presi-
dent issued three Executive orders that
weaken longstanding—longstanding—
and hard-won rights and protections
for our Federal workers. Each of these
actions is part of a focused radical—
radical—effort to shrink the Federal
Government and limit its ability to
help hundreds of millions of people
across our country.
Donald Trump and the Republican
Party obviously do not recognize the
service and commitment of our more
than 2 million Federal workers, but in
Hawaii, and, indeed, across the Nation,
we see the impact of their hard work
every single day.
In Hawaii, Federal workers provide
critical healthcare for the tens of thou-
sands of veterans living in our State.
Federal workers service and repair our
naval fleet at Pearl Harbor Naval Ship-
yard. Federal workers stand watch at
the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center.
Hundreds of Federal employees across
17 agencies are even now helping our
Hawaii Island community respond to
and recover from the impact of the on-
going volcanic activity at Kilauea on
the Big Island.
In my visits to the Hawaii County
Emergency Operations Center in Hilo
and the Disaster Recovery Center in
Keaau, and to affected communities
across Puna, I have seen the impact
these workers are having firsthand.
The Federal Emergency Management
Agency is coordinating the overall re-
sponse and recovery with Federal,
State, and county agencies. The U.S.
Geological Survey scientific experts
are monitoring seismic activities and
providing realtime updates to affected
residents. The affected residents are in
the thousands. The Department of the
Interior has provided technical assist-
ance to protect Hawaii Island’s natural
and cultural resources. The Environ-
mental Protection Agency has de-
ployed experts to monitor air quality
and provide timely alerts to county
residents. The Department of Agri-
culture and the Small Business Admin-
istration are identifying resources and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.061 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5347
July 25, 2018
assisting affected farmers and small
business owners. The U.S. Coast Guard
is monitoring and patrolling areas
where lava is flowing into the ocean
and enforcing safe perimeters for fish-
ing and recreational activity.
These dedicated public servants have
been working around the clock for
months to support the Puna commu-
nity. These workers deserve our re-
spect, appreciation, and unwavering
support for their service. They cer-
tainly don’t deserve the contempt and
animosity that Donald Trump and his
administration have directed at them.
The collective weight of this admin-
istration’s anti-worker agenda is tak-
ing a toll on our Federal workforce,
needless to say, and the Executive or-
ders President Trump issued in May
are already making things worse by
undermining workers’ rights to fair
representation in the workplace.
The President’s first order directs
agencies to reopen existing—these are
existing already—bargaining agree-
ments with the intent of rushing
through one-size-fits-all replacement
agreements without an opportunity for
labor to provide input. The President’s
second order severely restricts the abil-
ity of unions to protect workers from
managerial retaliation, workplace dis-
crimination, and sexual harassment.
The President’s third order undermines
traditional civil service protections in-
tended to shield public servants from
political retribution by making firing
workers easier.
Collectively, these Executive orders
sabotage the hard-fought gains Federal
workers have achieved through decades
of organizing and collective bargaining
at agencies throughout the Federal
Government. This sabotage has a pur-
pose: to make life so miserable for our
Federal workforce that they either
quit their jobs or retire.
The long-term damage that gutting
our Federal workforce would cause to
our Nation, economy, and communities
is serious. That is because, as Teddy
Roosevelt recognized when he pushed
for the first major civil service reform,
a quality, professional civil service is a
bulwark against corruption and cro-
nyism.
Public servants uphold the law and
promote the public interests. That in-
cludes holding big corporations ac-
countable when they cheat consumers
and pollute our environment.
Is this why Donald Trump and his
moneyed, anti-union allies have such a
fear of and disdain for our Federal
workers—because they would rather be
left unfettered by any government or
regulatory oversight? Is that what is
going on? How else can we explain the
President’s focus and vicious attacks
on Federal employees, which ignore the
work they do to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people of our
country every single day?
These are not normal times. It is not
normal for the President and his allies
to go after our Federal employees in
this way. It is not normal, and it is up
to each of us to resist this administra-
tion’s coordinated attack on our Fed-
eral workforce and the institutions
that represent and protect them.
I call on all of my colleagues to join
me in this fight. I just do not under-
stand what it is that motivates the
President and his moneyed allies to try
and tear apart the very workforce in
our country that protects our health,
safety, and welfare. I just don’t get it.
I yield the floor.
AMENDMENTS NOS. 3553 AND 3543 TO AMENDMENT
NO. 3399
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the following
amendments be called up and reported
by number: Senator MANCHIN’s amend-
ment No. 3553, Senator PAUL’s amend-
ment No. 3543. I further ask consent
that at 5:45 p.m. today, the Senate vote
in relation to the Manchin and Paul
amendments in the order listed and
that there be no second-degree amend-
ments in order to the amendments
prior to the votes. Finally, I ask that
there be 10 minutes, equally divided in
the usual form, between the two votes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the amend-
ments by number en bloc.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
The Senator from Maine [Ms. COLLINS], for
others, proposes amendments numbered 3553
and 3543 en bloc to amendment No. 3399.
The amendments are as follows:
AMENDMENT NO. 3553
(Purpose: To make an amount available for
the Office of Terrorism and Financial In-
telligence of the Department of the Treas-
ury to investigate the illicit trade of syn-
thetic opioids originating from the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China)
On page 145, line 16, strike ‘‘2020.’’ and in-
sert ‘‘2020: Provided further, That of the
amount appropriated under this heading, not
less than $1,000,000 shall be used to support
and augment new and ongoing investigations
into the illicit trade of synthetic opioids,
particularly fentanyl and its analogues, orig-
inating from the People’s Republic of China:
Provided further, That not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of the Treasury, in coordina-
tion with the Administrator of the Drug En-
forcement Administration and the heads of
other Federal agencies, as appropriate, shall
submit a comprehensive report (which shall
be submitted in unclassified form, but may
include a classified annex) summarizing ef-
forts by actors in the People’s Republic of
China to subvert United States laws and to
supply illicit synthetic opioids to persons in
the United States, including up-to-date esti-
mates of the scale of illicit synthetic opioids
flows from the People’s Republic of China, to
the Committee on Appropriations, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, and the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Ap-
propriations, the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs, and the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs of the Senate.’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 3543
(Purpose: To reduce the amounts appro-
priated to comply with the spending limits
under the Budget Control Act of 2011)
On page 3, after line 2, add the following:
SEC. 4. REDUCTION TO COMPLY WITH BCA CAPS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Restoring Fiscal Responsibility
by Returning to the BCA Caps Act’’.
(b) REDUCTION.—Each amount provided
under division A, B, C, or D of this Act is re-
duced by 11.39 percent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
SUPPORTING FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come
to the floor today with my colleagues
in defense of the millions of Federal
workers around the country who have
been targeted by President Trump and
his administration, including tens of
thousands of workers in my home
State of Washington.
Federal workers go to work every
day, performing jobs that often go un-
noticed or unappreciated. They ensure
that our grandparents receive Social
Security and Medicare benefits. They
investigate claims of unsafe working
conditions or employers not paying
workers what they are owed. Federal
workers are the nurses and the doctors
who take care of our veterans at VA
hospitals and facilities. They are our
first responders when natural disasters
devastate communities, including
thousands of men and women on the
frontlines of the wildfires that today
are ravaging the West. They help pro-
tect our drinking water and clean air
as scientists at the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency. They educate us about
our Nation’s landmarks at our national
parks, and so much more. They work
tirelessly every day to make sure our
lives are a little bit better.
While it is the responsibility of gov-
ernment to ensure that every worker is
able to go to work without putting
their health or safety at risk, earn a
living wage to support their families,
and retire with dignity, the Federal
Government has even more direct re-
sponsibility for its own workers and
should be a model for treating workers
fairly and protecting their rights.
Unfortunately, since day one, Presi-
dent Trump has fought to roll back
those worker protections and under-
mine their rights. Now he has taken a
number of steps targeting Federal
workers’ right to join together and col-
lectively bargain for better working
conditions.
Through a series of Executive orders,
President Trump has made it harder
for workers to organize, for their
unions to effectively represent them
when they have a dispute with manage-
ment, and for Federal agencies to bar-
gain collectively with their employees
in good faith. These Executive orders
target protections that were painstak-
ingly negotiated and agreed to by both
parties to make sure workers who are
paid with our taxpayer dollars are
treated fairly and that workplace dis-
putes in the Federal Government are
resolved efficiently and equitably.
Again, the Federal Government
should be a model for employers, dem-
onstrating how to treat their workers
fairly and with respect. By treating
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.062 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5348 July 25, 2018
these Federal workers poorly, Presi-
dent Trump is sending a clear signal
that this administration doesn’t care
about workers and will do nothing to
intervene when corporate management
mistreats their workers.
These series of Executive orders are
not the only way President Trump is
making it harder for working families
to succeed in this country. Since day
one, President Trump has undermined
worker protections, including the right
to overtime pay and collective bar-
gaining, and made it harder for work-
ing families to become economically
secure.
Now he has nominated another anti-
worker, anti-union judge to our Su-
preme Court. Last month’s Supreme
Court decision in Janus made it clear
that working families have to have a
fair voice in the highest Court in the
land.
Judge Kavanaugh’s record proves he
wouldn’t be a fair voice for working
families. Throughout his long career,
Judge Kavanaugh has sided with cor-
porate special interests at the expense
of their workers and rights. He has ar-
gued against health and safety stand-
ards for workers—a view not shared by
other members of the circuit court. He
has argued against workers’ rights to
be paid fairly for the work they do and
repeatedly has been hostile toward
workers’ rights to organize and join a
union and speak up together for better
wages and working conditions.
Judge Kavanaugh has used his power
as a Federal judge to try to create
loopholes for corporations to avoid ne-
gotiating with unions and has even ar-
gued that some immigrant workers
don’t have a right to organize or collec-
tively bargain.
Judge Kavanaugh’s record is not one
of someone who will be balanced and
who will listen to each case without
bias. It is the record of someone who
has consistently sided with corpora-
tions and management, and I fear he
will do the same on our Nation’s high-
est Court. I fear that Judge
Kavanaugh’s pro-corporate, anti-work-
er record is exactly why President
Trump and Republicans in Congress are
pushing so hard to get him on the Su-
preme Court.
I am proud to join my colleagues on
the floor today to stand for our Federal
workers and for their families.
I urge every worker who believes
that our economy should work for
them, not just for corporations and
special interests, to make their voice
heard. Call, write, and text your Sen-
ators, and urge them to oppose this
nomination. Our government, our econ-
omy, and our country are strongest
when workers are able to make their
voices heard and are part of this proc-
ess.
I hope my colleagues across the aisle
who care about the economic security
of our working families and the middle
class will join us in pushing back
against President Trump’s harmful Ex-
ecutive orders and opposing this anti-
worker Supreme Court nominee.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I also rise
to speak about our Federal workforce.
In Virginia, there are about 170,000
Virginians who are Federal employees.
The density of Federal employees in
our State is significant. I follow the
comments of my colleague from Wash-
ington. They do all kinds of very im-
portant work. I think about the nurses
at the Wounded Warrior hospital at
Fort Belvoir, who are DOD civilian
Federal employees. I think about folks
who work in the Appalachian Regional
Commission trying to help the Appa-
lachian part of our State find economic
strategies to move ahead. And there
are so many others. I rise on their be-
half to speak with significant concern
about what the administration is
doing.
The Executive orders the President
issued are part of a concerted effort to
go after Federal employees, the major-
ity of whom are hard-working individ-
uals driven by the pursuit of public
service.
Under this administration, before
these Executive orders, the workforce
had already been subject to hiring
freezes, proposed pay freezes, and cuts
in their retirement. These additional
Executive orders severely restrict or
eliminate longstanding workplace
rights and perpetuate less-than-opti-
mal working conditions. They are
being hastily implemented by man-
agers across executive branch agencies,
many of whom are political appointees
who don’t have history or expertise in
working with particular agencies. Ex-
isting collective bargaining agree-
ments are being torn up or ignored
without good-faith negotiations.
Let me talk about the implications
for hundreds of thousands of Federal
employees.
First, under the Executive order of
the administration—and this may be
the one I am most concerned about—it
will be easier to fire employees without
due process, which leaves employees
open to retaliation for personal or po-
litical reasons.
We have seen not just the adminis-
tration but the President himself fire
notable Federal employees—the FBI
Director, for example, and others—and
call others into question and challenge
them publicly, in public settings, for
just doing their jobs. What most in-
cites the President to try to attack
these Federal employees is if they take
any position that he views as disloyal
to him. If they are doing an investiga-
tion into ethical violations or other
improprieties, then he goes after them
and even fires them.
Leaving employees open to being
fired because the political leader
doesn’t think they are loyal enough is
not the system we should have or
allow. Making it easier to fire employ-
ees without due process—we have seen
how the President can use these au-
thorities, and I don’t think we want to
expand them.
The orders also severely eliminate
collective bargaining between agencies
and employees. These agreements are
relied on to ensure that employees
have fair representation in the work-
place, and now they are often being re-
placed with take-it-or-leave-it guide-
lines crafted by political appointees
who may not understand an agency’s
mission.
I will conclude and tell you what I
am hearing from Virginia. We have al-
ready heard firsthand accounts just
since May 25 from Virginia and other
agencies about the effect of these Exec-
utive orders.
We have a Social Security Adminis-
tration office in Falls Church. The So-
cial Security Administration is a pret-
ty important agency because people
who rely on Social Security deeply
need it. The agency deals with all
kinds of issues, from the processing of
Social Security checks to determina-
tions about Social Security disability
benefits.
At the SSA office in Falls Church,
VA, the agency notified union rep-
resentatives that they are not allowed
to use office space, computers, or
email—not even on personal devices or
personal time—to discuss personnel
matters with employees. What kind of
manager of employees would prohibit
discussion of employment matters in
the workplace or even on personal time
or personal devices? What that means
is that union officials, who are subject
to valid and protected collective bar-
gaining agreements, have to do all
their representational work at home in
order to honor their members’ rights,
which are guaranteed by law to be rep-
resented.
The HHS headquarters, where many
Virginians are employed, is using Exec-
utive orders to say that they don’t
need to bargain with unions over griev-
ance procedures, transit subsidies, and
telework. At the HHS, the agency re-
cently sat down at the table for a dis-
cussion but then only allowed the dis-
cussion to occur for a few hours before
unilaterally getting up, walking out,
and declaring that it was over.
We should have strategies and poli-
cies that encourage cooperation be-
tween management and employees, not
pit them against one another, as this
administration is currently doing.
With that, Mr. President, I speak on
behalf of all of these good people in
Virginia, particularly to raise the con-
cern about weakening protections so
employees can get fired without any
kind of due process. I think that leaves
them open to retaliation, firing for po-
litical reasons—other than the merits
of the work—and I rise to speak
against it.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Thank you, Mr.
President.
I want to join my colleague from Vir-
ginia, Senator KAINE, and others who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.064 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5349
July 25, 2018
have come to this floor to talk about
the important work that is done every
day on behalf of the country by our
Federal civil servants. As my col-
leagues have said, these are people who
do the work for the American people in
Maryland, Virginia, and States in
every part of this country. They are
the nurses and doctors taking care of
our veterans at veterans hospitals.
They are the folks in our intelligence
community who are the eyes and ears
for our country, detecting foreign
threats so that we can respond to them
in time. They are the people at the So-
cial Security offices, whether in Vir-
ginia or the Social Security Adminis-
tration in Maryland or others around
the country, who are making sure that
people who put in a full day’s work and
had a long career can get the Social Se-
curity support they earned. They are
the people at places like the National
Institutes of Health who are working
every day to discover cures and treat-
ments for diseases that impact every
American family.
Unfortunately, rather than treating
these Federal civil servants with the
dignity and respect they deserve, the
administration is taking multiple steps
to harm the ability of these men and
women to do their job for the American
people. It is especially ironic in an ad-
ministration where we have seen peo-
ple appointed to heads of Cabinet agen-
cies who have been documented to have
wasted lots of taxpayer dollars and
abused the public trust—an adminis-
tration that puts those people in the
highest offices at the same time they
are undermining the work of Federal
employees who go to work every day.
I am pleased to join my colleagues
today to stand up for these Federal em-
ployees. I wish we didn’t have to be
here, but we have to be here because
the Trump administration issued a se-
ries of Executive orders just a few
months ago that go after Federal civil
servants, just as we have seen this ad-
ministration attack workers’ rights in
the private sector across the country.
The first Executive order that was
issued short-circuits the collective bar-
gaining process. It imposes a new, rigid
process under which Federal agencies
are allowed to impose workplace poli-
cies without good-faith negotiations.
Good-faith negotiations are required
now, and this would undermine that re-
quirement.
The second order imposes arbitrary
limits on the time that Federal em-
ployees in a union can carry out their
duties to represent their fellow work-
ers. No single case is the same, and
Federal employee unions are required
not only to represent the people who
sign up as members of the unions but
all Federal workers. So to arbitrarily
dictate the amount of time necessary
to protect the rights of a Federal em-
ployee is simply wrong and will under-
mine the justice within the system.
The third Executive order, which is
especially egregious, as my colleague
from Virginia just said, is the one that
eliminates the opportunity for due
process before someone is fired. That
opens the door to cronyism in our sys-
tem—to favoritism and cronyism.
That is why 45 Senators sent a letter
to the President a little while back
calling upon him to rescind these or-
ders and take other actions.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that that letter be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, June 19, 2018.
President DONALD TRUMP,
The White House,
Washington, DC.
DEAR PRESIDENT TRUMP: We write to ex-
press our serious concerns about recent ac-
tions to undermine the foundations of our
civil service system. We respectfully request
that you reconsider and rescind Executive
Orders 13836, 13837, and 13839, which under-
mine the lawful rights and protections af-
forded to federal employees. At a minimum,
we hope you will ensure that managers at
federal agencies do not use these executive
orders inappropriately to circumvent exist-
ing collective bargaining agreements be-
tween agencies and federal workers.
The approximately two million men and
women in the federal civil service are dedi-
cated and hardworking professionals. They
safeguard our national security and food
safety, perform lifesaving medical proce-
dures, deliver Social Security and veterans’
benefits, and fulfill countless other respon-
sibilities on behalf of our citizens.
The recent executive orders undermine the
decades-old rights of federal employees to
fair representation in the workplace. These
orders significantly reduce the extent to
which federal agencies will negotiate collec-
tive bargaining agreements with their work-
force. Instead, federal agencies or outside
panels will impose workplace policies with-
out good faith negotiation.
Imposing arbitrary limits on the time that
federal employees can carry out statutory
duties to represent fellow employees—known
as official time—makes it harder to resolve
workplace disputes and root out waste,
fraud, and abuse. The law already requires
federal agencies and unions to negotiate
agreements that require official time to be
‘‘reasonable, necessary, and in the public in-
terest’’ (5 U.S.C. § 7131) and official time has
helped prevent cover-ups of disease out-
breaks, address racial harassment, and expe-
dite benefits for veterans.
We support improving the performance of
the federal workforce, but these executive
orders will do the opposite. These executive
orders discourage federal agencies from
using their discretion to create reasonable
plans for federal employees to improve their
performance if they are at risk of demotion
or termination. Firing employees without
due process undermines the merit-based civil
service system, and opens the door for man-
agers to satisfy their own personal vendettas
or political agendas.
Some federal agencies already appear to be
abrogating existing collective bargaining
agreements by citing these executive orders.
We ask that you direct agency and depart-
ment heads to cease and desist from doing
so.
It is time to stop the attacks on our fed-
eral workers. These are also attacks on our
veterans, who make up roughly one-third of
the federal civilian workforce. We need to
keep politics out of the civil service, and we
urge you to reconsider these executive or-
ders.
Sincerely,
Chris Van Hollen, Tim Kaine, Sherrod
Brown, Benjamin L. Cardin, Mazie K.
Hirono, Brian Schatz, Mark R. Warner,
Richard Blumenthal, Kirsten Gilli-
brand, Jeanne Shaheen, Thomas R.
Carper, Patty Murray, Edward J. Mar-
key, Tammy Duckworth, Maria Cant-
well, Elizabeth Warren, Margaret Wood
Hassan, Kamala D. Harris, Sheldon
Whitehouse, Gary C. Peters, Angus S.
King, Jr., Bernard Sanders, Tammy
Baldwin, Charles E. Schumer, Richard
J. Durbin, Jack Reed, Cory A. Booker,
Tina Smith, Christopher A. Coons,
Robert P. Casey, Jr., Michael F. Ben-
net, Robert Menendez, Tom Udall, Jef-
frey A. Merkley, Joe Donnelly, Ron
Wyden, Catherine Cortez Masto,
Dianne Feinstein, Doug Jones, Bill Nel-
son, Debbie Stabenow, Martin Hein-
rich, Patrick J. Leahy, Amy Klo-
buchar, Christopher S. Murphy, U.S.
Senators.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President,
Federal law requires that agencies bar-
gain in good faith with their workers.
That makes for a better workplace, and
that makes for better results for the
American people. The President cannot
just repeal that law by Executive
order. I hope the courts will strike
down these Executive orders as being
an abuse of process and violating the
law.
With that, Mr. President, we got
some good news on that front today.
Even before the President’s Executive
orders were in place, Secretary DeVos
over at the Department of Education
had already launched her attack on
workers’ rights. That attack she
launched was reviewed by the Federal
Labor Relations Authority, and, as re-
ported today in the New York Times—
the headline states: ‘‘Education Dept.
Illegally Curbed Workers’ Union Pro-
tections, Mediators Suggest.’’
What we have seen is that this pat-
tern the Trump administration has
tried to unilaterally put in place is get-
ting some pushback from the Labor Re-
lations Authority.
As reported in the article—it says
that ‘‘the decisions could have broad
implications because the Education
Department’s actions mirror Trump
administration efforts throughout the
Federal Government.’’ They mention
the Social Security Administration,
Department of Veterans Affairs, and
others.
I hope the courts will follow the lead
of the mediators that found President
Trump’s Executive orders to be illegal
because, as has been reported and as
the Senator from Virginia just men-
tioned with respect to Social Security
in his State, we are also seeing efforts
at the Social Security Administration
in Baltimore to undermine the rights
of Federal employees.
The leadership at SSA in Baltimore
has already slashed official time for
union members to represent fellow em-
ployees. They plan to evict the unions
from their office space at the Social
Security Administration headquarters
as early as next week. The result will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.066 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5350 July 25, 2018
be that Social Security Administration
workers will not have their voices
heard on issues important to their
workplace. The Social Security Admin-
istration had previously agreed to pro-
vide a certain amount of official time
and office space to its workers. Now
they are ripping apart those agree-
ments.
Today, Senator CARDIN and I sent let-
ters to President Trump’s nominees for
the Social Security Commissioner and
Deputy Commissioner to ask for their
assurances that Federal workers will
be treated more fairly under their
watch if the Senate confirms those
nominations. We have called upon the
Social Security Administration’s cur-
rent leadership to honor the existing
collective bargaining agreements and
negotiate in good faith with the unions
if they need to revise those agree-
ments.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the RECORD the
letters Senator CARDIN and I sent to
the nominees.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, July 25, 2018.
NANCY A. BERRYHILL,
Acting Commissioner,
Social Security Administration, Baltimore, MD.
RALPH A. PATINELLA,
Associate Commissioner, Labor-Management
and Employee Relations, Social Security
Administration, Baltimore, MD.
DEAR MS. BERRYHILL AND MR. PATINELLA:
We are deeply concerned about the recent ac-
tions you have taken with regard to the
workforce of the Social Security Adminis-
tration (SSA) in your respective roles as the
Acting Commissioner and the official des-
ignated to implement Executive Order 13837
at SSA. Social Security is the bedrock of
economic security for American families,
providing retirement benefits, disability in-
surance, and life insurance for surviving
spouses and dependents. The federal employ-
ees at SSA are responsible for providing the
fairness and efficiency that Americans ex-
pect and deserve from Social Security.
On June 19, 2018, we signed a letter joined
by 45 Senators to urge President Trump to
rescind three Executive Orders regarding the
federal workforce, and we have attached that
letter for your reference. We remain deeply
concerned about how these orders undermine
lawful civil service protections for federal
employees throughout the government.
Since signing that letter, it has come to our
attention that SSA leadership has dem-
onstrated particular hostility towards its
workforce in the way it is implementing the
Executive Orders.
President Trump’s Executive Orders re-
garding the federal workforce currently face
serious legal challenges, but SSA leadership
has exceeded even the dubious authority pro-
vided by these orders. Executive Order 13837
makes clear that, ‘‘Nothing in this order
shall abrogate any collective bargaining
agreement in effect on the date of this
order.’’ It is our understanding that some
workers at SSA are covered by collective
bargaining agreements that have not ex-
pired, and that even expired agreements pro-
vide for the continuation of key provisions
until a new agreement is reached.
SSA leadership has abrogated its collective
bargaining agreements by slashing the offi-
cial time available to unions to fulfill their
statutory duties for SSA workers. SSA lead-
ership has further abrogated these agree-
ments by refusing to provide agreed-upon re-
imbursement for union members to travel
for arbitrations and negotiations—even can-
celling existing reservations—and SSA lead-
ership has moved to evict unions from office
space that SSA agreed to provide in collec-
tive bargaining.
We understand that SSA cannot disregard
these executive orders, but we do not under-
stand why SSA is implementing these orders
with more hostility towards its workforce
than the executive orders require (and pos-
sibly even more hostility than they permit).
Please explain to us what legal or regulatory
barriers prevent SSA from honoring its ex-
isting collective bargaining agreements
while negotiating new agreements in good
faith with the unions.
We are also concerned about protecting the
independence of Administrative Law Judges
(ALJs), in light of President Trump’s more
recent Executive Order removing these posi-
tions from the competitive civil service. The
integrity of Social Security depends on a
merit-based process for selecting and man-
aging ALJs that is free of political influence.
We urge you to continue to use a merit-based
process for hiring and managing ALJs that is
not influenced by politics or pressure from
elsewhere in the Executive Branch.
Thank you for your attention to this mat-
ter. We look forward to your reply.
Sincerely,
CHRIS VAN HOLLEN,
United States Senator.
BENJAMIN L. CARDIN,
U.S. Senator.
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, July 25, 2018.
ANDREW M. SAUL,
Social Security Administration,
Baltimore, MD.
DEAR MR. SAUL: The Senate is currently
considering your nomination to be Commis-
sioner of Social Security. Social Security is
the bedrock of economic security for Amer-
ican families, providing retirement benefits,
disability insurance, and life insurance for
surviving spouses and dependents. The fed-
eral employees at the Social Security Ad-
ministration (SSA) are responsible for pro-
viding the fairness and efficiency that Amer-
icans expect and deserve from Social Secu-
rity, which is why we strongly oppose recent
actions by SSA leadership to undermine
SSA’s workforce. We are writing to ask for
your assurance that if the Senate confirms
your nomination, that SSA will treat its
workers and their unions more fairly under
your leadership.
On June 19, 2018, we signed a letter joined
by 45 Senators to urge President Trump to
rescind three Executive Orders regarding the
federal workforce, and we have attached that
letter for your reference. We remain deeply
concerned about how these orders undermine
lawful civil service protections for federal
employees throughout the government.
Since signing that letter, it has come to our
attention that SSA leadership has dem-
onstrated particular hostility towards its
workforce in the way it is implementing the
Executive Orders.
We are also concerned about protecting the
independence of Administrative Law Judges
(ALJs), in light of President Trump’s more
recent Executive Order removing these posi-
tions from the competitive civil service. The
integrity of Social Security depends on a
merit-based process for selecting and man-
aging ALJs that is free of political influence.
President Trump’s Executive Orders re-
garding the federal workforce currently face
serious legal challenges, but SSA leadership
has exceeded even the dubious authority pro-
vided by these orders. The Executive Order
on official time provided to unions makes
clear that, ‘‘Nothing in this order shall abro-
gate any collective bargaining agreement in
effect on the date of this order.’’ It is our un-
derstanding that some workers at SSA are
covered by collective bargaining agreements
that have not expired, and that even expired
agreements provide for the continuation of
key provisions until a new agreement is
reached.
SSA leadership has abrogated its collective
bargaining agreements by slashing the offi-
cial time available to unions to fulfill their
statutory duties for SSA workers. SSA lead-
ership has further abrogated these agree-
ments by refusing to provide agreed-upon re-
imbursement for union members to travel
for arbitrations and negotiations—even can-
celling existing reservations—and SSA lead-
ership has moved to evict unions from office
space that SSA agreed to provide in collec-
tive bargaining.
Federal law requires agencies to bargain in
good faith with the unions representing their
workforce—an obligation that President
Trump cannot overturn by Executive Order
(5 U.S.C. 7114). If confirmed, we expect you to
follow the law. Therefore, as the Senate con-
siders your nomination, we request the fol-
lowing assurances from you regarding how
SSA will function under your leadership:
1. SSA will honor its collective bargaining
agreements by rescinding the unilateral
changes that SSA has already made, and will
not make further unilateral changes.
2. SSA will honor the terms of expired col-
lective bargaining agreements until reaching
a new agreement, by rescinding unilateral
changes and not making further unilateral
changes.
3. If SSA and its workforce seek to nego-
tiate a new collective bargaining agreement,
that you will bargain in good faith with the
unions representing SSA’s workforce, and do
everything in your power to reach an agree-
ment without resorting to the Federal Serv-
ice Impasses Panel to impose terms.
4. SSA will continue to use a merit-based
process for hiring and managing ALJs that is
not influenced by politics or pressure from
elsewhere in the Executive Branch.
Additionally, please describe the formal or
informal role you have played, if any, re-
garding the implementation of these execu-
tive orders at SSA.
Thank you for your attention to this mat-
ter. We look forward to your reply.
Sincerely,
CHRIS VAN HOLLEN,
U.S. Senator.
BENJAMIN L. CARDIN,
U.S. Senator.
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, July 25, 2018.
DAVID FABIAN BLACK,
Social Security Administration,
Baltimore, MD.
DEAR MR. BLACK: The Senate is currently
considering your nomination to be Deputy
Commissioner of Social Security. Social Se-
curity is the bedrock of economic security
for American families, providing retirement
benefits, disability insurance, and life insur-
ance for surviving spouses and dependents.
The federal employees at the Social Security
Administration (SSA) are responsible for
providing the fairness and efficiency that
Americans expect and deserve from Social
Security, which is why we strongly oppose
recent actions by SSA leadership to under-
mine SSA’s workforce. We are writing to ask
for your assurance that if the Senate con-
firms your nomination, that SSA will treat
its workers and their unions more fairly
under your leadership.
On June 19, 2018, we signed a letter joined
by 45 Senators to urge President Trump to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.067 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5351
July 25, 2018
rescind three Executive Orders regarding the
federal workforce, and we have attached that
letter for your reference. We remain deeply
concerned about how these orders undermine
lawful civil service protections for federal
employees throughout the government.
Since signing that letter, it has come to our
attention that SSA leadership has dem-
onstrated particular hostility towards its
workforce in the way it is implementing the
Executive Orders.
We are also concerned about protecting the
independence of Administrative Law Judges
(ALJs), in light of President Trump’s more
recent Executive Order removing these posi-
tions from the competitive civil service. The
integrity of Social Security depends on a
merit-based process for selecting and man-
aging ALJs that is free of political influence.
President Trump’s Executive Orders re-
garding the federal workforce currently face
serious legal challenges, but SSA leadership
has exceeded even the dubious authority pro-
vided by these orders. The Executive Order
on official time provided to unions makes
clear that, ‘‘Nothing in this order shall abro-
gate any collective bargaining agreement in
effect on the date of this order.’’ It is our un-
derstanding that some workers at SSA are
covered by collective bargaining agreements
that have not expired, and that even expired
agreements provide for the continuation of
key provisions until a new agreement is
reached.
SSA leadership has abrogated its collective
bargaining agreements by slashing the offi-
cial time available to unions to fulfill their
statutory duties for SSA workers. SSA lead-
ership has further abrogated these agree-
ments by refusing to provide agreed-upon re-
imbursement for union members to travel
for arbitrations and negotiations—even can-
celling existing reservations—and SSA lead-
ership has moved to evict unions from office
space that SSA agreed to provide in collec-
tive bargaining.
Federal law requires agencies to bargain in
good faith with the unions representing their
workforce—an obligation that President
Trump cannot overturn by Executive Order
(5 U.S.C. 7114). If confirmed, we expect you to
follow the law. Therefore, as the Senate con-
siders your nomination, we request the fol-
lowing assurances from you regarding how
SSA will function under your leadership:
1. SSA will honor its collective bargaining
agreements by rescinding the unilateral
changes that SSA has already made, and will
not make further unilateral changes.
2. SSA will honor the terms of expired col-
lective bargaining agreements until reaching
a new agreement, by rescinding unilateral
changes and not making further unilateral
changes.
3. If SSA and its workforce seek to nego-
tiate a new collective bargaining agreement,
that you will bargain in good faith with the
unions representing SSA’s workforce, and do
everything in your power to reach an agree-
ment without resorting to the Federal Serv-
ice Impasses Panel to impose terms.
4. SSA will continue to use a merit-based
process for hiring and managing ALJs that is
not influenced by politics or pressure from
elsewhere in the Executive Branch.
Additionally, please describe the formal or
informal role you have played, if any, re-
garding the implementation of these execu-
tive orders at SSA.
Thank you for your attention to this mat-
ter. We look forward to your reply.
Sincerely,
CHRIS VAN HOLLEN,
U.S. Senator.
BENJAMIN L. CARDIN,
U.S. Senator.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. In closing, as our
colleagues have said, it is very impor-
tant that we work together to protect
the integrity of the Federal civil serv-
ice. We have had a system over time
where folks have been judged on their
merits, not judged on their political fa-
voritism or whether they were really
good at saying exactly what their boss
might want them to say. We want a
civil service that values independent
thinking and also values merit. By tak-
ing these actions, unfortunately, the
Trump administration is undermining
those efforts.
I hope the courts and I hope this body
will join us in pushing back on these
efforts by the Trump administration to
undermine the integrity of our work-
force and stand up for the hard-work-
ing Federal employees who are doing
the work of this country every day.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for up to 2
minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
AMENDMENT NO. 3553
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I rise
today to offer an amendment that
would appropriate funding for the Of-
fice of Terrorism and Financial Intel-
ligence at the Department of Treasury
to investigate the illicit trade of syn-
thetic opiates originating from the
People’s Republic of China.
In 2016, synthetic opiates killed 19,413
Americans. That is more than heroin,
which killed 15,469, and prescription
pain pills, which killed 14,487.
Between 2013 and 2016, deaths involv-
ing synthetic opioids increased 625 per-
cent. Most illicit synthetic opioids
found in street drugs originate in
China, with some shipped through Mex-
ico, according to the Drug Enforcement
Administration and United Nations
narcotics monitors.
China produces over 90 percent of the
world’s fentanyl and exports a range of
fentanyl products to the United States,
including raw fentanyl, fentanyl pre-
cursors, fentanyl analogues, and
fentanyl-laced counterfeit prescription
drugs, like oxycodone and pill pressers.
Unlike previous epidemics where
there are a few underground sources,
many manufacturers of fentanyl and
fentanyl precursors in China are legiti-
mate companies legally producing and
exporting legitimate drugs and chemi-
cals to the United States. According to
the U.S.-China Economic and Security
Review Commission, ‘‘the primary ob-
stacles to controlling fentanyl and
NPS flows lie in China’’—China itself.
Unfortunately, China has yet to
meaningfully crack down on the illicit
production and export of these drugs
and their derivatives, despite the
urgings of the President of the United
States and all of our officials. Just 2
milligrams of fentanyl will kill most
people.
This amendment is simple. It dedi-
cates $1 million for the Office of Ter-
rorism Financial Intelligence within
the Department of Treasury to study
the illicit trade of synthetic opioids
coming into our country from China.
This is consistent with the office’s dual
mission safeguarding the financial sys-
tem against illicit use and combating
rogue nations, terrorist facilitators,
weapons of mass destruction, money
launderers, drug kingpins, and other
national security threats.
I urge the adoption of this much
needed amendment.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question now occurs on agreeing to
Manchin amendment No. 3553.
Mr. MANCHIN. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator
is necessarily absent: the Senator from
Arizona (Mr. MCCAIN).
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
TILLIS). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 99,
nays 0, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 170 Leg.]
YEAS—99
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Corker
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Donnelly
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Flake
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Harris
Hassan
Hatch
Heinrich
Heitkamp
Heller
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McCaskill
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Nelson
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Rounds
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott
Shaheen
Shelby
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NOT VOTING—1
McCain
The amendment (No. 3553) was agreed
to.
AMENDMENT NO. 3543
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There is
now 10 minutes of debate, equally di-
vided, before the next vote.
The Senator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, our na-
tional debt now exceeds $22 trillion. We
are borrowing about $1 million a
minute—actually, more than $1 mil-
lion. Many authorities, including Ad-
miral Mullen, have said the greatest
threat to our national security is actu-
ally our debt.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.051 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5352 July 25, 2018
The best way to do something about
debt is to quit spending yourself fur-
ther into a hole. We had spending caps.
We adhered to them for a couple of
years, and we actually were reducing
the size of the deficit.
This year, though, the deficit will ac-
tually approach $1 trillion, and next
year it may exceed $1 trillion. This
amendment would put the spending
caps back just on the spending we have
before us in this bill.
I would advocate that if you are con-
cerned about the debt, concerned about
the deficit, and concerned about the
strength of our country, that you vote
to reinstitute the spending caps.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I rise to
urge my colleagues to oppose the Paul
amendment.
While we all understand the desire to
cut spending, the allocations in this
package before us are based on caps
that were set in a bipartisan budget
agreement signed into law earlier this
year. I think we cannot go back on our
word and our agreement and expect bi-
partisan support.
We are working longer in the Appro-
priations Committee. I think we are
doing well at this point. We have a long
way to go, but if we start loading it up,
the process will fall apart.
I urge you to vote no on the Paul
amendment.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
to urge my colleagues to oppose the
amendment offered by the Senator
from Kentucky.
Make no mistake about what this
amendment would do. It is an 11.4-per-
cent, across-the-board, indiscriminate,
meat-ax cut in important programs,
and as the chairman of the Appropria-
tions Committee has pointed out, it
would violate the bipartisan agreement
we just reached earlier this year.
In addition, let me give you just one
example of what the impact of Senator
PAUL’s amendment would be. If you
look at the section 8 housing program,
which helps some of our most vulner-
able citizens, this amendment’s pas-
sage would mean that 275,000 low-in-
come seniors, disabled individuals,
homeless veterans, and families with
small children would lose their housing
assistance and become at risk of home-
lessness. I don’t think that is what we
want.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I totally
agree with both the Senator from Ala-
bama and the Senator from Maine.
First, as they said, this violates the
bipartisan agreement this body made
and agreed with the President about
the things we would do. Seventy-three
thousand jobs would be cut from the
Federal Highway Administration
projects when we need them, including
800,000 low-income women, infants, and
children no longer receiving WIC.
Mr. President, the Paul amendment
proposes an 11.39-percent cut in each of
the four bills under consideration. If
adopted, it would undo the bipartisan
budget deal the Senate passed and the
President signed into law just a few
months ago, and it would undo all of
the work that has gone into crafting
the bipartisan bills we are considering
today.
More importantly, an 11.39-percent
across-the-board cut would have dev-
astating impacts on programs that are
important to millions of Americans
and to our economy.
I would mean a loss of over 73,000 jobs
that would otherwise be created
through Federal Highway Administra-
tion projects. An 11.3-percent cut to
our National Parks would cause steep
reductions in visitor services, law en-
forcement, and natural resource pro-
tection, all at a time when our Na-
tional Parks are seeing a dramatic in-
crease in visitors.
An 11.39-percent cut means 108,000
low-income families, the elderly, and
disabled will lose their HUD rental as-
sistance and be at risk of becoming
homeless. It means 830,000 low-income
women, infants, and children would no
longer receive WIC assistance.
These are just a few examples. I urge
a no vote on the Paul amendment.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate on the amendment?
If not, the question is on agreeing to
Paul amendment No. 3543.
Mr. PAUL. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. The following Senator
is necessarily absent: the Senator from
Arizona (Mr. MCCAIN).
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 25,
nays 74, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 171 Leg.]
YEAS—25
Barrasso
Burr
Cassidy
Corker
Cornyn
Cotton
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Flake
Grassley
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Perdue
Risch
Sasse
Scott
Thune
Toomey
NAYS—74
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Donnelly
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Harris
Hassan
Hatch
Heinrich
Heitkamp
Heller
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McCaskill
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Nelson
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rounds
Rubio
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Shelby
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NOT VOTING—1
McCain
The amendment (No. 3543) was re-
jected.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
REMEMBERING OFFICER JACOB CHESTNUT AND
DETECTIVE JOHN GIBSON
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, there
are a few things I wish to talk about
today, but I would like to start by rec-
ognizing the service and bravery of our
Capitol Police officers.
This week is the 20th anniversary of
a shooting which occurred in the U.S.
Capitol that claimed the lives of U.S.
Capitol Police Officer Jacob Chestnut
and Detective John Gibson when a gun-
man forced his way into this Capitol
Building. They laid down their lives in
defense of others and made the ulti-
mate sacrifice defending the U.S. Cap-
itol, this pillar of American democ-
racy.
At the time, then-President Clinton
said: ‘‘The shooting at the United
States Capitol yesterday was a mo-
ment of savagery at the front door of
American civilization.’’ He was right.
I was working in the Capitol that
day, 20 years ago. I remember where I
was, as I am sure everybody does who
was here. I remember hearing the gun-
shots. I was on the telephone from my
office in the House of Representatives
with a member of the leadership staff,
and I heard the chaos through the
phone lines for the first time.
We are forever grateful for the sac-
rifice of those two police officers and
their families and for the continued
service and commitment of the U.S.
Capitol Police every single day in the
Capitol. They are the ones who protect
us every single day. This week, we are
reminded to thank everyone who puts
on a uniform and steps into harm’s way
to protect fellow Americans.
STRENGTHENING CAREER AND TECHNICAL
EDUCATION FOR THE 21ST CENTURY ACT
Mr. President, I also wish to discuss
important legislation the Senate
passed earlier this week and the House
passed today to improve skills training
in our country at a time when it is so
badly needed.
I am the cofounder and cochair of the
Senate Career and Technical Education
Caucus. I have to tell you, I am excited
about this bipartisan legislation. It re-
authorizes what is called the Perkins
Career and Technical Education, or
CTE, Act. It is a Federal law designed
to help Americans get the education,
training, and skills they need to fill in-
demand jobs. The President supports
the legislation. I know he is excited
about signing it into law and helping
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.070 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5353
July 25, 2018
those who need the skills to fill those
jobs that are out there.
CTE—at one time called vocational
education—is just a great opportunity
for the students but also for our econ-
omy and for employers. The bill that
passed includes what is called the Edu-
cating Tomorrow’s Workforce Act, leg-
islation my colleague Senator TIM
KAINE and I authored a few years ago
to allow States and localities to use
Perkins grant funding for a number of
purposes.
No. 1, we allow them to use it for
CTE-focused academies. We also en-
courage schools to incorporate key ele-
ments of high-quality CTE programs
from around the country and promote
partnerships between local businesses,
regional industries, and other commu-
nity stakeholders to create work-based
learning opportunities for students,
like apprenticeships and internships.
We know they work. Getting that work
experience really helps to be able to
land a job, so we are excited about this
legislation.
It also includes important account-
ability information for our most vul-
nerable students to track how well
CTE programs are performing so we
can ensure high-quality skills training.
When I travel around Ohio talking to
employers of all sizes, they all stress
one thing to me, which is, yes, the
economy is doing better, tax reform
has worked well for me, the regulatory
relief is happening—that is great—but
we are having trouble finding workers.
In Ohio today, on our website
OhioMeansJobs, you will probably see
145,000 jobs being advertised, and yet
we have 200,000 people out of work. A
lot of that is the skills gap. I often
hear the biggest challenge employers
have is they can’t find enough skilled
workers for the positions they already
have. We want to give these students
the chance to acquire that training
needed for today’s jobs. Again, this leg-
islation helps to ensure it regardless of
someone’s economic standing.
It provides a route to good-paying
jobs and a successful career for stu-
dents who might not have been inter-
ested in a typical formal STEM edu-
cation or maybe they can’t easily
spend the time and money involved in
going through a traditional college
education.
It is not just about the students. It
also helps those who are further on in
life who are trying to rebuild or start a
new career. This bill will also help
those incumbent workers. Recently, I
visited Flying HIGH, a welding school
in Youngstown, OH. It is a very impres-
sive program. It focuses on teaching
people in recovery and people who have
recently been released from prison to
learn a skill—in this case, welding—
which lets them transition back into
the workplace. I am really impressed
by it. Their placement rate is about 100
percent. They have taken people and
helped provide them with the skills
they need, and then, in turn, their lives
have been turned around. This legisla-
tion will help enable places like this
school to be more successful.
There are so many opportunities out
there. Whether it is welding, whether it
is coding, whether it is machining,
whether it is healthcare skills, or
whether it is in commercial driving,
where we need drivers right away who
have the CDL commercial license, we
should encourage more of that.
I wish to thank my colleague and co-
chair of the Senate CTE Caucus, TIM
KAINE, as well as Senator LAMAR ALEX-
ANDER, who chairs the Senate HELP
Committee that passed the bill this
last month, MIKE ENZI, and all my col-
leagues on the CTE Caucus, for their
work on this issue over the years.
Once signed into law, this legislation
will help students get the career and
technical education they need, regard-
less of economic standing, and help
them have the opportunity they need
to be able to pursue whatever their
American dream is.
DATA ACT IMPLEMENTATION
Mr. President, the last thing I want
to talk about today is some bad news
we received this week. This is about
our Federal Government and the lack
of information from Federal agencies
as to how they are spending our hard-
earned tax dollars.
As many people know, our Federal
Government has grown a lot in the last
half century or so. In 1961, President
Kennedy entered office with 7 Cabinet
positions and 451 career management
positions. When President Trump took
office, we had gone about seven times
higher in terms of the number of peo-
ple. The number of Cabinet posts have
been doubled from 7 to 15.
The increased size of our Federal
Government is intended, of course, to
provide a better structure to carry out
important duties the government has
and help more Americans, but one re-
sult we have to be cautious of is the in-
crease in Federal spending that comes
with it. As the size of our government
grows, transparency in how taxpayer
money is spent becomes increasingly
important.
Most of the increase in funding we
have seen over the last 20 years, of
course, is in programs that Congress
does not appropriate every year. This
includes important entitlement pro-
grams like Medicaid, Medicare, and So-
cial Security. We need to address this
unsustainable growth in the so-called
nondiscretionary spending. We need to
save these entitlement programs for
the current and future generations of
Americans who rely on them, but we
also need to ensure we rein in the
waste, fraud, and abuse in our depart-
ments and agencies, the so-called dis-
cretionary spending that Congress
spends every year on departments and
programs. That is why this legislation
is so important—to be able to require
transparency and accountability with
how Federal agencies spend their tax-
payer dollars.
While the White House and Congress
tracks spending through the budget
and appropriations process, each Fed-
eral agency tracks its own spending in-
ternally. They have their own metrics
and measurement systems. As you can
imagine, it has made it hard to truly
know where all of the funds are going
to various departments and agencies
because each has their own measure-
ment. We recognized a need to address
this.
In 2006, when I was Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget, the
Federal Funding Accountability and
Transparency Act became law. I per-
sonally endorsed that legislation by
then-Senator Tom Coburn—who some
will remember was a key sponsor of
that—when I was at OMB because I
knew we needed it badly. We went
about putting all grants and contracts
online. That was a good thing. The goal
of that law was to standardize the way
Federal departments and agencies re-
port their spending to have a more
comprehensive and transparent ac-
count of where taxpayer dollars are
going.
It also created a public website to be
managed by OMB called
USAspending.gov, where taxpayers and
policymakers could go to get accurate,
accessible information about what
these funds are used for. Taxpayers
should be able to see where their
money goes, and Congress—which is
given the power of the purse in our
Federal Government—needs to know
what the funds it allocates are being
used for to make informed decisions
about spending.
In 2010, the GAO, Government Ac-
countability Office, looked into how
this program was working. What they
found was the usefulness of the
USAspending.gov website was impaired
by the lack of guidance to agencies on
how to report their spending. So, in
2014, my colleague Senator MARK WAR-
NER of Virginia and I authored what is
called the Digital Accountability and
Transparency Act, the DATA Act. We
followed what the GAO had said, and
we wrote this legislation to fix the law.
The goal of the DATA Act was to cre-
ate a more consistent spending system
across government to improve the effi-
ciency of USAspending.gov and make
tracking Federal spending more trans-
parent and accessible. That would ulti-
mately provide the American public
and policymakers, we thought, with ac-
curate, consistent, and reliable data on
governmentwide spending to eliminate
unnecessary spending.
Being able to follow Federal dollars
from appropriation to the resulting
grant or contract that actually occurs
is incredibly helpful in that effort. The
DATA Act required Federal agencies to
report spending in real time down to
the location by congressional district
by 2017.
Now it is time to take stock of how
that program is working and to assess
the transparency in our Federal spend-
ing. The Senate Permanent Sub-
committee on Investigations, which I
chair, has taken this task on. Along
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.072 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5354 July 25, 2018
with the ranking member, Senator TOM
CARPER, we have looked into the imple-
mentation of the DATA Act and how
accurately departments and agencies
report spending data. What our bipar-
tisan report found was troubling.
We reviewed inspectors general, or
IG, reports of 25 Federal agencies, mak-
ing up more than 80 percent of all Fed-
eral spending from the second quarter
of 2017.
At least 55 percent of the spending
data—equal to roughly $240 billion
those agencies submitted to
USAspending.gov—was found to be in-
complete, inaccurate, or both. Notably,
the IG’s report on the Department of
Defense and the Department of Energy
determined that 100 percent of those
Departments’ spending data was not
accurate.
According to the inspectors general,
some agencies, such as the Department
of Education and the Agency for Na-
tional Development, did well. They re-
ported accurate data.
Unbelievably, about 96 percent of the
spending data the Treasury Depart-
ment submitted for its own Depart-
ment was not accurate. So the Treas-
ury Department, which the DATA Act
says is supposed to monitor other De-
partments’ spending data for accuracy,
overwhelmingly submitted inaccurate
data itself—and we found that just last
month, OMB and the Department of
Treasury have updated agency guid-
ance that appears to weaken some of
these data standards, which could lead
to less accurate and not standardized
DATA Act submissions in the future.
So we should be doing more to ensure
this law is properly implemented, to
ensure accountability and accuracy in
our finances.
We also found deficiencies with the
USAspending.gov website itself. The
DATA Act requires the website to be
user-friendly and accurate. Our inves-
tigators found it to sometimes be nei-
ther.
It is important to remember that the
DATA Act is still in its early stages. It
was fully implemented just a little
over 1 year ago. So it is not yet what
we had hoped it would be when it be-
came law in 2014, but it is not too late
to improve it. We know it has to be
done. Our PSI—Permanent Sub-
committee Investigation—report in-
cludes recommendations to do just
that.
First, OMB and the Treasury Depart-
ment should continue to update the
standards and guidelines for agencies
to follow when making DATA Act sub-
missions to improve accuracy and ac-
countability of spending. It is really up
to them to do it.
Second, OMB and the Treasury De-
partment should establish clear defini-
tions for agencies and IGs to follow
when conducting reviews of DATA Act
compliance to avoid any existing con-
fusion and disparity, which we found is
out there today.
Finally, the Treasury Department
should improve the overall quality of
USAspending.gov.
These are all reasonable steps, and
they are going to help increase ac-
countability within the Federal Gov-
ernment and provide greater trans-
parency for taxpayers. As I mentioned,
taxpayers deserve to be able to access
accurate information on where their
money is going, and lawmakers need to
know how departments and agencies
are actually spending their resources
to be able to conduct proper oversight,
plan future budgets, and eliminate
waste, fraud, and abuse in our Federal
spending.
On the floor today, we were dis-
cussing appropriations bills. We will
pass another floor appropriations bill
this week, I hope. That is good, but
part of this process is that we have to
be sure we are doing the oversight so
that if we are passing spending bills—
all 12 should be passed by this Con-
gress—we know where the money is
going so we can identify ways to im-
prove the spending.
I recognize that a lot of hard work
has gone into USAspending.gov to
date, and I am grateful for all the sup-
port and investments that many out-
side groups—like the Data Coalition
and the Project on Government Over-
sight—have put into making this
project successful. I also appreciate
those in the Federal Government who
have taken this seriously and have
worked hard on this.
Although the executive branch has
only implemented the law selectively
so far, it has already made our govern-
ment more transparent. If we continue
to do the necessary followup to this
important law that passed 4 years ago,
I am optimistic that it will spur action
to make our government spending
more accountable, more accurate, and
more accessible. That is the goal.
Mr. President, I yield back my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Florida.
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, we were
sitting in the cloakroom between the
last two votes that just happened in
the Senate, and everybody’s phone
started buzzing at the same time. That
is because everyone receives these
alerts from the National Weather Serv-
ice. The alert said: Flash flood warning
until 9:15 p.m. this evening.
I thought it was ironic because I was
headed to the floor to speak about
flooding—and in particular flood insur-
ance—which is a threat to so many dif-
ferent States across the country. It was
an ironic moment that reminds us
what that means to us here but also
what it means to people in the real
world who are impacted by this.
Earlier today, the House passed an
extension of the National Flood Insur-
ance Program, and it extends it for 4
months and will expire November 30 of
this year. I am here today to tell you
how critical it is that the Senate act
on this as soon as possible because this
program will expire next Tuesday, July
31—6 days from today—if we do not
take action.
Let me preface everything I am
about to say by telling you that this
program is badly broken. It is not fi-
nancially stable. It is not financially
sustainable. It is a program that needs
to be reformed. I don’t like the way it
is designed one bit. I have been work-
ing for years to try to reform it and to
try to open up space for the private
sector to come in and compete with the
program and provide more options for
people who need it.
I want everybody to understand that
in many parts of Florida—I am sure it
is true in other parts of the country—
you can’t buy a house in some places if
you don’t have flood insurance. They
will not write it because of the threat
of damage to the property and the loss
of value. That is widespread through-
out the State of Florida. There are
many places where that is a fact.
While I don’t like the way the pro-
gram is designed, and I desperately
want us to reform it to be consistent
with market principles and sustainable
in the long term, the answer is not to
let it expire. The answer is not to let it
expire because if we do, we are going to
have an economic catastrophe. If we
allow flood insurance to expire, there
are real estate closings that will stop.
I will add one more point to it; that
is, we would be allowing this to expire
in the middle of the hurricane season.
We went through a hurricane season
last year that impacted Florida, Texas,
and Puerto Rico. The damage that it
did, economic and otherwise, was ex-
tensive. We don’t know what this sea-
son holds, but we are right smack in
the middle of it. I can’t think of any-
thing worse than allowing it not just to
expire but to expire in the middle of
the hurricane season. I would have
hoped the extension would have been
for 6 months, the way we got done in
the Senate farm bill. I believe a 4-
month extension is better than none at
all.
My biggest fear is that it is going to
get lost here in all the other issues we
are dealing with. My hope—and I ask
you here today—is that the leadership
of this Chamber bring this extension
for a vote, perhaps as early as Monday
evening when we return, because to
allow this to drag into Tuesday, Tues-
day midnight—I am telling you, it is
going to have a dramatic and negative
impact on people in Florida and across
the country.
Let me go back to one of the reforms
that need to happen. One of the organi-
zations that I agree with a lot was out
there—what they do—key scoring this
vote in the House against it. They
make great points about how broken
this program is. They are absolutely
right about that. I personally support
reforms that will increase private mar-
ket involvement in this program. I
want to go back to the practicality of
it.
While I want there to be reforms, I
cannot hold hostage and we should not
hold hostage real people and families
whose homes and lives will be at risk
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.073 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5355
July 25, 2018
while Congress tries to figure this out.
It has to be done. I don’t want to be in
a cycle of perpetual extension. I am as
frustrated about it as anybody else. I
wish we could find some permanence to
this in a way that didn’t wipe every-
body out by raising the rates but was
also sustainable in the long term. We
have to continue to work through that.
As a Senator from Florida recog-
nizing that over one-third of the total
policies nationwide are in the State
that I represent, I have to come here
today with a strong sense of urgency
and argue on behalf of my neighbors
and my constituents and my own fam-
ily who depend on flood insurance in
order not to just protect their homes in
the middle of a hurricane cycle but to
be able to transact real estate deals—
selling a home, buying one, even com-
mercial buildings—all these things
that depend on this market being
healthy.
In terms of the long-term reforms, af-
fordability has to be a key part of any
one of those reforms. The last time we
extended this for 5 years, in 2012, the
premiums in the State of Florida sky-
rocketed. What it did was it caused a
massive exodus from this program, par-
ticularly out of Florida. A bunch of
people left the program.
That is a problem because the key to
having a sustainable program is having
enough people in it. That is the whole
purpose of insurance. You need to have
enough people so you can spread the
risk. But if people begin to migrate out
of the program—and it usually is going
to be the safest properties that are
going to leave because they are the
ones less willing to pay the higher pre-
miums—you are going to be left with
adverse selection. We have heard that
term used in health insurance debates.
If you don’t have enough properties
and enough safe properties to spread
the risk, it drives up the premiums
even more, and it makes the program
even less healthy. That is why the key
to any reforms has to be a program
that is affordable enough to have that
sort of participation, but we can’t ex-
pect people to participate in a program
they can’t afford.
I think the one component of flood
insurance reform that everyone should
agree with is the importance of strong
mitigation funding. FEMA and numer-
ous other groups have repeatedly cited
statistics confirming that every dollar
we spend on mitigation—mitigation
against flooding, mitigation against
sea level rise, mitigation against all
these things—results in $4 or more
saved in future disaster recovery.
Every single year now, it seems like we
are spending millions upon tens of mil-
lions of dollars on storm recovery
packages. Imagine if we could prevent
some of that at the front end by fund-
ing mitigation efforts in concert with
State and local governments.
Flood insurance reform is going to
require a proactive approach to a prob-
lem that has only been approached in a
reactionary way up this point. Simply
raising rates without fundamentally
changing what plagues the program
will only lead to more people, more in-
dividuals leaving the program and an
even larger disaster supplemental
package when future storms occur.
Floridians deserve a program that is
transparent and that is affordable.
Right now, this program is neither. I
believe the House and Senate can come
to an agreement on a law that will
achieve these goals. I think we need to
do so in a way that is long term and
sustainable. That is why once we pass
this 4-month extension—and I say
‘‘once we do’’ because I cannot imagine
not doing it. I cannot imagine leaving
next week at some point for a 1-week
recess in early August and leaving this
thing lapsed. It can’t happen. It is not
an option. It has to be dealt with.
Once we do that, then we truly need
to work on enacting this before Novem-
ber 30, when this extension will expire,
and work on the fundamental flaws of
the program and allow the Flood Insur-
ance Program to move forward on a
path that is responsible, affordable,
and sustainable, not one that continues
to require the government to bail it
out. That is what I hope will happen.
In the strongest possible terms—I
cannot emphasize this enough—I truly
hope we will bring this reauthorization
for a vote as soon as possible and that
my colleagues will cooperate because
Tuesday at midnight next week, if we
have not acted, there will be hundreds
of thousands, if not millions, of people
across this country—many of them in
my home State—who are going to find
that their property, in the middle of a
hurricane season, is not covered
against water damage because they
cannot get flood insurance. That would
be catastrophic for our economy, and it
would be catastrophic for Florida and
the impacted States.
I am here to repeat and urge as
strongly as I can that the leadership
bring this up for a vote as soon as we
are done dealing with the four appro-
priations bills that are before us. There
is no other option. We cannot allow
this to expire.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kansas.
TRADE AND TARIFFS
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I want to
speak this evening for a few moments
about trade and tariffs. They certainly
have been in the news for a long time.
They are in the news today. I want to
highlight the importance of trade and
exports to Kansas, my constituents,
and express my concerns about tariffs
and an escalating trade war.
A global trade war will raise the
price of goods for American consumers;
result in retaliation against farmers,
ranchers, and manufacturers who de-
pend upon exports; and weaken our
ability to work with our allies to chal-
lenge China’s unfair trade practices.
Kansans are already feeling the ef-
fects of tariffs. Approximately $361 mil-
lion worth of Kansas exports are being
targeted by the emerging trade war, in-
cluding soybeans and sorghum exports
to China, aerospace exports to Canada,
and beef and corn exports to Mexico.
Moving forward with another $200 bil-
lion to $500 billion in tariffs against
China or new section 232 tariffs on
automobiles for supposed national se-
curity concerns will only increase the
negative impact upon my folks at
home.
With 95 percent of consumers living
outside our country’s border, the abil-
ity for Kansas farmers and rancher to
earn a living is directly tied to our
ability to sell food, fuel, and fiber. The
food, fuel, and fiber we grow in Kansas
must be exported to people around the
world.
Since March, uncertainty in trade
has contributed to the price of soy-
beans falling by $2 a bushel. A $2 drop
in soybean prices equates to Kansas
farmers and grain handlers losing out
about $378 million of possible revenue
solely on soybeans—one crop.
The significant harm the trade war is
causing to farmers and ranchers is no
doubt the reason the administration is
proposing $12 billion in disaster relief
for agriculture. Unfortunately, it is
only a short-term fix to a long-term
problem and will not make up for the
lost markets for farmers.
China and Mexico, two of our largest
markets in Kansas for agriculture pro-
ducers—Mexico is No. 1, and China is
No. 2—have already started to increase
purchases of ag commodities from
Brazil and Argentina instead of from
U.S. producers, including those in Kan-
sas. I am concerned that once we lose
those markets, it will take years, if
ever, for us to regain those markets.
This hit could not come at a worse
time for ag producers. Farm revenue
has already fallen by over 50 percent
since 2013. Low commodity prices have
pushed many producers to limits of fi-
nancial viability.
I wrote an op-ed this spring arguing
that Kansas farmers and ranchers can’t
afford a trade war. With fall harvest
around the corner, many farmers will
be faced with the reality of selling
grain at or below the cost of produc-
tion just to be able to pay off this
year’s operating loans.
The impact of the downturn in the ag
economy cannot be solely quantified on
a balance sheet. I am concerned that
reduced economic opportunity in agri-
culture will result in fewer young peo-
ple returning to rural America. One of
my goals is to see that the sons and
daughters of farmers and ranchers in
Kansas have the opportunity to con-
tinue another generation of agriculture
production in our State. When they
cannot reach a price that is profitable,
when they cannot obtain a price that is
profitable, the likelihood of those
young men and women remaining or
returning to Kansas farms and ranches
disappears because when agricultural
struggles, so do our rural communities.
As the average age of a farmer nears
60 years old, it is critical that our poli-
cies increase the likelihood that a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.074 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5356 July 25, 2018
young person is able to return to take
over the family farm or ranch. I fear
the trade war and tariffs will unfortu-
nately have the opposite effect. Fewer
markets to sell meat and grain will
make it more difficult for the next gen-
eration to earn a living in rural Amer-
ica.
If farmers in Kansas are not pro-
ducing a crop and selling it, then it
means their communities also suffer.
The ability to keep a grocery store in
town or a grain elevator or a hardware
store is diminished when farm income
is as it is today.
It is not just an agricultural issue. In
fact, Kansas manufacturers are also
dealing with the negative impact of re-
cently imposed tariffs.
Users of steel and aluminum are fre-
quent in Kansas. Ours is an automobile
and aviation manufacturing State, and
they are facing increased costs of ma-
terials, regardless of whether they uti-
lize domestic or imported steel and
aluminum.
Chanute Manufacturing in Chanute,
KS, is an example of the steel and alu-
minum tariffs harming a small com-
pany and its workers. The company,
which employs about 130 Kansans, is a
domestic manufacturer of steel-based
components for the power generation
market. Due to tariffs, Chanute’s cost
for raw materials has increased by
about 8 percent.
However, when the same powerplant
equipment is manufactured overseas, it
can be imported here tariff-free. The
actual unintended consequence of the
steel tariff has been to incentivize for-
eign manufacturing of power equip-
ment currently made in my home
State.
Chanute Manufacturing has also
missed opportunities to compete on
projects in other countries due to the
tariffs. Last year, the company built
and shipped equipment they manufac-
tured in Kansas to Morocco. However,
when a duplicate project came avail-
able in Morocco again this year,
Chanute wasn’t even considered be-
cause the steel tariffs have raised their
production costs, making them less
competitive than cheaper foreign man-
ufacturers.
China is important. The President is
right to try to change the behavior of
China. Tariffs are not the only tool to
make certain that other countries fol-
low international trade rules and treat
American exporters and workers fairly.
I support efforts to hold China ac-
countable for unfair trade practices
and the theft of trade secrets and intel-
lectual property rights from American
companies. I applauded the United
States for filing a challenge to China’s
domestic agricultural support levels at
the World Trade Organization. When
China unfairly subsidizes its producers
or limits market access to U.S. wheat,
corn, and rice, the United States is
right to contest them and to contest
them strongly and firmly. While I re-
main unconvinced that tariffs are the
best tool to change China’s behavior, it
does not mean we should not pursue
strong enforcement of global trade
rules.
I am also concerned that picking a
fight on trade with the rest of the
world reduces our ability to win the
fight with China, the country that is
most deserving of strong trade actions
by the United States. By attempting to
take the whole world on at once, the
United States risks spreading our re-
sources thin and reducing our focus on
changing China’s practices.
The United States is not the only
country with complaints about China’s
trade practices. Yet, instead of work-
ing with our allies to influence China
and change their behavior, we have
forced confrontations with other coun-
tries that ought to be by our side in
dealing with China.
I believe that by strengthening our
trade and economic relations with our
allies, the United States will be better
able to continue directing sound trade
policies on the global stage. This in-
cludes successfully concluding a
NAFTA renegotiation with Canada and
Mexico and reengaging in the Trans-
Pacific Partnership—TPP—negotia-
tions or pursuing bilateral agreements
with countries in the TPP, such as
Japan.
This week, in fact tomorrow, Ambas-
sador Lighthizer, the U.S. Trade Rep-
resentative, will be testifying before
the Appropriations subcommittee that
I chair, the Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, and Science. That sub-
committee oversees the funding for the
Office of the U.S. Trade Representa-
tive. The hearing will be an oppor-
tunity for the subcommittee members
to hear firsthand from Ambassador
Lighthizer on USTR’s trade efforts and
to express concerns about the impact
the tariffs have had and will continue
to have on our constituents. I hope to
learn more about the USTR strategy
and the end goal in threatening more
tariffs, progress to conclusion of
NAFTA negotiations, and efforts to fill
the President’s call for a new bilateral
trade agreement.
Again, recently imposed tariffs are
having immediate impacts upon farm-
ers and ranchers and manufacturers,
but the long-term implications of dis-
rupting supply chains and losing mar-
ket share that took decades to build up
is perhaps even more concerning. It is
time to inject more certainty into our
trade policies. We ought to start by
reaching an agreement on a modern-
ized NAFTA and ending the threat of
an escalating trade war.
I look forward to conversations with
Ambassador Lighthizer this week and
making certain that the administra-
tion understands the importance of
getting trade policy right for Kansas
and for America.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate be
in a period of morning business, with
Senators permitted to speak therein
for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
60TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
MAINE STATE MUSIC THEATER
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, in 1959,
a new summer playhouse opened in
Brunswick, ME, with a performance of
the popular operetta ‘‘Song of Nor-
way.’’ In 2018, the Maine State Music
Theater presents its 60th season with
professional productions that range
from ‘‘Singin’ in the Rain’’ to ‘‘Satur-
day Night Fever.’’
It is a pleasure to congratulate
Maine State Music Theater on this
landmark anniversary and to thank
the casts, crews, supporters, and volun-
teers who, for six decades, have de-
lighted audiences and enriched the cul-
tural life of our State.
The oldest professional musical the-
ater in Maine, Maine State Music The-
ater was founded by Victoria Crandall,
a truly remarkable entrepreneur and
artist. Born in Cleveland, she studied
piano at the prestigious Eastman
School of Music, toured with the USO
during World War II, and was an ac-
companist for such show business leg-
ends as Ethel Merman and Jimmy
Durante.
After working in theatrical produc-
tions on Broadway, Ms. Crandall
struck out on her own in 1959 to pursue
her dream of establishing her own the-
ater company and chose the Bowdoin
College campus in Brunswick as the
place to make her dream come true.
Rejecting the prepackaged shows often
used in summer theaters, she presented
originally designed productions—as
many as nine per season—that earned
rave reviews from audiences and critics
alike.
Ms. Crandall passed away in 1990 at
the age of 81 while in New York City
casting roles for that year’s season. At
the time of her death, she had staged
186 productions in Brunswick that were
seen by more than 1.5 million people.
Ms. Crandall’s legacy is carried on by
accomplished performers and technical
personnel, many of whom have gone on
to achieve success on Broadway and in
Hollywood. With dedicated manage-
ment and strong community support,
Maine State Music Theater has ex-
panded its offerings to children’s pro-
grams, outdoor concerts, film and lec-
ture series, and an educational fellow-
ship program for those developing ca-
reers in the theater. The 2017 season set
a new record for attendance, with more
than 95 percent of the house sold for
the four main productions.
Maine State Music Theater is a true
gem of the Maine arts scene and a
highlight of the State’s glorious sum-
mers. I offer the company all the best
on this 60th anniversary and wish them
great success for many years to come.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.075 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5357
July 25, 2018
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF DINÉ
COLLEGE
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I wish to
honor the first Tribal college estab-
lished in the United States, Diné Col-
lege, on its 50th anniversary.
The college was founded in 1968 by
the Navajo Nation as Navajo Commu-
nity College. That year marked the
centennial anniversary of the Treaty of
1868 in which the Navajo people nego-
tiated return of their homeland after
their forced relocation by the U.S. gov-
ernment on the brutal ‘‘Long Walk’’ to
Fort Sumner, NM. In Fort Sumner,
they had endured inhumane conditions
for 5 years, and many had perished.
The treaty was an important historical
milestone, but it also contained certain
harsh terms, requiring the Navajo peo-
ple to send their children to govern-
ment and missionary schools where
they were forced to abandon their cul-
tural practices and identity. This trag-
ic and brutal practice by the U.S. Gov-
ernment threatened the survival of
Navajo and other Native American lan-
guages and cultures.
Our Nation finally moved away from
forced assimilation by the middle of
the last century, and the Navajo Na-
tion took a historic step toward edu-
cational self-determination when it es-
tablished Navajo Community College.
As the first tribally chartered and op-
erated postsecondary institution, Nav-
ajo Community College’s educational
philosophy was grounded in Navajo cul-
tural traditions. Its mission was to
support the social and economic devel-
opment of the Tribe.
In 1976, the college was the first Trib-
al 2-year institution to receive accredi-
tation. In 1998, it awarded its first bac-
calaureate degrees under the Diné
Teacher Education Program. In 1994,
Navajo Community College joined 29
other Tribal colleges to become a Land
Grant Institution under the Equity in
Educational Land-Grant Status Act. In
1997, the board of regents changed its
name to Diné College.
The college’s educational principles
are based on Sa’ah Naagháı́ Bik’eh
Hózhóón—the Diné traditional living
system—which places human life in
harmony with the natural world and
universe. Four principles undergird the
education: Nitsáhákees or thinking,
Nahat’á or planning, Iiná or living, and
Sihasin or assuring.
Culturally relevant education makes
a tremendous difference for Native stu-
dents. The kids are engaged. They stay
in school. They gain access to opportu-
nities that otherwise might be out of
reach. Diné College’s curriculum is re-
plete with Navajo language and culture
classes. It awards certificates, asso-
ciate degrees, and bachelor degrees in a
wide range of fields, from fine arts to
environment science to business ad-
ministration to elementary and sec-
ondary education, and many more.
With approximately 1,300 students,
Diné College is one of the largest Trib-
al colleges in the United States. The
school’s six campuses serve the 27,000-
square-mile Navajo Reservation. Im-
portantly, Diné College has played a
critical role revitalizing Navajo cul-
ture and language, preparing thousands
of young adults to contribute to their
communities, States, Tribe, and the
U.S. as a whole.
Diné College’s legacy, however,
reaches far beyond its own students.
What was once an unassuming commu-
nity college—with an entering popu-
lation of 309 students—ignited a na-
tionwide movement of Tribes founding
their own colleges and universities.
The network of Tribal colleges and uni-
versities built up over the last half cen-
tury has made significant progress
helping Native students break down
barriers. Today, 36 Tribal colleges and
universities all across the Nation edu-
cate tens of thousands of Native stu-
dents. These institutions have been in-
strumental in attracting and keeping
Native students in college and helping
students maintain and grow ties with
their cultures, languages, and tradi-
tional values.
I extend my whole-hearted congratu-
lations to Diné College on its 50th an-
niversary. I thank the college and Nav-
ajo Nation for all the good they have
accomplished over the years, and I
wish them the absolute best in their
next five decades.
f
TRIBUTE TO JIM GRANT
Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, today I
wish to honor Jim Grant. Describing
him as a longtime, dedicated member
of my staff does not adequately reflect
his committed service. As of last week,
Jim has worked 35 years in the U.S.
Senate, in the offices of three Idaho
Senators, through numerous Con-
gresses and countless technological,
State, and national changes.
The people of Idaho and our Nation
have been far beyond well served by
this dedicated and thoughtful public
servant. Jim came to my office after
working for two of my predecessors,
Senator Steve Symms and Senator
Dirk Kempthorne. Both have, not sur-
prisingly, praised Jim’s great work and
dedication. I continue to feel blessed to
benefit from Jim’s extensive experi-
ence and work ethic over the past more
than 19 years.
As a Caldwell, ID, native, Jim has a
deep understanding of the State, and
he has a profound sense of the pressing
issues on the minds of many constitu-
ents. Jim reads and processes con-
stituent mail. He is responsible for the
timely response to the insight Ida-
hoans have taken the time to share
with me, and he carries out this re-
sponsibility with great care. This is an
essential role in any congressional of-
fice, and Jim’s work reflects a clear un-
derstanding of the importance of his
work. He reliably ensures that their
communications are wisely routed and
that Idahoans are responded to effec-
tively and promptly. As means of com-
munication constantly change and
speed up, this is no small undertaking,
but Jim has taken on these develop-
ments and increased volumes with
great proficiency.
Thank you, Jim. You have served our
State and Nation admirably for a re-
markable 35 years. During this time,
you have helped ensure that Idaho
voices are heard in this important leg-
islative body and that what we do here
in these halls is effectively commu-
nicated into countless households. This
is such an important duty, and we have
greatly benefited from your careful,
hard work all these years.
Congratulations on this extraor-
dinary milestone in your Senate serv-
ice. I honor you, and thank you for
your exceptional work.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO JENNA BISHOP
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Jenna for
her hard work as an intern in my Chey-
enne office. I recognize her efforts and
contributions to my office, as well as
to the State of Wyoming.
Jenna is a native of Cheyenne. She is
a student at the University of Wyo-
ming, where she is studying business
economics and management, and psy-
chology. She has demonstrated a
strong work ethic, which has made her
an invaluable asset to our office. The
quality of her work is reflected in her
great efforts over the last several
months.
I want to thank Jenna for the dedica-
tion she has shown while working for
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to
have her as part of our team. I know
she will have continued success with
all of her future endeavors. I wish her
all my best on her next journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO BETHANY GOOD
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Bethany for
her hard work as an intern in my Chey-
enne office. I recognize her efforts and
contributions to my office, as well as
to the State of Wyoming.
Bethany is a native of Cheyenne. She
is a student at the University of Wyo-
ming, where she is studying elemen-
tary education. She has demonstrated
a strong work ethic, which has made
her an invaluable asset to our office.
The quality of her work is reflected in
her great efforts over the last several
months.
I want to thank Bethany for the dedi-
cation she has shown while working for
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to
have her as part of our team. I know
she will have continued success with
all of her future endeavors. I wish her
all my best on her next journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO GAVIN HEADY
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.044 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5358 July 25, 2018
express my appreciation to Gavin for
his hard work as an intern in my Cas-
per office. I recognize his efforts and
contributions to my office, as well as
to the State of Wyoming.
Gavin is a native of Casper. He is a
sophomore at Casper College, where he
is studying anthropology. He has dem-
onstrated a strong work ethic, which
has made him an invaluable asset to
our office. The quality of his work is
reflected in his great efforts over the
last several months.
I want to thank Gavin for the dedica-
tion he has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have him as part of our team. I know
he will have continued success with all
of his future endeavors. I wish him all
my best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO DAKOTAH PRICE
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Dakotah
for her hard work as an intern in my
Sheridan office. I recognize her efforts
and contributions to my office, as well
as to the State of Wyoming.
Dakotah is a native of Casper. She is
a junior at the University of Wyoming,
where she is studying economics and
journalism. She has demonstrated a
strong work ethic, which has made her
an invaluable asset to our office. The
quality of her work is reflected in her
great efforts over the last several
months.
I want to thank Dakotah for the
dedication she has shown while work-
ing for me and my staff. It was a pleas-
ure to have her as part of our team. I
know she will have continued success
with all of her future endeavors. I wish
her all my best on her next journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JOHN DAVID
RICHARDSON
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to JD for his
hard work as an intern in my Rock
Springs office. I recognize his efforts
and contributions to my office, as well
as to the State of Wyoming.
JD is a native of Green River. He is a
junior at the University of Wyoming,
where he is studying political science
and public law. He has demonstrated a
strong work ethic, which has made him
an invaluable asset to our office. The
quality of his work is reflected in his
great efforts over the last several
months.
I want to thank JD for the dedication
he has shown while working for me and
my staff. It is a pleasure to have him
as part of our team. I know he will
have continued success with all of his
future endeavors. I wish him all my
best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ALBERT
SIXFEATHERS
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Albert for
his hard work as an intern in my Cas-
per office. I recognize his efforts and
contributions to my office, as well as
to the State of Wyoming.
Albert is a native of Casper. He is a
student at Casper College, where he is
studying paralegal studies. He has
demonstrated a strong work ethic,
which has made him an invaluable
asset to our office. The quality of his
work is reflected in his great efforts
over the last several months.
I want to thank Albert for the dedi-
cation he has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have him as part of our team. I know
he will have continued success with all
of his future endeavors. I wish him all
my best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ASHLEY SONDAG
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Ashley for
her hard work as an intern in my Cas-
per office. I recognize her efforts and
contributions to my office, as well as
to the State of Wyoming.
Ashley is a native of Casper. She is a
graduate student at Idaho State Uni-
versity, where she is studying public
administration and environmental pol-
icy. She has demonstrated a strong
work ethic, which has made her an in-
valuable asset to our office. The qual-
ity of her work is reflected in her great
efforts over the last several months.
I want to thank Ashley for the dedi-
cation she has shown while working for
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to
have her as part of our team. I know
she will have continued success with
all of her future endeavors. I wish her
all my best on her next journey.∑
f
REMEMBERING CARMELLA MARY
RIZZO
∑ Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise to
pay tribute to Carmella Mary Rizzo,
who passed away at the age of 101 on
July 15, 2018. Carmella was the wife of
former Philadelphia mayor Frank L.
Rizzo and will be remembered for her
community advocacy and political
prowess. I admired her very much, and
I am grateful to have known her.
Born on July 25, 1916, Carmella was
raised in a large family in the Chestnut
Hill neighborhood of Philadelphia. The
daughter of first-generation Italian
Americans, her family encouraged her
to form her own identity and establish
close ties within the Philadelphia com-
munity. In 1942, she married Frank L.
Rizzo, a Philadelphia police officer.
Frank and Carmella had two children,
Francis and Joanna.
During her husband’s time as police
commissioner and as a two-term mayor
of Philadelphia, Carmella avoided the
spotlight. She did, however, play a pri-
vate yet pivotal role in Mayor Rizzo’s
career. Notably compassionate,
Carmella regularly discussed commu-
nity affairs with her husband during
his administration in the 1970s.
Carmella’s insight and charisma proved
invaluable to the city of Philadelphia.
Carmella passed away just a day shy
of the 27th anniversary of Mayor
Rizzo’s passing. In the years after his
death, she remained very close to her
children and grandchildren.
It is my honor to commemorate the
life of Carmella Rizzo, a woman whose
decades of advocacy for Philadelphians
has set an example for many to fol-
low.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO GEORGE OSTROM
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
George Ostrom of Flathead County, on
his 90th birthday, for his 60-plus years
of contributions to news broadcasting
and journalism in Montana.
A native Montanan, George spent the
beginning of his formative years on a
ranch in Sanders County and then in a
mining camp near Kila. At age 17,
George left Flathead High School to
enlist in the Army and served his coun-
try for the next 3 years while stationed
in Frankfurt, Germany. Following his
return to the States, George spent a
few years as a Forest Service
smokejumper before an injury led him
to seek employment at a newly found-
ed radio station in Kalispell.
Ever since landing the gig as an an-
nouncer for KOFI radio in 1956, George
has been a staple in Montana broad-
casting. After rising up the ranks to
eventually become co-owner of the sta-
tion, George purchased the Kalispell
Weekly News in 1974, which he grew
into the most circulated weekly in
Montana. He was also the host of a
KCFW-TV program. George is the au-
thor of three books and writes a week-
ly column for the Hungry Horse News.
He continues on-air in the Flathead
with his own ‘‘George Ostrum News &
Comment,’’ a key component of the
KGEZ 600 AM Good Morning show.
He has served on countless boards in-
cluding the Red Cross, ALERT, the
Kalispell Chamber of Commerce, Ro-
tary, and, for more than 20 years, the
University of Montana president’s ad-
visory council. Now known as the dean
of Montana radio broadcasters, he has
been inducted into the Montana Broad-
casters Hall of Fame.
Presently, George resides in Kalispell
with his wife, Iris, and has 4 children, 3
grandchildren, and 1 great-grandchild.
He still finds time to go on weekly ex-
cursions with the ‘‘Over-the-Hill Gang’’
in Glacier National Park. I congratu-
late and thank George for his contin-
ued dedication to sharing his voice
with his fellow Montanans.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:03 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.046 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5359
July 25, 2018
H.R. 184. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax
on medical devices.
H.R. 519. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to facilitate water leas-
ing and water transfers to promote conserva-
tion and efficiency.
H.R. 1201. An act to amend section 5000A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide
an additional religious exemption from the
individual health coverage mandate, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 1476. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to permit individuals
eligible for Indian Health Service assistance
to qualify for health savings accounts.
H.R. 3500. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to prohibit the Com-
missioner of the Internal Revenue Service
from rehiring any employee of the Internal
Revenue Service who was involuntarily sepa-
rated from service for misconduct.
H.R. 4952. An act to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to conduct a
study and submit a report on the effects of
the inclusion of quality increases in the de-
termination of blended benchmark amounts
under part C of the Medicare program.
H.R. 6084. An act to amend title VII of the
Social Security Act to provide for a single
point of contact at the Social Security Ad-
ministration for individuals who are victims
of identity theft.
H.R. 6124. An act to amend title II of the
Social Security Act to authorize voluntary
agreements for coverage of Indian tribal
council members, and for other purposes.
H.R. 6138. An act to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide for ambu-
latory surgical center representation during
the review of hospital outpatient payment
rates under part B of the Medicare program,
and for other purposes.
The message also announced that the
House agrees to the resolution (H. Res.
1019) recommitting to the committee of
conference the conference report to ac-
company the bill (H.R. 5515) to author-
ize appropriations for fiscal year 2019
for military activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense, for military construc-
tion, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes, and,
in the opinion of this House, con-
travenes the first clause of the seventh
section of the first article of the Con-
stitution of the United States and is an
infringement of the privileges of this
House and be respectfully recommitted
to the committee of conference.
At 10:40 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 2409. An act to allow servicemembers
to terminate their cable, satellite television,
and Internet access service contracts while
deployed.
H.R. 2787. An act to establish in the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs a pilot program
instituting a clinical observation program
for pre-med students preparing to attend
medical school.
H.R. 5538. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for the inclusion of
certain additional periods of active duty
service for purposes of suspending charges to
veterans’ entitlement to educational assist-
ance under the laws administered by the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs during periods of
suspended participation in vocational reha-
bilitation programs.
H.R. 5649. An act to amend titles 10 and 38,
United States Code, to amend the Social Se-
curity Act, and to direct the Secretaries of
Veterans Affairs, Defense, Labor, and Home-
land Security, and the Administrator of the
Small Business Administration, to take cer-
tain actions to improve transition assistance
to members of the Armed Forces who sepa-
rate, retire, or are discharged from the
Armed Forces, and for other purposes.
H.R. 5882. An act to amend the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to provide
for the termination by a spouse of a lessee of
certain leases when the lessee dies while in
military service.
H.R. 5938. An act to amend the VA Choice
and Quality Employment Act to direct the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a
vacancy and recruitment database to facili-
tate the recruitment of certain members of
the Armed Forces to satisfy the occupational
needs of the Department of Veterans Affairs,
to establish and implement a training and
certification program for intermediate care
technicians in that Department, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 5974. An act to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to use on-site regulated
medical waste treatment systems at certain
Department of Veterans Affairs facilities,
and for other purposes.
At 1:44 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House agrees to
the amendment of the Senate to the
bill (H.R. 2353) to reauthorize the Carl
D. Perkins Career and Technical Edu-
cation Act of 2006.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 3:10 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker pro tempore
(Mr. SIMPSON) has signed the following
enrolled bills:
S. 2245. An act to include New Zealand in
the list of foreign states whose nationals are
eligible for admission into the United States
as E–1 and E–2 nonimmigrants if United
States nationals are treated similarly by the
Government of New Zealand.
S. 2850. An act to amend the White Moun-
tain Apache Tribe Water Rights Quantifica-
tion Act of 2010 to clarify the use of amounts
in the WMAT Settlement Fund.
At 4:21 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that House has passed the
following bill, with amendments, in
which it requests the concurrence of
the Senate:
S. 1182. An act to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint commemorative coins
in recognition of the 100th anniversary of
The American Legion.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 519. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to facilitate water leas-
ing and water transfers to promote conserva-
tion and efficiency; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
H.R. 1476. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to permit individuals
eligible for Indian Health Service assistance
to qualify for health savings accounts; to the
Committee on Finance.
H.R. 2409. An act to allow servicemembers
to terminate their cable, satellite television,
and Internet access service contracts while
deployed; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
H.R. 2787. An act to establish in the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs a pilot program
instituting a clinical observation program
for pre-med students preparing to attend
medical school; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
H.R. 3500. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to prohibit the Com-
missioner of the Internal Revenue Service
from rehiring any employee of the Internal
Revenue Service who was involuntarily sepa-
rated from service for misconduct; to the
Committee on Finance.
H.R. 4952. An act to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to conduct a
study and submit a report on the effects of
the inclusion of quality increases in the de-
termination of blended benchmark amounts
under part C of the Medicare program; to the
Committee on Finance.
H.R. 5538. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for the inclusion of
certain additional periods of active duty
service for purposes of suspending charges to
veterans’ entitlement to educational assist-
ance under the laws administered by the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs during periods of
suspended participation in vocational reha-
bilitation programs; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
H.R. 5649. An act to amend titles 10 and 38,
United States Code, to amend the Social Se-
curity Act, and to direct the Secretaries of
Veterans Affairs, Defense, Labor, and Home-
land Security, and the Administrator of the
Small Business Administration, to take cer-
tain actions to improve transition assistance
to members of the Armed Forces who sepa-
rate, retire, or are discharged from the
Armed Forces, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
H.R. 5882. An act to amend the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to provide
for the termination by a spouse of a lessee of
certain leases when the lessee dies while in
military service; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
H.R. 5938. An act to amend the VA Choice
and Quality Employment Act to direct the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a
vacancy and recruitment database to facili-
tate the recruitment of certain members of
the Armed Forces to satisfy the occupational
needs of the Department of Veterans Affairs,
to establish and implement a training and
certification program for intermediate care
technicians in that Department, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
H.R. 5974. An act to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to use on-site regulated
medical waste treatment systems at certain
Department of Veterans Affairs facilities,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
H.R. 6084. An act to amend title VII of the
Social Security Act to provide for a single
point of contact at the Social Security Ad-
ministration for individuals who are victims
of identity theft; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
H.R. 6138. An act to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide for ambu-
latory surgical center representation during
the review of hospital outpatient payment
rates under part B of the Medicare program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.006 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5360 July 25, 2018
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bills were read the first
time:
H.R. 184. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax
on medical devices.
H.R. 1201. An act to amend section 5000A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide
an additional religious exemption from the
individual health coverage mandate, and for
other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–6033. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Florasulam; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9979–81) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 24, 2018;
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–6034. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘1,1-Difluoroethane; Exemption from
the Requirement of a Tolerance’’ (FRL No.
9980–20) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on July 24, 2018; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–6035. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report on
the approved retirement of General Ellen M.
Pawlikowski, United States Air Force, and
her advancement to the grade of general on
the retired list; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–6036. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report on
the approved retirement of Lieutenant Gen-
eral Lawrence D. Nicholson, United States
Marine Corps, and his advancement to the
grade of lieutenant general on the retired
list; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–6037. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Regulation of NMS
Stock Alternative Trading Systems’’
(RIN3235–AL66) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 24, 2018; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–6038. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Significant New Use Rules on Certain
Chemical Substances’’ ((RIN2070–AB27) (FRL
No. 9970–23)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 24, 2018; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–6039. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Oil and Hazardous Sub-
stances Pollution Contingency Plan; Na-
tional Priorities List: Partial Deletion of the
Peters Cartridge Factory Superfund Site’’
(FRL No. 9981–26–Region 5) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
24, 2018; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–6040. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Oil and Hazardous Sub-
stances Pollution Contingency Plan; Na-
tional Priorities List: Deletion of the Dav-
enport and Flagstaff Smelters Superfund
Site’’ (FRL No. 9981–21–Region 8) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
July 24, 2018; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–6041. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Oil and Hazardous Sub-
stances Pollution Contingency Plan; Na-
tional Priorities List: Deletion of the Old
Esco Manufacturing Superfund Site’’ (FRL
No. 9981–36–Region 6) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 24, 2018;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works .
EC–6042. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Ohio; Hospital/
Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerator With-
drawal for Designated Facilities and Pollut-
ants’’ (FRL No. 9980–95–Region 5) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
July 24, 2018; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–6043. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval and Air Quality
Designation; MO; Redesignation of the Mis-
souri Portion of the St. Louis Missouri-Illi-
nois Area to the Attainment of the 1997 An-
nual Standards for Fine Particulate Matter
and Approval of Associated Maintenance
Plan’’ (FRL No. 9981–29–Region 7) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
July 24, 2018; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–6044. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Additional Air Quality Designations
for the 2015 Ozone National Ambient Air
Quality Standards - San Antonio, Texas
Area’’ ((RIN2060–AU13) (FRL No. 9981–17–
OAR)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on July 24, 2018; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–6045. A communication from the Acting
Commissioner, Social Security Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
relative to Supplemental Security Income
(SSI) non-medical redeterminations for fis-
cal year 2012; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–6046. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘2017
Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) Report to
the Nation: Reaching Victims Everywhere’’;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr.
SANDERS, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. MAR-
KEY, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 3262. A bill to provide the option of dis-
charging certain unsecured financial obliga-
tions of self-governing territories of the
United States; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 3263. A bill to limit the separation of
families at or near ports of entry, to provide
access to counsel for unaccompanied alien
children, and to improve immigration deten-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. WICKER:
S. 3264. A bill to protect the right of law-
abiding citizens to transport knives inter-
state, notwithstanding a patchwork of local
and State prohibitions, and to repeal Federal
provisions related to switchblade knives
which burden citizens; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. BALDWIN:
S. 3265. A bill to require the Secretary of
Commerce to undertake certain activities to
support waterfront community revitaliza-
tion and resiliency, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
By Mr. JONES (for himself, Mr. ALEX-
ANDER, Mr. GRAHAM, and Mr.
CORKER):
S. 3266. A bill to require a study of the
well-being of the United States automotive
industry and to stay the investigation into
the national security effects of automotive
imports until the study is completed, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and
Mr. SCHUMER):
S. 3267. A bill to establish a National Com-
mission on Fibrotic Diseases; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mrs. MURRAY:
S. 3268. A bill to amend the Richard B. Rus-
sell National School Lunch Act to establish
a permanent, nationwide summer electronic
benefits transfer for children program; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
UDALL, and Mr. SULLIVAN):
S. 3269. A bill to establish the Department
of Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee on
Tribal and Indian Affairs, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. WICKER, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, and Mr. HATCH):
S. 3270. A bill to address the need for pilot
development and encourage more individuals
to enter the field of aviation, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. SANDERS:
S. 3271. A bill to prohibit the use of pay-
ment of money as a condition of pretrial re-
lease in Federal criminal cases, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr.
NELSON):
S. 3272. A bill to authorize the President to
provide assistance to the Governments of
Haiti and Armenia to reverse the effects of
deforestation, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. WICKER:
S. 3273. A bill to improve the safety, effi-
ciency, and reliability of the movement of
goods through ports and intermodal connec-
tions to ports, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. BENNET:
S. 3274. A bill to amend the Lobbying Dis-
closure Act of 1995 to require an individual
to register as a lobbyist under such Act if
the individual is employed or retained by a
client for making more than one lobbying
contact over a 2-year period and to treat leg-
islative, political, and strategic counseling
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.007 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5361
July 25, 2018
in support of lobbying contacts as lobbying
activity under such Act, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
MCCAIN):
S. 3275. A bill to amend the Russia Sanc-
tions Review Act of 2017 to ensure appro-
priate congressional review and the contin-
ued applicability of sanctions under the
Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Account-
ability Act of 2012; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
S. 3276. A bill to protect and enhance core
diplomatic capabilities at the Department of
State; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. NELSON,
and Mr. MARKEY):
S. 3277. A bill to reduce regulatory burdens
and streamline processes related to commer-
cial space activities, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mrs.
FISCHER):
S. Res. 592. A resolution designating Octo-
ber 9, 2018, as ‘‘National Ada Lovelace Day’’
and honoring the life and legacy of Ada
Lovelace, the first computer programmer;
considered and agreed to.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mrs.
FISCHER):
S. Res. 593. A resolution honoring the life
and legacy of Grace Hopper, professor, inven-
tor, entrepreneur, business leader, and Rear
Admiral of the Navy; considered and agreed
to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 58
At the request of Mr. HELLER, the
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) and the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 58, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal
the excise tax on high cost employer-
sponsored health coverage.
S. 65
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 65, a bill to address financial con-
flicts of interest of the President and
Vice President.
S. 109
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 109, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide for
coverage under the Medicare program
of pharmacist services.
S. 514
At the request of Mr. PERDUE, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
514, a bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot
program to provide access to magnetic
EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy to
veterans.
S. 569
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. GRAHAM) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 569, a bill to amend title
54, United States Code, to provide con-
sistent and reliable authority for, and
for the funding of, the Land and Water
Conservation Fund to maximize the ef-
fectiveness of the Fund for future gen-
erations, and for other purposes.
S. 781
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr.
HELLER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
781, a bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to limit the liability of
health care professionals who volun-
teer to provide health care services in
response to a disaster.
S. 821
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
HATCH) was added as a cosponsor of S.
821, a bill to promote access for United
States officials, journalists, and other
citizens to Tibetan areas of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China, and for other
purposes.
S. 830
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
830, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the
coordination of programs to prevent
and treat obesity, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 835
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 835, a bill to require the Supreme
Court of the United States to promul-
gate a code of ethics.
S. 896
At the request of Mr. BENNET, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 896, a bill to permanently
reauthorize the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund.
S. 1050
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the names of the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. BENNET), the Senator from
New Mexico (Mr. UDALL) and the Sen-
ator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1050, a
bill to award a Congressional Gold
Medal, collectively, to the Chinese-
American Veterans of World War II, in
recognition of their dedicated service
during World War II.
S. 1348
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Ms. HEITKAMP) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1348, a bill to amend title
XI of the Social Security Act to re-
quire drug manufacturers to publicly
justify unnecessary price increases.
S. 1353
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1353, a bill to require States to
automatically register eligible voters
to vote in elections for Federal offices,
and for other purposes.
S. 1510
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1510, a bill to amend the
National Voter Registration Act of 1993
to provide for online voter registration
and other changes and to amend the
Help America Vote Act of 2002 to im-
prove voting, to require the Election
Assistance Commission to study and
report on best practices for election cy-
bersecurity and election audits, and to
make grants to States to implement
those best practices recommended by
the Commission.
S. 1580
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1580, a bill to enhance the trans-
parency, improve the coordination, and
intensify the impact of assistance to
support access to primary and sec-
ondary education for displaced children
and persons, including women and
girls, and for other purposes.
S. 1989
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1989, a bill to enhance trans-
parency and accountability for online
political advertisements by requiring
those who purchase and publish such
ads to disclose information about the
advertisements to the public, and for
other purposes.
S. 2046
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2046, a bill to amend titles 5 and
44, United States Code, to require Fed-
eral evaluation activities, improve
Federal data management, and for
other purposes.
S. 2127
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2127, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal, collectively, to the
United States merchant mariners of
World War II, in recognition of their
dedicated and vital service during
World War II.
S. 2208
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2208, a bill to provide for the
issuance of an Alzheimer’s Disease Re-
search Semipostal Stamp.
S. 2313
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Mon-
tana (Mr. TESTER) and the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2313, a bill to deter
foreign interference in United States
elections, and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.009 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5362 July 25, 2018
S. 2314
At the request of Mrs. MCCASKILL,
the name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2314, a bill to increase the
number of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection Office of Field Operations
officers and support staff and to re-
quire reports that identify staffing, in-
frastructure, and equipment needed to
enhance security at ports of entry.
S. 2430
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2430, a bill to provide a permanent
appropriation of funds for the payment
of death gratuities and related benefits
for survivors of deceased members of
the uniformed services in event of any
period of lapsed appropriations.
S. 2478
At the request of Mrs. MCCASKILL,
the name of the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2478, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to deny the de-
duction for advertising and pro-
motional expenses for prescription
drugs.
S. 2506
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) and the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2506, a bill to establish
an aviation maintenance workforce de-
velopment pilot program.
S. 2554
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) and the Senator from
New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2554, a bill to
ensure that health insurance issuers
and group health plans do not prohibit
pharmacy providers from providing
certain information to enrollees.
S. 2565
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2565, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to provide
child care assistance to veterans re-
ceiving certain training or vocational
rehabilitation, and for other purposes.
S. 2575
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2575, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide for
treatment of audiologists as physicians
for purposes of furnishing audiology
services under the Medicare program,
to improve access to the audiology
services available for coverage under
the Medicare program and to enable
beneficiaries to have their choice of a
qualified audiologist to provide such
services, and for other purposes.
S. 2580
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2580, a bill to amend title 13,
United States Code, to make clear that
each decennial census, as required for
the apportionment of Representatives
in Congress among the several States,
shall tabulate the total number of per-
sons in each State, and to provide that
no information regarding United
States citizenship or immigration sta-
tus may be elicited in any such census.
S. 2629
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2629, a bill to improve postal oper-
ations, service, and transparency.
S. 2633
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2633, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, with respect to
civil forfeitures relating to certain
seized animals, and for other purposes.
S. 2759
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2759, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to reauthorize and
expand the National Threat Assess-
ment Center of the Department of
Homeland Security.
S. 2881
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2881, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to seek to enter
into an agreement with the city of
Vallejo, California, for the transfer of
Mare Island Naval Cemetery in Vallejo,
California, and for other purposes.
S. 2938
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2938, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Transportation to modify
provisions relating to hours of service
requirements with respect to transpor-
tation of livestock and insects, and for
other purposes.
S. 2946
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2946, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to clarify the
meaning of the terms ‘‘act of war’’ and
‘‘blocked asset’’, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 3013
At the request of Mr. CORKER, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mrs. MCCASKILL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 3013, a bill to amend the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962 to require
Congressional approval before the
President adjusts imports that are de-
termined to threaten to impair na-
tional security.
S. 3088
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 3088, a bill to amend the En-
ergy Policy Act of 2005 to require the
Secretary of Energy to establish a pro-
gram to prepare veterans for careers in
the energy industry, including the
solar, wind, cybersecurity, and other
low-carbon emissions sectors or zero-
emissions sectors of the energy indus-
try, and for other purposes.
S. 3160
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3160, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to improve ac-
cess to, and utilization of, bone mass
measurement benefits under part B of
the Medicare program by establishing a
minimum payment amount under such
part for bone mass measurement.
S. 3172
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3172, a bill to amend title 54,
United States Code, to establish, fund,
and provide for the use of amounts in a
National Park Service Legacy Restora-
tion Fund to address the maintenance
backlog of the National Park Service,
and for other purposes.
S. 3223
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 3223, a bill to amend the
Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restora-
tion Act to make supplemental funds
available for the management of fish
and wildlife species of greatest con-
servation need, as determined by State
fish and wildlife agencies, and for other
purposes.
S. 3231
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 3231, a bill to establish the
Task Force on the Impact of the Af-
fordable Housing Crisis, and for other
purposes.
S. 3241
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
names of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) and the Senator
from Ohio (Mr. BROWN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 3241, a bill to amend
the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to
provide for the termination by a spouse
of a lessee of certain leases when the
lessee dies while in military service.
S. 3247
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3247, a bill to improve programs
and activities relating to women’s en-
trepreneurship and economic empower-
ment that are carried out by the
United States Agency for International
Development, and for other purposes.
S. 3260
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.010 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5363
July 25, 2018
of S. 3260, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to include indi-
viduals receiving Social Security Dis-
ability Insurance benefits under the
work opportunity credit, increase the
work opportunity credit for vocational
rehabilitation referrals, qualified SSI
recipients, and qualified SSDI recipi-
ents, expand the disabled access credit,
and enhance the deduction for expendi-
tures to remove architectural and
transportation barriers to the handi-
capped and elderly.
S. 3261
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3261, a bill to establish the Office
of Disability Policy in the legislative
branch.
S. RES. 571
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 571, a resolution condemning
the ongoing illegal occupation of Cri-
mea by the Russian Federation.
S. RES. 582
At the request of Mr. SANDERS, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 582, a resolution protecting Amer-
ican democracy.
AMENDMENT NO. 3402
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) and the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. WICKER) were added as co-
sponsors of amendment No. 3402 in-
tended to be proposed to H.R. 6147, a
bill making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3414
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Ms. HEITKAMP) and the Senator
from Maine (Mr. KING) were added as
cosponsors of amendment No. 3414 pro-
posed to H.R. 6147, a bill making appro-
priations for the Department of the In-
terior, environment, and related agen-
cies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3424
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
NELSON), the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN), the Senator from
Montana (Mr. DAINES), the Senator
from Michigan (Ms. STABENOW), the
Senator from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH),
the Senator from Montana (Mr.
TESTER), the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH), the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN) and the Senator
from South Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM)
were added as cosponsors of amend-
ment No. 3424 intended to be proposed
to H.R. 6147, a bill making appropria-
tions for the Department of the Inte-
rior, environment, and related agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3441
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of amendment No. 3441 intended to
be proposed to H.R. 6147, a bill making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3445
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Florida
(Mr. NELSON) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 3445 intended to be
proposed to H.R. 6147, a bill making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3447
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) and the Senator from
South Carolina (Mr. SCOTT) were added
as cosponsors of amendment No. 3447
intended to be proposed to H.R. 6147, a
bill making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3459
At the request of Ms. HEITKAMP, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 3459 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 6147, a bill making appro-
priations for the Department of the In-
terior, environment, and related agen-
cies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3463
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) and the Senator from Kan-
sas (Mr. MORAN) were added as cospon-
sors of amendment No. 3463 intended to
be proposed to H.R. 6147, a bill making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3496
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN), the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT), the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY), the Senator from Ar-
kansas (Mr. COTTON) and the Senator
from Iowa (Mr. GRASSLEY) were added
as cosponsors of amendment No. 3496
intended to be proposed to H.R. 6147, a
bill making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3501
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) and the Senator from
West Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
3501 intended to be proposed to H.R.
6147, a bill making appropriations for
the Department of the Interior, envi-
ronment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3504
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN), the Senator from
New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the
Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. HAS-
SAN) were added as cosponsors of
amendment No. 3504 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 6147, a bill making appro-
priations for the Department of the In-
terior, environment, and related agen-
cies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3533
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER), the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY), the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE), the
Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. HAS-
SAN), the Senator from Massachusetts
(Mr. MARKEY), the Senator from Rhode
Island (Mr. REED), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL),
the Senator from Florida (Mr. NELSON),
the Senator from Maryland (Mr. VAN
HOLLEN), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
3533 intended to be proposed to H.R.
6147, a bill making appropriations for
the Department of the Interior, envi-
ronment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 3536
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mrs. MCCASKILL) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 3536 in-
tended to be proposed to H.R. 6147, a
bill making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 3263. A bill to limit the separation
of families at or near ports of entry, to
provide access to counsel for unaccom-
panied alien children, and to improve
immigration detention, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
joint resolution be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the joint resolution was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD, as follows:
S. 3263
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Humane
Treatment of Migrant Children Act’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.010 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5364 July 25, 2018
TITLE I—KEEPING FAMILIES TOGETHER
SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) AGENT; OFFICER.—The terms ‘‘agent’’
and ‘‘officer’’ include contractors of the Fed-
eral Government.
(2) CHILD.—The term ‘‘child’’ means an in-
dividual who—
(A) has not reached the age of 18; and
(B) has no permanent immigration status.
(3) COMMITTEES OF JURISDICTION.—The term
‘‘committees of jurisdiction’’ means—
(A) the Committee on the Judiciary and
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives.
(4) DANGER OF ABUSE OR NEGLECT AT THE
HANDS OF THE PARENT OR LEGAL GUARDIAN.—
The term ‘‘danger of abuse or neglect at the
hands of the parent or legal guardian’’ shall
not mean migrating to or crossing the
United States border.
(5) DESIGNATED AGENCY.—The term ‘‘des-
ignated agency’’ means—
(A) the Department of Homeland Security;
(B) the Department of Justice; and
(C) the Department of Health and Human
Services.
(6) FINDING.—The term ‘‘finding’’ means an
individualized written assessment or screen-
ing by the trained agent or officer that in-
cludes a consultation with a child welfare
specialist, formalized as required under sec-
tion 102(c) and consistent with sections 103,
104, and 108.
(7) SECRETARY.—Unless otherwise specified,
the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Secretary
of Homeland Security.
SEC. 102. LIMITATION ON THE SEPARATION OF
FAMILIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—An agent or officer of a
designated agency shall be prohibited from
removing a child from his or her parent or
legal guardian, at or near the port of entry
or within 100 miles of the border of the
United States, unless one of the following
has occurred:
(1) A State court, authorized under State
law, terminates the rights of a parent or
legal guardian, determines that it is in the
best interests of the child to be removed
from his or her parent or legal guardian, in
accordance with the Adoption and Safe Fam-
ilies Act of 1997 (Public Law 105–89), or
makes any similar determination that is le-
gally authorized under State law.
(2) An official from the State or county
child welfare agency with expertise in child
trauma and development makes a best inter-
ests determination that it is in the best in-
terests of the child to be removed from his or
her parent or legal guardian because the
child is in danger of abuse or neglect at the
hands of the parent or legal guardian, or is a
danger to herself or others.
(3) The Chief Patrol Agent or the Area
Port Director in their official and
undelegated capacity, authorizes separation
upon the recommendation by an agent or of-
ficer, based on a finding that—
(A) the child is a victim of trafficking or is
at significant risk of becoming a victim of
trafficking;
(B) there is a strong likelihood that the
adult is not the parent or legal guardian of
the child; or
(C) the child is in danger of abuse or ne-
glect at the hands of the parent or legal
guardian, or is a danger to themselves or
others.
(b) PROHIBITION ON SEPARATION.—An agen-
cy may not remove a child from a parent or
legal guardian solely for the policy goal of
deterring individuals from migrating to the
United States or for the policy goal of pro-
moting compliance with civil immigration
laws.
(c) DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED.—The Sec-
retary shall ensure that a separation under
subsection (a)(3) is documented in writing
and includes, at a minimum, the reason for
such separation, together with the stated
evidence for such separation.
SEC. 103. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SEPARATION
BY AGENTS OR OFFICERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services, shall
develop training and guidance, with an em-
phasis on the best interests of the child,
childhood trauma, attachment, and child de-
velopment, for use by the agents and offi-
cers, in order to standardize the implementa-
tion of section 102(a)(3).
(b) ANNUAL REVIEW.—Not less frequently
than annually, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall review the guidance
developed under subsection (a) and make rec-
ommendations to the Secretary to ensure
such guidance is in accordance with current
evidence and best practices in child welfare,
child development, and childhood trauma.
(c) REQUIREMENT.—The guidance under
subsection (a) shall incorporate the presump-
tions described in section 104.
(d) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) EVIDENCE-BASED.—The guidance and
training developed under this section shall
incorporate evidence-based practices.
(2) TRAINING REQUIRED.—
(A) All agents and officers of designated
agencies, upon hire, and annually thereafter,
shall complete training on adherence to the
guidance under this section.
(B) All Chief Patrol Agents and Area Port
Directors, upon hire, and annually there-
after, shall complete—
(i) training on adherence to the guidance
under this section; and
(ii) 90 minutes of child welfare practice
training that is evidence-based and trauma-
informed.
SEC. 104. PRESUMPTIONS.
The presumptions described in this section
are the following:
(1) FAMILY UNITY.—There shall be a strong
presumption in favor of family unity.
(2) SIBLINGS.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the Secretary shall ensure that
sibling groups remain intact.
(3) DETENTION.—In general, there is a pre-
sumption that detention is not in the best
interests of families and children.
SEC. 105. REQUIRED POLICY FOR LOCATING SEP-
ARATED CHILDREN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall publish final
public guidance that describes, with speci-
ficity, the manner in which a parent or legal
guardian may locate a child who was sepa-
rated from the parent or legal guardian
under section 102(a). In developing the public
guidance, the Secretary shall consult with
the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
immigrant advocacy organizations, child
welfare organizations, and State child wel-
fare agencies.
(b) WRITTEN NOTIFICATION.—The Secretary
shall provide each parent or legal guardian
who was separated, with written notice of
the public guidance to locate a separated
child.
(c) LANGUAGE ACCESS.—All guidance shall
be available in English and Spanish, and at
the request of the parent or legal guardian,
in the language or manner that is under-
standable by the parent or legal guardian.
SEC. 106. REQUIRED INFORMATION FOR SEPA-
RATED FAMILIES.
Not less frequently than once every month,
the Secretary shall provide the parent or
legal guardian of a child who was separated,
the following information, at a minimum:
(1) A status report on the monthly activi-
ties of the child.
(2) Information about the education and
health of the child, including any medical
treatment provided to the child or medical
treatment recommended for the child.
(3) Information about changes to the
child’s immigration status.
(4) Other information about the child, de-
signed to promote and maintain family re-
unification, as the Secretary determines in
his or her discretion.
SEC. 107. ANNUAL REPORT ON FAMILY SEPARA-
TION.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, and annually there-
after, the Secretary shall submit to the com-
mittees of jurisdiction a report that de-
scribes each instance in which a child was
separated from a parent or legal guardian
and includes, for each such instance, the fol-
lowing:
(1) The relationship of the adult and the
child.
(2) The age and gender of the adult and
child.
(3) The length of separation.
(4) Whether the adult was charged with a
crime, and if the adult was charged with a
crime, the type of crime.
(5) Whether the adult made a claim for asy-
lum, expressed a fear to return, or applied
for other immigration relief.
(6) Whether the adult was prosecuted if
charged with a crime and the associated out-
come of such charges.
(7) The stated reason for, and evidence in
support of, the separation.
(8) If the child was part of a sibling group
at the time of separation, whether the sib-
ling group has had physical contact and visi-
tation.
(9) Whether the child was rendered an un-
accompanied alien child.
(10) Other information in the Secretary’s
discretion.
SEC. 108. CLARIFICATION OF PARENTAL RIGHTS.
If a child is separated from a parent or
legal guardian, and a State court has not
made a determination that the parental
rights have been terminated, there is a pre-
sumption that—
(1) the parental rights remain intact; and
(2) the separation does not constitute an
affirmative determination of abuse or ne-
glect under Federal or State law.
SEC. 109. CLARIFICATION OF EXISTING LAW.
(a) FEDERAL LAW.—Nothing in this title
shall be interpreted to supersede or modify
Federal child welfare law, where applicable,
including the Adoption and Safe Families
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105–89).
(b) STATE LAW.—Nothing in this title shall
be interpreted to supersede or modify State
child welfare laws where applicable.
SEC. 110. GAO REPORT ON PROSECUTION OF ASY-
LUM SEEKERS.
(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General of
the United States shall conduct a study of
the prosecution of asylum seekers during the
period beginning on January 1, 2008 and end-
ing on December 31, 2018, including—
(1) the total number of persons who
claimed a fear of persecution, received a fa-
vorable credible fear determination, and
were referred for prosecution;
(2) an overview and analysis of the metrics
used by the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity and the Department of Justice to track
the number of asylum seekers referred for
prosecution;
(3) the total number of asylum seekers re-
ferred for prosecution, a breakdown and de-
scription of the criminal charges filed
against asylum seekers during such period,
and a breakdown and description of the con-
victions secured;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.012 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5365
July 25, 2018
(4) the total number of asylum seekers who
were separated from their children as a re-
sult of being referred for prosecution;
(5) a breakdown of the resources spent on
prosecuting asylum seekers during such pe-
riod, as well as any diversion of resources re-
quired to prosecute asylum seekers, and any
costs imposed on States and localities;
(6) the total number of asylum seekers who
were referred for prosecution and also went
through immigration proceedings; and
(7) the total number of asylum seekers re-
ferred for prosecution who were deported be-
fore going through immigration proceedings.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General shall submit to Con-
gress a report that describes the results of
the study conducted pursuant to subsection
(a).
TITLE II—FAIR DAY IN COURT FOR KIDS
SEC. 201. IMPROVING IMMIGRATION COURT EFFI-
CIENCY AND REDUCING COSTS BY
INCREASING ACCESS TO LEGAL IN-
FORMATION.
(a) APPOINTMENT OF COUNSEL IN REMOVAL
PROCEEDINGS; RIGHT TO REVIEW CERTAIN DOC-
UMENTS IN REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS.—Section
240(b) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1229a(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘, at no expense to the Gov-
ernment,’’; and
(ii) by striking the comma at the end and
inserting a semicolon;
(B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and
(C) as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respec-
tively;
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following:
‘‘(B) the Attorney General may appoint or
provide counsel, at Government expense, to
aliens in immigration proceedings;
‘‘(C) the alien, or the alien’s counsel, not
later than 7 days after receiving a notice to
appear under section 239(a), shall receive a
complete copy of the alien’s immigration file
(commonly known as an ‘A-file’) in the pos-
session of the Department of Homeland Se-
curity (other than documents protected from
disclosure under section 552(b) of title 5,
United States Code);’’; and
(D) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated,
by striking ‘‘, and’’ and inserting ‘‘; and’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(8) FAILURE TO PROVIDE ALIEN REQUIRED
DOCUMENTS.—A removal proceeding may not
proceed until the alien, or the alien’s coun-
sel, if the alien is represented—
‘‘(A) has received the documents required
under paragraph (4)(C); and
‘‘(B) has been provided at least 10 days to
review and assess such documents.’’.
(b) CLARIFICATION REGARDING THE AUTHOR-
ITY OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO APPOINT
COUNSEL TO ALIENS IN IMMIGRATION PRO-
CEEDINGS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 292 of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1362) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 292. RIGHT TO COUNSEL.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsections (b) and (c), in any removal pro-
ceeding and in any appeal proceeding before
the Attorney General from any such removal
proceeding, the subject of the proceeding
shall have the privilege of being represented
by such counsel as may be authorized to
practice in such proceeding as he or she may
choose. This subsection shall not apply to
screening proceedings described in section
235(b)(1)(A).
‘‘(b) ACCESS TO COUNSEL FOR UNACCOM-
PANIED ALIEN CHILDREN.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In any removal pro-
ceeding and in any appeal proceeding before
the Attorney General from any such removal
proceeding, an unaccompanied alien child (as
defined in section 462(g) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act on 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g))) shall be
represented by Government-appointed coun-
sel, at Government expense.
‘‘(2) LENGTH OF REPRESENTATION.—Once a
child is designated as an unaccompanied
alien child under paragraph (1), the child
shall be represented by counsel at every
stage of the proceedings from the child’s ini-
tial appearance through the termination of
immigration proceedings, and any ancillary
matters appropriate to such proceedings
even if the child attains 18 years of age or is
reunified with a parent or legal guardian
while the proceedings are pending.
‘‘(3) NOTICE.—Not later than 72 hours after
an unaccompanied alien child is taken into
Federal custody, the alien shall be notified
that he or she will be provided with legal
counsel in accordance with this subsection.
‘‘(4) WITHIN DETENTION FACILITIES.—The
Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure
that unaccompanied alien children have ac-
cess to counsel inside all detention, holding,
and border facilities.
‘‘(c) PRO BONO REPRESENTATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the Attorney General should
make every effort to utilize the services of
competent counsel who agree to provide rep-
resentation to such children under sub-
section (b) without charge.
‘‘(2) DEVELOPMENT OF NECESSARY INFRA-
STRUCTURES AND SYSTEMS.—The Attorney
General shall develop the necessary mecha-
nisms to identify counsel available to pro-
vide pro bono legal assistance and represen-
tation to children under subsection (b) and
to recruit such counsel.
‘‘(d) CONTRACTS; GRANTS.—The Attorney
General may enter into contracts with, or
award grants to, nonprofit agencies with rel-
evant expertise in the delivery of immigra-
tion-related legal services to children to
carry out the responsibilities under this sec-
tion, including providing legal orientation,
screening cases for referral, recruiting,
training, and overseeing pro bono attorneys.
Nonprofit agencies may enter into sub-
contracts with, or award grants to, private
voluntary agencies with relevant expertise
in the delivery of immigration related legal
services to children in order to carry out this
section.
‘‘(e) MODEL GUIDELINES ON LEGAL REP-
RESENTATION OF CHILDREN.—
‘‘(1) DEVELOPMENT OF GUIDELINES.—The Ex-
ecutive Office for Immigration Review, in
consultation with voluntary agencies and
national experts, shall develop model guide-
lines for the legal representation of alien
children in immigration proceedings, which
shall be based on the children’s asylum
guidelines, the American Bar Association
Model Rules of Professional Conduct, and
other relevant domestic or international
sources.
‘‘(2) PURPOSE OF GUIDELINES.—The guide-
lines developed under paragraph (1) shall be
designed to help protect each child from any
individual suspected of involvement in any
criminal, harmful, or exploitative activity
associated with the smuggling or trafficking
of children, while ensuring the fairness of
the removal proceeding in which the child is
involved.
‘‘(f) DUTIES OF COUNSEL.—Counsel provided
under this section shall—
‘‘(1) represent the unaccompanied alien
child in all proceedings and matters relating
to the immigration status of the child or
other actions involving the Department of
Homeland Security;
‘‘(2) appear in person for all individual
merits hearings before the Executive Office
for Immigration Review and interviews in-
volving the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity;
‘‘(3) owe the same duties of undivided loy-
alty, confidentiality, and competent rep-
resentation to the child as is due to an adult
client; and
‘‘(4) carry out other such duties, as deter-
mined by the Attorney General or the Execu-
tive Office for Immigration Review.
‘‘(g) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in this
section may be construed to supersede—
‘‘(1) any duties, responsibilities, or discipli-
nary or ethical responsibilities an attorney
may have to his or her client under State
law;
‘‘(2) the admission requirements under
State law; or
‘‘(3) any other State law pertaining to the
admission to the practice of law in a par-
ticular jurisdiction.’’.
(2) RULEMAKING.—The Attorney General
shall promulgate regulations to implement
section 292 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act, as added by paragraph (1), in ac-
cordance with the requirements set forth in
section 3006A of title 18, United States Code.
SEC. 202. ACCESS BY COUNSEL AND LEGAL ORI-
ENTATION AT DETENTION FACILI-
TIES.
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall
provide access to counsel for all aliens de-
tained in a facility under the supervision of
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, or the
Department of Health and Human Services,
or in any private facility that contracts with
the Federal Government to house, detain, or
hold aliens.
SEC. 203. REPORT ON ACCESS TO COUNSEL.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than December 31 of
each year, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, in consultation with the Attorney Gen-
eral, shall prepare and submit to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary of the Senate and
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House
of Representatives a report regarding the ex-
tent to which aliens described in section
292(b) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act, as added by section 201(b)(1), have been
provided access to counsel.
(b) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (a) shall include, for the im-
mediately preceding 1-year period—
(1) the number and percentage of aliens de-
scribed in section 292(b) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act, as added by section
201(b)(1), who were represented by counsel,
including information specifying—
(A) the stage of the legal process at which
each such alien was represented;
(B) whether the alien was in government
custody; and
(C) the nationality and ages of such aliens;
and
(2) the number and percentage of aliens
who received legal orientation presentations,
including the nationality and ages of such
aliens.
SEC. 204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated to the Executive Office of Im-
migration Review of the Department of Jus-
tice such sums as may be necessary to carry
out this title.
(b) BUDGETARY EFFECTS.—The budgetary
effects of this title, for the purpose of com-
plying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go-
Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference
to the latest statement titled ‘‘Budgetary
Effects of PAYGO Legislation’’ for this title,
submitted for printing in the Congressional
Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budg-
et Committee, provided that such statement
has been submitted prior to the vote on pas-
sage.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.012 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5366 July 25, 2018
TITLE III—IMPROVING IMMIGRATION
DETENTION
SEC. 301. IMMIGRATION DETENTION PRIORITIES.
(a) PRIORITIZATION.—The Director of U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement shall
use the limited resources of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement to detain
aliens who pose a threat to national security
or public safety.
(b) PRESUMPTION.—Absent extraordinary
circumstances, aliens shall not be detained
if—
(1) they are known to be suffering from se-
rious physical or mental illness;
(2) they have a disability;
(3) they are elderly, pregnant, or nursing;
(4) they are minors;
(5) they demonstrate that they are primary
caretakers of a minor or an infirm person; or
(6) their detention is otherwise not in the
public interest.
SEC. 302. U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS EN-
FORCEMENT DETENTION FACILITY
STANDARDS.
Beginning not later than 1 year after the
date of the enactment of this Act, all U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement de-
tention system facilities, including contract
facilities and local and county jails oper-
ating under intergovernmental service
agreements, shall meet the Performance-
Based National Detention Standards devel-
oped by U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement in 2011, including the revisions
issued in December 2016.
SEC. 303. INCREASED FUNDING FOR ALTER-
NATIVES TO DETENTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Home-
land Security shall provide sufficient fund-
ing to the Alternatives to Detention Division
to cover alternatives to detention program
costs for all aliens awaiting immigration
proceedings who are not subject to deten-
tion.
(b) CONTRACTS AUTHORIZED.—The Director
of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment shall contract with nonprofit service
providers with the ability to provide the
services required in operating an alter-
natives to detention program whenever fea-
sible.
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as may be necessary to carry out this
section.
SEC. 304. INCREASING THE NUMBER OF IMMI-
GRATION JUDGES AND STRENGTH-
ENING MERIT-BASED HIRING AND
DUE PROCESS.
(a) IMMIGRATION JUDGES.—The Attorney
General shall increase the total number of
immigration judges by 225, compared to the
number of immigration judges authorized on
the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b) SUPPORT STAFF; OTHER RESOURCES.—
The Attorney General shall ensure that the
Executive Office for Immigration Review has
sufficient support staff, adequate techno-
logical and security resources, and appro-
priate facilities to conduct the immigration
proceedings required under Federal law.
(c) LIMITATION.—Amounts appropriated for
the Executive Office for Immigration Review
or for any other Department of Justice agen-
cy or function may not be used to implement
numeric judicial performance standards or
other standards that could negatively im-
pact the fair administration of justice by the
immigration courts.
(d) QUALIFICATION; SELECTION.—The Attor-
ney General shall—
(1) ensure that all newly hired immigration
judges and Board of Immigration Appeals
members are highly qualified and trained to
conduct fair, impartial adjudications in ac-
cordance with applicable due process re-
quirements; and
(2) in selecting immigration judges, may
not give any preference to candidates with
prior government experience compared to
equivalent subject-matter expertise result-
ing from nonprofit, private bar, or academic
experience.
(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as may be necessary to carry out this
section.
SEC. 305. U.S. CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION
SERVICES REFUGEE CORPS OFFI-
CERS.
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall
increase the total number of Department of
Homeland Security personnel who are re-
sponsible for processing refugee applications
by not fewer than the maximum number of
such personnel reassigned to the Asylum Di-
vision during fiscal year 2018.
By Mr. JONES (for himself, Mr.
ALEXANDER, Mr. GRAHAM, and
Mr. CORKER):
S. 3266. A bill to require a study of
the well-being of the United States
automotive industry and to stay the
investigation into the national secu-
rity effects of automotive imports
until the study is completed, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
Mr. JONES. Mr. President, I rise
today on behalf of the line workers at
our Alabama auto plants. I rise on be-
half of our soybean and cotton farmers.
I rise on behalf of countless other Ala-
bama businesses that have contacted
me because they feel threatened by
proposed tariffs but are afraid to speak
out publicly for fear of reprisal. In
some cases they simply don’t want to
be seen as inflicting political damage
on the President.
I came to this body to work on solu-
tions, not to raise partisan threat lev-
els. I am not one to unfairly level criti-
cism at the President of the United
States, but I have called it as I see it
when his actions hurt our economy and
my State, in particular, and I will con-
tinue to do so.
Today, I want to talk about his pro-
posed tariffs on our allies and our trad-
ing partners. These actions have
prompted retaliatory tariffs on count-
less Alabama goods, including cotton
and soybeans. American industries
overwhelmingly oppose these tariffs or,
really, they are taxes on their prod-
ucts.
I share President Trump’s desire to
see continued growth in our manufac-
turing sector and to secure trade deals
that benefit our country. His tariffs are
not leading to more manufacturing
jobs in Alabama. Instead, they have
manufactured a crisis that threatens to
permanently harm our businesses and
our farms. This is a self-inflicted
wound.
I am well aware that China has been
a rogue actor when it comes to trade,
and I support a strong response. Ala-
bama’s steel industry, for example, was
hurt by the illegal dumping of Chinese
steel into the global market. I wit-
nessed it firsthand in my hometown of
Fairfield, AL, once home to one of the
country’s largest U.S. steel facilities,
which now sits virtually idle. Globe
Metallurgical in Selma has been hit by
the dumping of silicon metal from
China. China has time and again shown
a blatant disregard for American intel-
lectual property rights. I have spoken
out against these abuses and will con-
tinue to do so when they occur in the
future.
We should not sweep our friends with
the same brush with which we sweep
China. Antagonizing allies like Canada,
South Korea, and Germany for no rea-
son at all only weakens us. According
to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
more than half a million Alabama jobs
are supported by global trade, meaning
more than one in every four Alabama
jobs are tied to trade. Those jobs are
needlessly at risk to date.
I have spoken with representatives
from industries across my State. Some
are already hurting from the tariffs;
others are OK for the moment but are
fearful of consequences down the road,
such as losing suppliers or taking a di-
rect hit from retaliatory tariffs.
Many of these workers or business
owners tell me they support President
Trump. They want him to do well.
They voted for him, and they are hesi-
tant to speak out because they don’t
want to appear to be disloyal or harm
him politically. They are confused as
to why the President is taking steps
that hurt their businesses and put their
jobs at risk. They want help.
They say what we in this body al-
ready know: Tariffs are nothing more
than tax increases. They are taxes that
hurt American businesses, American
workers, American consumers, and the
American economy. In a cruel twist,
they seem to be doing the most damage
in the places and sectors that make up
the President’s base of support: farm-
ers, autoworkers, truck drivers. These
are the exact folks he promised to take
care of. Nowhere is that more preva-
lent and evident than in our auto-
motive industry. It is not just really an
‘‘industry’’ as we think of it in abstract
terms. It means people, jobs, families,
and the ability to support a family.
One of those people is a man named
John Hall. John has been a mainte-
nance worker at the Hyundai Motor
manufacturing plant in Montgomery,
AL, for nearly 14 years. He recently
came to Washington to tell folks about
what the industry has meant to his
community.
At a rally last Thursday, he said that
the transformation of Montgomery and
the Alabama River Region has been
breathtaking—breathtaking—since the
Hyundai plant arrived in our State. He
went on that day to testify at the Com-
merce Department at a hearing about
whether or not imported automobiles,
trucks, and parts posed a national se-
curity threat.
That bears repeating. These tariffs
on automobiles—foreign automobiles
and parts—are being proposed because
somehow, some way foreign vehicles
and parts are a threat to national secu-
rity.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.012 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5367
July 25, 2018
I don’t know how else to say it, but
that is a ridiculous premise, and every-
one knows it. Even the President im-
plicitly acknowledged that in one of
his Twitter rants the other day when
he threatened to raise auto tariffs in
response to the antitrust fine levied
against Google by the European Union.
Not only is it not a national security
threat, this industry has brought un-
told opportunity to Alabama and other
States, particularly in the Southeast.
Before the automakers came to Ala-
bama, our manufacturing industry was
still reeling from NAFTA. Many Ala-
bama facilities, like textile manufac-
turers, were closing down and moving
to other countries. These automakers
came to Alabama—Mercedes, Honda,
Hyundai, Toyota’s engine factory,
which is now a Toyota and Mazda auto-
mobile factory, breaking ground soon,
and they have breathed new life into
our economy. They have all announced
planned expansions in the last year or
so.
Alabama’s automotive sector em-
ploys some 50,000 people, and motor ve-
hicle exports from Alabama reached $11
billion in 2017. Simply put, Alabama is
a trade State, an exporting State. It is
not just cars, either. We export about
$170 million annually in soybeans to
China, and that industry contributes
11,000 jobs to our State.
The day China released its list of
U.S. goods that could be tariffed, soy-
bean prices fell 40 cents that morning.
Stan Usery, the president of the Ala-
bama Soybean & Corn Association and
soybean farmer, said:
If you weighed that out in dollar figures, it
was in the billions of what the value of the
U.S. soybean crop lost in just that one day.
Just based on the fear of an imposed tariff.
I have heard from other farmers too.
Peanut contract prices have fallen flat.
Pork prices have fallen $18 a head since
March. Cotton prices dropped 10 cents
in the wake of the initial round of tar-
iffs. Our cattle farmers share these
concerns and are anticipating potential
production cost increases as a result of
more expensive fuel and grain.
Just yesterday, we learned that the
administration is going to spend $12
billion in taxpayer money to help off-
set the damage its trade war has done
to American farmers. These farmers
need the money. It is a self-inflicted
wound, but they need it. This money
might help some of the farmers some-
what in the short term, but it is a slip-
pery slope for the President of the
United States to start down.
What about the meatpackers who see
less work because of reduced sales or
truckdrivers who transport these goods
across the country? These folks want
trade, not aid. If tariffs are not re-
versed soon, the damage to supply
chains and markets cannot be undone.
A company like Harley-Davidson can
move a plant from Wisconsin overseas
to avoid tariffs. My farmers in Ala-
bama can’t do that. You can’t move a
soybean farm. You can’t move a cotton
field. You can only move plants, hard-
ware, and people.
China is one of the top markets for
Alabama’s cotton, poultry, pork, and
soybeans. When China chooses to
source these goods from Brazil, Aus-
tralia, or Vietnam to avoid the Presi-
dent’s tariffs, they will not go back to
purchasing from Alabama once com-
mon sense prevails and the tariffs are
rescinded. By then, it will be too late.
A market will be lost, and family farms
cannot recover from the loss of a busi-
ness.
I know some folks back home in Ala-
bama don’t like it when the President
gets criticized. They certainly don’t
like it when I do, and I understand
that. They don’t like it even when the
policies of the administration may
hurt Alabama.
One of my own delegation colleagues
in the House went so far as to suggest
that we shouldn’t be worried about
these automobile tariffs; we are all get-
ting worked up over nothing. I like to
think he is right, but I don’t think he
is, and neither do the thousands of
folks who work in Alabama’s auto-
mobile industry or their family mem-
bers who have written or called my of-
fices, nor do the industry representa-
tives they have sent to Washington to
plead with their elected officials for
help, nor does my good friend, the sen-
ior Senator from Tennessee, with
whom I am proud to be standing here
today.
I believe these tariffs are bad for Ala-
bama and bad for America.
Senator ALEXANDER, who is a strong
supporter of the President on many
issues, agrees that these tariffs rep-
resent a very real threat to the hun-
dreds of thousands of jobs in the auto-
motive industry. No region in the
country would be hit harder than the
Southeast, where textiles used to be
king but where automobiles now reign
supreme.
That is why I am here today, to stand
up for my constituents and to do what
I think is right. It is why, last month,
Senator ALEXANDER and I wrote to
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, urg-
ing him to reconsider the auto tariff
tax proposal before it damages the
automotive sector, which contributes
more than 200,000 jobs to our two
States. It is why I have reached out to
the Commerce Department and the
U.S. Trade Representatives on behalf of
a number of Alabama businesses, from
textiles to heating and air conditioning
companies, to businesses in the energy
sector, each facing their own unique
crisis because of the proposed tariffs.
In fact, since I was sworn in, I have
invited representatives from a number
of impacted industries to come to my
office to share their stores, to offer
suggestions on what we can do, and to
be honest about outcomes if we fail to
act.
I did not come to this body to simply
sit by and watch and do nothing, espe-
cially when I see a need and I need to
step up. I said I would follow my con-
science and do the right thing to make
Alabama and America a better place.
In that spirit, a short time earlier
today, Senator ALEXANDER and I fol-
lowed up on our letter to Secretary
Ross—to which, quite frankly, we have
not yet received a response—by intro-
ducing the Automotive Jobs Act of
2018. It is a bipartisan effort to halt
President Trump’s proposed tax on im-
ported cars, trucks, and auto parts,
which would raise the price of every
automobile produced in the United
States.
Our legislation would require the
International Trade Commission to
conduct a comprehensive study of the
well-being, health, and vitality of the
U.S. automotive industry. The ITC will
be required to deliver the report to
Congress before these tariffs could be
applied.
Tariffs should be used to protect
American jobs, not hurt them. In the
coming weeks, I will be looking at
other legislative solutions to help
other sectors impacted by the Presi-
dent’s tariffs, but the President can
save our auto industry today by simply
calling off the 232 investigation.
If we are not vigilant, hard-working
Alabamians are going to be the losers
in this game of chicken with China, the
European Union, and others. The small
family farmers, the line workers at our
auto plants, the truckdrivers who
transport Alabama-made products to
market, and our port, all stand to lose
the gains that we have made in the last
couple of decades.
It is my hope that through this legis-
lation we can demonstrate beyond any
doubt the positive benefits the auto in-
dustry brings to Alabama, Tennessee,
and many other States across the
country.
Instead of pursuing these tariffs, we
should be partnering with our allies
who have also been treated unfairly by
countries like China and present a
united front against bad actors and
their harmful trade practices.
I believe in the great potential of our
Nation’s automobile industry, and I
want to empower both the American
and foreign automakers who have al-
ready invested significantly in this
country. This is a thriving industry
and one supported by the greatest
workforce in the world. Let’s help it to
continue to grow and support good-
paying jobs in our communities. We
need to stand united against these pro-
posed tariffs.
President Trump, Alabamians are
counting on you to do the right thing
by those who stood with you. I hope
you will do so.
I yield for my friend, the senior Sen-
ator from Tennessee, Mr. ALEXANDER.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
thank the Senator from Alabama for
his leadership and his remarks.
The President of the United States
has got the world’s attention with his
tariffs. He met today with the Presi-
dent of the European Commission, but
what should get more attention than
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.046 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5368 July 25, 2018
the tariffs is President Trump’s solu-
tion for the tariffs: zero tariffs, zero
barriers—which, as the President said
at the G7 summit in June, is the way it
should be. He said that again last night
and again today. After his meeting
with the President of the European
Commission in the Oval Office, Presi-
dent Trump said: ‘‘If we could have no
tariffs and no barriers and no subsidies,
the United States would be extremely
pleased.’’
Well, so would I, Mr. President, but
that is not what is happening. Piling
tariffs on top of tariffs with no end in
sight is a trade war and will hurt
American workers.
But the basis of the President’s long-
term solution is ‘‘reciprocity,’’ a word
he has also used many times, which
means, when it comes to trade, other
countries should do for the United
States what the United States does for
them. Taking steps in the direction of
reciprocity, rather than a trade war,
would be much better for the American
worker.
Today I have come to the floor with
Senator JONES to introduce legislation
that would delay the administration’s
proposed 25 percent tariff on auto-
mobiles and auto parts imported from
other countries into the United States
until the President has the benefit of a
second opinion from the International
Trade Commission about the effects
those tariffs would have on the more
than 7 million Americans who work in
the auto industry.
After the President and the Congress
have received the International Trade
Commission’s study and the President
has this second opinion, he may still
continue with the section 232 investiga-
tion if he chooses to do so.
I have no doubt that there is a trade
problem, and some countries are tak-
ing advantage of us. I also have no
doubt that shooting yourself in both
feet at once is not the right solution to
our problem, which is what would hap-
pen if we continue these tariffs for a
long time. That is not the best way to
solve the problem.
These tariffs are dangerous. These
tariffs are going to cost us jobs. These
tariffs are going to lower our family in-
comes. These tariffs are going to undo
much of the good the President and the
Congress have done during the last
year and a half to create this booming
economy, which is booming like none
of us have seen for a long, long time.
We don’t want to interrupt that.
A better strategy is the one that the
President himself has suggested and
that I believe would be much more ef-
fective: Insist on reciprocity. Say to
other countries: Do for our country
what we do for you—just as the Presi-
dent said at the G7 summit: ‘‘no tariffs,
no barriers is the way it should be.’’
And just as he said today to the Presi-
dent of the European Commission.
May I suggest a first step in that di-
rection? It might be to agree on the
same tariffs on light trucks and cars
that are traded between the United
States and the European Union. Cur-
rently, the European Union levies a 10-
percent tariff on light trucks that
come from the United States, and the
United States levies a 25-percent tariff
on trucks imported from the European
Union. Similarly, the European Union
levies a 10-percent tariff on cars im-
ported from this country. The United
States levies a 2.5 percent tariff on cars
that come to us from Europe. A first
step for the solution would be to make
these tariffs the same.
Now, my late friend Alex Haley once
told me that if I begin a speech by say-
ing ‘‘instead of making a speech, let me
tell you a story,’’ someone might actu-
ally listen to what I have to say. So let
me tell you a story about how tariffs
affect Tennessee.
This is a story about a Canadian
company, Onward Manufacturing Com-
pany, which 8 years ago had a choice
between locating its new plant either
in the United States or in China. The
company chose Dickson, TN, where
today about 300 Tennesseans have
good-paying jobs making Broil King
gas grills, which the company then ex-
ports to Canada and Europe.
The company decided on Tennessee
instead of China because NAFTA—the
North American Free Trade Agree-
ment—made it possible to buy mate-
rials and parts to manufacture their
grills in the United States and Canada
without paying tariffs. That is the ad-
vantage of zero tariffs.
Broil King buys the steel and alu-
minum the company uses to make
grills from U.S. producers. But in 2016,
our country imposed tariffs on steel
from China that is used to manufacture
grills. That increased the cost of im-
ported steel, and that had the effect of
increasing the price of steel made in
the United States.
Then, on March 23 of this year, our
country imposed another 25 percent
tariff on steel and 10 percent on alu-
minum, after the Commerce Depart-
ment’s section 232 investigation con-
cluded that those imports were a
threat to national security. This also
had the effect of raising the price of
steel and aluminum that Broil King
used to make gas grills in Dickson, TN.
Prices for U.S.-produced steel that
Broil King buys are up by 40 percent
since January, according to the trade
publication Steel Benchmark.
This is called shooting yourself in
one foot. Now, here goes the other foot.
Europe and Canada then responded to
the U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum
by imposing tariffs on U.S. products
sold in Europe and Canada, including
gas grills.
Broil King exports about 60 percent
of the grills the company makes in
Tennessee to Canada and Europe. Re-
member, they located their plant here
so they could do that.
The company told me last week that
they are losing money on every grill
they sell in Europe because of the com-
bination of steel and aluminum tariffs
and the response by Europe and Can-
ada.
Broil King is also hurt by the March
2018 announcement that tariffs would
be imposed on $50 billion by the United
States on Chinese goods because the
company buys some parts from China
that it uses to make gas grills in Ten-
nessee.
Now, here is what is causing the own-
ers of Broil King to wonder why they
ever decided to locate a plant in
Dickson, TN, instead of China. The new
U.S. tariffs do not apply to barbecue
gas grills made in China that are al-
ready assembled, which means that
every one of Broil King’s competitors
in China can import their grills into
the United States without any tariff on
it.
So here is the bottom line. These new
tariffs make it difficult to make a prof-
it on gas grills made in Dickson, TN,
and leave the U.S. market wide open
for gas grills made in China.
That is what happened to one small
company that employs 300 Tennesseans
and buys its steel and aluminum from
U.S. suppliers when we begin piling
tariffs on top of tariffs with no end in
sight. That is what happens with a
trade war.
That is why I like what the President
said this morning to the President of
the European Commission. ‘‘If we could
have no tariffs and no barriers and no
subsidies,’’ the President said, ‘‘the
United States would be extremely
pleased.’’ So would workers in Ten-
nessee. That would be better for the 300
workers in Dickson, TN.
Here is another story. It is about
Electrolux. I visited Springfield, TN,
outside Nashville, a few weeks ago. The
mayor and the chamber of commerce
officials rushed up to me. The new tar-
iffs on steel had been announced, and
the largest employer in Springfield—
Electrolux, which makes home sup-
plies—had cancelled a $250 million ex-
pansion. Electrolux buys all of its steel
from U.S. suppliers, but, of course,
when you raise the price on imported
steel, the price of U.S. steel also goes
up, and Electrolux concluded that it
could not be competitive in the U.S.
market and with exports at the higher
price.
Of course, it sounds good to say that
putting a 10-percent tariff on Chinese-
made goods is good for us, but
Electrolux also buys some components
made in China. Last week, the com-
pany said the latest U.S. tariffs on Chi-
nese-made goods would cost the com-
pany $10 million during the second half
of this year if the proposed 10 percent
tariffs go into effect after a comment
period ending in late August. That is
Electrolux in Springfield, TN.
Now, if we were moving toward a pol-
icy of reciprocity—do for us what we do
for you—there would be zero tariffs,
and the people of Springfield would
have a $250 million expansion and the
jobs that come with it instead of a 25-
percent tax on the U.S. steel that
Electrolux buys.
Then there are the stories about the
effects of steel and aluminum tariffs on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.047 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5369
July 25, 2018
tire companies. We have three big tire
companies in Tennessee. Bridgestone is
one of them, with 1,700 employees. I
will talk about it for just a moment.
Bridgestone tires all have steel cords
to make them stronger. None of that
steel is produced in the United States.
All of it is imported. Now all of it has
a 25-percent tax. Who pays that? The
American consumer. The same must be
true for every tire-making company.
Here is one more story. You have
probably heard of Bush Brothers’
beans. They can one-third of all the
beans in the United States. Their plant
is in Chestnut Hill, in the mountains of
East Tennessee, near where I live.
The cans are made of tin-plated steel
that is mostly imported. There is not
enough produced in the United States.
Bush Brothers & Company estimates
that the new tariff on steel will reduce
its revenues and raise prices by as
much as 8 percent.
Even the workers in Chestnut Hill
who can one-third of all of the beans in
the United States would benefit from a
zero tariff policy such as the one the
President talked about today, instead
of a trade war that piles tariffs on top
of tariffs.
We have many more stories. We have
over 900 auto parts suppliers in Ten-
nessee. They are in 88 of our 95 coun-
ties. Almost all of them use steel and
aluminum. When the prices go up, reve-
nues and profits go down. That has an
effect on 136,000 Tennesseans. Those are
the people who work in our automotive
industry. That is one-third of our en-
tire manufacturing workforce.
Tariffs are taxes, pure and simple—
taxes we pay. Existing tariffs on steel
and aluminum are bad enough, but
nothing could do more damage to Ten-
nessee’s auto industry than the pro-
posed tariffs on imported automobiles
and automotive parts. Those, combined
with already imposed tariffs on steel
and aluminum, will cost us jobs and
lower our family incomes.
I respectfully said to President
Trump both publicly and privately that
he and the Republican Congress have
accomplished an enormous amount in
18 months. I am very proud of that.
This booming economy is something
that benefits so many Americans. But I
am afraid that if we do not move
quickly toward the President’s an-
nounced long-term goal of no tariffs
and that if we continue to pile tariffs
on top of tariffs, we will take this econ-
omy in exactly the opposite direction
and undo much of the good the Repub-
lican President and the Republican
Congress have already done.
What would take us in the right di-
rection is the goal of reciprocity that
the President talked about today. That
is why, in the meantime, until we shift
gears into this long-term goal of no
tariffs, no subsidies, no barriers, and
take steps toward it, Senator JONES
and I have developed this bill to make
sure the President has all the facts be-
fore he makes a decision on the pro-
posed 25-percent tariff on imported cars
and parts. It simply requires the Com-
merce Department’s investigation to
be delayed while we get more facts
about the impact of these tariffs on the
automotive industry.
The President is right to focus on
China. China steals our intellectual
property, and it imposes other trade
barriers. But tariffs on steel and alu-
minum and uncertainty surrounding
the negotiation of NAFTA threaten to
destroy many more U.S. jobs than they
might save.
We should remember the lessons of
history. Presidents have tried this be-
fore.
When I first came to the Senate,
President George W. Bush imposed
steel tariffs. Within a year, he dropped
the idea because the tariffs destroyed
more jobs in the automotive industry
than existed in the steel industry at
that time, according to the Consuming
Industries Trade Action Coalition.
Let’s look at today. Last year, the
U.S. steel industry employed about
139,000 Americans, according to the
Congressional Research Service. About
162,000 worked in the aluminum indus-
try. That is around 300,000 Americans
who work in the steel and aluminum
industry. To put this in perspective,
the automotive industry employs 20
times that many Americans—more
than 7 million, according to the Auto
Alliance, and 136,000 of those, as I have
said, are Tennesseans.
There are only eight aluminum
smelting plants operating in the
United States that employ Americans.
They employ about 4,000. Seven of
those are actually producing. One is
curtailed. Alcoa, which produces about
half the aluminum produced in the
United States, doesn’t even want the
tariffs. It makes me wonder, who does
want the tariffs on aluminum?
The main reason those smelting
plants—one of which is in my home-
town and my father worked at for 40
years—have closed has nothing to do
with trade. It is because aluminum
plants need a lot of cheap electricity to
run through the bauxite ore to make
aluminum ingots, and they can’t buy
electricity that cheap in the United
States. The 10-percent tariff already
imposed on aluminum is not nearly
enough to offset the cost of electricity.
The reason I have been so outspoken
about this is that no state is more like-
ly to be more damaged by tariffs on
aluminum and steel and on auto-
mobiles and auto parts than Tennessee.
In many ways, over the last 40 years,
we have become the Nation’s No. 1 auto
State, with our more than 136,000 Ten-
nesseans working in the automotive in-
dustry. There are three big assembly
plants—General Motors, Volkswagen,
and Nissan—and over 900 auto suppliers
in 88 of our 95 counties. As Senator
JONES said, 35 years ago, we were the
third poorest state and textile plants
were moving overseas. Things looked
bleak for us. In came the auto industry
with better paying jobs, and our family
incomes have been going up ever since
in almost every county. I don’t want to
see that hurt. Tennesseans who work in
the auto industry would benefit, as
they have under NAFTA, from zero tar-
iffs instead of a trade war that piles
tariffs on top of tariffs.
In conclusion, the President has got-
ten the world’s attention with his tar-
iffs. As a tactic, perhaps he is wise to
do that. He had the President of the
European Commission in his office
today, but what should get more atten-
tion and what I hope gets more atten-
tion also from the President is the so-
lution he talked about again today. ‘‘If
we could have no tariffs and no barriers
and no subsidies,’’ the President said,
‘‘the United States would be extremely
pleased.’’ That is the way it should be.
Let’s move toward that goal as rapidly
as we can. Piling tariffs on top of tar-
iffs with no end in sight is a trade war.
It hurts American workers.
The basis of the President’s solution
is reciprocity—a word he has used
many times—which means when it
comes to trade, other countries should
do for the United States what we do for
them. Taking steps in that direction
would be the right way to go.
In the meantime, the bill Senator
JONES and I have introduced will make
certain that President Trump has be-
fore him all the facts—in effect, a sec-
ond opinion—before he makes a deci-
sion regarding the proposed 25-percent
tariffs on imported automobiles and
automotive parts.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and
Mr. NELSON):
S. 3272. A bill to authorize the Presi-
dent to provide assistance to the Gov-
ernments of Haiti and Armenia to re-
verse the effects of deforestation, and
for other purposes; to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 3272
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Haiti and
Armenia Reforestation Act of 2018’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the established policy of the Federal
Government is to support and seek the pro-
tection of forests around the world, which
provide a wide range of benefits by—
(A) harboring a major portion of the bio-
logical and terrestrial resources of Earth;
(B) providing habitats for almost 2⁄3 of all
species on Earth, including species essential
to medical research and agricultural produc-
tivity;
(C) contributing to the livelihood of more
than 1,600,000,000 people through access to
food, fresh water, clothing, traditional medi-
cines, and shelter;
(D) ensuring environmental services, such
as biodiversity, water conservation, soil en-
richment, water supply management, and
climate regulation; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.047 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5370 July 25, 2018
(E) absorbing and storing carbon dioxide,
as deforestation accounts for approximately
12 percent of the global anthropogenic green-
house gas emissions that contribute to glob-
al warming;
(2) while forests cover a little less than 1⁄3
of the land area on Earth, approximately 85
percent of Earth’s original primary forests
have been destroyed, degraded, or frag-
mented;
(3) in Haiti—
(A) the destruction of forests began cen-
turies ago, when 17th century colonists cut
down trees for lumber, fuel, and furniture;
(B) the 18th century plantation economy
resulted in hillsides near towns being
stripped of trees;
(C) after gaining independence, deforest-
ation continued as Haiti rebuilt its local
economy by growing coffee and exporting
timber;
(D) in 1923, more than 60 percent of the
land was forested, but by the 1940s and 1950s
deforestation was accelerating as an increas-
ing population put more pressure on forests;
(E) in recent years, urbanization has ex-
panded exponentially and growing cities
have depended on charcoal produced by cut-
ting down trees in the countryside;
(F) poor forestry and land use policies by
the Government of Haiti has exacerbated de-
forestation, and by 2014, forest cover had de-
creased to approximately 9 to 11 percent of
the country; and
(G) between 2000 and 2016, 5,430 hectares of
forest cover were lost, equal to 6.3 percent of
Haiti’s tree cover;
(4) in Armenia—
(A) while archeological data indicated that
approximately 35 percent of the country was
originally forested—
(i) less than 12 percent of the country was
covered in forest in 1990; and
(ii) less than 6 percent of the country was
covered in forest by 2016; and
(B) in August, 2017, a fire caused signifi-
cant damage to the Khosrov Forest, which is
among the world’s oldest protected areas, en-
gulfing more than 2,733 hectares in flames
and causing substantial harm to hundreds of
unique plant species;
(5) economic pressures, resulting from
more than 60 percent of the population of
Haiti living below the poverty line and 29.8
percent of the population of Armenia living
below the poverty line—
(A) are factors contributing to the defor-
estation of Haiti and Armenia; and
(B) are manifested particularly through
the cutting of areas of forest for conversion
to agricultural and commercial uses, where
wood and charcoal produced from cutting
down trees accounts for a major supply to-
ward Haiti’s and Armenia’s energy sectors;
(6) forests provide cover to soften the effect
of heavy rains and reduce erosion by anchor-
ing the soil with tree roots;
(7) a significant effect of the deforestation
in Haiti and Armenia is soil erosion, which
has—
(A) lowered the productivity on the land
due to the leaching of nutrients in topsoils;
(B) worsened the severity of droughts and
the effects of landslides and floods;
(C) led to further deforestation due to slash
and burn practices when eroded areas are no
longer productive;
(D) increased the pressure on the remain-
ing land and trees in Haiti and Armenia; and
(E) significantly decreased water quality
and the quantity of freshwater and clean
drinking water available to populations;
(8) research strongly suggests that defor-
estation increases the risk of infectious dis-
eases, including malaria, dengue fever,
SARS, Ebola, Hantavirus, and Zika—
(A) by depriving insect and animal carriers
of habitat; and
(B) by directly increasing their rate of ex-
posure to human populations who are suscep-
tible to zoonotic pathogens;
(9) both Haiti and Armenia have faced nat-
ural disasters in recent years, the effects of
which have been exacerbated by deforest-
ation, such as—
(A) flooding in Armenia that has swept
away or damaged thousands of homes,
schools, health clinics, and other institu-
tions, partly because of damage to forests
through illegal logging, landslides, and soil
erosion;
(B) hurricanes in Haiti that have killed
thousands and displaced hundreds of thou-
sands more, partly because the clearing of
large hillsides enabled rainwater to run off
directly into settlements located at the bot-
tom of slopes, causing severe flooding; and
(C) the January 2010 earthquake in Haiti,
which destroyed much of the infrastructure
of Port-au-Prince, reduced hillside stability
and increased the likelihood of mudslides,
soil erosion, and flooding factors, which neg-
atively impacted the water supply and
heightened concerns for the spread of water-
borne diseases;
(10) economic benefits for local commu-
nities from sustainable uses of forests are
critical for the long-term sustainable man-
agement of forests in Haiti and Armenia;
(11) Congress appropriated funding for fis-
cal years 2015, 2017, and 2018 to support mar-
ket-based reforestation programs in Haiti,
which have resulted in successful agro-
forestry activities that have increased crop
production, profits, and tree cover; and
(12) reforestation efforts would provide new
sources of jobs, income, and investments in
Haiti and Armenia by—
(A) providing employment opportunities in
tree seedling programs, contract tree plant-
ing and management, sustainable agricul-
tural initiatives, sustainable and managed
timber harvesting, and wood products mill-
ing and finishing services; and
(B) enhancing community enterprises that
generate income through the trading of sus-
tainable forest resources, many of which
exist on small scales.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this Act is to
provide assistance to the Government of
Haiti and the Government of Armenia to de-
velop and implement, or improve, nationally
appropriate policies and actions—
(1) to reduce deforestation and forest deg-
radation, and improve forest management
and natural regeneration;
(2) to increase annual rates of afforestation
and reforestation in a sustainable, measur-
able, reportable, and verifiable manner;
(3) to restore social and economic condi-
tions for the environmental recovery of the
forest cover of Haiti and Armenia to at least
7 percent of total land mass in Haiti and 12
percent of total land mass in Armenia (as de-
termined under section 302(a)) not later than
10 years after the date of the enactment of
this Act; and
(4) to improve sustainable resource man-
agement at the watershed level.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) AFFORESTATION.—The term
‘‘afforestation’’—
(A) means the establishment of a new for-
est through the planting of trees on a parcel
of land not previously forested; and
(B) includes—
(i) the introduction of a tree species to a
parcel of nonforested land in which the spe-
cies is not a native species; and
(ii) the increase of tree cover through plan-
tations.
(2) AGROFORESTRY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘agroforestry’’
means systems in which perennial trees or
shrubs—
(i) are integrated with crops or livestock;
and
(ii) constitute a minimum 10 percent of
ground cover.
(B) INCLUSION.—Actual forest cover result-
ing from agroforestry programs may be
counted toward the total forest cover goal
set forth in section (2)(b)(3).
(3) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives; and
(D) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives.
(4) DEFORESTATION.—The term ‘‘deforest-
ation’’ means—
(A) the conversion of forest to another land
use; or
(B) the long-term reduction of the tree
canopy.
(5) FOREST.—The term ‘‘forest’’—
(A) except as provided in subparagraph (B),
means a terrestrial ecosystem containing na-
tive tree species generated and maintained
primarily through natural ecological and ev-
olutionary processes, which spans more than
0.5 hectares with trees higher than 5 meters
and a canopy cover of more than 10 percent
or trees able to reach these thresholds in
situ; and
(B) does not include—
(i) plantations, such as crops of trees
planted primarily by humans for the pur-
poses of harvesting; or
(ii) land that is predominantly under agri-
cultural or urban land use.
(6) REFORESTATION.—The term ‘‘reforest-
ation’’—
(A) means the establishment of forest on
lands that were previously considered as for-
est, but which have been deforested; and
(B) includes the increase of tree cover
through plantations.
TITLE I—FORESTATION AND WATERSHED
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI AND THE GOV-
ERNMENT OF ARMENIA
SEC. 101. FORESTATION ASSISTANCE.
(a) AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with sec-
tion 118 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
(22 U.S.C. 2151p–1) and consistent with para-
graph (2), the President is authorized to pro-
vide financial assistance, technology trans-
fers, or capacity-building assistance to the
Government of Haiti and to the Government
of Armenia for activities to develop and im-
plement 1 or more forestation proposals de-
scribed in paragraph (2)—
(A) to reduce the deforestation of Haiti or
Armenia; and
(B) to increase the rates of afforestation
and reforestation in Haiti or Armenia.
(2) PROPOSALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Assistance may be pro-
vided under this section to the Government
of Haiti and to the Government of Armenia
to implement 1 or more proposals submitted
by either country that contain—
(i) a description of each policy and initia-
tive to be carried out with such assistance;
(ii) adequate documentation to ensure, as
determined by the President, that—
(I) each policy and initiative—
(aa) will be carried out and managed in ac-
cordance with widely-accepted, environ-
mentally-sustainable forestry and agricul-
tural practices; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.018 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5371
July 25, 2018
(bb) will be designed and implemented in a
manner that improves the governance of for-
ests by building local capacity to be trans-
parent, inclusive, accountable, and coordi-
nated in decision-making processes and the
implementation of the policy or initiative;
and
(II) the proposals will further establish and
enforce legal regimes, standards, and safe-
guards designed to ensure that members of
local communities in affected areas, as part-
ners and primary stakeholders, will be en-
gaged in the design, planning, implementa-
tion, monitoring, and evaluation of the poli-
cies and initiatives; and
(iii) a description of how the proposal sup-
ports and aids forest restoration efforts in
accordance with the purpose set forth in sec-
tion 2(b).
(B) DETERMINATION OF COMPATIBILITY WITH
CERTAIN PROGRAMS.—In evaluating each pro-
posal submitted under subparagraph (A), the
President shall ensure that each policy and
initiative described in such proposal is com-
patible with—
(i) broader development, poverty allevi-
ation, sustainable energy usage, and natural
resource conservation objectives and initia-
tives in Haiti or in Armenia;
(ii) the development, poverty alleviation,
disaster risk management, and climate resil-
ience programs of the United States Agency
for International Development, including
program involving technical support from
the United States Forest Service; and
(iii) activities of international organiza-
tions and multilateral development banks.
(b) ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES.—Any assistance
received by the Government of Haiti or by
the Government of Armenia under sub-
section (a)(1) shall be conditional upon the
development and implementation of a pro-
posal submitted under subsection (a)(2),
which may include—
(1) the provision of technologies and asso-
ciated support for activities to reduce defor-
estation or increase afforestation and refor-
estation rates, including—
(A) fire reduction initiatives;
(B) sustainable land use management ini-
tiatives;
(C) initiatives to increase agricultural pro-
ductivity;
(D) forest law enforcement initiatives;
(E) the development of timber tracking
systems;
(F) the development of cooking fuel sub-
stitutes;
(G) tree-planting initiatives; and
(H) programs that are designed to focus on
market-based solutions to reduce deforest-
ation and increase reforestation and
afforestation, including programs that lever-
age the international carbon-offset market;
(2) the enhancement and expansion of gov-
ernmental and nongovernmental institu-
tional capacity to effectively design and im-
plement a proposal developed under sub-
section (a)(2) through initiatives, including—
(A) the establishment of transparent, ac-
countable, and inclusive decision-making
processes relating to all stakeholders (in-
cluding affected local communities);
(B) the promotion of enhanced coordina-
tion among ministries and agencies respon-
sible for agro-ecological zoning, mapping,
land planning and permitting, sustainable
agriculture, forestry, mining, and law en-
forcement; and
(C) the clarification of land tenure and re-
source rights of affected communities, in-
cluding local communities;
(3) the development and support of institu-
tional capacity to measure, verify, and re-
port the activities carried out by the Gov-
ernment of Haiti and by the Government of
Armenia to reduce deforestation and in-
crease afforestation and reforestation rates
through the use of appropriate methods, in-
cluding—
(A) the use of best practices and tech-
nologies to monitor land use change in Haiti
and in Armenia, and changes in the extent of
natural forest cover, protected areas,
mangroves, agroforestry, and agriculture;
(B) the monitoring of the impacts of poli-
cies and initiatives on—
(i) affected communities;
(ii) the biodiversity of the environment of
Haiti and Armenia; and
(iii) the health of the forests of Haiti and
Armenia; and
(C) independent and participatory forest
monitoring; and
(4) the development of and coordination
with watershed restoration programs in
Haiti and Armenia, including—
(A) agreements between the Government of
Haiti or the Government of Armenia and
nongovernmental organizations or private
sector partners to provide technical assist-
ance, capacity building, or technology trans-
fers which support the environmental recov-
ery of Haiti’s and Armenia’s watersheds
through forest restoration activities if such
assistance will—
(i) strengthen economic drivers of sustain-
able resource inventory mapping and man-
agement;
(ii) reduce environmental vulnerability; or
(iii) improve governance, planning, and
community action of watersheds in Haiti and
Armenia;
(B) actions to support economic incentives
for sustainable resource management, in-
cluding enhanced incentives for the replace-
ment of annual hillside cropping with peren-
nial and non-erosive production systems;
(C) enhanced extension services supporting
the sustainable intensification of agriculture
to increase farmer incomes and reduce pres-
sure on degraded land; and
(D) investments in watershed infrastruc-
ture to reduce environmental vulnerability,
including the establishment of appropriate
erosion control measures through reforest-
ation activities in targeted watersheds or
sub-watersheds.
(c) DEVELOPMENT OF PERFORMANCE
METRICS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the President provides
assistance to the Government of Haiti or the
Government of Armenia under subsection
(a)(1), the President, in cooperation with
such government, shall develop appropriate
performance metrics to measure, verify, and
report—
(A) the implementation of each policy and
initiative to be carried out by the Govern-
ment of Haiti or the Government of Arme-
nia, as the case may be;
(B) the progress of each policy and initia-
tive with respect to the forests of Haiti and
Armenia; and
(C) impacts of reforestation policies and
initiatives on the local communities of Haiti
and Armenia.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—Performance metrics
developed under paragraph (1) shall include,
to the maximum extent practicable, short-
term and long-term metrics to evaluate the
implementation of each policy and initiative
contained in each proposal developed under
subsection (a)(2).
(d) REPORTS.—
(1) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than 18
months after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the President shall submit a report
to the appropriate committees of Congress
that describes the actions the President has
taken, or plans to take—
(A) to engage with the Government of
Haiti and the Government of Armenia, non-
governmental stakeholders, civil society,
and public and private nonprofit organiza-
tions to implement this section; and
(B) to enter into agreements with the Gov-
ernment of Haiti and with the Government
of Armenia under subsection (a)(1).
(2) BIENNIAL REPORTS.—Not later than 2
years after the date on which the President
first provides assistance to the Government
of Haiti or the Government of Armenia
under subsection (a)(1), and biennially there-
after, the President shall submit a report to
the appropriate committees of Congress that
describes the progress made by the Govern-
ment of Haiti and by the Government of Ar-
menia in implementing each policy and ini-
tiative contained in the proposal submitted
by each such government under subsection
(a)(2).
(e) ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President is author-
ized to provide financial and other assistance
to the Government of Haiti, the Government
of Armenia, local government bodies, or non-
governmental organizations—
(A) to provide information to local commu-
nities relating to each policy and initiative
to be carried out by the Government of Haiti
or by the Government of Armenia with as-
sistance made available under subsection
(a)(1);
(B) to promote effective participation by
local communities in the design, implemen-
tation, and independent monitoring of each
policy and initiative;
(C) to promote, in support of sustainable
forestation activities, enhanced watershed
governance, national planning, and commu-
nity action programs that increase—
(i) the development of national watershed
management policies for Haiti and for Arme-
nia by the appropriate government min-
istries and agencies;
(ii) the establishment of an effective forum
for donor coordination related to manage-
ment and reforestation in Haiti and Arme-
nia;
(iii) support for the Centre National de
l’Information Géo-Spatiale (CNIGS), the
Center for Ecological-Noosphere Studies
(CENS), and the United States Forest Serv-
ice to provide technology, data, and moni-
toring support for improved watershed and
forest resource management at a national
scale in Haiti and in Armenia; and
(iv) development of effective governance
structures in Haiti and in Armenia for stake-
holder engagement, coordination of ap-
proaches, land use planning, and disaster
mitigation at the watershed scale; and
(D) to meet the goals of this Act.
(2) TERMINATION OF DIRECT FUNDING.—If the
President determines that the goals of this
Act are not being appropriately and effi-
ciently met with the assistance provided
under this section, the President may termi-
nate such assistance to either the Govern-
ment of Haiti or the Government of Arme-
nia, as appropriate.
(f) MINIMUM COUNTRY REFORESTATION FUND
PERCENTAGE.—Not less than 85 percent of
amounts provided for programs under this
section shall be spent on actual reforestation
activities in Haiti and Armenia, which may
include the protection of reforested areas.
(g) SUNSET.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The authority under this
section shall terminate on the date that is 10
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act, or the date that is 10 years after an ex-
tension under paragraph (2), unless the
President certifies to the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress that—
(A) effective and sustainable programs are
in place through the Government of Haiti,
the Government of Armenia, or local govern-
ments in Haiti or in Armenia, in potential
partnership with international donors, non-
governmental organizations, or civil society
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.018 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5372 July 25, 2018
groups, to protect and manage areas refor-
ested with assistance provided under this
Act; and
(B) additional time is necessary to accom-
plish the goals of this Act.
(2) EXTENSIONS.—If a certification is made
under paragraph (1), the authority under this
section shall be extended for an additional
10-year term. Not more than 2 extensions are
permitted under this paragraph.
TITLE II—GRANTS FOR REFORESTATION
SEC. 201. REFORESTATION GRANT PROGRAM.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The President is au-
thorized to establish a grant program to
carry out the purpose described in section
2(b), including reversing deforestation and
improving reforestation and afforestation in
Haiti and in Armenia.
(b) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President is author-
ized to award grants and contracts, for a pe-
riod not to exceed 3 years, to carry out
projects that, in the aggregate, reverse de-
forestation and improve reforestation and
afforestation in Haiti or in Armenia.
(2) MAXIMUM AMOUNT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the President may not
award a grant under this section in an
amount greater than $500,000 per year.
(B) EXCEPTION.—The President may award
a grant under this section in an amount
greater than $500,000 per year if the Presi-
dent determines that the recipient of the
grant has demonstrated success with respect
to a project that was funded under this sec-
tion.
(c) USE OF FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Grants awarded pursuant
to subsection (b) may be used—
(A) to provide a financial incentive to pro-
tect forests;
(B) to provide hands-on management and
oversight of replanting efforts;
(C) to support sustainable, income-gener-
ating, forest-related economic growth;
(D) to provide—
(i) seed money to start cooperative refor-
estation and afforestation efforts; and
(ii) subsequent conditional funding for
such efforts contingent upon required tree
care and maintenance activities;
(E) to promote the widespread use of—
(i) improved cooking stove technologies
that do not involve the harvesting of forest
growth; and
(ii) other renewable fuel technologies that
reduce deforestation and improve human
health; and
(F) securing the involvement and commit-
ment of local communities—
(i) to protect forests in existence as of the
date of the enactment of this Act; and
(ii) to partner in and carry out
afforestation and reforestation activities.
(2) LOCAL COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION.—Ac-
tivities to secure the participation of local
communities under paragraph (1)(F) should
include 1 or more of the following activities:
(A) Creation of local jobs involving estab-
lishing, protecting, and managing reforested
areas.
(B) Collaboration to analyze biodiversity
and ecosystem services integral to sustain-
ability and business decisions.
(C) Cooperative conservation programs, in-
cluding—
(i) working with local water sources to en-
sure clean water through improved
forestland and watershed; or
(ii) working with food suppliers to ensure
sustainable agroforestry products.
(3) CONSISTENCY WITH PROPOSALS.—To the
maximum extent practicable, projects using
grant funds shall support, and be consistent
with, the proposal developed under section
101(a)(2) that is the subject of the project.
(d) APPLICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An entity desiring a grant
under this section shall submit an applica-
tion at such time, in such manner, and con-
taining such information as the President
may reasonably require.
(2) CONTENT.—Each application submitted
under paragraph (1)—
(A) should be consistent with the findings,
recommendations, and ongoing work relat-
ing to—
(i) the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development Haiti Reforestation
Project for Haiti; or
(ii) the 2009 United States Agency for
International Development report entitled
‘‘Biodiversity Analysis Update for Armenia
Final Report: Prosperity, Livelihoods, and
Conserving Ecosystems (PLACE) IQC Task
Order #4’’; and
(B) shall include—
(i) a description of the objectives to be at-
tained;
(ii) a description of the manner in which
grant funds will be used;
(iii) a plan for evaluating the success of the
project based on verifiable evidence; and
(iv) to the extent that the applicant in-
tends to use nonnative species in
afforestation efforts—
(I) an explanation of the benefit of using
nonnative species rather than native species;
and
(II) verification that the species to be used
are not invasive.
(3) PREFERENCE FOR CERTAIN PROJECTS.—In
awarding grants under this section, pref-
erence shall be given to applicants that pro-
pose—
(A) to develop market-based solutions to
the challenges of reforestation in Haiti and
Armenia, including the use of conditional
cash transfers and similar financial incen-
tives to protect reforestation efforts;
(B) to partner with local communities and
cooperatives; and
(C) to focus on efforts that build local ca-
pacity to sustain growth after the comple-
tion of the underlying grant project.
(e) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION.—The
President shall collect and widely dissemi-
nate information about the effectiveness of
the demonstration projects assisted under
this section.
SEC. 202. FOREST PROTECTION PROGRAMS.
Chapter 7 of part I of the Foreign Assist-
ance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2281 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 461 through
466 as sections 471 through 476, respectively;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 477. PILOT PROGRAM FOR HAITI.
‘‘(a) SUBMISSION OF LIST OF AREAS OF SE-
VERELY DEGRADED NATURAL RESOURCES.—
The President, in cooperation with non-
governmental conservation organizations,
shall invite the Government of Haiti to sub-
mit a list of areas within Haiti in which for-
ests are seriously degraded or threatened.
‘‘(b) REVIEW OF LIST.—The President
shall—
‘‘(1) analyze the areas on the list submitted
by the Government of Haiti under subsection
(a); and
‘‘(2) seek to reach an agreement with the
Government of Haiti to assist with the res-
toration and future sustainable use of such
areas.
‘‘(c) GRANT PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—The President is
authorized to award grants to nongovern-
mental organizations, on such terms and
conditions as may be necessary, for the pur-
chase on the open market of discounted debt
of the Government of Haiti, if a market is
determined to be viable, in exchange for
commitments by the Government of Haiti—
‘‘(A) to restore forests identified pursuant
to subsection (a); or
‘‘(B) to develop plans for sustainable use of
such forests.
‘‘(2) MANAGEMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS.—
Each recipient of a grant under this sub-
section shall participate in the ongoing man-
agement of the area or areas protected pur-
suant to such grant.
‘‘(3) MATCHING OF GRANT FUNDS.—Any
United States funding provided to a non-
governmental organization under this sub-
section should be matched by an equal or
greater amount of funding from the non-
governmental organization. Such matching
funds may include funding provided by other
international donors, nongovernmental orga-
nizations, philanthropic bodies, corporations
or other private entities, institutions of
higher learning, the Government of Haiti, or
other non-United States Government
sources.
‘‘(4) MINIMUM COUNTRY REFORESTATION
FUND PERCENTAGE.—Not less than 85 percent
of grant funds provided under this subsection
shall be spent on actual reforestation activi-
ties in Haiti, which may include the protec-
tion of reforested areas.
‘‘(5) RETENTION OF PROCEEDS.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, a grant-
ee (or any subgrantee) under this subsection
may retain, without deposit in the Treasury
of the United States and without further ap-
propriation by Congress—
‘‘(A) interest earned on the proceeds of any
resulting debt-for-nature exchange pending
the disbursements of such proceeds; and
‘‘(B) interest for approved program pur-
poses, which may include the establishment
of an endowment, the income of which is
used for such purposes.
‘‘(6) SUNSET.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The authority to award
grants under this subsection shall terminate
on the date that is 5 years after the date of
the enactment of this Act unless the Presi-
dent determines and certifies to Congress
that—
‘‘(i) the grant program under this sub-
section has been effective in meeting the
goals of the Haiti and Armenia Reforestation
Act of 2018; and
‘‘(ii) the Government of Haiti has com-
mitted to returning land in Haiti to long-
term sustainable forests.
‘‘(B) RENEWAL.—If the President makes a
certification under subparagraph (A), the au-
thority to award grants under this sub-
section may be renewed for 1 additional 5-
year period.
‘‘SEC. 478. PILOT PROGRAM FOR ARMENIA.
‘‘(a) SUBMISSION OF LIST OF AREAS OF SE-
VERELY DEGRADED NATURAL RESOURCES.—
The President, in cooperation with non-
governmental conservation organizations,
shall invite the Government of Armenia to
submit a list of areas within the territory of
Armenia in which forests are seriously de-
graded or threatened.
‘‘(b) REVIEW OF LIST.—The President
shall—
‘‘(1) analyze the areas on the list submitted
by the Government of Armenia under sub-
section (a); and
‘‘(2) seek to reach an agreement with the
Government of Armenia for the restoration
and future sustainable use of such areas.
‘‘(c) DEBT FORGIVENESS AGREEMENT.—
‘‘(1) DEBT FORGIVENESS.—The President is
authorized to forgive debt owed to the
United States by the Government of Arme-
nia in exchange for commitments by the
Government of Armenia—
‘‘(A) to restore forests identified by the
Government under subsection (a); or
‘‘(B) to develop plans for sustainable use of
such forests.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.018 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5373
July 25, 2018
‘‘(2) MANAGEMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS.—
The Government of Armenia shall partici-
pate in the ongoing management of the area
or areas protected pursuant to such debt re-
lief.
‘‘(3) MINIMUM COUNTRY REFORESTATION
FUND PERCENTAGE.—Not less than 85 percent
of funds that qualify under a debt relief
agreement under this section shall be spent
on actual reforestation activities in Arme-
nia, which may include the protection of re-
forested areas or of existing forests.
‘‘(4) TERMINATION OF PROGRAM.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The authority to offer
debt relief under this subsection shall termi-
nate on the date that is 5 years after the
date of the enactment of this Act unless the
President determines and certifies to Con-
gress that—
‘‘(i) the debt forgiveness pilot program
under this subsection has been effective in
meeting the goals of the Haiti and Armenia
Reforestation Act of 2018; and
‘‘(ii) the Government of Armenia has com-
mitted to returning land in Armenia to long-
term sustainable forests.
‘‘(B) RENEWAL.—If the President makes a
certification under subparagraph (A), the au-
thority to forgive debt under this subsection
may be renewed for 1 additional 5-year pe-
riod.’’.
TITLE III—ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION
SEC. 301. DELEGATION.
The President, or the Administrator of the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment or the Secretary of State, acting
as the President’s delegate, may draw on the
expertise of the United States Forest Service
and the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development in designing and im-
plementing programs under this Act relating
to reforestation, watershed restoration, and
monitoring of land use change.
SEC. 302. DETERMINATION AND MONITORING OF
FOREST LEVELS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 6 months
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Chief of the United States Forest Serv-
ice, in consultation with the Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, using the latest
available Landsat data, shall—
(1) determine the current level of forest
cover in Haiti and the current level of forest
cover in Armenia, expressed as a percentage
of each country’s total land mass; and
(2) submit this information to the appro-
priate committees of Congress.
(b) UPDATES.—The Chief of the United
States Forest Service, in consultation with
the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development, shall
submit an annual report to the appropriate
committees of Congress that contains an up-
dated determination, using the latest avail-
able Landsat data, of the level of forest cover
in Haiti and the level of forest cover in Ar-
menia.
(c) USE OF DETERMINATIONS.—Each deter-
mination under subsection (a)(1) and each
updated determination under subsection (b)
shall be used for the purposes of setting and
achieving the goals described in section
2(b)(3).
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 593—HON-
ORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF GRACE HOPPER, PROFESSOR,
INVENTOR, ENTREPRENEUR,
BUSINESS LEADER, AND REAR
ADMIRAL OF THE NAVY
Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mrs.
FISCHER) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 593
Whereas Grace Hopper was born on Decem-
ber 9, 1906, in New York City, New York;
Whereas, in 1928, Grace Hopper graduated
with honors from Vassar College with de-
grees in physics and mathematics;
Whereas Grace Hopper would go on to earn
both her masters degree and Ph.D. from Yale
University, earning her Ph.D. in 1934;
Whereas, after the bombing of Pearl Har-
bor and the entry of the United States into
World War II, Grace Hopper felt called to
serve her nation and enlisted in the Navy;
Whereas Grace Hopper was assigned to the
Bureau of Ships Computation Project at Har-
vard University, where she worked on the
first electromechanical computer in the
United States, which was known as the
MARK I;
Whereas, while assigned to the Computa-
tion Project, Grace Hopper—
(1) served as second in command in charge
of operations;
(2) wrote the 561-page user manual for the
MARK I, considered the first book about
modern computers; and
(3) used the MARK I to solve various war-
time mathematical problems for the Navy
that saved thousands of lives, including the
implosion problem for the Manhattan
Project;
Whereas, after World War II, Grace Hopper
remained in the Navy as a reservist, con-
tinuing to work on the MARK II and MARK
III computers;
Whereas, in the 1950s, Grace Hopper helped
pioneer the computer industry at the Eck-
ert-Mauchly Computer Corporation and
Remington Rand, where she assisted in de-
veloping the Universal Automatic Computer
I and II, the first commercial electronic
computers;
Whereas, while working on the Universal
Automatic Computer I and II, Grace Hopper
invented the first compiler, which is the cor-
nerstone of modern automatic programming;
Whereas, in 1953, Grace Hopper was the
first person to theorize code as words instead
of symbols, which was considered impossible
by her peers, and after 3 years her team was
using the first written-word programming
language;
Whereas the development of a written-
word programming language was an incred-
ibly important step in the development of
computer science, as it allowed people who
lacked advanced engineering and mathe-
matics backgrounds to program computers;
Whereas, in 1959, Grace Hopper organized
leaders from government, the private sector,
and academia to create a universal business
computer programming language called
‘‘common business-oriented language’’, or
‘‘COBOL’’;
Whereas, in 2018, COBOL supports over
30,000,000,000 transactions per day and 90 per-
cent of all global financial transactions;
Whereas throughout her work in the pri-
vate sector, Grace Hopper remained a naval
reservist until the age of 60, calling her re-
quired retirement from the Naval Reserve
‘‘the saddest day of my life’’;
Whereas, just a few months after her re-
tirement from the Naval Reserve, ‘‘Amazing
Grace’’ was called again to the Navy for ac-
tive service, where she would serve for an-
other 19 years until her final military retire-
ment as Rear Admiral of the Navy at the age
of 79;
Whereas Grace Hopper has received many
honors for her groundbreaking ideas and con-
tributions over the years, including becom-
ing the first inductee to the Computer Hall
of Fame, receiving the U.S. National Medal
of Technology, the naming of the destroyer
USS Hopper in her honor, and receiving the
Presidential Medal of Freedom;
Whereas, of all of the contributions and
service of Grace Hopper, she considered her
work as a mentor and teacher the most valu-
able;
Whereas Grace Hopper once remarked that
‘‘If you ask me what accomplishment I’m
most proud of, the answer would be all the
young people I’ve trained over the years’’;
Whereas, today the ‘‘Grace Hopper Celebra-
tion’’ is the largest gathering of women in
computing with 18,000 attendees in 2017;
Whereas Grace Hopper passed away Janu-
ary 1, 1992, at the age of 85, and was interred
with full military honors in Arlington Na-
tional Cemetery; and
Whereas Grace Hopper served as a trail-
blazer for other women and men who would
follow her in the field of computer science,
academia, and the Armed Forces: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate honors the pio-
neering ideas and service of Grace Hopper,
professor, inventor, entrepreneur, business
leader, and Rear Admiral of the Navy.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 592—DESIG-
NATING OCTOBER 9, 2018, AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL ADA LOVELACE DAY’’
AND HONORING THE LIFE AND
LEGACY OF ADA LOVELACE, THE
FIRST COMPUTER PROGRAMMER
Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mrs.
FISCHER) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 592
Whereas Augusta Ada King-Noel, Countess
of Lovelace, now known as Ada Lovelace,
was born on December 10, 1815, in London,
United Kingdom;
Whereas, from a young age, Lovelace dis-
played a gift for mathematics, languages,
and the sciences;
Whereas, at the age of 17, Lovelace began
to study mathematics under the guidance of
scientist and translator Mary Somerville
and, later, logician Augustus de Morgan;
Whereas, in 1833, Lovelace was introduced
to inventor and mechanical engineer,
Charles Babbage, and began to study his de-
signs for the Analytical Engine, a mechan-
ical computer;
Whereas Lovelace was the first person to
recognize that the Analytical Engine could
be used to manipulate symbols and letters
and was the first person to theorize that the
Analytical Engine could be used to create
music and graphics;
Whereas, in 1843, Lovelace published step-
by-step instructions for using the Analytical
Engine to calculate Bernoulli numbers
‘‘without having been worked out by human
head and hands first’’;
Whereas these insights gave Lovelace an
unparalleled vision of the future of computer
science, and she stated that ‘‘[a] new, a vast
and a powerful language is [being] developed
for the future use of analysis, in which to
wield its truths so that these may become of
more speedy and accurate practical applica-
tion for the purposes of mankind’’;
Whereas the work of Lovelace went widely
unrecognized until the 1950s, when her papers
were republished, and their significance and
her contributions to the fields of computer
science and mathematics were finally ac-
knowledged;
Whereas, in the 1980s, to honor the con-
tributions of Lovelace, the Department of
Defense named its newly created computer
language ‘‘Ada’’ after Lovelace;
Whereas the second Tuesday in October is
annually celebrated as Ada Lovelace Day
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.018 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5374 July 25, 2018
and is intended to honor women in science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics
and their accomplishments and contribu-
tions to academia and the world; and
Whereas Ada Lovelace died on November
27, 1852, leaving behind a legacy of poetic
science and reasoning, in which the arts and
sciences are woven together to find new in-
sights: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates October 9, 2018, as ‘‘National
Ada Lovelace Day’’; and
(2) honors the life and contributions of Ada
Lovelace, a leading woman in science and
mathematics and the first computer pro-
grammer.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 3538. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, environ-
ment, and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3539. Mr. COONS submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3540. Mr. HELLER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3541. Ms. MURKOWSKI (for Mr. FLAKE)
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 2779, to
amend the Zimbabwe Democracy and Eco-
nomic Recovery Act of 2001.
SA 3542. Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Ms. HASSAN, and Mr. MERKLEY)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making appro-
priations for the Department of the Interior,
environment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3543. Ms. COLLINS (for Mr. PAUL) pro-
posed an amendment to amendment SA 3399
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra.
SA 3544. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3545. Mr. NELSON (for himself, Mr.
MARKEY, Ms. WARREN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Mr. MENENDEZ) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3546. Ms. SMITH (for herself and Mrs.
SHAHEEN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3547. Ms. HEITKAMP submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3548. Ms. HEITKAMP submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3549. Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, and Mr. BLUNT) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3550. Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. KAINE, and Mr.
HELLER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3551. Mr. RUBIO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3552. Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. REED, Ms. DUCKWORTH, and Mr.
CARDIN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3553. Ms. COLLINS (for Mr. MANCHIN)
proposed an amendment to amendment SA
3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, supra.
SA 3554. Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
PETERS, and Mr. BROWN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3555. Mr. DONNELLY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3556. Mr. DONNELLY (for himself and
Mrs. ERNST) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 3399
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3557. Ms. WARREN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3558. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. MENENDEZ, and Mr. KENNEDY)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3559. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. MENENDEZ, and Mr. MANCHIN)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3560. Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. WYDEN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3561. Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr.
HATCH, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. PERDUE,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. SASSE, Mr. CORNYN, and
Mr. RUBIO) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R.
6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 3562. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mrs.
ERNST) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 3399 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3563. Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, and Mr. DAINES) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3564. Mr. DURBIN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3565. Mr. JOHNSON submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3566. Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. ISAKSON, and Mr. SUL-
LIVAN) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 3399 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3567. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 3568. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3569. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3570. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 3571. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3572. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3573. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3574. Mr. BOOZMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3575. Mr. NELSON submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3576. Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr.
CARPER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3577. Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
WYDEN, and Ms. CANTWELL) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3578. Mrs. MURRAY (for herself and Ms.
CANTWELL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 3399
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3579. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. CARDIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 3399 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3580. Mr. DAINES submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3581. Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
YOUNG) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3582. Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3583. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms.
COLLINS, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.020 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5375
July 25, 2018
GILLIBRAND, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HASSAN, and Mr. KING) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by her to the bill H.R. 6147, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3584. Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
BOOKER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3585. Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Ms. HEITKAMP) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 3399
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3586. Mr. HATCH submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3587. Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. ENZI, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3588. Mr. BARRASSO (for himself and
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3589. Mr. SANDERS submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3590. Mr. SASSE (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. DAINES, Mrs. ERNST,
Mr. RISCH, Mr. ENZI, and Mr. LANKFORD) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3591. Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr.
BOOKER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3592. Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Ms.
HARRIS, and Mr. BOOKER) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3593. Mr. SCOTT (for himself and Mr.
MANCHIN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3594. Mr. SCOTT (for himself and Mr.
JONES) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3595. Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
KING, Mr. SANDERS, and Mrs. SHAHEEN) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by her to the bill H.R. 6147, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3596. Mr. ENZI submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3597. Mr. TOOMEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3598. Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr.
GARDNER, and Mr. BENNET) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3599. Mr. PERDUE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3600. Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3601. Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
and Mr. BLUMENTHAL) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3602. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3603. Mr. CARPER (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, and Mr. BOOKER) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3604. Mr. CARPER (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, and Mr. BOOKER) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3605. Mr. CARPER (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, and Mr. BOOKER) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3606. Mr. CARPER (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, and Mr. BOOKER) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 3607. Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. REED, and Mr. CARDIN) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 3608. Mr. REED submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 3609. Mr. REED submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 3610. Mr. REED submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 6147, supra; which was ordered to lie
on the table.
SA 3611. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr.
GRASSLEY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R.
6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 3612. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr.
GRASSLEY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R.
6147, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 3538. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 437, line 22, strike ‘‘133(b)(1)(A)’’
and insert ‘‘133(b)’’.
On page 438, line 12, strike ‘‘133(b)(1)(A)’’
and insert ‘‘133(b)’’.
On page 438, line 18, strike ‘‘133(b)(1)(A)’’
and insert ‘‘133(b)’’.
On page 438, line 25, strike ‘‘133(b)(1)(A)’’
and insert ‘‘133(b)’’.
SA 3539. Mr. COONS submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of title I of division A, add the
following:
DESIGNATION OF PETER B. WEBSTER III
MEMORIAL AREA
SEC. 1ll. (a)(1) The rest area bound by Al-
exandria Avenue, West Boulevard Drive, and
the George Washington Memorial Parkway
on the Mount Vernon Trail within the
George Washington Memorial Parkway is
designated as the ‘‘Peter B. Webster III Me-
morial Area’’.
(2) Any reference in a law, map, regulation,
document, paper, or other record of the
United States to the rest area described in
paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be a ref-
erence to the ‘‘Peter B. Webster III Memorial
Area’’.
(b)(1) A plaque honoring Peter B. Webster
III may be installed at the Peter B. Webster
III Memorial Area on a signpost, bench, or
other appropriate structure, on the condition
that the Director of the National Park Serv-
ice shall approve the design and placement
of the plaque.
(2) No Federal funds may be used to design,
procure, prepare, or install the plaque au-
thorized under paragraph (1).
(3) The Secretary of the Interior may ac-
cept and expend private contributions for the
design, procurement, preparation, and instal-
lation of the plaque authorized under para-
graph (1).
SA 3540. Mr. HELLER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 85, line 17, strike ‘‘$15,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$20,000,000’’.
SA 3541. Ms. MURKOWSKI (for Mr.
FLAKE) proposed an amendment to the
bill S. 2779, to amend the Zimbabwe De-
mocracy and Economic Recovery Act
of 2001; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Zimbabwe
Democracy and Economic Recovery Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’.
SEC. 2. RECONSTRUCTION AND REBUILDING OF
ZIMBABWE.
Section 2 of the Zimbabwe Democracy and
Economic Recovery Act of 2001 (22 U.S.C.
2151 note; Public Law 107–99) is amended by
striking ‘‘and restore the rule of law’’ and in-
serting ‘‘restore the rule of law, reconstruct
and rebuild Zimbabwe, and come to terms
with the past through a process of genuine
reconciliation that acknowledges past
human rights abuses and orders inquiries
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.023 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5376 July 25, 2018
into disappearances, including the disappear-
ance of human rights activists, such as Pat-
rick Nabanyama, Itai Dzamara, and Paul
Chizuze’’.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS.
Section 4(a) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘costly de-
ployment of troops to the Democratic Re-
public of the Congo’’ and inserting ‘‘private
appropriation of public assets’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) In October 2016, the Government of
Zimbabwe cleared a small hurdle in its long-
standing public sector arrears with the
IMF.’’.
SEC. 4. PROVISIONS RELATED TO MULTILATERAL
DEBT RELIEF AND OTHER FINAN-
CIAL ASSISTANCE.
Section 4(b)(2) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘to
propose that the bank should undertake a re-
view of the feasibility of restructuring, re-
scheduling, or eliminating the sovereign
debt of Zimbabwe held by that bank’’ and in-
serting ‘‘to support efforts to reevaluate
plans to restructure, rebuild, reschedule, or
eliminate Zimbabwe’s sovereign debt held by
that bank and provide an analysis based on
reasonable financial options to achieve those
goals’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘dol-
lar’’ and inserting ‘‘currency’’.
SEC. 5. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE UNITED
STATES-ZIMBABWE BILATERAL RE-
LATIONSHIP.
It is the sense of Congress that the United
States should seek to forge a stronger bilat-
eral relationship with Zimbabwe, including
in the areas of trade and investment, if the
following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The Government of Zimbabwe takes the
concrete, tangible steps outlined in para-
graphs (1) through (4) of section 4(d) of the
Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recov-
ery Act of 2001, as amended by section 6 of
this Act.
(2) The Government of Zimbabwe takes
concrete, tangible steps towards—
(A) good governance, including respect for
the opposition, rule of law, and human
rights;
(B) economic reforms that promote
growth, address unemployment and under-
development, restore livelihoods, ensure re-
spect for contracts and private property
rights, and promote significant progress to-
ward monetary policy reforms, particularly
with the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, and
currency exchange reforms; and
(C) identification and recovery of stolen
private and public assets within Zimbabwe
and in other countries.
(3) The Government of Zimbabwe holds an
election that is widely accepted as free and
fair, based on the following pre- and post-
election criteria or conditions:
(A) Establishment and public release, with-
out cost, of a provisional and a final voter
registration roll.
(B) The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission is
permitted to entirely carry out the functions
assigned to it under section 239 of
Zimbabwe’s 2013 Constitution in an inde-
pendent manner, and the chairperson meets
and consults regularly with representatives
of political parties represented in the par-
liament of Zimbabwe and the parties con-
testing the elections.
(C) Consistent with Zimbabwe’s 2013 Con-
stitution, the Defence Forces of Zimbabwe—
(i) are neither permitted to actively par-
ticipate in campaigning for any candidate
nor to intimidate voters;
(ii) are required to verifiably and credibly
uphold their constitutionally-mandated duty
to respect the fundamental rights and free-
doms of all persons and to be nonpartisan in
character; and
(iii) are not permitted to print, transfer, or
control ballots or transmit the results of
elections.
(D) International observers, including ob-
servers from the United States, the African
Union, the Southern African Development
Community, and the European Union—
(i) are permitted to observe the entire elec-
toral process prior to, on, and following vot-
ing day, including by monitoring polling sta-
tions and tabulation centers; and
(ii) are able to independently access and
analyze vote tallying tabulation and the
transmission and content of voting results.
(E) Candidates are allowed access to public
broadcasting media during the election pe-
riod, consistent with Zimbabwe’s Electoral
Act and are able to campaign in an environ-
ment that is free from intimidation and vio-
lence.
(F) Civil society organizations are able to
freely and independently carry out voter and
civic education and monitor the entire elec-
toral process, including by observing, record-
ing, and transmitting publicly-posted or an-
nounced voting results at the ward, constitu-
ency, and all higher levels of the vote tal-
lying process.
(4) Laws enacted prior to the passage of
Zimbabwe’s March 2013 Constitution that are
inconsistent with the new Constitution are
amended, repealed, or subjected to a formal
process for review and correction so that
such laws are consistent with the new Con-
stitution.
(5) The Government of Zimbabwe—
(A) has made significant progress on the
implementation of all elements of the new
Constitution; and
(B) has demonstrated its commitment to
sustain such efforts in achieving full imple-
mentation of the new Constitution.
(6) Traditional leaders of Zimbabwe ob-
serve section 281 of the 2013 Constitution and
are not using humanitarian assistance pro-
vided by outside donor organizations or
countries in a politicized manner to intimi-
date or pressure voters during the campaign
period.
SEC. 6. CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
Section 4(d) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘con-
sistent with’’ and all that follows through
‘‘September 1998’’;
(2) by striking paragraph (4); and
(3) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (4).
SEC. 7. REMOVAL OF AUTHORITY TO PAY LAND
ACQUISITION COSTS.
Section 5(a) of the Zimbabwe Democracy
and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘, includ-
ing the payment of costs’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘thereto; and’’ and inserting a
semicolon;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) identify and recover stolen public as-
sets.’’.
SEC. 8. INCLUSION OF AUSTRALIA, THE UNITED
KINGDOM, THE AFRICAN UNION,
AND THE SOUTHERN AFRICAN DE-
VELOPMENT COMMUNITY IN CON-
SULTATIONS ABOUT ZIMBABWE.
Section 6 of the Zimbabwe Democracy and
Economic Recovery Act of 2001 is amended
by inserting ‘‘Australia, the United King-
dom, the African Union, the Southern Afri-
can Development Community,’’ after ‘‘Can-
ada,’’.
SEC. 9. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ENFORCEMENT
OF SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOP-
MENT COMMUNITY TRIBUNAL RUL-
INGS.
It is the sense of Congress that the Govern-
ment of Zimbabwe and the Southern African
Development Community (referred to in this
section as ‘‘SADC’’) should enforce the SADC
tribunal rulings issued between 2007 to 2010,
including 18 disputes involving employment,
commercial, and human rights cases sur-
rounding dispossessed Zimbabwean commer-
cial farmers and agricultural companies.
SA 3542. Mr. TESTER (for himself,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. HASSAN, and Mr.
MERKLEY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. STOP TAXING OUR POTENTIAL ACT.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Stop Taxing Our Potential Act
of 2018’’.
(b) MINIMUM JURISDICTIONAL STANDARDS
FOR STATE AND LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX
COLLECTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A State may not—
(A) impose an obligation on a person for—
(i) the collection of a sales tax, use tax, or
any similar tax; or
(ii) the reporting of any information with
respect to a tax described in clause (i);
(B) assess any tax described in subpara-
graph (A)(i) on a person; or
(C) treat a person as doing business in a
State for purposes of any tax described in
subparagraph (A)(i),
unless such person had a physical presence in
the State during the calendar quarter with
respect to which such obligation or assess-
ment is imposed.
(2) REQUIREMENTS FOR PHYSICAL PRES-
ENCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of para-
graph (1), a person has a physical presence in
a State only if such person’s business activi-
ties in the State include any of the following
during the calendar quarter:
(i) Maintains its commercial or legal domi-
cile in the State.
(ii) Owns, holds a leasehold interest in, or
maintains real property such as a retail
store, warehouse, distribution center, manu-
facturing operation, or assembly facility in
the State.
(iii) Leases or owns tangible personal prop-
erty (other than computer software) of more
than de minimis value in the State.
(iv) Has one or more employees, agents, or
independent contractors present in the State
who provide on-site design, installation, or
repair services on behalf of the remote seller.
(v) Has one or more employees, exclusive
agents or exclusive independent contractors
present in the State who engage in activities
that substantially assist the person to estab-
lish or maintain a market in the State.
(vi) Maintains an office in the State at
which it regularly employs three or more
employees for any purpose.
(B) DE MINIMIS PHYSICAL PRESENCE.—For
purposes of this subsection, the term ‘‘phys-
ical presence’’ shall not include—
(i) entering into an agreement under which
a person, for a commission or other consider-
ation, directly or indirectly refers potential
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.025 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5377
July 25, 2018
purchasers to a person outside the State,
whether by an Internet-based link or plat-
form, Internet Web site or otherwise;
(ii) any presence in a State, as described in
subparagraph (A), for less than 15 days in a
taxable year (or a greater number of days if
provided by State law);
(iii) product placement, setup, or other
services offered in connection with delivery
of products by an interstate or in-State car-
rier or other service provider;
(iv) Internet advertising services provided
by in-State residents which are not exclu-
sively directed towards, or do not solicit ex-
clusively, in-State customers;
(v) ownership by a person outside the State
of an interest in a limited liability company
or similar entity organized or with a phys-
ical presence in the State;
(vi) the furnishing of information to cus-
tomers or affiliates in such State, or the cov-
erage of events or other gathering of infor-
mation in such State by such person, or his
representative, which information is used or
disseminated from a point outside the State;
or
(vii) business activities directly relating to
such person’s potential or actual purchase of
goods or services within the State if the final
decision to purchase is made outside the
State.
(3) PROTECTION OF NON-SELLERS.—A State
may not impose or assess a sales, use, or
similar tax on a person or impose an obliga-
tion to collect or report any information
with respect thereto, unless such person is
either a purchaser or a seller having a phys-
ical presence in the State.
(c) DISPUTE RESOLUTION.—The district
courts of the United States shall have origi-
nal jurisdiction over civil actions to enforce
the provisions of this section, including au-
thority to issue declaratory judgments pur-
suant to section 2201 of title 28, United
States Code, and, notwithstanding the provi-
sions of section 1341 of such title, injunctive
relief, as necessary to carry out any provi-
sion of this section.
(d) DEFINITIONS AND EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:
(A) MARKETPLACE PROVIDER.—The term
‘‘marketplace provider’’ includes any person,
other than a seller, who facilitates a sale.
For purposes of this subsection, a person fa-
cilitates a sale when the person both—
(i) lists or advertises products for sale in
any forum, including a catalog or Internet
Web site; and
(ii) either directly or indirectly through
agreements or arrangements with third par-
ties, collects gross receipts from the cus-
tomer and transmits those receipts to the
marketplace seller, whether or not such per-
son deducts any fees or other amounts from
those receipts prior to transferring them to
the marketplace seller.
(B) MARKETPLACE SELLER.—The term
‘‘marketplace seller’’ means a person that
has any sales facilitated by a marketplace
provider.
(C) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ has the
meaning given such term by section 1 of title
1, United States Code. Each corporation that
is a member of a group of affiliated corpora-
tions, whether unitary or not, is itself a sep-
arate person.
(D) PRODUCT.—The term ‘‘product’’ in-
cludes any good or service, tangible or intan-
gible.
(E) REFERRER.—The term ‘‘referrer’’ shall
mean every person who—
(i) contracts or otherwise agrees with a
seller to list multiple products for sale and
the sales prices thereof in any forum, includ-
ing a catalog or Internet Web site;
(ii) receives a fee, commission, or other
consideration from a seller for the listing;
(iii) transfers, via telephone, Internet link,
or otherwise, a customer to the seller or the
seller’s Web site to complete a purchase; and
(iv) does not collect receipts from the cus-
tomer for the transaction.
(F) SELLER.—The term ‘‘seller’’ does not
include—
(i) any marketplace provider (except with
respect to the sale through the marketplace
of products owned by the marketplace pro-
vider);
(ii) any referrer;
(iii) any carrier, in which the seller does
not have an ownership interest, providing
transportation or delivery services with re-
spect to tangible personal property; and
(iv) any credit card issuer, transaction or
billing processor, or other financial inter-
mediary.
(G) SIMILAR TAX.—The term ‘‘similar tax’’
means a tax that is imposed with respect to
the sale or use of a product, regardless of
whether the tax is imposed on the person
making the sale or the purchaser, with the
right or obligation of the person making the
sale to obtain reimbursement for the amount
of the tax from the purchaser at the time of
the transaction.
(H) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
several States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, Amer-
ican Samoa, the United States Virgin Is-
lands, the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands, and any other territory or
possession of the United States and includes
any political subdivision thereof.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall
apply with respect to calendar quarters be-
ginning on or after January 1, 2019.
SA 3543. Ms. COLLINS (for Mr. PAUL)
proposed an amendment to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; as follows:
On page 3, after line 2, add the following:
SEC. 4. REDUCTION TO COMPLY WITH BCA CAPS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Restoring Fiscal Responsibility
by Returning to the BCA Caps Act’’.
(b) REDUCTION.—Each amount provided
under division A, B, C, or D of this Act is re-
duced by 11.39 percent.
SA 3544. Mr. CARDIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 142, between lines 16 and 17, insert
the following:
PROHIBITION OF USE OF FUNDS TO RELOCATE
ANY FUNCTION OF THE CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH
CHESAPEAKE NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL PRO-
GRAM
SEC. 433. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Secretary of
the Interior to relocate any function of the
Captain John Smith Chesapeake National
Historic Trail program.
SA 3545. Mr. NELSON (for himself,
Mr. MARKEY, Ms. WARREN, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr. MENEN-
DEZ) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division D, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. Not later than 15 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development shall
enter into an interagency agreement or
agreements with the Administrator of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency as
may be necessary to ensure the implementa-
tion of a Disaster Housing Assistance Pro-
gram to provide temporary rental assistance
to individuals and households displaced from
their residences by a major disaster declared
by the President under section 401 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) related
to Hurricane Maria or Hurricane Irma.
SA 3546. Ms. SMITH (for herself and
Mrs. SHAHEEN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in division C, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Rural
Housing Service of the Department of Agri-
culture shall submit to Congress a report in-
cluding—
(1) a description of—
(A) the number of properties assisted under
title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C.
1471 et seq.) that are reaching the end of
their loan term;
(B) the location of each property described
in subparagraph (A);
(C) the number of units in each property
described in subparagraph (A); and
(D) the date on which each the loan for
each property described in subparagraph (A)
is expected to reach maturity;
(2) the strategy of the Rural Housing Serv-
ice to preserve the long-term affordability of
the properties described in paragraph (1)(A)
when the loan matures; and
(3) a description of the resources and tools
that the Rural Housing Service needs from
Congress in order to preserve the long-term
affordability of the properties described in
paragraph (1) (A).
SA 3547. Ms. HEITKAMP submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in division C, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) Of the amount made available
by this Act for the Foreign Agricultural
Service, $10,000,000 shall be available for fis-
cal year 2019 for the trade adjustment assist-
ance for farmers program under chapter 6 of
title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2401
et seq.), as amended by subsection (b).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.026 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5378 July 25, 2018
(b) Section 292(c) of the Trade Act of 1974
(19 U.S.C. 2401a(c)) is amended—
(1) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) either—
‘‘(A) the volume of imports of articles like,
or directly competitive with, the agricul-
tural commodity produced by the group in
the marketing year with respect to which
the group files the petition increased com-
pared to the average volume of such imports
during the 3 marketing years preceding such
marketing year; or
‘‘(B)(i) the volume of exports of the agri-
cultural commodity produced by the group
in the marketing year with respect to which
the group files the petition decreased com-
pared to the average volume of such exports
during the 3 marketing years preceding such
marketing year; and
‘‘(ii) the decrease in exports described in
clause (i) resulted in whole or in part from
duties imposed on such exports by a foreign
country in response to duties imposed by the
United States on imports from such country
pursuant to action taken under the author-
ity of—
‘‘(I) section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act
of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1862);
‘‘(II) section 301 of this Act (19 U.S.C. 2411);
or
‘‘(III) the International Emergency Eco-
nomic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
‘‘(3) the increase in imports described in
paragraph (2)(A) or the decrease in exports
described in paragraph (2)(B) contributed im-
portantly to the decrease in the national av-
erage price, quantity of production, or value
of production of, or cash receipts for, the ag-
ricultural commodity, as described in para-
graph (1).’’.
SA 3548. Ms. HEITKAMP submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in division C, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the amount made
available under the heading ‘‘SALARIES AND
EXPENSES (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)’’
under the heading ‘‘FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL
SERVICE’’ under the heading ‘‘FOREIGN AS-
SISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS’’ in
title V shall be $302,230,000.
(b) Of the amount made available by this
Act for the Foreign Agricultural Service,
$90,000,000 shall be available for fiscal year
2019 for the trade adjustment assistance for
farmers program under chapter 6 of title II of
the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2401 et seq.),
as amended by subsection (c).
(c) Section 292(c) of the Trade Act of 1974
(19 U.S.C. 2401a(c)) is amended—
(1) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) either—
‘‘(A) the volume of imports of articles like,
or directly competitive with, the agricul-
tural commodity produced by the group in
the marketing year with respect to which
the group files the petition increased com-
pared to the average volume of such imports
during the 3 marketing years preceding such
marketing year; or
‘‘(B)(i) the volume of exports of the agri-
cultural commodity produced by the group
in the marketing year with respect to which
the group files the petition decreased com-
pared to the average volume of such exports
during the 3 marketing years preceding such
marketing year; and
‘‘(ii) the decrease in exports described in
clause (i) resulted in whole or in part from
duties imposed on such exports by a foreign
country in response to duties imposed by the
United States on imports from such country
pursuant to action taken under the author-
ity of—
‘‘(I) section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act
of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1862);
‘‘(II) section 301 of this Act (19 U.S.C. 2411);
or
‘‘(III) the International Emergency Eco-
nomic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
‘‘(3) the increase in imports described in
paragraph (2)(A) or the decrease in exports
described in paragraph (2)(B) contributed im-
portantly to the decrease in the national av-
erage price, quantity of production, or value
of production of, or cash receipts for, the ag-
ricultural commodity, as described in para-
graph (1).’’.
SA 3549. Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, and Mr. BLUNT) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division D, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) In this section—
(1) the terms ‘‘families’’ and ‘‘public hous-
ing agency’’ have the meanings given those
terms in section 3(b) of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b));
(2) the term ‘‘housing choice voucher as-
sistance’’ means voucher assistance provided
under section 8(o) of the United States Hous-
ing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o));
(3) the term ‘‘Plan’’ means a Regional
Housing Mobility Plan submitted under sub-
section (d); and
(4) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development.
(b) The Secretary may carry out a mobil-
ity demonstration program to enable public
housing agencies to administer housing
choice voucher assistance in a manner de-
signed to encourage families receiving that
assistance to move to lower-poverty areas
and expand access to opportunity areas.
(c)(1) The Secretary shall establish re-
quirements for public housing agencies to
participate in the demonstration program
under this section, which shall provide that
the following public housing agencies may
participate:
(A) Public housing agencies that to-
gether—
(i) serve areas with high concentrations of
families receiving housing choice voucher as-
sistance in poor, low-opportunity neighbor-
hoods; and
(ii) have an adequate number of mod-
erately priced rental units in higher-oppor-
tunity areas.
(B) Planned consortia or partial consortia
of public housing agencies that—
(i) include not less than 1 public housing
agency with a high-performing Family Self-
Sufficiency program carried out under sec-
tion 23 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437u); and
(ii) will enable participating families to
continue in the Family Self-Sufficiency pro-
gram if the family relocates to the jurisdic-
tion served by any other public housing
agency of the consortium.
(C) Planned consortia or partial consortia
of public housing agencies that—
(i) serve jurisdictions within a single re-
gion;
(ii) include not less than 1 small public
housing agency; and
(iii) will consolidate mobility-focused oper-
ations.
(D) Such other public housing agencies as
the Secretary considers appropriate.
(2) The Secretary shall establish competi-
tive selection criteria for public housing
agencies eligible under paragraph (1) to par-
ticipate in the demonstration program under
this section.
(3) The Secretary may require public hous-
ing agencies participating in the demonstra-
tion program under this section to use a ran-
domized selection process to select among
the families eligible to receive assistance
under the demonstration program.
(d) The Secretary shall require each public
housing agency applying to participate in
the demonstration program under this sec-
tion to submit a Regional Housing Mobility
Plan, which shall—
(1) identify the public housing agencies
that will participate under the Plan and the
number of vouchers each participating pub-
lic housing agency will make available out
of their existing programs in connection
with the demonstration;
(2) identify any community-based organi-
zations, nonprofit organizations, businesses,
and other entities that will participate under
the Plan and describe the commitments for
the participation made by each such entity;
(3) identify any waivers or alternative re-
quirements requested for the execution of
the Plan;
(4) identify any specific actions that the
public housing agencies and other entities
will undertake to accomplish the goals of the
demonstration program, which shall include
a comprehensive approach to enable a suc-
cessful transition to opportunity areas and
may include counseling and continued sup-
port for families;
(5) specify the criteria that the public
housing agencies would use to identify op-
portunity areas under the Plan;
(6) provide for the establishment of pri-
ority and preferences for families receiving
assistance under the demonstration pro-
gram, including a preference for families
with young children, as such term is defined
by the Secretary, based on regional housing
needs and priorities; and
(7) comply with any other requirements es-
tablished by the Secretary.
(e)(1) Each public housing agency partici-
pating in the demonstration program under
this section may use administrative fees
under section 8(q) of the United States Hous-
ing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(q)), any ad-
ministrative fee reserves of the public hous-
ing agency, and funding from private entities
to provide mobility-related services in con-
nection with the demonstration program, in-
cluding services such as counseling, port-
ability coordination, landlord outreach, se-
curity deposits, and administrative activi-
ties associated with establishing and oper-
ating regional mobility programs.
(2) Each public housing agency partici-
pating in the demonstration program under
this section may use housing assistance pay-
ment contract funds under section 8(o) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437f(o)) for security deposits if necessary to
enable families to lease units with housing
choice voucher assistance in designated op-
portunity areas.
(f)(1) To allow for public housing agencies
to implement and administer the Plan of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.026 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5379
July 25, 2018
public housing agency under the demonstra-
tion program under this section, the Sec-
retary may waive or specify alternative re-
quirements for the following provisions of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437 et seq.):
(A) Paragraphs (7)(A) and (13)(E)(i) of sec-
tion 8(o) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) (relating to the
term of a lease and mobility requirements).
(B) Section 8(o)(13)(C)(i) (42 U.S.C.
1437f(o)(13)(C)(i)) (relating to the public hous-
ing agency plan).
(C) Section 8(r)(2) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(r)(2)) (re-
lating to the responsibility of a public hous-
ing agency to administer portable assist-
ance).
(2) The Secretary shall provide additional
authority for public housing agencies in a se-
lected region to form a consortium that has
a single housing assistance payment con-
tract, or to enter into a partial consortium
to operate all or portions of the Plan, includ-
ing public housing agencies participating in
the Moving To Work demonstration program
established under section 204 of the Depart-
ments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and
Urban Development, and Independent Agen-
cies Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public Law
104–134; 110 Stat. 1321–281).
(3) Any waiver or alternative requirements
pursuant to this subsection shall not take ef-
fect before the date that is 10 days after the
date on which the date on which the Sec-
retary publishes a notice of the waiver or al-
ternative requirement in the Federal Reg-
ister.
(g) The Secretary may implement the dem-
onstration program under this section, in-
cluding the terms, procedures, requirements,
and conditions of the demonstration, by no-
tice.
(h)(1) Not later than 5 years after the im-
plementation of the regional housing mobil-
ity programs by public housing agencies par-
ticipating in the demonstration program
under this section, the Secretary shall sub-
mit to Congress and publish in the Federal
Register a report evaluating the effective-
ness of the strategies pursued under the dem-
onstration program, subject to the avail-
ability of funding to conduct the evaluation.
(2) The Secretary shall—
(A) through internet websites and other
means, disseminate interim findings relating
to the demonstration program under this
section as they become available; and
(B) if promising strategies are identified
through the findings described in subpara-
graph (A), notify Congress of the amount of
funds that would be required to expand the
testing of these strategies in additional
types of public housing agencies and housing
markets.
SA 3550. Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. KAINE, and
Mr. HELLER) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division D, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) In this section—
(1)(A) the term ‘‘affordable housing’’
means—
(i) housing for which the household is re-
quired to pay not more than 30 percent of the
household income for gross housing costs, in-
cluding utilities, where such income is less
than or equal to the area median income for
the municipality in which the housing is lo-
cated, as determined by the Secretary; and
(ii) housing—
(I) for which the household pays more than
30 percent of the household income for gross
housing costs, including utilities, where such
income is less than or equal to the area me-
dian income for the municipality in which
the housing is located, as determined by the
Secretary; and
(II) that is assisted or considered afford-
able by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, including—
(aa) public housing;
(bb) housing assisted under section 8(o) of
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o));
(cc) housing receiving the low-income
housing credit under section 42 of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code; and
(dd) housing assisted under other Federal
or local housing programs serving house-
holds with incomes at or below 80 percent of
the area median income or providing serv-
ices or amenities that will primarily be used
by low-income housing; and
(B) the definition in subparagraph (A) shall
apply to Federal, State, and local affordable
housing programs;
(2) the terms ‘‘low-income housing’’ and
‘‘public housing’’ have the meanings given
those terms in section 3(b) of the United
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437a(b));
(3) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development;
and
(4) the term ‘‘Task Force’’ means the Task
Force on the Impact of the Affordable Hous-
ing Crisis established under subsection (b)(1).
(b)(1) There is established a bipartisan task
force to be known as the Task Force on the
Impact of the Affordable Housing Crisis.
(2)(A) The Task Force shall be composed of
18 members, of whom—
(i) 1 member shall be appointed by the Ma-
jority Leader of the Senate and the Speaker
of the House of Representatives, who shall
serve as co-chair of the Task Force;
(ii) 1 member shall be appointed by the Mi-
nority Leader of the Senate and the Minor-
ity Leader of the House of Representatives,
who shall serve as co-chair of the Task
Force;
(iii) 4 members shall be appointed by the
Majority Leader of the Senate;
(iv) 4 members shall be appointed by the
Minority Leader of the Senate;
(v) 4 members shall be appointed by the
Speaker of the House of Representatives; and
(vi) 4 members shall be appointed by the
Minority Leader of the House of Representa-
tives.
(B) Each member of the Task Force shall
be an academic researcher, an expert in a
field or policy area related to the purpose of
the Task Force, or an individual who has ex-
perience with government programs related
to the purpose of the Task Force.
(C) The co-chairs of the Task Force may
appoint and fix the pay of additional staff to
the Task Force.
(D) Any Federal Government employee
may be detailed to the Task Force without
reimbursement from the Task Force, and the
detailee shall retain the rights, status, and
privileges of his or her regular employment
without interruption.
(E) Members of the Task Force may be al-
lowed travel expenses, including per diem in
lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for
employees of agencies under subchapter I of
chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code,
while away from their homes or regular
places of business in the performance of serv-
ices for the Task Force.
(3) Appointments to the Task Force shall
be made not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act.
(4)(A) A member of the Task Force shall be
appointed for the life of the Task Force.
(B) Any vacancy in the Task Force—
(i) shall not affect the powers of the Task
Force; and
(ii) shall be filled in the same manner as
the original appointment.
(5) The Task Force shall meet not later
than 30 days after the date on which a major-
ity of the members of the Task Force have
been appointed.
(6)(A) The Task Force shall meet at the
call of the co-chairs of the Task Force.
(B) A majority of the members of the Task
Force shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser
number of members may hold hearings.
(c)(1) The Task Force shall utilize avail-
able survey and statistical data related to
the purpose of the Task Force to complete a
comprehensive report to—
(A) evaluate and quantify the impact that
a lack of affordable housing has on other
areas of life and life outcomes for individuals
living in the United States, including—
(i) education;
(I) employment;
(II) income level;
(III) health;
(IV) nutrition;
(V) access to transportation;
(VI) the poverty level of the neighborhood
in which individuals live;
(VII) regional economic growth;
(VIII) neighborhood and rural community
stability and revitalization; and
(IX) other areas of life and life outcomes
related to the purpose of the Task Force nec-
essary to complete a comprehensive report;
(B) evaluate and quantify the costs in-
curred by other Federal, State, and local
programs due to a lack of affordable housing;
and
(C) make recommendations to Congress on
how to use affordable housing to improve the
effectiveness of other Federal programs and
improve life outcomes for individuals living
in the United States.
(2) The Task Force shall publish in the
Federal Register a notice for a public com-
ment period of 90 days on the purpose and ac-
tivities of the Task Force.
(3) Not later than the date on which the
Task Force terminates, the Task Force shall
submit to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs and the Committee on
Finance of the Senate and the Committee on
Financial Services and the Committee on
Ways and Means of the House of Representa-
tives and make publicly available a final re-
port that—
(A) contains the information, evaluations,
and recommendations described in paragraph
(1); and
(B) is signed by each member of the Task
Force.
(d)(1) The Task Force may hold such hear-
ings, take such testimony, and receive such
evidence as the Task Force considers advis-
able to carry out this section.
(2)(A) The Task Force may secure directly
from any Federal department or agency such
information as the Task Force considers nec-
essary to carry out this section.
(B) On request of the co-chairs of the Task
Force, the head of a Federal department or
agency described in subparagraph (A) shall
furnish the information to the Task Force.
(3) The Task Force may use the United
States mails in the same manner and under
the same conditions as other Federal depart-
ments and agencies.
(e) The Task Force shall terminate not
later than 2 years after the date on which all
members of the Task Force are appointed
under subsection (b).
(f) The co-chairs of the Task Force shall
carry out this Act using amounts otherwise
made available to the Office of Policy Devel-
opment and Research within the Department
of Housing and Urban Development.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.027 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5380 July 25, 2018
SA 3551. Mr. RUBIO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 22, line 10, strike the period at the
end and insert the following: ‘‘: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, not less than $200,000
shall be used for activities to better under-
stand mechanisms that result in toxins being
present in harmful algal blooms.’’.
On page 65, line 5, strike the period at the
end and insert the following: ‘‘: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, not less than $5,000,000
shall be used to investigate health impacts
from exposure to harmful algal blooms and
cyanobacteria toxins, and to develop innova-
tive methods to monitor, characterize, and
predict blooms for early action.’’.
SA 3552. Ms. STABENOW (for herself,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. REED, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
and Mr. CARDIN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of title II of division A, insert
the following:
Using funds appropriated under this title,
the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency shall implement the rec-
ommendations described in the report of the
Office of Inspector General of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency entitled ‘‘Man-
agement Weakness Delayed Response to
Flint Water Crisis’’, numbered 18-P-0221, and
dated July 19, 2018, to ensure clean and safe
water compliance under the Safe Drinking
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.).
SA 3553. Ms. COLLINS (for Mr.
MANCHIN) proposed an amendment to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
as follows:
On page 145, line 16, strike ‘‘2020.’’ and in-
sert ‘‘2020: Provided further, That of the
amount appropriated under this heading, not
less than $1,000,000 shall be used to support
and augment new and ongoing investigations
into the illicit trade of synthetic opioids,
particularly fentanyl and its analogues, orig-
inating from the People’s Republic of China:
Provided further, That not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of the Treasury, in coordina-
tion with the Administrator of the Drug En-
forcement Administration and the heads of
other Federal agencies, as appropriate, shall
submit a comprehensive report (which shall
be submitted in unclassified form, but may
include a classified annex) summarizing ef-
forts by actors in the People’s Republic of
China to subvert United States laws and to
supply illicit synthetic opioids to persons in
the United States, including up-to-date esti-
mates of the scale of illicit synthetic opioids
flows from the People’s Republic of China, to
the Committee on Appropriations, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, and the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Ap-
propriations, the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs, and the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs of the Senate.’’.
SA 3554. Ms. STABENOW (for herself,
Mr. PETERS, and Mr. BROWN) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of title II of division A, add the
following:
Using amounts appropriated by this Act,
the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection agency shall reestablish the
Great Lakes Advisory Board, without signifi-
cantly restructuring the member composi-
tion or objectives of the Great Lakes Advi-
sory Board as described in the Great Lakes
Advisory Board charter dated June 13, 2016.
SA 3555. Mr. DONNELLY submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 181, between lines 12 and 13, insert
the following:
SEC. 203. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this division—
(1) the total amount provided under the
heading ‘‘SALARIES AND EXPENSES’’under the
heading ‘‘OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL
POLICY’’ under the heading ‘‘EXECUTIVE
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS
APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT’’ in
title II shall be increased by $1,600,000; and
(2) the total amount provided under the
heading ‘‘FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS
HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS PRO-
GRAM (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)’’under
the heading ‘‘OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CON-
TROL POLICY’’ under the heading ‘‘EXECU-
TIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESI-
DENT’’ in title II shall be increased by
$20,000,000.
SA 3556. Mr. DONNELLY (for himself
and Mrs. ERNST) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 535, line 17, insert before the pe-
riod at the end the following: ‘‘: Provided fur-
ther, That not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall complete the rulemaking to define the
term ‘recreational vehicle’ for purposes of
the exemption for such vehicles from the
manufactured home procedural and enforce-
ment regulations under part 3282 of title 24,
Code of Federal Regulations’’.
SA 3557. Ms. WARREN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. llll. ENDING BANKING FOR HUMAN
TRAFFICKERS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘End Banking for Human Traf-
fickers Act of 2018’’.
(b) INCREASING THE ROLE OF THE FINANCIAL
INDUSTRY IN COMBATING HUMAN TRAF-
FICKING.—
(1) TREASURY AS A MEMBER OF THE PRESI-
DENT’S INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE TO MONITOR
AND COMBAT TRAFFICKING.—Section 105(b) of
the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Pro-
tection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(b)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘the Secretary of the
Treasury,’’ after ‘‘the Secretary of Edu-
cation,’’.
(2) REQUIRED REVIEW OF PROCEDURES.—Not
later than 180 days after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Financial Institu-
tions Examination Council, in consultation
with the Secretary of the Treasury, the pri-
vate sector, victims of severe forms of traf-
ficking in persons, advocates of persons at
risk of becoming victims of severe forms of
trafficking in persons, and appropriate law
enforcement agencies, shall—
(A) review and enhance training and ex-
aminations procedures to improve the capa-
bilities of anti-money laundering and coun-
tering the financing of terrorism programs
to detect financial transactions relating to
severe forms of trafficking in persons;
(B) review and enhance procedures for re-
ferring potential cases relating to severe
forms of trafficking in persons to the appro-
priate law enforcement agency; and
(C) determine, as appropriate, whether re-
quirements for financial institutions are suf-
ficient to detect and deter money laundering
relating to severe forms of trafficking in per-
sons.
(3) INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE RECOMMENDA-
TIONS TARGETING MONEY LAUNDERING RELATED
TO HUMAN TRAFFICKING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Interagency Task Force to Monitor and
Combat Trafficking shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services and the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary of the House of Rep-
resentatives, the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary of the Senate, and
the head of each appropriate Federal bank-
ing agency—
(i) an analysis of anti-money laundering ef-
forts of the United States Government and
United States financial institutions relating
to severe forms of trafficking in persons; and
(ii) appropriate legislative, administrative,
and other recommendations to strengthen ef-
forts against money laundering relating to
severe forms of trafficking in persons.
(B) REQUIRED RECOMMENDATIONS.—The rec-
ommendations under subparagraph (A) shall
include—
(i) feedback from financial institutions on
best practices of successful programs to com-
bat severe forms of trafficking in persons
currently in place that may be suitable for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.028 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5381
July 25, 2018
broader adoption by similarly situated finan-
cial institutions;
(ii) feedback from stakeholders, including
victims of severe forms of trafficking in per-
sons, advocates of persons at risk of becom-
ing victims of severe forms of trafficking in
persons, and financial institutions, on policy
proposals derived from the analysis con-
ducted by the task force referred to in sub-
paragraph (A) that would enhance the efforts
and programs of financial institutions to de-
tect and deter money laundering relating to
severe forms of trafficking in persons, in-
cluding any recommended changes to inter-
nal policies, procedures, and controls relat-
ing to severe forms of trafficking in persons;
(iii) any recommended changes to training
programs at financial institutions to better
equip employees to deter and detect money
laundering relating to severe forms of traf-
ficking in persons;
(iv) any recommended changes to expand
information sharing relating to severe forms
of trafficking in persons among financial in-
stitutions and between such financial insti-
tutions, appropriate law enforcement agen-
cies, and appropriate Federal agencies; and
(v) recommended changes, if necessary, to
existing statutory law to more effectively
detect and deter money laundering relating
to severe forms of trafficking in persons,
where such money laundering involves the
use of emerging technologies and virtual
currencies.
(4) LIMITATION.—Nothing in this section
shall be construed to—
(A) grant rulemaking authority to the
Interagency Task Force to Monitor and
Combat Trafficking; or
(B) authorize financial institutions to deny
services to victims of trafficking, victims of
severe forms of trafficking, or individuals
not responsible for promoting severe forms
of trafficking in persons.
(5) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this sub-
section—
(A) the term ‘‘appropriate Federal banking
agency’’ has the meaning given the term in
section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q));
(B) the term ‘‘severe forms of trafficking
in persons’’ has the meaning given such term
in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Pro-
tection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102);
(C) the term ‘‘Interagency Task Force to
Monitor and Combat Trafficking’’ means the
Interagency Task Force to Monitor and
Combat Trafficking established by the Presi-
dent pursuant to section 105 of the Victims
of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act
of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103);
(D) the term ‘‘law enforcement agency’’
means an agency of the United States, a
State, or a political subdivision of a State,
authorized by law or by a government agen-
cy to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of
any violation of criminal or civil law; and
(E) the terms ‘‘victim of a severe form of
trafficking’’ and ‘‘victim of trafficking’’
have the meanings given the terms in sec-
tion 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protec-
tion Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).
(c) COORDINATION OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING
ISSUES BY THE OFFICE OF TERRORISM AND FI-
NANCIAL INTELLIGENCE.—
(1) FUNCTIONS.—Section 312(a)(4) of title 31,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by redesignating subparagraphs (E),
(F), and (G) as subparagraphs (F), (G), and
(H), respectively; and
(B) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the
following:
‘‘(E) combating illicit financing relating to
severe forms of trafficking in persons;’’.
(d) INTERAGENCY COORDINATION.—Section
312(a) of title 31, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(8) INTERAGENCY COORDINATION.—The Sec-
retary of the Treasury, after consultation
with the Undersecretary for Terrorism and
Financial Crimes, shall designate an office
within the OTFI that shall coordinate efforts
to combat the illicit financing of severe
forms of trafficking in persons with—
‘‘(A) other offices of the Department of the
Treasury;
‘‘(B) other Federal agencies, including—
‘‘(i) the Office to Monitor and Combat
Trafficking in Persons of the Department of
State; and
‘‘(ii) the Interagency Task Force to Mon-
itor and Combat Trafficking;
‘‘(C) State and local law enforcement agen-
cies; and
‘‘(D) foreign governments.’’.
(e) DEFINITION.—Section 312(a) of title 31,
United States Code, as amended by this sec-
tion, is further amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(9) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the
term ‘severe forms of trafficking in persons’
has the meaning given such term in section
103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection
Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).’’.
(f) ADDITIONAL REPORTING REQUIREMENT
UNDER THE TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION
ACT OF 2000.—Section 105(d)(7) of the Traf-
ficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22
U.S.C. 7103(d)(7)) is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘the Committee on Finan-
cial Services,’’ after ‘‘the Committee on For-
eign Affairs,’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs,’’ after ‘‘the
Committee on Foreign Relations,’’;
(2) in subparagraph (Q)(vii), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting a semicolon;
(3) in subparagraph (R), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(S) the efforts of the United States to
eliminate money laundering relating to se-
vere forms of trafficking in persons and the
number of investigations, arrests, indict-
ments, and convictions in money laundering
cases with a nexus to severe forms of traf-
ficking in persons.’’.
(g) MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR THE ELIMI-
NATION OF TRAFFICKING.—Section 108(b) of
the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of
2000 (22 U.S.C. 7106(b)) is amended by adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(13) Whether the government of the coun-
try, consistent with the capacity of the
country, has in effect a framework to pre-
vent financial transactions involving the
proceeds of severe forms of trafficking in
persons, and is taking steps to implement
such a framework, including by inves-
tigating, prosecuting, convicting, and sen-
tencing individuals who attempt or conduct
such transactions.’’.
SA 3558. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself,
Mr. INHOFE, Mr. MENENDEZ, and Mr.
KENNEDY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division A, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used by the Admin-
istrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to develop, implement, or enforce
any regulation that allows gasoline that con-
tains greater than 10 percent ethanol by vol-
ume to qualify for a waiver under section
211(h)(4) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.
7545(h)(4)).
SA 3559. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself,
Mr. INHOFE, Mr. MENENDEZ, and Mr.
MANCHIN) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division A, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used by the Admin-
istrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to develop, implement, or enforce
any regulation to reallocate obligations
waived under section 211(o)(9) of the Clean
Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(9)) to obligated par-
ties that did not receive such waivers.
SA 3560. Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. WYDEN) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Finan-
cial Crimes Enforcement Network and the
appropriate divisions of the Department of
the Treasury shall submit to Congress a re-
port on any Geographic Targeting Orders
issued since 2016, including—
(1) the type of data collected;
(2) how the Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network uses the data;
(3) whether the Financial Crimes Enforce-
ment Network needs more authority to com-
bat money laundering through high-end real
estate;
(4) how a record of beneficial ownership
would improve and assist law enforcement
efforts to investigate and prosecute criminal
activity and prevent the use of shell compa-
nies to facilitate money laundering, tax eva-
sion, terrorism financing, election fraud, and
other illegal activity; and
(5) the feasibility of implementing Geo-
graphic Targeting Orders on a permanent
basis on all real estate transactions in the
United States greater than $300,000.
SA 3561. Mr. COTTON (for himself,
Mr. HATCH, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. GARDNER,
Mr. PERDUE, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. SASSE,
Mr. CORNYN, and Mr. RUBIO) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by him to the bill H.R. 6147, making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in division B, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. REPORT RELATING TO ASSETS OF
IRANIAN LEADERS AND SENIOR PO-
LITICAL FIGURES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.029 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5382 July 25, 2018
and annually thereafter (or more frequently
if the Secretary of the Treasury determines
it appropriate based on new information re-
ceived by the Secretary) for the following 2
years, the Secretary of the Treasury shall, in
furtherance of the Secretary’s efforts to pre-
vent the financing of terrorism, money laun-
dering, and related illicit finance and to
make financial institutions’ required compli-
ance with sanctions more easily understood,
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a report containing—
(1) the estimated total funds or other as-
sets held in accounts at United States and
foreign financial institutions that are under
direct or indirect control of each individual
described in subsection (b) and a description
of such funds or assets;
(2) an identification of any equity interest
such an individual has in an entity on the
list of specially designated nationals and
blocked persons maintained by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of
the Treasury or in any other entity with re-
spect to which sanctions are imposed;
(3) a description of how such funds or as-
sets or equity interests were acquired, and
how they have been used or employed;
(4) a description of any new methods or
techniques used to evade anti-money laun-
dering and related laws, including rec-
ommendations to improve techniques to
combat illicit uses of the United States fi-
nancial system by individuals described in
subsection (b);
(5) recommendations for how United States
economic sanctions against Iran may be re-
vised to prevent the funds or other assets de-
scribed in paragraph (1) from being used by
individuals described in subsection (b) to
contribute—
(A) to the continued development, testing,
and procurement of ballistic missile tech-
nology by Iran; and
(B) to human rights abuses;
(6) an assessment of the impact and effec-
tiveness of United States economic sanctions
programs against Iran;
(7) a description of how the Department of
the Treasury assesses the impact and effec-
tiveness of United States economic sanctions
programs against Iran; and
(8) recommendations for improving the
ability of the Department of the Treasury to
rapidly and effectively develop, implement,
and enforce additional economic sanctions
against Iran if so ordered by the President
under the International Emergency Eco-
nomic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) or
any other provision of law.
(b) INDIVIDUALS DESCRIBED.—The individ-
uals described in this paragraph are the fol-
lowing:
(1) The Supreme Leader of Iran.
(2) The President of Iran.
(3) Members of the Council of Guardians.
(4) Members of the Expediency Council.
(5) The Minister of Intelligence and Secu-
rity.
(6) The Commander and the Deputy Com-
mander of the IRGC.
(7) The Commander and the Deputy Com-
mander of the IRGC Ground Forces.
(8) The Commander and the Deputy Com-
mander of the IRGC Aerospace Force.
(9) The Commander and the Deputy Com-
mander of the IRGC Navy.
(10) The Commander of the Basij-e-
Mostaz’afin.
(11) The Commander of the Qods Force.
(12) The Commander in Chief of the Police
Force.
(13) The head of the IRGC Joint Staff.
(14) The Commander of the IRGC Intel-
ligence.
(15) The head of the IRGC Imam Hussein
University.
(16) The Supreme Leader’s Representative
at the IRGC.
(17) The Chief Executive Officer and the
Chairman of the IRGC Cooperative Founda-
tion.
(18) The Commander of the Khatam-al-
Anbia Construction Head Quarter.
(19) The Chief Executive Officer of the
Basij Cooperative Foundation.
(20) The head of the Political Bureau of the
IRGC.
(21) The head of the Atomic Energy Organi-
zation of Iran.
(c) FORM OF REPORT; PUBLIC AVAIL-
ABILITY.—
(1) FORM.—Each report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may contain a classified annex.
(2) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The unclassified
portion of a report required by subsection (a)
shall be made available to the public and
posted on a publicly available Internet
website of the Department of the Treasury—
(A) in English, Farsi, Arabic, and Azeri;
and
(B) in precompressed, easily downloadable
versions that are made available in all ap-
propriate formats.
(d) SOURCES OF INFORMATION.—In preparing
a report required by subsection (a), the Sec-
retary of the Treasury may use any credible
publication, database, web-based resource,
public information compiled by any govern-
ment agency, and any information collected
or compiled by a nongovernmental organiza-
tion or other entity provided to or made
available to the Secretary, that the Sec-
retary finds credible.
(e) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that, in preparing reports required
by subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treas-
ury should consider acquiring information
from sources that—
(1) collect and, if necessary, translate high-
veracity, official records; or
(2) provide search and analysis tools that
enable law enforcement agencies to have new
insights into commercial and financial rela-
tionships.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Financial Services
and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs and the Committee on
Foreign Relations of the Senate.
(2) FUNDS.—The term ‘‘funds’’ means—
(A) cash;
(B) equity;
(C) any other intangible asset the value of
which is derived from a contractual claim,
including bank deposits, bonds, stocks, a se-
curity (as defined in section 2(a) of the Secu-
rities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a))), or a secu-
rity or an equity security (as defined in sec-
tion 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a))); and
(D) any other asset that the Secretary de-
termines appropriate.
SA 3562. Mr. RUBIO (for himself and
Mrs. ERNST) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division B, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
to the Small Business Administration in this
Act may be provided to a company—
(1) that is headquarted in the People’s Re-
public of China; or
(2) for which more than 25 percent of the
voting stock of the company is owned by af-
filiates that are citizens of the People’s Re-
public of China.
SA 3563. Mr. BARRASSO (for him-
self, Mr. GARDNER, and Mr. DAINES)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 34, line 19, strike the period at the
end and insert the following: ‘‘: Provided fur-
ther, That of the funds made available under
this heading, $10,000,000 shall be derived from
the Indian Irrigation Fund established by
section 3211 of the WIIN Act (Public Law 114–
322; 130 Stat. 1749).’’.
SA 3564. Mr. DURBIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in division B, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. Section 7905(a) of title 5,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘, a Sen-
ate intern’’ before ‘‘, and a student’’;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(3) in paragraph (4), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) the term ‘Senate intern’ means an in-
dividual—
‘‘(A) who serves in the office of a Senator
or a committee of the Senate on a temporary
basis for a period not to exceed 12 months
(without regard to whether the individual is
compensated for the service); and
‘‘(B) whose service is primarily for the edu-
cational experience of the individual.’’.
SA 3565. Mr. JOHNSON submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of title VIII, add the following:
SEC. 821. AMENDMENTS TO THE SOAR ACT.
The Scholarships for Opportunity and Re-
sults Act (division C of Public Law 112-10) is
amended—
(1) in section 3007(a)(5)(A)(i) (sec. 38-
1853.07(a)(5)(A)(i) D.C. Official Code), by
striking subclause (I) and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(I) is fully accredited by—
‘‘(aa) an accrediting body with jurisdiction
in the District of Columbia and that is recog-
nized by the Student and Visitor Exchange
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.030 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5383
July 25, 2018
English Language Program administered by
the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment; or
‘‘(bb) any international accrediting body
that the Secretary may designate, after con-
sultation with the grantee or grantees under
section 3004(a); or’’;
(2) in section 3008(h) (sec. 38-1853.08(h) D.C.
Official Code)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘section
3009(a)(2)(A)(i)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
3009(a)’’;
(B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(2) The Institute of Education Sciences
may administer assessments to students par-
ticipating in the evaluation under section
3009(a) for the purpose of conducting the
evaluation under such section.’’; and
(C) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘the na-
tionally norm-referenced standardized test
described in paragraph (2)’’ and inserting ‘‘a
nationally norm-referenced standardized
test’’; and
(3) in section 3009(a) (sec. 38-1853.09(a) D.C.
Official Code)—
(A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ‘‘annu-
ally’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking clause
(i) and inserting the following:
‘‘(i) is rigorous; and’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘im-
pact of the program’’ and all that follows
through the end of the subparagraph and in-
serting ‘‘impact of the program on academic
achievement and educational attainment.’’;
(C) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘ON EDUCATION’’ and inserting ‘‘OF EDU-
CATION’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (A)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘the academic progress of’’
after ‘‘assess’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘in each of grades 3’’ and
all that follows through the end of the sub-
paragraph and inserting ‘‘; and’’;
(iii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
(iv) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as
subparagraph (B); and
(D) in paragraph (4)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘A
comparison of the academic achievement of
participating eligible students who use an
opportunity scholarship on the measure-
ments described in paragraph (3)(B) to the
academic achievement’’ and inserting ‘‘The
academic progress of participating eligible
students who use an opportunity scholarship
compared to the academic progress’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘in-
creasing the satisfaction of such parents and
students with their choice’’ and inserting
‘‘those parents’ and students’ satisfaction
with the program’’; and
(iii) by striking subparagraph (D) through
(F) and inserting the following:
‘‘(D) The high school graduation rates, col-
lege enrollment rates, college persistence
rates, and college graduation rates of par-
ticipating eligible students who use an op-
portunity scholarship compared with the
rates of public school students described in
subparagraph (A), to the extent practicable.
‘‘(E) The college enrollment rates, college
persistence rates, and college graduation
rates of students who participated in the
program as the result of winning the Oppor-
tunity Scholarship Program lottery com-
pared to the enrollment, persistence, and
graduation rates for students who entered
but did not win such lottery and who, as a
result, served as the control group for pre-
vious evaluations of the program under this
division. Nothing in this subparagraph may
be construed to waive section
3004(a)(3)(A)(iii) with respect to any such stu-
dent.
‘‘(F) The safety of the schools attended by
participating eligible students who use an
opportunity scholarship compared with the
schools in the District of Columbia attended
by public school students described in sub-
paragraph (A), to the extent practicable.’’.
SA 3566. Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. ISAKSON, and
Mr. SULLIVAN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in division C, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. Out of amounts appropriated to
the Food and Drug Administration under
title VI, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, acting through the Commissioner
of Food and Drugs, shall, not later than July
1, 2019, and following the review required
under Executive Order 12866 (5 U.S.C. 601
note; relating to regulatory planning and re-
view), issue advice revising the advice pro-
vided in the notice of availability entitled
‘‘Advice About Eating Fish, From the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency and Food and
Drug Administration; Revised Fish Advice;
Availability’’ (82 Fed. Reg. 6571 (January 19,
2017)), in a manner that is consistent with
nutrition science recognized by the Food and
Drug Administration on the net effects of
seafood consumption.
SA 3567. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 172, beginning on line 20, strike
‘‘That none of’’ and all that follows through
line 25.
SA 3568. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 6147, making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. None of the funds made avail-
able by division A may be used to regulate
any species of plant, fish, or wildlife under
the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C.
1531 et seq.) or any other provision of law
under which regulatory authority is based on
the power of Congress to regulate interstate
commerce as enumerated in clause 3 of sec-
tion 8 of article I of the Constitution of the
United States if that species is—
(1) found entirely within the borders of a
single State; and
(2) not part of a national market for any
commodity.
SA 3569. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 6147, making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
Beginning on page 124, strike line 19 and
all that follows through page 125, line 4.
SA 3570. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place insert the fol-
lowing:
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND
SEC. 1ll. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of division A, none of the funds appro-
priated from the Land and Water Conserva-
tion Fund by division A may be used by the
Federal Government—
(1) to purchase land; or
(2) to carry out activities relating to the
process of purchasing land.
SA 3571. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 6147, making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 1ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by division A may be used—
(1) to condition the issuance, renewal,
amendment, or extension of any permit, ap-
proval, license, lease, allotment, easement,
right-of-way, or other land use or occupancy
agreement on the transfer of any water
right, including sole and joint ownership, di-
rectly to the United States, or any impair-
ment of title, in whole or in part, granted or
otherwise recognized under State law, by
Federal or State adjudication, decree, or
other judgment, or pursuant to any inter-
state water compact; or
(2) to require any water user to apply for or
acquire a water right in the name of the
United States under State law as a condition
of the issuance, renewal, amendment, or ex-
tension of any permit, approval, license,
lease, allotment, easement, right-of-way, or
other land use or occupancy agreement.
SA 3572. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 6147, making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
Beginning on page 9, line 23, through page
10, line 3, strike the following: ‘‘Appropria-
tions herein made shall not be available for
the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild
horses and burros in the care of the Bureau
or its contractors or for the sale of wild
horses and burros that results in their de-
struction for processing into commercial
products.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.030 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5384 July 25, 2018
SA 3573. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 6147, making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. None of the funds made avail-
able by division A may be used to carry out
the Diesel Emissions Reduction program
under subtitle G of title VII of the Energy
Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16131 et seq.).
SA 3574. Mr. BOOZMAN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture
shall conduct an inventory and evaluation of
certain land, as generally depicted on the
map entitled ‘‘Flatside Wilderness Adjacent
Inventory Areas’’ and dated November 30,
2017, to determine the suitability of that
land for inclusion in the National Wilderness
Preservation System.
(b) The inventory and evaluation required
under subsection (a) shall be completed not
later than 1 year after the date of enactment
of this Act.
SA 3575. Mr. NELSON submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in division D, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) The funds made available
under this Act for the Self-Help Homeowner-
ship Opportunity Program of the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development
shall be increased by an additional $5,000,000,
in accordance with subsection (b), provided
that not less than $720,000 of which shall be
made available for low-income and very low-
income families affected by any State-man-
dated fire.
(b) The additional amount provided under
subsection (a) shall be made available—
(1) notwithstanding section 11(d) of the
Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act
of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 12805 note), to cover the
cost of—
(A) acquiring land (including financing and
closing costs), which may include reimburs-
ing an organization, consortium, or affiliate,
upon approval of any required environmental
review, for nongrant amounts of the organi-
zation, consortium, or affiliate advanced be-
fore the review to acquire land;
(B) dwelling construction (including the
cost of building materials and construction
equipment); and
(C) installing, extending, constructing, re-
habilitating, or otherwise improving utili-
ties and other infrastructure; and
(2) for grants that allow for a maximum ex-
penditure of not less than $20,000 per dwell-
ing.
SA 3576. Mr. COONS (for himself and
Mr. CARPER) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division D, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law—
(1) the deadline for expenditure of any
funds made available for national infrastruc-
ture investments under title I of division C
of the Consolidated and Further Continuing
Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112–55;
125 Stat. 641) shall be September 30, 2019; and
(2) the deadline for expenditure of any
funds made available for national infrastruc-
ture investments under title VIII of division
F of the Consolidated and Further Con-
tinuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law
113–6; 127 Stat. 432) shall be September 30,
2020.
SA 3577. Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for her-
self, Mr. WYDEN, and Ms. CANTWELL)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 235, lines 19 and 20, strike
‘‘$241,600,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided,’’ and insert
‘‘$242,600,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That $19,000,000
shall be available for the women’s business
center program authorized under section 29
of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656):
Provided further,’’.
SA 3578. Mrs. MURRAY (for herself
and Ms. CANTWELL) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in division C, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. In administering the pilot pro-
gram established by section 779 of division A
of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018
(Public Law 115–141), the Secretary of Agri-
culture shall—
(1) ensure that applicants that are deter-
mined to be ineligible for the pilot program
have a means of appealing or otherwise chal-
lenging that determination in a timely fash-
ion; and
(2) in determining whether an entity may
overbuild or duplicate broadband expansion
efforts made by any entity that has received
a broadband loan from the Rural Utilities
Service, not consider loans that were re-
scinded or defaulted on, or loans the terms
and conditions of which were not met, if the
entity under consideration has not pre-
viously defaulted on, or failed to meet the
terms and conditions of, a Rural Utilities
Service loan or had a Rural Utilities Service
loan rescinded.
SA 3579. Mr. WYDEN (for himself,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. CARDIN, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. DISCLOSURE OF TAX RETURNS BY
PRESIDENTS AND CERTAIN PRESI-
DENTIAL CANDIDATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title I of the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is
amended—
(1) by inserting after section 102 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 102A. DISCLOSURE OF TAX RETURNS.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
‘‘(1) the term ‘covered candidate’ means an
individual—
‘‘(A) required to file a report under section
101(c); and
‘‘(B) who is nominated by a major party as
a candidate for the office of President;
‘‘(2) the term ‘covered individual’ means—
‘‘(A) a President required to file a report
under subsection (a) or (d) of section 101; and
‘‘(B) an individual who occupies the office
of the President required to file a report
under section 101(e);
‘‘(3) the term ‘major party’ has the mean-
ing given the term in section 9002 of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986; and
‘‘(4) the term ‘income tax return’ means,
with respect to any covered candidate or
covered individual, any return (within the
meaning of section 6103(b) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986) related to Federal in-
come taxes, but does not include—
‘‘(A) information returns issued to persons
other than such covered candidate or covered
individual; and
‘‘(B) declarations of estimated tax.
‘‘(b) DISCLOSURE.—
‘‘(1) COVERED INDIVIDUALS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In addition to the infor-
mation described in subsections (a) and (b) of
section 102, a covered individual shall in-
clude in each report required to be filed
under this title a copy of the income tax re-
turns of the covered individual for the 3 most
recent taxable years for which a return have
been filed with the Internal Revenue Service
as of the date on which the report is filed.
‘‘(B) FAILURE TO DISCLOSE.—If an income
tax return is not disclosed under subpara-
graph (A), the Director of the Office of Gov-
ernment Ethics shall submit to the Sec-
retary of the Treasury a request that the
Secretary of the Treasury provide the Direc-
tor of the Office of Government Ethics with
a copy of the income tax return.
‘‘(C) PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.—Each income
tax return submitted under this paragraph
shall be filed with the Director of the Office
of Government Ethics and made publicly
available in the same manner as the infor-
mation described in subsections (a) and (b) of
section 102.
‘‘(D) REDACTION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.—
Before making any income tax return sub-
mitted under this paragraph available to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.032 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5385
July 25, 2018
public, the Director of the Office of Govern-
ment Ethics shall redact such information as
the Director of the Office of Government
Ethics, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Treasury (or a delegate of the Sec-
retary), determines appropriate.
‘‘(2) CANDIDATES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 15 days
after the date on which a covered candidate
is nominated, the covered candidate shall
amend the report filed by the covered can-
didate under section 101(c) with the Federal
Election Commission to include a copy of
the income tax returns of the covered can-
didate for the 3 most recent taxable years for
which a return has been filed with the Inter-
nal Revenue Service.
‘‘(B) FAILURE TO DISCLOSE.—If an income
tax return is not disclosed under subpara-
graph (A) the Federal Election Commission
shall submit to the Secretary of the Treas-
ury a request that the Secretary of the
Treasury provide the Federal Election Com-
mission with the income tax return.
‘‘(C) PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.—Each income
tax return submitted under this paragraph
shall be filed with the Federal Election Com-
mission and made publicly available in the
same manner as the information described in
section 102(b).
‘‘(D) REDACTION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.—
Before making any income tax return sub-
mitted under this paragraph available to the
public, the Federal Election Commission
shall redact such information as the Federal
Election Commission, in consultation with
the Secretary of the Treasury (or a delegate
of the Secretary) and the Director of the Of-
fice of Government Ethics, determines ap-
propriate.
‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR SITTING PRESI-
DENTS.—Not later than 30 days after the date
of enactment of this section, the President
shall submit to the Director of the Office of
Government Ethics a copy of the income tax
returns described in paragraph (1)(A).’’; and
(2) in section 104—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in paragraph (1), in the first sentence,
by inserting ‘‘or any individual who know-
ingly and willfully falsifies or who know-
ingly and willfully fails to file an income tax
return that such individual is required to
disclose pursuant to section 102A’’ before the
period; and
(ii) in paragraph (2)(A)—
(I) in clause (i), by inserting ‘‘or falsify any
income tax return that such person is re-
quired to disclose under section 102A’’ before
the semicolon; and
(II) in clause (ii), by inserting ‘‘or fail to
file any income tax return that such person
is required to disclosed under section 102A’’
before the period;
(B) in subsection (b), in the first sentence
by inserting ‘‘or willfully failed to file or has
willfully falsified an income tax return re-
quired to be disclosed under section 102A’’
before the period;
(C) in subsection (c), by inserting ‘‘or fail-
ing to file or falsifying an income tax return
required to be disclosed under section 102A’’
before the period; and
(D) in subsection (d)(1)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by inserting ‘‘or files an income tax re-
turn required to be disclosed under section
102A’’ after ‘‘title’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or
such income tax return, as applicable,’’ after
‘‘report’’.
(b) AUTHORITY TO DISCLOSE INFORMATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 6103(l) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(23) DISCLOSURE OF RETURN INFORMATION
OF PRESIDENTS AND CERTAIN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES.—
‘‘(A) DISCLOSURE OF RETURNS OF PRESI-
DENTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall,
upon written request from the Director of
the Office of Government Ethics pursuant to
section 102A(b)(1)(B) of the Ethics in Govern-
ment Act of 1978, provide to officers and em-
ployees of the Office of Government Ethics a
copy of any income tax return of the Presi-
dent which is required to be filed under sec-
tion 102A of such Act.
‘‘(ii) DISCLOSURE TO PUBLIC.—The Director
of the Office of Government Ethics may dis-
close to the public the income tax return of
any President which is required to be filed
with the Director pursuant to section 102A of
the Ethics in Government Act of 1978.
‘‘(B) DISCLOSURE OF RETURNS OF CERTAIN
CANDIDATES FOR PRESIDENT.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall,
upon written request from the Chairman of
the Federal Election Commission pursuant
to section 102A(b)(2)(B) of the Ethics in Gov-
ernment Act of 1978, provide to officers and
employees of the Federal Election Commis-
sion copies of the applicable returns of any
person who has been nominated as a can-
didate of a major party (as defined in section
9002(a)) for the office of President.
‘‘(ii) DISCLOSURE TO PUBLIC.—The Federal
Election Commission may disclose to the
public applicable returns of any person who
has been nominated as a candidate of a
major party (as defined in section 9002(6)) for
the office of President and which is required
to be filed with the Commission pursuant to
section 102A of the Ethics in Government
Act.
‘‘(C) APPLICABLE RETURNS.—For purposes of
this paragraph, the term ‘applicable returns’
means, with respect to any candidate for the
office of President, income tax returns for
the 3 most recent taxable years for which a
return has been filed as of the date of the
nomination.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
6103(p)(4) of such Code, in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A) and in subparagraph
(F)(ii), is amended by striking ‘‘or (22)’’ and
inserting ‘‘(22), or (23)’’ each place it appears.
SA 3580. Mr. DAINES submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available to the Depart-
ment of Transportation by this Act or any
other Act may be obligated or expended to
implement, administer, or enforce the re-
quirements of section 31137 of title 49, United
States Code, or any regulation issued by the
Secretary pursuant to such section, with re-
spect to the use of electronic logging devices
by operators of commercial motor vehicles,
as defined in section 31132(1) of such title,
transporting livestock, as defined in section
602 of the Emergency Livestock Feed Assist-
ance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1471) or insects.
SA 3581. Mr. PETERS (for himself
and Mr. YOUNG) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in division D, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. Not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
issue a report on efforts by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development and the
Environmental Protection Agency relating
to the removal of lead-based paint and other
hazardous materials, which shall include—
(1) a description of direct removal efforts
by the Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment and the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency;
(2) a description of education provided by
the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment and the Environmental Protection
Agency to other Federal agencies, local gov-
ernments and communities, recipients of
grants made by either entity, and the gen-
eral public relating to the removal of lead-
based paint and other hazardous materials;
(3) a description of assistance received
from other Federal agencies relating to the
removal of lead-based paint and other haz-
ardous materials; and
(4) any best practices developed or pro-
vided by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development and the Environmental
Protection Agency relating to the removal of
lead-based paint and other hazardous mate-
rials.
SA 3582. Mr. BROWN (for himself and
Mr. PORTMAN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision C, insert the following:
1890 LAND-GRANT COLLEGES, INCLUDING
TUSKEGEE UNIVERSITY
SEC. 7ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the amounts made
available by this Act to carry out sections
1444 and 1445, respectively, of the National
Agricultural Research, Extension, and
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3221,
3222) shall each be increased by $3,000,000.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount made available under
the heading ‘‘(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF
FUNDS)’’ under the heading ‘‘AGRICULTURE
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES’’ under the head-
ing ‘‘AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS’’ in title
I shall be decreased by $6,000,000.
SA 3583. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself,
Ms. COLLINS, Mr. MURPHY, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. BOOKER,
Ms. HASSAN, and Mr. KING) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by her to the bill H.R. 6147, making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in Division A, in-
sert the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.033 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5386 July 25, 2018
SEC. ll. ADDRESSING PEDIATRIC CANCER
RATES IN THE UNITED STATES.
(a) REPORT IDENTIFYING GEOGRAPHIC VARI-
ATION OF TYPES OF PEDIATRIC CANCER.—Not
later than 180 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of Health
and Human Services shall submit to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions of the Senate and the Committee
on Appropriations of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives, a report that provides details on the
geographic variation in pediatric cancer in-
cidence in the United States, including—
(1) the types of pediatric cancer within
each of the 10 States with the highest age-
adjusted incidence rate of cancer among per-
sons aged 20 years or younger; and
(2) geographic concentrations of types and
prevalence of pediatric cancers within each
such State, in accordance with Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention guidelines.
(b) SUPPORT FOR STATES WITH HIGH INCI-
DENCE OF PEDIATRIC CANCER.—Funds made
available under the heading ‘‘Toxic Sub-
stances and Environmental Public Health’’
for the Agency for Toxic Substances and Dis-
ease Registry may be expended for public
outreach and events to—
(1) inform residents and State and local
health agencies in the 10 States with the
highest age-adjusted incidence rate of cancer
among persons aged 20 years or younger of
possible contributing factors to pediatric
cancer, including environmental exposures;
and
(2) guide investigations relating to causes
of variation in pediatric cancer incidence.
(c) STUDY OF PEDIATRIC CANCER FACTORS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall submit to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor and Pensions of the Senate
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate, the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives, and the State
health agencies of the States described in
this paragraph, a report containing the re-
sults of a study conducted by the Secretary
of the 10 States with the highest age-ad-
justed incidence rate of cancer among per-
sons aged 20 years or younger to identify un-
derlying contributing factors for pediatric
cancer that are unique to each of such
States.
(2) PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT.—Upon submission
of the report under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services shall
conduct public education and outreach ac-
tivities to provide information to residents
of the States included in the study under
such subsection concerning the findings
identified in such study and actions taken to
identify and address contributing factors to
pediatric cancer.
(3) FUNDING.—The Secretary may request
such funds as may be necessary to carry out
this subsection.
(d) PRIVACY.—The Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall ensure that all infor-
mation with respect to patients that is con-
tained in the reports under this section is de-
identified in a manner that protects the pri-
vacy of such patients.
SA 3584. Mr. WYDEN (for himself and
Mr. BOOKER) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. SMALL BUSINESS LOAN DATA COL-
LECTION.
Not later than December 31, 2018, the Bu-
reau of Consumer Financial Protection shall
ensure that financial institutions subject to
704B of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15
U.S.C. 1691c–2) are complying with the re-
quirements of that section.
SA 3585. Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self and Ms. HEITKAMP) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 41, line 4, strike the period and in-
sert the following: ‘‘: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, $400,000 shall be made available to
the commission established by section 3(a) of
the Alyce Spotted Bear and Walter Soboleff
Commission on Native Children Act (Public
Law 114–244; 130 Stat. 981).’’.
SA 3586. Mr. HATCH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 22, line 10, strike the period and
insert the following: ‘‘: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, $69,614,000 shall be made available
for the National Geospatial Program, of
which not less than $3,800,000 shall be made
available for the Federal Geographic Data
Committee.’’.
SA 3587. Mr. BARRASSO (for him-
self, Mr. BENNET, Mr. ENZI, and Mr.
WHITEHOUSE) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision C, insert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) Title I of the Rural Elec-
trification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 19 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 20. LOANS FOR CARBON DIOXIDE CAPTURE
AND UTILIZATION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law (including regula-
tions), in carrying out any program under
this Act under which the Secretary provides
a loan or loan guarantee, the Secretary may
provide such a loan or loan guarantee to fa-
cilities employing commercially dem-
onstrated technologies for carbon dioxide
capture and utilization.’’.
(b) Section 3 of the Rural Electrification
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 903) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘There are’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection
(b)(2), there are’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) LOANS FOR CARBON DIOXIDE CAPTURE
AND UTILIZATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to
be appropriated such sums as are necessary
to carry out section 20.
‘‘(2) SEPARATE APPROPRIATIONS.—The sums
appropriated under paragraph (1) shall be
separate and distinct from the sums appro-
priated under subsection (a).’’.
SA 3588. Mr. BARRASSO (for himself
and Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
APPLICATION OF BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT
RULE
SEC. 4lll. (a) In this section, the term
‘‘project’’ means a system described in sec-
tion 2801.9(a)(4) of title 43, Code of Federal
Regulations (as in effect on the date of en-
actment of this Act).
(b) None of the funds made available by
this Act shall be used to apply the rule of the
Bureau of Land Management entitled ‘‘Com-
petitive Processes, Terms, and Conditions for
Leasing Public Lands for Solar and Wind En-
ergy Development and Technical Changes
and Corrections’’ (81 Fed. Reg. 92122 (Decem-
ber 19, 2016)) to a project that applied for a
right-of-way under section 501 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1761) on or before December 19, 2016.
(c) The owner of a project that applied for
a right-of-way under section 501 of the Fed-
eral Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1761) on or before December 19,
2016, shall be obligated to pay with respect to
the right-of-way all rents and fees in effect
before the effective date of the rule described
in subsection (b).
SA 3589. Mr. SANDERS submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 142, between lines 16 and 17, insert
the following:
STUDY OF PERFLUOROALKYL AND
POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES IN GROUND-
WATER
SEC. 433. (a) Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Director
of the United States Geological Survey (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘Director’’),
in consultation with the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘Adminis-
trator’’), shall complete a study to conduct
targeted monitoring of occurrences of
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances in groundwater in each region of the
United States in areas in which the sub-
stances may be anticipated to be found and
to which humans may be exposed, based on
the best available information.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.033 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5387
July 25, 2018
(b) The Director, in consultation with the
Administrator, is encouraged to develop a
public information campaign to inform im-
pacted communities and the general public
of potential exposure to perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substances resulting from
releases in groundwater.
(c) Not later than 15 months after the date
of enactment of this Act and annually there-
after, the Director, in consultation with the
Administrator, shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works of
the Senate, the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives, and the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives a report that describes the
findings of the study completed under sub-
section (a).
SA 3590. Mr. SASSE (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. DAINES, Mrs.
ERNST, Mr. RISCH, Mr. ENZI, and Mr.
LANKFORD) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 3399 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. The Secretary of Transpor-
tation shall amend part 395 of title 49, Code
of Federal Regulations, to ensure that, in
the case of a driver transporting livestock
(as defined in section 602 of the Agricultural
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1471)) or insects within
a 300 air-mile radius from the point at which
the on-duty time of the driver begins with
respect to the trip—
(1) the on-duty time of the driver shall ex-
clude all time spent—
(A) at a plant, terminal, facility, or other
property of a motor carrier or shipper or on
any public property during which the driver
is waiting to be dispatched;
(B) loading or unloading a commercial
motor vehicle;
(C) supervising or assisting in the loading
or unloading of a commercial motor vehicle;
(D) attending to a commercial motor vehi-
cle while the vehicle is being loaded or un-
loaded;
(E) remaining in readiness to operate a
commercial motor vehicle; and
(F) giving or receiving receipts for ship-
ments loaded or unloaded;
(2) except as provided in paragraph (5), the
driving time under section 395.3(a)(3)(i) of
that title is modified to a maximum of not
less than 15, and not more than 18, hours
within a 24-hour period;
(3) the driver may take 1 or more rest peri-
ods during the trip, which shall not be in-
cluded in the calculation of the driving time;
(4) after completion of the trip, the driver
shall be required to take a rest break for a
period that is 5 hours less than the max-
imum driving time under paragraph (2);
(5) if the driver is within 150 air-miles of
the point of delivery, any additional driving
to that point of delivery shall not be in-
cluded in the calculation of the driving time;
and
(6) the 10-hour rest period under section
395.3(a)(1) of that title shall not apply.
SA 3591. Mr. LEE (for himself and
Mr. BOOKER) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Secretary of
Agriculture to provide payments under the
environmental quality incentives program
established under chapter 4 of subtitle D of
title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16
U.S.C. 3839aa et seq.) for a practice that
earns a negative score on the Conservation
Practice Physical Effects matrix developed
by the Natural Resources Conservation Serv-
ice.
SA 3592. Mr. MENENDEZ (for him-
self, Ms. HARRIS, and Mr. BOOKER) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 318, line 21, strike the period at
the end and insert ‘‘: Provided further, That
notwithstanding the table titled ‘National
Institute of Food and Agriculture, Research
and Education Activities’ in the report ac-
companying this Act, $19,000,000 shall be
available for Minor Crop Pest Management
(IR–4): Provided further, That the amount
made available under this heading is in-
creased by $7,087,000.’’.
SA 3593. Mr. SCOTT (for himself and
Mr. MANCHIN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill H.R. 6147, making appropria-
tions for the Department of the Inte-
rior, environment, and related agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. POSITIVE CREDIT REPORTING PER-
MITTED.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 623 of the Fair
Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681s–2) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(f) FULL-FILE CREDIT REPORTING.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the
following definitions shall apply:
‘‘(A) ENERGY UTILITY FIRM.—The term ‘en-
ergy utility firm’ means an entity that pro-
vides gas or electric utility services to the
public.
‘‘(B) UTILITY OR TELECOMMUNICATION
FIRM.—The term ‘utility or telecommuni-
cation firm’ means an entity that provides
utility services to the public through pipe,
wire, landline, wireless, cable, or other con-
nected facilities, or radio, electronic, or
similar transmission (including the exten-
sion of such facilities).
‘‘(2) INFORMATION RELATING TO LEASE
AGREEMENTS, UTILITIES, AND TELECOMMUNI-
CATIONS SERVICES.—Subject to the limitation
in paragraph (3) and notwithstanding any
other provision of law, a person or the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
may furnish to a consumer reporting agency
information relating to the performance of a
consumer in making payments—
‘‘(A) under a lease agreement with respect
to a dwelling, including such a lease in which
the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment provides subsidized payments for oc-
cupancy in a dwelling; or
‘‘(B) pursuant to a contract for a utility or
telecommunications service.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—Information about a con-
sumer’s usage of any utility service provided
by a utility or telecommunication firm may
be furnished to a consumer reporting agency
only to the extent that the information re-
lates to the payment by the consumer for
the service of the utility or telecommuni-
cation service or other terms of the provi-
sion of the services to the consumer, includ-
ing any deposit, discount, or conditions for
interruption or termination of the service.
‘‘(4) PAYMENT PLAN.—An energy utility
firm may not report payment information to
a consumer reporting agency with respect to
an outstanding balance of a consumer as late
if—
‘‘(A) the energy utility firm and the con-
sumer have entered into a payment plan (in-
cluding a deferred payment agreement, an
arrearage management program, or a debt
forgiveness program) with respect to such
outstanding balance; and
‘‘(B) the consumer is meeting the obliga-
tions of the payment plan, as determined by
the energy utility firm.’’.
(b) LIMITATION ON LIABILITY.—Section
623(c) of the Consumer Credit Protection Act
(15 U.S.C. 1681s–2(c)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end;
(2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as para-
graph (4); and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) subsection (f) of this section, including
any regulations issued thereunder; or’’.
(c) GAO STUDY AND REPORT.—Not later
than 2 years after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Comptroller General of the
United States shall submit to Congress a re-
port on the impact of furnishing information
pursuant to subsection (f) of section 623 of
the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C.
1681s–2), as added by subsection (a) of this
section, on consumers.
SA 3594. Mr. SCOTT (for himself and
Mr. JONES) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 6147, making appropriations
for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. Section 4(a) of the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C.
2603(a)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘itemize all charges’’ and
inserting ‘‘itemize all actual charges’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘and all charges imposed
upon the seller in connection with the settle-
ment and’’ and inserting ‘‘and the seller in
connection with the settlement. Such
forms’’; and
(3) by inserting after ‘‘or both.’’ the fol-
lowing: ‘‘Charges for any title insurance pre-
mium disclosed on such forms shall be equal
to the amount charged for each individual
title insurance policy, subject to any dis-
counts as required by State regulation or the
title company rate filings.’’.
SA 3595. Ms. COLLINS (for herself,
Mr. KING, Mr. SANDERS, and Mrs. SHA-
HEEN) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by her to the bill
H.R. 6147, making appropriations for
the Department of the Interior, envi-
ronment, and related agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.034 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5388 July 25, 2018
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision C, insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be used to enforce the re-
quirement in the final rule entitled ‘‘Food
Labeling: Revision of the Nutrition and Sup-
plement Facts Labels’’, published in the Fed-
eral Register on May 27, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg.
33742), that any single ingredient sugar,
honey, agave, or syrup (including maple
syrup) that is packaged and offered for sale
as a single ingredient food bear the declara-
tion ‘‘Includes ‘X’g Added Sugars’’.
SA 3596. Mr. ENZI submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 142, between lines 16 and 17, insert
the following:
PROHIBITION OF USE OF FUNDS TO MAKE CER-
TAIN DEDUCTIONS FROM CERTAIN PAYMENTS
TO STATES UNDER THE MINERAL LEASING ACT
SEC. 433. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to carry out section
35(b) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C.
191(b)).
SA 3597. Mr. TOOMEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. APPLICABLE RECOVERY PERIOD FOR
QUALIFIED IMPROVEMENT PROP-
ERTY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—None of the funds made
available by this Act may be used by the In-
ternal Revenue Service to conduct any en-
forcement activity related to the treatment
of the applicable recovery period of qualified
improvement property as a period of other
than 15 years (20 years in the case of prop-
erty required to use the alternative deprecia-
tion system under section 168(g) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986), consistent with
the Joint Explanatory Statement of the
Committee of the Conference (House Report
115-466) accompanying H.R. 1 of the 115th
Congress (Public Law 115-97).
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Any term used in this
section which is also used in section 168 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall have
the meaning given such term under such sec-
tion.
SA 3598. Mr. MORAN (for himself,
Mr. UDALL, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. HEINRICH,
Mr. GARDNER, and Mr. BENNET) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 464, line 24, strike ‘‘regulation.’’
and insert the following: ‘‘regulation: Pro-
vided further, That not less than $50,000,000 of
the amount provided under this heading
shall be for capital expenses related to safety
improvements, maintenance, and the non-
Federal match for discretionary Federal
grant programs to enable continued pas-
senger rail operations on long-distance
routes (as defined in section 24102 of title 49,
United States Code) on which Amtrak is the
sole tenant of the host railroad and positive
train control systems are not required by
law (including regulations): Provided further,
That in fiscal year 2019, Amtrak may not
give notice under subsection (a) or (b) of sec-
tion 24706 of title 49, United States Code,
with respect to long-distance routes (as de-
fined in section 24102 of title 49, United
States Code) on which Amtrak is the sole
tenant of the host railroad and positive train
control systems are not required by law (in-
cluding regulations), or otherwise initiate
discontinuance of, reduce the frequency of,
suspend, or substantially alter the schedule
or route of rail service on any portion of
such route operated in fiscal year 2018, in-
cluding implementation of service permitted
by section 24305(a)(3)(A) of title 49, United
States Code, in lieu of rail service.’’.
SA 3599. Mr. PERDUE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision C, insert the following:
SEC. ll. Section 4(e) of the Poultry Prod-
ucts Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 453(e)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘including quail,’’ be-
fore ‘‘whether’’.
SA 3600. Mr. BROWN (for himself and
Mr. PORTMAN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 464, line 24, strike the period at
the end and insert ‘‘: Provided further, That a
sufficient amount of funds available under
this heading shall be available to restaff sta-
tions from which agents have been removed
after January 1, 2018, and that averaged not
less than 25 passengers per day during the
period beginning on January 1, 2013, and end-
ing on December 31, 2017.’’.
SA 3601. Mr. DURBIN (for himself,
Ms. WARREN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. (a) UNDUE HARDSHIP.—No funds
made available in this or any other Act may
be used to contest a claim, or to pay any
contractor of the Federal Government that
contests a claim, that is made—
(1) in any proceeding under section 523(a)(8)
of title 11, United States Code, that except-
ing a debt from discharge would constitute
an undue hardship; and
(2) by a debtor who—
(A) is receiving benefits under title II of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.)
or title XVI of that Act (42 U.S.C. 1381 et
seq.) on the basis of disability;
(B) has been determined by the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to be unemployable due
to a service-connected disability;
(C) is a family caregiver of an eligible vet-
eran pursuant to section 1720G of title 38;
(D) is a member of a household that has a
gross income that is less than 200 percent of
the poverty line, and provides for the care
and support of an elderly, disabled, or chron-
ically ill member of the household of the
debtor or member of the immediate family of
the debtor;
(E) is a member of a household that has a
gross income that is less than 200 percent of
the poverty line, and the income of the debt-
or is solely derived from benefit payments
under section 202 of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 402); or
(F) during the 5-year period preceding the
filing of the petition (exclusive of any appli-
cable suspension of the repayment period),
was not enrolled in an education program
and had a gross income that was less than
200 percent of the poverty line during each
year during that period.
(b) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘poverty line’’ means the poverty line (as de-
fined by the Office of Management and Budg-
et and revised annually in accordance with
section 673(2) of the Community Services
Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)) applicable
to a household of the size involved.
(c) 85/15 RULE.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, for fiscal years 2019 through
2028, no funds made available in this or any
other Act shall be provided, directly or indi-
rectly, to any proprietary institution of
higher education (as defined in section 102(b)
of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1002(b))) that derives less than 15 percent of
the institution’s revenue from sources other
than Federal financial assistance provided
under this or any other Act or any other
Federal law, through a grant, contract, sub-
sidy, loan, guarantee, insurance, or other
means, including Federal financial assist-
ance that is disbursed or delivered to an in-
stitution or on behalf of a student or to a
student to be used to attend the institution,
except that such assistance shall not include
any monthly housing stipend provided under
the Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Pro-
gram under chapter 33 of title 38, United
States Code.
SA 3602. Mr. BOOKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in division C, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. (a) None of the funds appro-
priated by this Act shall be used by the Sec-
retary of Agriculture (referred to in this sec-
tion as the ‘‘Secretary’’) to review or ap-
prove a budget or disbursement of funds for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.035 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5389
July 25, 2018
a board, committee, or similar entity estab-
lished to carry out a checkoff program to
promote and provide research and informa-
tion for a particular agricultural commodity
without reference to specific producers or
brands unless the Secretary first imposes a
requirement on the board, committee, or
similar entity to publish and make available
for public inspection all budgets and dis-
bursements of funds entrusted to the board,
committee, or similar entity that are ap-
proved by the Secretary, immediately on ap-
proval by the Secretary.
(b) In carrying out subsection (a), the Sec-
retary shall require that, for each disburse-
ment of funds, a board, committee, or simi-
lar entity shall disclose—
(1) the amount of the disbursement;
(2) the purpose of the disbursement, includ-
ing the activities to be funded by the dis-
bursement;
(3) the identity of the recipient of the dis-
bursement; and
(4) the identity of any third party that
may receive the disbursed funds, including
any contractor or subcontractor of the re-
cipient of the disbursement, and the amount
received by any third party.
SA 3603. Mr. CARPER (for himself,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, and Mr. BOOKER) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 10, line 10, strike ‘‘$1,292,067,000’’
and insert ‘‘$1,292,567,000’’.
On page 10, line 18, strike the period at the
end and insert ‘‘: Provided further, That not
to exceed $106,579,000 shall be used for plan-
ning and consultation, of which $500,000 shall
be used to hire not less than 3 full time em-
ployees to carry out the Information, Plan-
ning and Consultation system within the En-
vironmental Conservation Online System of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice.’’.
On page 40, line 7, strike ‘‘$134,673,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$134,173,000’’.
SA 3604. Mr. CARPER (for himself,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, and Mr. BOOKER) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 10, line 18, strike the period at the
end and insert ‘‘: Provided further, That not
less than $98,724,000 shall be used for recov-
ery of species under the Endangered Species
Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), of which
not less than $5,000,000 shall be used for the
recovery of species at the greatest risk of ex-
tinction: Provided further, That the amount
made available under this heading is in-
creased by $5,000,000.’’.
On page 40, line 7, strike ‘‘$134,673,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$129,673,000’’.
SA 3605. Mr. CARPER (for himself,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, and Mr. BOOKER) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 10, line 10, strike ‘‘$1,292,067,000’’
and insert ‘‘$1,293,067,000’’.
On page 10, line 18, strike the period at the
end and insert ‘‘: Provided further, That not
less than $17,267,000 shall be used for the
Science Support program of the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, of which
not less than $10,517,000 shall be used for
adaptive science under that program.’’.
On page 40, line 7, strike ‘‘$134,673,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$133,673,000’’.
SA 3606. Mr. CARPER (for himself,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, and Mr. BOOKER) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 10, line 10, strike ‘‘$1,292,067,000’’
and insert ‘‘$1,293,067,000’’.
On page 10, line 12, strike ‘‘$17,818,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$18,818,000’’.
On page 40, line 7, strike ‘‘$134,673,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$133,673,000’’.
SA 3607. Ms. STABENOW (for herself,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. REED, and Mr. CARDIN)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 3399 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
6147, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title II of division A, insert
the following:
Using funds appropriated under this title,
the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency shall implement the rec-
ommendations described in the report of the
Office of Inspector General of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency entitled ‘‘Man-
agement Weakness Delayed Response to
Flint Water Crisis’’, numbered 18-P-0221, and
dated July 19, 2018, to ensure clean and safe
water compliance under the Safe Drinking
Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.). If the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency does not implement 1 or more rec-
ommendations required by the preceding
sentence, the Administrator shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations and Envi-
ronment and Public Works of the Senate and
the Committees on Appropriations and En-
ergy and Commerce of the House of Rep-
resentatives a report explaining why the Ad-
ministrator did not implement the rec-
ommendation and identifying specific ac-
tions the Administrator is implementing to
address the concerns raised in the report.
SA 3608. Mr. REED submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 3399 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 6147, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 472, between lines 6 and 7, insert
the following:
SEC. 163. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used for the imple-
mentation or furtherance of new policies de-
tailed in the ‘‘Dear Colleague’’ letter distrib-
uted by the Federal Transit Administration
to capital investment grant program project
sponsors on June 29, 2018.
SA 3609. Mr. REED submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 6147, making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
In the matter under the heading ‘‘CAPITAL
INVESTMENT GRANTS’’ under the heading
‘‘FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION’’ in title
I of division D, insert before the period at
the end the following: ‘‘: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall treat the proceeds
of a Federal loan as a non-Federal contribu-
tion toward project costs under section 5309
of title 49, United States Code, if the loan is
repayable from non-Federal funds: Provided
further, That any contingency funds identi-
fied by a project sponsor in excess of the
funds necessary to satisfy a 50 percent prob-
ability threshold shall not be considered part
of a grant agreement under the capital in-
vestment grant program unless such excess
funds are expended: Provided further, That
risk assessments for projects under consider-
ation under subsections (d) and (e) of section
5309 of title 49, United States Code, shall not
occur until after a project has entered the
engineering phase, unless otherwise re-
quested by the project sponsor’’.
SA 3610. Mr. REED submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 6147, making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
In the matter under the heading ‘‘ADMINIS-
TRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL TRANSIT AD-
MINISTRATION (INCLUDING RESCISSION)’’ under
the heading ‘‘FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRA-
TION’’ in title I of division D, insert after sec-
tion 162 the following:
SEC. 163. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used to alter or re-
scind guidance issued by the Secretary of
Transportation for the capital investment
grant program.
SA 3611. Mr. DURBIN (for himself
and Mr. GRASSLEY) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 6147, making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision C, insert the following:
SEC. ll. The authority of the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to regulate di-
rect-to-consumer advertising of prescription
drugs, pursuant to the authorities under sec-
tions 502(n) and 503C of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 352(n),
353c), shall include the authority to require
such advertising to include an appropriate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.036 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5390 July 25, 2018
disclosure of pricing information with re-
spect to such drugs. The Secretary of Health
and Human Services shall issue regulations
to implement this section. A drug that is ad-
vertised to consumers without the informa-
tion required by this section or its imple-
menting regulations shall be deemed to be
misbranded under section 502 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 352).
SA 3612. Mr. DURBIN (for himself
and Mr. GRASSLEY) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill H.R. 6147, making ap-
propriations for the Department of the
Interior, environment, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision C, insert the following:
SEC. ll. Of the funds appropriated pursu-
ant to this Act, no more than $1,000,000 shall
be used by the Secretary of Health and
Human Services to issue a regulation requir-
ing that direct-to-consumer advertisements
under section 502(n) of the Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act include an appropriate disclo-
sure of pricing information with respect to
such drugs.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
have 6 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, July 25, 2018, at
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled
‘‘The Race to 5G: Exploring Spectrum
Needs to Maintain U.S. Global Leader-
ship.’’
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR,
AND PENSIONS
The Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, July 25, 2018, at
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on legis-
lation and pending nominations.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, July
25, 2018, at 3 p.m., to conduct a hearing
entitled ‘‘An Update on American Di-
plomacy to Advance our National Se-
curity Strategy.’’
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, July 25, 2018, at 9:30 a.m., to con-
duct a hearing on the nomination of
Joseph Maguire, of Florida, to be Di-
rector of the National Counterter-
rorism Center, Office of the Director of
National Intelligence, and Ellen E.
McCarthy, of Virginia, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of State (Intelligence
and Research).
THE JOINT SELECT COMMITTEE ON SOLVENCY OF
MULTIEMPLOYER PENSION PLANS
The Joint Select Committee on Sol-
vency of Multiemployer Pension Plans
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, July
25, 2018, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing
entitled ‘‘How the Multiemployer Pen-
sion System Affects Stakeholders.’’
SUBCOMMITTEE ON SPACE, SCIENCE, AND
COMPETITIVENESS
The Subcommittee on Space,
Science, and Competitiveness of the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, July 25, 2018, at 2:15 p.m.,
to conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘Destina-
tion Mars: Putting American Boots on
the Surface of the Red Planet.’’
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 184 and H.R. 1201
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I under-
stand that there are two bills at the
desk, and I ask for their first reading
en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the bills by title en bloc
for the first time.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 184) to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on
medical devices.
A bill (H.R. 1201) to amend section 5000A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide
an additional religious exemption from the
individual health coverage mandate, and for
other purposes.
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I now
ask for a second reading, and I object
to my own request, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will be
read for the second time on the next
legislative day.
f
EAST ROSEBUD WILD AND SCENIC
RIVERS ACT
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H.R. 4645, which was received
from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 4645) to amend the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act to designate certain seg-
ments of East Rosebud Creek in Carbon
County, Montana, as components of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers System.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time and passed
and the motion to reconsider be consid-
ered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 4645) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
NATIONAL ADA LOVELACE DAY
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 592, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 592) designating Octo-
ber 9, 2018, as ‘‘National Ada Lovelace Day’’
and honoring the life and legacy of Ada
Lovelace, the first computer programmer.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I further
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 592) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF GRACE HOPPER
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 593, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 593) honoring the life
and legacy of Grace Hopper, professor, inven-
tor, entrepreneur, business leader, and Rear
Admiral of the Navy.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MORAN. I further ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 593) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, JULY 26,
2018
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 9:30 a.m., Thursday, July 26;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY6.038 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5391
July 25, 2018
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, and morning business be
closed; further, that following leader
remarks, the Senate resume consider-
ation of H.R. 6147.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, if there
is no further business to come before
the Senate, I ask unanimous consent
that it stand adjourned under the pre-
vious order, following the remarks of
Senator HIRONO.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Hawaii.
f
NOMINATION OF BRETT
KAVANAUGH
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, the Sen-
ate has a constitutional duty equal to
the President’s to provide advice and
consent on all judicial nominees, in-
cluding the President’s Supreme Court
nominee, Brett Kavanaugh. Our advice-
and-consent role requires us to view
the totality of Judge Kavanaugh’s
record and experiences, including the
documents from his time in the execu-
tive branch.
Judge Kavanaugh worked as a fellow
in the first Bush administration’s Of-
fice of the Solicitor General, for Ken
Starr in the Office of the Independent
Counsel investigating President Clin-
ton, and in President George W. Bush’s
White House in the office of White
House Counsel and as Staff Secretary
to the President.
As has been the practice for previous
Supreme Court nominees, the Judici-
ary Committee should ask for and re-
ceive all records related to his work in
these roles. Any document requested of
the Bush library or the National Ar-
chives should parallel similar requests
made for other Supreme Court nomi-
nees.
Take the request sent by the com-
mittee for Elena Kagan’s nomination.
This is the letter requesting informa-
tion for Elena Kagan. We simply sub-
stituted Judge Kavanaugh’s name
where Elena Kagan’s name appeared.
You probably can’t see it, but the re-
quest letter is signed by then-chair of
the Judiciary Committee, PATRICK
LEAHY, and it was signed by our cur-
rent Attorney General, but ranking
member at that time, Jeff Sessions.
On May 18, 2010, just 8 days after her
nomination to the Supreme Court by
President Obama, the Judiciary Com-
mittee sent a bipartisan request to the
Director of the Clinton Presidential Li-
brary asking for records from her time
working at the White House and
records related to her nomination to
the DC Circuit. We should send a simi-
lar request for Judge Kavanaugh, just
substituting Brett Kavanaugh’s name
for Elena Kagan’s. However, the chair-
man of the Judiciary Committee, our
colleague from Iowa, is refusing to
work with us to request the totality of
Judge Kavanaugh’s record.
I have heard the objection to the re-
quest for all the records that rests on
the volume of documents we might re-
ceive. The fact that there could be a lot
of documents relevant to Judge
Kavanaugh’s time in the White House,
or any relevant point in his career, is
not the issue. The President knew
there were a lot of documents related
to Judge Kavanaugh. It was reported
that the majority leader argued that
Judge Kavanaugh’s voluminous record
could hurt his confirmation, tacitly ac-
knowledging that the Senate would
have to examine all of the documents.
Senator MCCONNELL understood that
the record was relevant to the Senate’s
advice-and-consent responsibility in re-
viewing this nominee’s qualifications
and judicial philosophy. Even the
nominee himself, Judge Kavanaugh,
thinks the same. Judge Kavanaugh
often refers to how his executive
branch experience shapes his judicial
philosophy.
In 2013, he wrote in a published law
review article:
When people ask me which prior legal ex-
perience has been most useful for me as a
judge, I tell them I certainly draw on all of
them, the clerkships, private practice at
Kirkland, Independent Counsel’s office, even
college jobs on the Hill at Ways and Means,
but the five-and-a-half years in the White
House, especially the three years as Staff
Secretary for President Bush, are among the
most interesting and most instructive. . . .
In 2016, he repeated that sentiment
almost word for word. Again, quoting
Judge Kavanaugh:
People sometimes ask what prior legal ex-
perience has been most useful for me as a
judge. And I say, ‘‘I certainly draw on all of
them,’’ but I also say that my five-and-a-half
years at the White House and especially my
three years as staff secretary for President
George W. Bush were the most interesting
and informative for me.
Judge Kavanaugh emphasized that
the most interesting and informative
experiences he had were at the White
House as Staff Secretary. So, of course,
the Senate Judiciary Committee ought
to be able to review all of the records
of his time in the White House.
The scope of the request that Demo-
crats on the Judiciary Committee are
proposing is so obvious and common
sense that it is hard to believe it is a
topic of debate. In normal times, there
would not be any question about what
the committee is entitled to see, and
no responsible Senate would object.
But these are not normal times. In
these times, we have Senators trying
to cover for an irresponsible, dangerous
President, who, like in anything else
he does, wants to bulldoze his nomi-
nee’s way onto the highest Court in the
land for life.
In these not-normal times, the sim-
plest of processes—getting access to
the records of a Supreme Court nomi-
nee—has become politicalized, and in
these not-normal times, we have to
wonder why the standards have sud-
denly changed, and we have to ask our-
selves what could possibly be hiding in
those documents.
When the President proposes a nomi-
nee to the Supreme Court, we owe it to
ourselves and to our country to thor-
oughly examine that nominee’s record,
to diligently question them about their
records and judicial philosophy, and to
make a reasoned judgment about their
fitness for the job.
The American people rely on us in
the Senate, and particularly in the Ju-
diciary Committee, to perform our con-
stitutional advice-and-consent duties
to the best of our abilities.
So I urge my Republican colleagues
to join us in calling for the full release
of all documents related to Judge
Kavanaugh’s record and experiences.
This has happened in the past. It has
always happened, and it should happen
again.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:31 p.m.,
adjourned until Thursday, July 26, 2018,
at 9:30 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:19 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25JY6.078 S25JYPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1061
July 25, 2018
SARAH JENNINGS RETIREMENT
FROM THE CBO
HON. MAC THORNBERRY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor and recognize Sarah Jennings
on her retirement after more than 19 years of
exceptional service to the Congress at the
Congressional Budget Office. Sarah will be re-
tiring at the end of August. After working as a
civilian nuclear test engineer for the U.S.
Navy, an economic consultant, and an instruc-
tor at George Mason University, she began
her congressional career in CBO’s Budget
Analysis Division in 1999. She worked as a
principal analyst and then as the unit chief for
the Defense, International Affairs, and Vet-
erans’ Affairs Cost Estimates Unit.
During her time at CBO, Sarah has been
recognized as a knowledgeable and experi-
enced manager. As the third longest tenured
unit chief in the Budget Analysis Division, she
has extensive knowledge of the program ac-
counts in her unit and fosters an outstanding
collegial environment where analysts respect
each other and work well together.
Sarah has established an exceptional work-
ing relationship with the Armed Services Com-
mittees, which allows CBO to work on the pro-
posals for the annual National Defense Au-
thorization Act in an effective manner. During
her tenure, she has taken a strategic and me-
thodical approach to the analysis of legislative
proposals as she assists her analysts in con-
sidering the budgetary effects of different pro-
posals. Her support has made an important
contribution to the Armed Services Commit-
tees’ success in achieving the timely enact-
ment of the National Defense Authorization
Act each year. She deserves a well-earned re-
tirement.
In short, with Sarah’s retirement, the Con-
gressional Budget Office will lose a great
asset. Over the past 19 years, the Congres-
sional Budget Office—and by extension, the
Congress itself—has been fortunate to enjoy
the dedication and insight that Sarah has
brought to her work. I know my colleagues join
me in extending our thanks and appreciation
to Sarah for her service to our nation, and our
very best wishes for a happy and productive
retirement.
f
HONORING THE CAREERS OF WEST
GENESSE LACROSSE COACHES
MIKE MESSERE AND BOB
DEEGAN
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. KATKO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor the careers of West Genesee lacrosse
coaches Mike Messere and Bob Deegan.
In a career lasting over forty years, Coach
Messere was responsible for leading the West
Genesee Men’s Lacrosse program to 846 wins
and 15 New York State Class A Champion-
ships. Since the late 70s, Coach Messere
brought unparalleled success to the program
by instilling a mentality of hard-nose funda-
mental play into his players. Coaching along-
side him for much of his career, Coach
Deegan played an integral role in sustaining
the program’s long-term success by devel-
oping and implementing some of the most ac-
complished defensive schemes.
Thanks to the contributions made by Coach
Messere and Coach Deegan, lacrosse is thriv-
ing in Central New York and has now become
the fastest growing sport in the country. Over
the course of their careers, hundreds of play-
ers who have gone through this distinguished
program have later won national champion-
ships at the collegiate level and even become
coaches of their own teams. Now as the ca-
reers of these coaches comes to a close, the
two can rest assured that their legacy in the
sport of lacrosse will live on in Central New
York and beyond.
I am proud to honor the legendary careers
of Coach Messere and Coach Deegan and
want to thank them for spurring excitement
and participation in the sport of lacrosse.
f
IN APPRECIATION OF COLLEEN
ALTSTOCK AND HER SERVICE TO
THE HOMELAND SECURITY COM-
MITTEE
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr. Speak-
er, as the Ranking Member of the Committee
on Homeland Security, I rise to express my
appreciation of Ms. Colleen Altstock upon the
conclusion of her service to the Committee as
a Pearson Foreign Policy Fellow and return to
the Department of State.
Since joining the Committee in September
2017, Ms. Altstock has made valuable con-
tributions to our legislative and oversight work
by sharing her vast knowledge of counterter-
rorism and foreign affairs, especially with re-
spect to U.S. policy toward Russia and China.
She has been a reliable resource to both our
staff and the Members of the Committee.
During her tenure on the Committee, Ms.
Altstock shared her extensive knowledge of
State Department programs such as its visa
vetting and foreign assistance programs, in-
cluding its counterterrorism grant and anti-cor-
ruption rule of law assistance programs. Ms.
Altstock made valuable contributions to our
staff’s understanding of the State Depart-
ment’s visa operations by arranging a staff
visit to State consular training facilities so that
my staff could observe firsthand State’s visa
screening and fraud prevention techniques. Fi-
nally, Ms. Altstock prepared background
memoranda on U.S. relations with Russia,
North Korea, and Iran, including President
Trump’s Summit with North Korea’s Kim Jong
Un and the possible consequences of the U.S.
decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear
agreement.
Ms. Altstock played a key role as a staffer
on the Congressional Task Force on Election
Security, a task force established by Demo-
cratic Leader NANCY PELOSI which I co-chaired
with Rep. ROBERT BRADY (D–PA). She contrib-
uted greatly to the work of the Task Force, in-
cluding assisting with writing the Task Force’s
final report and recommendations. Ms.
Altstock was also instrumental in drafting H.R.
5011, the Election Security Act, which cur-
rently has co-sponsorship of over 100 Mem-
bers of Congress. Ms. Altstock also contrib-
uted to over a half dozen Committee oversight
hearings.
Throughout her time on the Committee, Ms.
Altstock has displayed a high degree of pro-
fessionalism and personal commitment to pro-
viding Members of the Committee and staff
valuable insight and information. We thank
Ms. Altstock for her service to the Committee
and our country and wish her the very best as
she returns to the U.S. Department of State.
f
RECOGNIZING JOHN ‘‘LADDIE’’
LAWRENCE
HON. JAMES A. HIMES
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to rec-
ognize John ‘‘Laddie’’ Lawrence. For 50 years,
Laddie has coached cross country and track
at Staples High School in Westport, CT.
Laddie began his career in track by helping
found the Staples High School cross country
team, and shortly thereafter won the 1964
State Open title in the 400-meter run. Fol-
lowing high school, Laddie attended Southern
Arkansas University on full athletic scholar-
ship, where he was the resident assistant for
the university’s first racially integrated dorm.
After his time at Southern Arkansas, Laddie
returned to Westport and within ten years be-
came the head coach of the Staples High
School track and cross-country teams. Under
his tenure, the Staples Wreckers have been a
force to be reckoned with, tallying hundreds of
wins that included a streak of 222 dual meet
victories and only one loss. I am proud to say
that Laddie’s many victories and extensive
legacy have earned him inductions into the
Fairfield County Interscholastic Athletic Con-
ference Hall of Fame in 2002, the Connecticut
High School Coaches Association Hall of
Fame in 2004 and the National High School
Athletic Coaches Hall of Fame in 2015.
In addition to his achievements as a coach,
Laddie’s influence extends to the thousands of
student athletes whom he has coached. He
has helped develop many Staples students
into NCAA Division I athletes and productive,
caring members of our community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K25JY8.001 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1062 July 25, 2018
Mr. Speaker, I proudly ask you to join me in
commending Laddie for his commitment to
coaching thousands of athletes, who continue
to carry the lessons of determination and for-
titude that were instilled in them as runners.
f
FOUNDATION OF THE FEDERAL
BAR ASSOCIATION CHARTER
AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2017
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 23, 2018
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 5385, the GME Support
Reauthorization Act of 2018.
H.R. 5385 amends the Public Health Serv-
ice Act to reauthorize the program of pay-
ments to children’s hospitals that operate
graduate medical education programs.
Americans across our nation need care, and
the Children’s Hospital GME (CHGME) pro-
gram has been utilized by hospitals across our
country to train doctors who can provide that
necessary aid.
I represent the 18th District of Texas which
is home to the Methodist Hospital System, one
of the largest medical institutions in the world.
H.R. 5385 will allow Houston to continue to
recruit and train many talented doctors.
CHGME was created in 1999 because Con-
gress recognized that a dedicated source of
support for training in children’s hospitals was
necessary to strengthen the pediatric work-
force.
Since then, CHGME funding has enabled
children’s hospitals to dramatically increase
training overall, and in particular grow the sup-
ply of pediatric specialists—the area of great-
est shortage in children’s health care.
If CHGME is allowed to expire, we will lose
the progress we have made in this field.
According to data from a 2017 Children’s
Hospital Association survey, pediatric specialty
shortages continue to affect children’s ability
to receive timely, appropriate care.
The funds generated from this legislation.
will help train the medical professionals we
desperately need.
In a time when there are growing health dis-
parities within our nation, it is important to ad-
dress the needs of underserved urban areas.
The more medical professionals we train,
the greater the likelihood that these under-
served communities will have access to proper
medical care.
CHGME funds the training of pediatric pro-
viders at eligible children’s hospitals.
The 58 children’s hospitals that receive
CHGME funding train approximately half of the
nation’s pediatricians, more than 7,000 annu-
ally.
We should provide the funds necessary to
train students in a profession that will benefit
society.
We must train the very professionals who
will one day save the life of a child.
I support this legislation because it will in-
crease the quality of medical training in the
United States.
I believe that H.R. 5385 improves upon a
system that sets the bar for medical care inter-
nationally.
By passing H.R. 5385, CHGME can con-
tinue to succeed in bolstering research poten-
tial at these institutions as well as helping to
cure a problem that supersedes political
boundaries: children’s illness.
I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for
H.R. 5385.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 6TH ANNUAL
TASTE OF ETHIOPIA
HON. MIKE COFFMAN
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. COFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the 6th Annual Taste of Ethiopia.
This yearly occasion celebrates and recog-
nizes Colorado’s Ethiopian immigrant commu-
nity. The event encompasses an array of Ethi-
opian music, foods, arts, crafts, games and
dances, creating an environment of cultural
immersion. The event truly highlights the many
wonderful and positive contributions our fellow
Americans of Ethiopian descent make to bet-
ter our community. Best of all, the event is de-
signed to welcome everyone and every year
more and more of our neighbors come to
enjoy, experience, and learn more about the
fascinating and deeply historic Ethiopian cul-
ture.
I am proud to represent the largest Ethio-
pian community in the State of Colorado in the
United States House of Representatives. The
Ethiopian community’s dedication to work,
family, and education truly exemplifies the val-
ues that strengthen our nation. I have had the
privilege of attending the past Taste of Ethi-
opia events, and it is an honor for me to again
take part in the festivities.
I would like to again offer my sincere con-
gratulations to the organizers and volunteers
of the Taste of Ethiopia for their dedication to
promoting Ethiopian culture in the State of
Colorado. Therefore, I include in the RECORD
their names:
1. Fikru Ayele.
2. Girum Alemayehu.
3. Nebiyu Asfaw.
4. Bizuayehu Sebsebe.
5. Sofia Belew.
6. Adanech Dembel.
7. Yalemwork Tekola.
8. Senait Ketema.
9. Tilahun Dessie.
10. Selam Ayele.
11. Aynalem Mamo.
12. Helen Tekle.
13. Sossena Dagne.
14. Yohannes Mengistu.
15. Aschalew Agonafer.
16. Mequanent Mekuria.
17. Mahder Mengiste.
18. Admasu Chekole.
19. Elizabeth Moltot.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE USS
‘‘TAPPAHANNOCK’’
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
recognition of the USS Tappahannock, a Navy
vessel with 34 years of service. On Sunday
July 15th, the USS Tappahannock was memo-
rialized in a ceremony on the Courthouse
Green in Tappahannock, VA.
The USS Tappahannock was vital to the
support of U.S. aircraft carriers, battleships,
destroyers and other combatants during WWII,
the Korean War, and the Vietnam War. During
WWII, the ship earned six medals and nine
battle stars. Additionally her sailors were cred-
ited with shooting down a Japanese bomber
and rescuing sailors from ships that were sunk
by Japanese aircraft. After WWII, the ship was
briefly decommissioned before being put back
into service for the Korean War and the Viet-
nam War. The USS Tappahannock was finally
stricken from the Navy’s roles in 1976 after its
34 years of service.
Mr. Speaker, I ask you to join me in hon-
oring the USS Tappahannock for its admirable
service to the protection of our Nation.
f
IN CELEBRATION OF THE FORT
KNOX CENTENNIAL
HON. BRETT GUTHRIE
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor the Fort Knox Centennial. Fort Knox
plays a vital role in our national security, and
I am extremely proud to represent Fort Knox
in Congress.
After serving as a military installation going
back to the Civil War, ground was officially
broken for the installation we know today as
Fort Knox on August 16, 1918. Established as
an artillery camp during World War I, Fort
Knox was used as an active training center
and housed soldiers returning from the war.
During World War II, Fort Knox was chosen to
be the headquarters of the Armored Force,
which trained soldiers in the use of armored
vehicles, and remained the Armor head-
quarters until 2005. Since then, Fort Knox has
been the home of a number of commands, in-
cluding the Human Resources Command, Re-
cruiting Command, and Cadet Command. Fa-
mously, Fort Knox is also home to the U.S.
Department of Treasury’s Bullion Depository.
Fort Knox is a leader in military innovation
with its award-winning energy conservation
program.
Fort Knox is home to the future of our
Armed Forces. Here’s to the next 100 years.
f
CONGRATULATING ELIZABETH
WENDE BREAST CARE ON OPEN-
ING ITS NEW LOCATION
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor and congratulate Elizabeth Wende
Breast Care on the grand opening of a new
site in Carthage, New York.
Elizabeth Wende Breast Care leads the field
in breast imaging and breast cancer diagnosis,
and is well known for its state-of-the-art 3D
mammography technology. In its fight against
breast cancer, Elizabeth Wende Breast Care
has partnered with Carthage Area Hospital to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K25JY8.004 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1063
July 25, 2018
bring its high-quality treatment within the reach
of thousands of North Country residents by
opening a new site in Carthage, New York.
Residents will benefit from having Elizabeth
Wende Breast Care’s services right in their
neighborhood.
On behalf of New York’s 21st District, I want
to congratulate Elizabeth Wende Breast Care
on the opening of its new location in Carthage,
New York. I look forward to hearing about the
assistance they will provide to North Country
residents, and I wish them the best of luck in
the years to come.
f
SALUTING THE ROUND ROCK, TX
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
HON. JOHN R. CARTER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I sa-
lute my friends and neighbors of the Round
Rock, TX Chamber of Commerce who were
recently honored as the 2018 Chamber of the
Year by the Association of Chamber of Com-
merce Executives. The Round Rock Chamber
are richly deserving recipients of this pres-
tigious award which recognizes the leadership
role chambers have in their communities and
excellence in operations and community lead-
ership.
Throughout the years, the Chamber has fos-
tered an unrivaled environment of economic
success for the citizens of Round Rock.
They’ve helped to employ over 25,000 Texans
with over 10,000 investors supporting the local
economy, making the Chamber one of the
largest and most active business associations
in Central Texas. Their efforts have been a
critical part of Texas’s strong economy and
have been essential to making Round Rock a
place where business thrives.
The Chamber continuously works to create
economic opportunities for the people of
Round Rock. In the past year alone, the
Chamber has won $257 million in capital in-
vestment, brought 575 jobs to Round Rock,
launched the Entrepreneurship Round Rock
program, and increased opportunities for en-
trepreneurs young and old. When it comes to
promoting education, talent development, and
quality of life in the Round Rock Community,
the Round Rock Chamber never rests.
The positive impacts made by the Chamber
are among the many reasons I am proud to
call the city of Round Rock my hometown. I
celebrate their work and am glad to see them
get the national recognition they deserve. I
know that for the Chamber, as well as the citi-
zens they’re proud to serve, the best is yet to
come.
f
FACEBOOK TRIES TO SILENCE
THOMAS JEFFERSON AND THE
DECLARATION OF INDEPEND-
ENCE
HON. TED POE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, history tells
us that President Thomas Jefferson had a
love hate relationship with the press. At times
Jefferson detested them, but he truly believed
a free people required a free press. ‘‘The
basis of our governments being the opinion of
the people, the very first object should be to
keep that right,’’ words spoken by Jefferson to
Edward Carrington in 1787. ‘‘And were it left
to me to decide whether we should have a
government without newspapers, or news-
papers without a government, I should not
hesitate a moment to prefer the latter. But I
should mean that every man should receive
those papers and be capable of reading
them.’’ Patriots, like Jefferson, secured these
rights that folks enjoy today. Just because we
may not like what we read, does not mean
that it should be silenced.
It’s no big surprise to me that the folks over
at Facebook don’t know the first thing about
freedom and rights. Their latest attack, using
digital censorship, has stirred up a firestorm.
Just in case you haven’t heard, the Liberty
County Vindicator, a newspaper that publishes
news for the City of Liberty, Texas and Liberty
County, Texas posted the Declaration of Inde-
pendence in twelve installments leading up to
the Fourth of July. Casey Stinnett, managing
editor, said that the first nine parts posted as
schedule, but part ten, of the historic docu-
ment did not appear. The Liberty County Vin-
dicator received a notice from Facebook say-
ing that the post ‘‘goes against our standards
on hate speech.’’ I’m a fierce advocate of the
First Amendment protecting freedom of
speech and press. This is, without a doubt, a
flippant disregard and assault on the First
Amendment by Facebook.
For over 131 years, the Liberty County Vin-
dicator newspaper, has told the story of every-
day America. It has documented community
history in a way that will forever be available
to future generations. Since the newspaper
began operations in 1887, it has covered local
events, business happenings, politics, trage-
dies, civic improvements, and so much more.
The paper recently followed and covered Lib-
erty High School’s Lady Panthers Softball
Team who won the Texas UIL State Class 4A
Softball Champions. It has also followed wars
and has told stories about our young freedom
fighters from the area who returned home and
some who did not return. It is everything a
community newspaper should be. The Vindi-
cator has always had its finger on the pulse of
folks in Liberty, Texas.
Liberty’s rich history of rugged Texas pio-
neers who settled near the Trinity River spans
more than 180 years. Today, Liberty continues
to live up to its rich legacy and community
spirit of patriotism. One such family epitomizes
the spirit of Liberty County—the patriotic
Ripkowski brothers. Twelve brothers from Lib-
erty County, Texas served in our military in
various branches spanning from World War II
to the Korean War. And they all survived the
wars and returned to Liberty County, Texas.
According to a pentagon spokesperson, there
has never been another family with that many
sons from the same parents to join the service
in American history.
The Ripkowski brothers believed their serv-
ice in the military was their duty as an Amer-
ican citizen. To them it was not performed for
heroics or to gain medals, but to answer the
honorable call of duty for their beloved coun-
try. Reality is that freedom doesn’t come free.
It is the United States military that has always
been on the front lines to defend the liberties
of all Americans, even the folks over at
Facebook.
It is an honor to have represented the citi-
zens of Liberty County in the United States
House of Representatives. I commend the
Vindicator for challenging its readers to read
the Declaration of Independence. Freedom of
speech and freedom of the press must ever
be protected. Thomas Jefferson, who was the
primary author of the Declaration of Independ-
ence, said, ‘‘our liberty depends on the free-
dom of the press, and that cannot be limited
without being lost.’’ The Founding Father and
the third President of the United States, Thom-
as Jefferson, undoubtedly believed deeply in
the freedom of speech and of the press.
Jefferson must have turned over in his
grave when he heard that the Declaration of
Independence was censored in America.
America’s defense of freedom and liberties is
a struggle that never ends, and the Vindicator
should continue to exercise the right to free
speech and press, whether those that hate the
First Amendment like it or not.
And that’s just the way it is.
f
HONORING MR. MIKE PARNESS
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to honor Mr. Mike Parness upon
his retirement from a distinguished 40 year
public service career in city management.
Mr. Parness grew up in Livermore, Cali-
fornia and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts
in Political Science from the University of
Santa Clara. He continued his education at
California State University, Hayward, where he
earned a Master of Public Administration.
Mr. Parness worked as a City Administrator
in Renton, Washington for eleven years before
returning to California to serve as the City
Manager for San Clemente for twelve years
and later, Walnut Creek for almost five years.
Since November of 2006 Mr. Parness has
been the City Manager of Napa, California.
During his tenure at the City of Napa, Mr.
Parness was a member of the Sunrise Rotary
and served on the Board of Directors for the
California City Management Foundation and
the International City Management Founda-
tion. As City Manager, he oversaw the con-
struction of Fire Stations 4 and 5, the renova-
tion of the Edward I. Barwick Jamieson Can-
yon Water Treatment Plant, the introduction of
Measure T and the launch of the 10-mile Pav-
ing Program and Sidewalk Repair and Re-
placement Program. Mr. Parness played an
essential role in the revitalization of downtown
Napa, the expansion of public event space at
the Oxbow Commons and the city’s financial
recovery after the Great Recession.
Mr. Parness also facilitated the growth of
public areas during his career in Napa with the
additions of Trancas Crossing Park, China
Point Overlook Park, Third Street Overlook
Park, and the renewal of Veterans Park. He is
also a wonderful colleague. His quick wit,
sense of humor and lively stories are cher-
ished by those who work with him.
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Parness is a passionate
civil servant with an esteemed record for giv-
ing back to our community. It is therefore fit-
ting and proper that we honor Mr. Mike
Parness here today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY8.005 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1064 July 25, 2018
COMMENDING JESSICA
ESPAILLAT, DAPHNE HER-
NANDEZ, MARIA PALOMARES
CARRANCO, AND NEREYDA
REYES ON THEIR SELECTION AS
BENJAMIN A. GILMAN INTER-
NATIONAL SCHOLARS
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
congratulate four outstanding Houston resi-
dents on their reception of the Benjamin A.
Gilman International Scholarship.
I offer my sincere congratulations to Ms.
Jessica Espaillat, Ms. Daphne Hernandez, Ms.
Maria Palomares Carranco, and Ms. Nereyda
Reyes for their remarkable achievement of re-
ceiving the Benjamin A. Gilman International
Scholarship.
The Benjamin A. Gilman International Schol-
arship builds young, well-rounded and diverse
leaders who have the skills to contribute to our
national security and public diplomacy efforts.
The scholarship program was established
with the support of the late Congressman Ben-
jamin A. Gilman of New York, whose leading
contributions to study abroad educational pro-
grams continue to help many students develop
the ability to communicate and understand the
economic, social and political connections
among nations.
The scholarship was established to provide
recipients with the tools to develop inter-
national knowledge and language skills, as
well as gain valuable career-enhancing experi-
ences in their experiences abroad.
The Gilman program has enabled more than
25,000 outstanding Americans of diverse
backgrounds to engage in a meaningful edu-
cational experience abroad, providing them
with skills critical to our national security and
economic competiveness.
Houston’s contribution to this impressive list
of talented individuals includes:
Ms. Jessica Espaillat, of the University of
Houston, who studied abroad in Japan;
Ms. Daphne Hernandez, of Colby College,
who studied abroad in Japan;
Ms. Maria Palomares Carranco, of the Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin, who completed her
studies in Mexico; and
Ms. Nereyda Reyes, of Texas A&M Univer-
sity at College Station, who spent her time
abroad studying in Belgium.
This is truly a wonderful accomplishment for
the recipients, and I offer them my best wish-
es as they embark on the next steps of their
educational journeys.
My office is always open to the scholarship
recipients, and I encourage them to contact
me for any help they may need with their fu-
ture educational goals.
f
THANK YOU PAULINE M. BROWN
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speak-
er, I am grateful that a talented constituent
Pauline M. Brown of Barnwell, South Carolina,
has written an inspiring book entitled A Touch
of Heaven. Beginning with love letters to her
husband serving in Vietnam in 1968, she has
continued writing, composing more than five
hundred poems including the following from
her book, A Friendly Hello (pg. 36).
A Friendly Hello
Always believe in the simplest things—
Sunshine and flowers, flags blowing in the
wind,
The music of children, rain on a tin roof,
Afternoons spent with a cherished friend.
A friendly hello can make all the difference
In anyone’s fragile state of mind.
Say ‘‘I miss you,’’ ‘‘I love you,’’
‘‘God bless you, my friend,’’
And the saddest of spirits will be realigned.
A friendly hello can dry the tears of heart-
ache.
A little encouragement can rescue a lost
cause.
Remember a friend who brought you back
from despair,
And do the same for someone else, just be-
cause.
f
OFFICER CHRISTOPHER GRIGGS
HON. KEN BUCK
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr . BUCK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to rec-
ognize the remarkable courage of Sergeant
Christopher Griggs, a law enforcement officer
in Fort Morgan, Colorado.
On April 28, a man stole a semi-truck in
Logan County, Colorado, and he proceeded to
rampage though the town of Fort Morgan and
the surrounding areas. With the police in pur-
suit, the semi-truck wrecked anything in its
way, destroying cars and injuring several civil-
ians.
In the midst of this chaos, Sergeant Griggs
confronted the semi-truck outside the city of
Fort Morgan. He soon realized that the situa-
tion was becoming serious enough that he
must resort to lethal force to stop the semi-
truck. As Sergeant Griggs loaded his rifle, the
semi-truck violently rammed his patrol part-
ner’s car off the highway. In response, Ser-
geant Griggs quickly discharged multiple
rounds at the semi-truck. Unharmed, the driver
of the truck changed course and began to
drive aggressively towards the officer. Think-
ing fast, Sergeant Griggs leapt into his patrol
car and sped out of the way just in time to
avoid being crushed by the semi-truck.
As the rampaging truck sped on into the
night, Griggs and his partner continued pur-
suing it, eventually following it into the town of
Brush, Colorado. Once again, Sergeant Griggs
made the courageous decision to confront the
semi-truck by firing at the driver, who was
caught soon after.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to join the people
of Fort Morgan in thanking Sergeant Griggs
for his courage, quick-thinking, and dedication
to protecting our community.
TRIBUTE TO MS. BETTY
HENDERSON
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor a remarkable woman and outstanding
South Carolinian, Betty Henderson, who ex-
emplifies the epitome of dedicated community
service.
Born in Branchville, Ms. Henderson served
the citizens of Orangeburg County for twenty-
eight years as the first African American Tax
Assessor in the State of South Carolina. She
also served for twelve years on the Town
Council in Branchville, South Carolina, the first
African American to serve on the body since
post reconstruction. For 10 of those years, Ms.
Henderson served as Mayor Pro Tem of
Branchville.
Ms. Betty Henderson was one of the found-
ers of the Orangeburg County Family Health
Center. She has served on the Board of The
Orangeburg Calhoun, Bamberg, Community
Action Agency, the Trustee Board of the Re-
gional Medical Center of Orangeburg and Cal-
houn Counties, the Orangeburg County De-
partment of Social Services, and as a member
of the Adult Literacy Board.
She served for over 20 years as Chair-
person of the Orangeburg County Democratic
Party and through her leadership many per-
sons have been elected to public office. Her
life includes membership in the White Rose
Chapter I, Former Worthy Matron of White
Rose Chapter I, former Queen of the National
Order of the Eastern Star, LaCharm Club,
founding member of the Concerned Citizens of
District 94, and is a member and Chair of the
Budget Committee of Canaan Baptist Church.
Ms. Henderson has raised three fine chil-
dren, Shelia, Ernest, and Kathy, who have
blessed her with four wonderful grandchildren.
Mr. Speaker, I urge that you and my col-
leagues join me in honoring the selfless, serv-
ice, outstanding leadership and remarkable
achievements of this outstanding South Caro-
linian.
f
IN CELEBRATION OF MS. CARRIE
PATTERSON THOMAS ON THE OC-
CASION OF HER 100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Ms. Carrie Patterson Thomas
on the occasion of her 100th birthday.
Carrie was born on August 5, 1918 in the
town of Ninety-Six, South Carolina to Wince
and Ida Dean Patterson. In 1923 at the inquis-
itive age of five, she moved with her parents
and six siblings to Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
She worked various jobs from picking vegeta-
bles and later worked as a domestic until she
retired. Carrie met and married her late hus-
band Mr. Harvey Thomas and have two lovely
children, Earl Thomas and Betty DeVaughn.
Carrie has been a resident and community
leader of Broward County for over 90 years. I
am truly grateful for her selflessness and tire-
less service. She is a beloved life-long mem-
ber of the New Mount Olive Baptist Church,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JY8.009 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1065
July 25, 2018
where she served on the mission society and
often volunteered to help feed the homeless.
She has worked hard under harsh conditions
and unfair practices. She lived to witness
many epic eras and events in history. And yet,
through it all she has remained steadfast,
unmovable, always abounding in the work of
the Lord, and we know her labor is not in vain.
Mr. Speaker, on this momentous occasion,
please join me in wishing Ms. Carrie Patterson
Thomas a happy and wonderful 100th birth-
day.
f
CONGRATULATING LYNETTA
GRINER—2018 FLORIDA FARMER
OF THE YEAR
HON. NEAL P. DUNN
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor an outstanding member of the Second
Congressional District of Florida, Ms. Lynetta
Griner. Ms. Griner was recently named the
2018 Florida Farmer of the Year. This des-
ignation makes her a finalist for the Southeast
Regional Farmer of the Year Award.
Ms. Griner owns and operates Usher Land
and Timber Inc. in Levy County, specializing in
timber and cattle production. In 2013, she was
named Florida’s Woman of the Year in Agri-
culture and she was the first female president
of the Florida Forestry Association.
Ms. Griner also served on the Suwannee
River Management District’s governing board
for 14 years and with her family, she has
raised more than $1 million for the Children’s
Miracle Network at the University of Florida
Health Shands Children’s Hospital.
In 2017, she was one of 15 farmers and
ranchers from across the country to participate
in an agriculture roundtable hosted by Presi-
dent Trump at the White House. Lynetta is a
champion for Florida agriculture, and has dedi-
cated her life to giving back to her community.
Mr. Speaker, please join me in congratu-
lating Ms. Lynetta Griner, Florida’s 2018 Farm-
er of the Year, and thanking her for her years
of service to Florida.
f
CONGRATULATING TODD MAY
HON. ROBERT B. ADERHOLT
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, I would like
to congratulate Todd May, who has an-
nounced his retirement as Director of Marshall
Space Flight Center.
Todd May is one of our nation’s civil serv-
ants who has demonstrated outstanding lead-
ership, management ability, and vision. He
was appointed Marshall deputy director in Au-
gust 2015 at the Nov. 13, 2015 retirement of
Patrick Scheuermann, and was subsequently
appointed Director.
The jobs Todd has excelled at are never
easy, but the circumstances under which he
took them, and excelled, are circumstances
which represent especially challenging times.
During the early part of a new Administra-
tion, Todd, in 2011, led the Space Launch
System (SLS) program. Despite different
schools of thought in Washington, Todd took
the program through a series of milestones,
including a successful in-depth critical design
review. Thanks to Todd’s leadership, SLS was
successfully handed off to the next manager
when Todd was asked to be Marshall Space
Flight Center Director.
Marshall has approximately 6,000 civil serv-
ice and contractor employees, and an annual
budget of approximately $2.5 billion. What
some do not know is that Marshall has a herit-
age not only of excellence in launch develop-
ment but also in NASA’s other endeavors, in-
cluding, for example, the engineering planning
which allowed the Hubble Telescope to be re-
focused and to reach its full potential.
One of Todd’s other previous jobs made
him very qualified for this part of Marshall’s
work as well. Todd served as a deputy asso-
ciate administrator in the Science Mission Di-
rectorate at NASA headquarters in Wash-
ington from 2007 to 08, responsible for a $5
billion portfolio of robotic programs and
projects, including more than 100 spacecraft
at various stages of formulation, development
and operations.
Of course, there is no pressure at all in
being appointed as Director of Marshall Space
Flight Center—unless of course you notice the
statues of Von Braun, and all the Saturn rock-
ets which seem to meet your gaze no matter
what direction you are driving.
I am not surprised that Todd excelled again
at this broad management task. He brought
out the best in his managers, kept Marshall
viable as a competitor in various projects, and
leaves Marshall in good shape to continue its
key role in NASA’s human exploration pro-
grams. His leadership also extends to con-
cepts which will bear fruition in the future,
such as nuclear thermal propulsion.
Despite his many jobs at NASA, and na-
tional recognition for his work by Aviation
Week, I know that this young boy growing up
in Fairhope, Alabama still counts, as one of
his most enjoyable achievements, his engi-
neering degree from Auburn University, and
the title of Distinguished Engineer, bestowed
on him by the University.
I wish Todd and his family all the best, and
I know that whatever tasks he puts his hands
to, he will be not only a success, but also a
blessing to his community and to this nation.
f
TRIBUTE TO COMMANDER AND
DISTRICT ENGINEER OF THE DE-
TROIT DISTRICT, U.S. ARMY
CORPS OF ENGINEERS, LIEUTEN-
ANT COLONEL DENNIS P.
SUGRUE
HON. JOHN R. MOOLENAAR
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. MOOLENAAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the service of Lieutenant Colonel
Dennis Sugrue as the Commander and District
Engineer of the Detroit District, U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers.
Since graduating from the U.S. Military
Academy at West Point and receiving his
commission in 1999, Lieutenant Colonel
Sugrue has exemplified the Mission and Vi-
sion of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Lieutenant Colonel Sugrue’s extensive career
has taken him across the United States and
around the world. From New York to Ger-
many, to deployments in Kosovo and Afghani-
stan, where he did two tours, his dedication
and leadership has been an asset in every po-
sition.
Lieutenant Colonel Sugrue has been recog-
nized with numerous military awards and
decorations including the Bronze Star, Meri-
torious Service Medal, Army Commendation
Medal, and Army Achievement Medal, among
others. These well-deserved accolades speak
to Lieutenant Colonel Sugrue’s leadership and
commitment to service, which are amplified by
his honor and integrity.
I had the pleasure of getting to know Lieu-
tenant Colonel Sugrue during his tenure as
commander of the Detroit District, which he
assumed in July 2016. As the commander, he
is responsible for carrying out the District’s
mission in Michigan, sections of Wisconsin,
Minnesota and Indiana, as well as four of the
Great Lakes. The District’s 82,000 square
miles of land includes 4,000 miles of Great
Lakes shoreline and the Soo Locks, which are
vitally important to the nation’s economy and
security.
Lieutenant Colonel Sugrue went above and
beyond to understand the importance of nat-
ural resources and outdoor heritage to the
state of Michigan and surrounding region. I es-
pecially commend his hard work to advance
the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative and the
Great Lakes navigation system, including com-
batting the spread of invasive species and
construction of a new Soo Lock.
His expertise is second to none and we
have been fortunate to have Lieutenant Colo-
nel Sugrue at the helm of the Detroit District.
It has been an honor and a privilege to know
Lieutenant Colonel Sugrue over the past two
years. I wish him, his wife Flori and sons Sean
and Connor, all the best in the future.
f
RECOGNIZING THE ACCOMPLISH-
MENTS OF REAR ADMIRAL PAM-
ELA M. SCHWEITZER
HON. PAUL A. GOSAR
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure
to stand today to recognize the distinguished
career of a remarkable constituent of mine,
Rear Admiral Pamela A. Schweitzer. Rear Ad-
miral Schweitzer is retiring after proudly serv-
ing her country for nearly 30 years.
After receiving her Bachelor’s degree in biol-
ogy in Biological Sciences from California
State University Fullerton, Rear Admiral
Schweitzer went on to earn a Doctor of Phar-
macy from University of California San Fran-
cisco and an Ambulatory Care/Administrative
Residency at University of California Irvine
Medical Center. She is a Board Certified Am-
bulatory Care Pharmacist, and currently
serves as Executive Master of Health Adminis-
tration Program at the University of Southern
California Sol Price School of Public Policy.
On August 7, 2014 Rear Admiral Schweitzer
was appointed to be the first female Chief Pro-
fessional Officer of Pharmacy for the United
States Public Health Service. As Chief Phar-
macy Officer, Rear Admiral Schweitzer was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JY8.013 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1066 July 25, 2018
responsible for providing leadership and co-
ordination of USPHS pharmacy programs and
professional affairs for the Office of the Sur-
geon General and the Department of Health &
Human Services.
While serving her country, Rear Admiral
Schweitzer worked in a variety of roles includ-
ing, progressing in leadership responsibilities
in the Indian Health Service, the Veterans Ad-
ministration, as well as the Centers for Medi-
care and Medicaid Services. She made an in-
delible mark within each of these organiza-
tions, which is a testament to her strong dedi-
cation to public service.
Rear Admiral Schweitzer has been recog-
nized for her leadership contributions many
times. These recognitions include receiving
the National Council for Prescription Drug Pro-
grams Champion Award in 2017, American
Society of Health-System Pharmacists William
Zelmer Lecture Award in 2016, the University
of California San Francisco Alumni Award in
2015, American Pharmacists Association Dis-
tinguished Federal Pharmacist Award in 2014,
IHS Senior Pharmacist of the Year Award in
2013 and the USPHS Mary Louise Anderson
Leadership Award in 2012.
Rear Admiral Schweitzer will always be re-
membered as someone who put her country
and the well-being of others above all else.
She will be greatly missed and I wish her the
best in her retirement on behalf of a grateful
nation.
f
ACKNOWLEDGING THE FIFTH
ANNUAL GLOBAL FEST
HON. MIKE COFFMAN
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. COFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
acknowledge the fifth annual Global Fest,
hosted by the City of Aurora, Colorado. The
office of Parks, Recreation, and Open Space,
as well as the office of International and Immi-
grant Affairs work tirelessly every year to
showcase the diverse cultures of the city’s
residents, and I am proud to recognize their
achievements in the House of Representa-
tives.
The City of Aurora owns the title of Colo-
rado’s most diverse city and has a population
of over 366,000, which makes it the third larg-
est city in the state. Aurora includes about
70,000 immigrants and refugees who speak
over 130 languages spoken and represent
more than 140 different countries of origin.
Global Fest is a wonderful opportunity for all
Aurorans to share their rich cultural history
with each other and those who come to par-
ticipate from throughout Colorado.
Global Fest is a fully immersive cultural ex-
perience. Attendees sample diverse foods, lis-
ten to live music, discover traditional arts and
view a range of cultural performances. At the
festival, Coloradans can observe a variety cul-
tural items and practices. They are also able
to see the ‘Parade of Nations’ where rep-
resentatives of an estimated 40 countries will
march together carrying their respective flags
from their countries of origin to demonstrate
the multi-cultural spirit of the city.
Mr. Speaker, in my many years as an Au-
rora resident, I have had the privilege to wit-
ness its development from a small suburb of
Denver into the bustling multicultural hub of
economic activity it is today. The city em-
bodies the melting pot that our nation rightfully
idealizes. This is why Aurora is a special
place. Global Fest is the singular annual event
that best symbolizes what makes Aurora a re-
markable city that I am proud to represent in
the United States House of Representatives.
f
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR,
ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. DIANA DeGETTE
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 18, 2018
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 6147) making ap-
propriations for the Department of the Inte-
rior, environment, and related agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and
for other purposes
Ms. DEGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
speak in opposition of this amendment, which
would block funding for the enforcement of the
EPA methane rule. This rule will combat cli-
mate change, protect public health, and cap-
ture a resource that would otherwise go to
waste.
The EPA Methane rule will curb methane
emissions by estimated 510,000 short tons per
year by 2025. This will represent a savings of
$100 million in natural gas that would other-
wise leak into the atmosphere. It is important
to remember that it is not only methane leak-
ing out of oil and gas facilities. This rule would
prevent the release of 210,000 short tons of
volatile organic compounds (VOCs) which are
a threat to public health. When released,
these compounds form ozone, which the EPA
has linked to asthma, heart attacks, strokes,
and numerous other health conditions. Ozone
is particularly harmful to vulnerable popu-
lations such as children, the elderly, and peo-
ple with preexisting conditions. My own district
is part of a Clean Air Act non-attainment area
where elevated ozone is a perennial hazard.
The health benefits of limiting methane and
VOC leaks led Colorado to institute its own
regulations for containing leaks and preventing
the release of these compounds in 2014.
Those rules, which served as the template for
EPA’s rule, balanced the need for responsible
energy development with the need to protect
public health and even had support from com-
panies in the oil and gas industry. Colorado’s
oil and gas industry has continued to thrive
even as they are required to find and stop
leaks. Clearly a rule requiring companies find
and fix leaks is a win-win, allowing for respon-
sible energy development and protecting pub-
lic health at the same time.
Furthermore, accidental methane release
exacerbates climate change as methane is
several times more potent as a greenhouse
gas than carbon dioxide. Enforcing this rule
would provide a climate change benefit equal
to taking 8.5 million cars off the road. The
need to combat climate change is only going
to grow more pressing as the world faces in-
creased harm from droughts, fires, and ex-
treme weather. Colorado is already regularly
facing low snowpack and devastating fire sea-
sons.
Colorado’s experience demonstrates both
the need and the benefits of rules curbing
methane leaks. Blocking enforcement of this
rule will lead to wasted natural gas, increased
greenhouse gas emissions, and worse public
health. That is why I encourage my colleagues
to oppose this amendment and allow EPA to
enforce the methane rule.
f
IN HONOR OF MR. WILLIAM ‘‘BILL’’
BATTLE
HON. ELIZABETH H. ESTY
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Ms. ESTY of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today with a heavy heart to honor the life
of my friend, Mr. William ‘‘Bill’’ Battle and to
recognize his contributions to the State of
Connecticut, especially to his community of
Torrington, Connecticut. Bill passed away on
July 20, 2018 at the age of 82, after a long life
of dedicated service to his community.
Bill was born in New York, New York and
was raised in New Haven, Connecticut. Bill at-
tended New Haven public schools before en-
rolling at Howard University in Washington,
D.C. After college, Bill joined the Army where
he worked on computers. Bill continued in
computers when he left the Army, traveling the
world for IBM. Bill eventually returned to Con-
necticut to be near his ailing mother. It was
here where he met his wife Darlene, who was
working as a nurse’s aide. The two married in
1994, and after their son was born they
moved to Torrington.
After moving to Torrington, Bill fell in love
with the small city. Serving as the economic
development commissioner for a brief time,
Bill worked to celebrate Torrington’s edu-
cational excellence and attract young families
while reviving the city’s downtown through a
focus on the arts and small business. In addi-
tion to working closely with town leaders to im-
prove the city’s economy, Bill also advocated
for children and education in Torrington. Serv-
ing on the Board of Directors for the Con-
necticut Academy of the Arts in Torrington, Bill
helped bring the arts back to the Torrington
community and is credited for helping start the
international film forum.
Ultimately, Bill loved anything intellectual
and enjoyed discussing ideas with his fellow
community members. While working as the
campaign coordinator for former Democratic
Senator Joe Lieberman, Bill would frequently
have dinner at the Republican campaign
headquarters because he just wanted to en-
gage in political discourse. His Republican col-
leagues stated that all Bill ever wanted was to
see Torrington do better.
Those who knew Bill knew that nothing
gave him more pride than seeing his children
succeed. Bill could often be seen wearing a
Yale hat to show his immense delight when
his son, Darnell, was accepted to the Univer-
sity.
I met Bill seven years ago and was imme-
diately impressed by his passion, his knowl-
edge, his energy, and his fearlessness in tak-
ing on tough issues and those in power. His
commitment to democracy and his belief that
we all could—and should—do better inspired
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JY8.017 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1067
July 25, 2018
me and everyone who was lucky enough to
know him.
Mr. Speaker, Bill Battle led a life as an en-
gaged community member and community ac-
tivist. Therefore, it is fitting and proper that we
honor his life and memory here today. I offer
my deepest condolences to his wife, Darlene
and his children, Carla, Darnell, Violetta, and
William and to all of his family. Those of us
who knew Bill will cherish his memory, and his
legacy will live on in our community.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CAREER OF
DONALD E. CORNFORTH, M.D.
HON. KEVIN McCARTHY
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the career of Dr. Donald E.
Cornforth, a radiologist and businessman serv-
ing the communities of Bakersfield and Delano
in Kern County, California. One of the leading
voices of our local medical community, Donald
is retiring after committing nearly two decades
of his life to bettering the quality of life for the
people of Kern County.
Though he would leave his biggest mark on
the City of Bakersfield, Donald was born and
raised in Media, Pennsylvania. Upon grad-
uating high school, he began his journey west,
attending Colorado State University at Fort
Collins and graduating with his Bachelor’s de-
gree in 1964. He furthered his medical edu-
cation in California, studying four years at the
Loma Linda University School of Medicine and
graduating as a Doctor of Medicine in 1968.
Around this time, the United States was em-
broiled in the Vietnam War, and for five years
Donald served his nation in the United States
Army, attaining the rank of Major before being
honorably discharged in 1972.
In 1975, Donald was certified by the Amer-
ican Board of Radiology and began a lifelong
career in medicine. Before moving to Bakers-
field, Donald practiced radiology across Wis-
consin and Colorado, and even taught at King
Fahad Hospital in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Dur-
ing this period, he accumulated a reputation
for his medical talent and technical acumen,
performing Colorado’s first percutaneous
trans-renal kidney stone extraction in 1982,
and the first percutaneous trans-renal UPJ
endopyeloplasty in 1983—a world first.
For all his contributions to medicine, how-
ever, perhaps the biggest impact Donald
made in his career came with his decision to
move to Bakersfield in the early 1990’s. Upon
arriving in Bakersfield, he established himself
as one of Kern County’s premiere medical
professionals, and since 1991, he has led a
number of medical practices, most significantly
Quest Imaging Medical Associates and Ad-
ventist Health Bakersfield. Through Quest Im-
aging, Donald brought cutting-edge technology
to our community that was previously unavail-
able to Kern County residents, and the com-
pany remains a cornerstone of Bakersfield’s
medical community. Donald has been a fixture
at San Joaquin Community Hospital, serving
as the head of its Stroke Program and pro-
viding his talent as a radiologist for years. For
over ten years, Donald has also given his time
and talent to the community of Delano, fre-
quently making the trek to Delano Regional
Medical Center to provide radiological serv-
ices.
Donald retires leaving an indelible impres-
sion on the community he has called home for
two decades. He will be remembered fondly in
the Kern County community for his brilliant
mind, his tireless work ethic, his philanthropy,
and his pioneering, entrepreneurial spirit that
pushed him from the suburbs of Philadelphia
around the world and back again. I will miss
discussing health policy with him, and I know
many of his former patients will miss him for
his kindness and attentive bedside manner.
As he begins this new chapter of his life, on
behalf of our community, Judy and I wish him,
his wife, Edna, and his two children all best.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF REAR
ADMIRAL JOHN E. DOMBROSKI
HON. NEAL P. DUNN
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor Rear Admiral John E. Dombroski. Admi-
ral Dombroski passed away July 1, 2018 and
left a legacy of service to God, country, and
family that we all should aspire to emulate.
The Admiral was raised in Beacon Falls, Con-
necticut, graduated from Trinity College in
1967, and attended Cornell Law School.
He entered the United States Navy in 1969
and served on the USS Moale where he
earned qualification as the combat information
center officer, and subsequently served on
USS Luiseno as executive officer. Admiral
Dombroski served in a variety of posts in the
Judge Advocate General’s Corps, culminating
his exceptionally distinguished career as the
Chief Judge of the Navy-Marine Corps, Court
of Criminal Appeals.
Admiral Dombroski and his wife Julie Ann
eventually settled in Tallahassee, Florida. He
continued to live a life of service as a Rotarian
and dedicated member of Saint Peter’s Angli-
can Cathedral, where he dedicated time to in-
struct weekly men’s bible study classes in his
home. Loved and cherished by family and
friends, highly decorated by his nation, and
honored by all those with whom he came in
contact, Rear Admiral John E. Dombroski
dedicated his life to the mission of leaving this
world better than he found it. Admiral
Dombroski is survived by his wife Julie Ann,
their daughter Christine Jecko and her hus-
band Sean, and his son Matthew and his wife,
Tori. He was a devoted grandparent to Ann,
Jonathan, and Savannah, and a loving brother
to his sister, Andrea Redden.
The Admiral was a giant of a man and his
presence will be missed. Mr. Speaker, please
join me in honoring Rear Admiral John E.
Dombroski for his life of service to God and
man.
f
RECOGNIZING BROWARD COMMU-
NITY & FAMILY HEALTH CEN-
TERS
HON. DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker,
as we approach National Community Health
Center Week, August 12 through 18, it is my
privilege to recognize the tremendous and
meaningful work of Broward Community &
Family Health Centers, Inc., a Federally Quali-
fied Community Health Center located in
Broward County and Florida’s 23rd Congres-
sional District.
Broward Community & Family Health Cen-
ters is a non-profit, community-owned and op-
erated health provider serving uninsured and
medically underserved people.
Community health centers have become an
essential provider for comprehensive, high-
quality preventive health care for all patients,
regardless of their ability to pay. They have
become the core primary care destination for
millions in our country—especially for minori-
ties and our most vulnerable populations.
Under the leadership of my dear friend CEO
Rosalyn Frazier, Broward Community & Fam-
ily Health Centers expand access to quality
health care for all people and contain health
care costs by fostering prevention and inte-
grating the delivery of primary care with ag-
gressive outreach, patient education, trans-
lation, and other enabling services.
Broward Community & Family Health Cen-
ters has made great strides in the Florida
health care system by maintaining high stand-
ards of accountability, demonstrating cost ef-
fectiveness and efficiency in the delivery of
care, and empowering communities to address
unmet health needs and reduce health dispari-
ties, preventable deaths, costly disabilities,
and communicable diseases.
I applaud the important contributions of
Broward Community & Family Health Centers
in safeguarding health and improving the qual-
ity of life for people in Broward County, and I
look forward to continuing to help Rosalyn
Frazier and her team serve our community for
many years to come.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO DWIGHT
ALBERT ‘‘D.A.’’ SHARPE
HON. KAY GRANGER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
pay special tribute to a dear friend, a fine
Texan and a great American, Dwight Albert
Sharpe. Known as ‘‘D.A.’’ Sharpe to his
friends, he graduated to heaven on July 12,
2018.
D.A. was one of my first and most ardent
supporters and his inspiring and encouraging
messages encouraged me and others on a
regular basis.
My friend D.A. was born June 24, 1939, in
Ballinger, Texas. He was a graduate of Wood-
row Wilson High School in Dallas and held a
bachelor of business administration degree
from the University of Texas at Austin. D.A.
married his wife, Suzanne Margaret Boggess,
in New Orleans, Louisiana in 1962, where
their three children were later born. The family
resided in St. Louis County, Missouri between
1972 to 1982 in Dallas between 1982 to 1999,
and for the last 19 years, in Aurora, Wise
County.
D.A. served as the chairman of the Repub-
lican Party of Wise County from 2000 and
2008. Even in retirement, D.A. remained ac-
tive as a national and state GOP delegate. In
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JY8.020 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1068 July 25, 2018
addition to his political service, D.A.’s profes-
sional pursuits were in the fields of tech-
nology, as well as in administrative manage-
ment for non-profit Christian entities. In 2004,
he retired as the Executive Administrator for
the Senior Pastor at Highland Park Pres-
byterian Church .
D.A. studied genealogy extensively, tracing
his ancestry back more than 1,300 years. He
also found genealogical relationships to 20 of
the 45 U.S. Presidents. Above all else, D.A.
was privileged to call himself a fifth-generation
Texan. His great, great grandfather, Judge
Felix Benedict Dixon, immigrated from Ohio to
Texas in 1841, when it was still the Republic
of Texas. D.A.’s lineage also has roots going
back in America as a sixth-generation United
States citizen, being a descendant of Amer-
ican Revolutionary soldier, Lt. George P.
Sharp, of New York.
D.A. is survived by his wife, Suzanne Mar-
garet Boggess Sharpe and their three chil-
dren: Taylor Marcus Sharpe; Tiffany Lenn
Sharpe Westmoreland and her husband, Ste-
ven O. Westmoreland; and Todd Wittman
Sharpe, and his wife, Carrie Ann Maxwell
Sharpe. There are seven grandchildren: Kath-
erine Michelle, John David (Jack), Lily Taylor,
Sarah Todd and Samuel Lee (Sam) West-
moreland; and Luke Maxwell and Brooke
Eden Sharpe.
Though D.A. is no longer with us, his mem-
ory will not be forgotten by those of us who
were privileged enough to know him. I ask
Members to please pray for my dear friend
D.A. Sharpe and his family during this difficult
time.
f
IN HONOR OF THE 100TH
BIRTHDAY OF LADELLE COCHRAN
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I
recognize the 100th birthday of Ladelle Coch-
ran.
Ladelle was born on August 29, 1918 in
Dallas, Georgia.
He is a Veteran of World War II and was
awarded the Bronze Star Medal. Ladelle re-
tired from the Anniston Army Depot after work-
ing there for 25 years.
Ladelle was married to the late June Saxon
for 59 years and was blessed with five chil-
dren, three grandchildren and six great-grand-
children.
He is a member of Gladeview Baptist
Church and is an avid Atlanta Braves and Ala-
bama Crimson Tide fan.
Mr. Speaker, please join me in wishing
Ladelle Cochran a very happy 100th birthday.
f
RECOGNIZING FRANCES GIVENS
OF FONTANA
HON. NORMA J. TORRES
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mrs. TORRES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Frances Givens, a resident of
our 35th Congressional District in Fontana,
California, who was well known as a fierce ad-
vocate for senior citizens.
Fran Givens dedicated her life to promoting
issues important to senior citizens such as af-
fordable housing, increased availability of ger-
ontology doctors, transportation, and access to
and coordination of all available services. Fran
served in the Senior Assembly of the Cali-
fornia Senior Legislature from 2006 to 2014,
where she was a leader among the volunteer
body whose mission it is to enhance the qual-
ity of life for older Californians and their fami-
lies.
As a committed advocate, Fran never
missed an opportunity to raise attention to
issues that affect senior citizens. Fran fre-
quently served as a public speaker for senior
citizen issues on the radio, at City Council
meetings, clubs, dinners, and fundraisers. She
could also be found passing out hundreds of
brochures about the California Senior Legisla-
ture, to elevate the mission of the group.
The state of California is home to incredible
people who possess a spirit of public service
and a commitment to their communities. Fran
was a champion for senior citizens’ issues.
Her advocacy efforts have made lasting con-
tributions to the community of Fontana, the
state of California, and beyond.
In 2014, I had the honor of awarding Fran
the Woman of the Year Lifetime Achievement
Award, a well-deserved recognition of her ex-
emplary record of community service.
On July 5th of this year, Fran passed away
at the age of 83. Her legacy teaches us all to
relentlessly devote ourselves to what we care
most about, and for that I would like to recog-
nize Frances Givens.
f
TRIBUTE TO MALL CHANEY ON
HER 75TH BIRTHDAY
HON. DON YOUNG
OF ALASKA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to a person of great merit
on the occasion of her 75th birthday. It is often
stated that the United States is great because
it is a nation of immigrants. Mr. Speaker, I
would agree with this statement with the addi-
tion of the word legal in front of immigrants.
Mall Chaney is an example of such a person
who worked within the law to become a citizen
of the United States. I understand that it is not
an easy task.
Mall was born in Estonia in 1943 in the mid-
dle of World War II. At that time Estonia was
in peril at the hands of Russia as well as Ger-
many. However, it was her parents’ concern
about Russia that caused them to flee. Russia
had seized her mother’s brother and sent him
to Siberia never to be heard from again. As a
professional chemist, Mall’s father feared
being pressed into Russia’s weapons develop-
ment program or much worse.
When Mall was about six months old the
family consisting of her mother, father, and
sister fled under cover of night with basically
nothing but the clothes on their backs. The
family spent several years in a Swedish ref-
ugee camp and then in the general population
of Sweden. In 1951 Mall and her family were
sponsored by a family friend from Canada and
were able to migrate to Canada.
Mall lived in Canada until she married John
Chaney, a resident of Florida, in 1982. Mall
became a U.S. citizen and has paid homage
to the United States by respecting our laws,
becoming a respected and loved member of
the community, the state of Florida, and the
country.
Happy Birthday Mall, and best wishes.
f
EQUITABLE ACCESS TO CARE AND
HEALTH ACT
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
support of the Equitable Access to Care and
Health Act, or the EACH Act, which seeks to
provide a bipartisan, common-sense exemp-
tion to the Affordable Care Act for those who
uniquely rely on religious methods of healing.
In my home state of Massachusetts, we are
very proud of our healthcare system, the sys-
tem which, as my colleagues know, formed
the basis for the Affordable Care Act, the law
from which so many Americans benefit today.
As the Massachusetts legislature con-
templated the direction of its successful
healthcare system, lawmakers saw fit to pro-
vide an exemption from its insurance require-
ments for sincerely held religious beliefs. The
exemption grants reprieve for Massachusetts
residents who would not otherwise use our
traditional healthcare system even if they did
carry traditional health insurance. At its es-
sence, the EACH Act seeks to extend a simi-
lar reprieve for Americans who would not oth-
erwise benefit from the system created under
the Affordable Care Act.
Thank you to my colleague Mr. DAVIS of Illi-
nois for his leadership on this issue. I urge my
colleagues to support this bipartisan legisla-
tion.
f
CELEBRATING THE WORK AND
LEGACY OF EULA L. BECK
HON. JOHN R. CARTER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I cele-
brate the extraordinary work and legacy of
Eula L. Beck, or ‘‘Sis’’ as most affectionately
call her, who has been an active supporter of
Central Texas Communities her whole life. Her
resume tells the story of a woman unafraid to
contribute both her time and energies to a
multitude of organizations that rely on vol-
unteerism and social engagement to make
good communities great.
Sis was raised just south of Killeen on a
ranch near Maxdale and has led a life devoted
to causes bigger than herself. Her extraor-
dinary career began at Camp Hood where she
supported war efforts during WWII. From
there, she worked to upgrade Camp Hood to
Fort Hood and served as a crucial advocate to
make Fort Hood the model for military bases
that it is today. Sis’ influence in Central Texas
didn’t stop there. She has engaged in a mul-
titude of endeavors ranging from owning a
local Killeen TV station to establishing the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JY8.024 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1069
July 25, 2018
Killeen branch of Union State Bank, where
she has served on the Board for many years.
At every stop along the way, she’s built
bridges of friendship and has worked tirelessly
to support and enhance her community.
Sis also exhibits a passion for education
that has contributed greatly to the prosperity of
Central Texas. Inspired by her niece who
didn’t have easy access to a local library, Sis
worked to establish a library in Florence,
Texas, which is now named after her. Sis also
aided in efforts to fund the creation of both
Central Texas College and Texas A&M Cen-
tral Texas. Young and old alike are thankful
for the positive contributions Sis has made to
literacy and education in her community.
Some people go through life wondering if
they made a difference. Eula L. Beck doesn’t
have that problem. Her inspiring and extensive
career leaves no doubt that Central Texas is
a better place because of her. I celebrate her
life and devotion to her beloved community
and wish her nothing but the best in the fu-
ture.
f
CONFERENCE REPORT TO H.R. 5515,
THE NATIONAL DEFENSE AU-
THORIZATION ACT OF 2019
HON. MAXINE WATERS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr.
Speaker, I would like to acknowledge the work
of Financial Services Committee Democratic
staffer Daniel McGlinchey on the title of this
bill pertaining to reforms to the Committee on
Foreign Investment in the United States.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BILLY LONG
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. LONG. Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday, July
24, 2018, I was unable to vote on any legisla-
tive measures. Had I been present, I would
have voted the following:
(Roll No. 368) On ordering the previous
question providing for consideration of H.R.
6199, the Restoring Access to Medication and
Modernizing Health Savings Accounts Act of
2018; providing for proceedings during the pe-
riod from July 27, 2018, through September 3,
2018—yes.
(Roll No. 369) On adoption of the rule pro-
viding for consideration of H.R. 6199, the Re-
storing Access to Medication and Modernizing
Health Savings Accounts Act of 2018; pro-
viding for proceedings during the period from
July 27, 2018, through September 3, 2018—
yes.
(Roll No. 370) On ordering the previous
question providing for consideration of H.R.
184, the Protect Medical Innovation Act of
2017; and H.R. 6311, the Increasing Access
to Lower Premium Plans and Expanding
Health Savings Accounts Act of 2018—yes.
(Roll No. 371) On adoption of the combined
rule providing for consideration of H.R. 184,
the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2017;
and H.R. 6311, the Increasing Access to
Lower Premium Plans and Expanding Health
Savings Accounts Act of 2018—yes.
(Roll No. 372) On passage of H.R. 184, the
Protect Medical Innovation Act—yes.
f
WELCOME SAMANTHA JOSEPHINE
CROWE
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speak-
er, I am happy to congratulate Major Andrew
Crowe, former Military Fellow of South Caro-
lina’s Second Congressional District, and his
wife, Major Michelle Crowe, of Alexandria, Vir-
ginia, on the birth of their new baby girl,
Samantha Josephine Crowe. Samantha Jose-
phine Crowe was born on July 23, 2018, at
Fort Belvoir Community Hospital. Samantha
weighed seven pounds and 15 ounces and
measured 22.2 inches long.
I would also like to congratulate Samantha’s
grandparents, Carol and Donald Long, Edward
Brunt, and Cheri and Robert Crowe. Congratu-
lations and best wishes to the entire family as
they are blessed with their newest addition of
pure pride and joy.
f
IN LOVING MEMORY OF JANET
MARIE TORRISI-MOKWA
HON. ANN WAGNER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, it is with a
heavy heart that I rise to honor the passing of
Janet Marie Torrisi-Mokwa. Jan was a dear
friend and a dedicated leader in the St. Louis
community. While we mourn this tragedy, I
would like to celebrate Janis life and her many
contributions to Missouri. She was a pas-
sionate advocate for an array of issues she
held near and dear to her heart, including the
protection of animals, the empowerment of
women, and care for those in need.
Jan recently celebrated 25 years of mar-
riage to her husband Joseph Mokwa. She is
also survived by her mother, Marie Torrisi;
brother John Torrisi and his wife Claudia;
nieces, Kaci and Amy; stepdaughter, Aimee
Goodrich; and grandchildren, Danny, Julia,
and Josephine.
Jan was one of those people who was truly
larger than life. She had a warm presence, an
infectious positivity, and an unparalleled effect
on others. Today we honor her insatiable spirit
her countless contributions to our community,
and the lasting impact she had on people from
all walks of life.
In His Sermon on the Mount, we are re-
minded by our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ,
that those who mourn are blessed and will be
comforted. I pray that during this difficult time,
the Mokwa family, their friends, and neighbors
are graced with that blessing from the Lord.
Mr. Speaker, our community will dearly miss
Jan’s tremendous energy and bright smile.
Her upbeat attitude and persistence will con-
tinue to live in each and every person she
touched.
f
DR. BENJY FRANCES BROOKS
CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL GME SUP-
PORT REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF
2018
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 23, 2018
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 4100, the Foundation of
the Federal Bar Association Charter Amend-
ments Act of 2017.
H.R. 4100 amends title 36 of the United
States Code to revise the Federal charter for
the Foundation of the Federal Bar Association,
to prohibit the use of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, age, sexual orientation, or national
origin in determining eligibility for service as
an officer or director.
The Federal Bar Association is the nation’s
premiere association for practitioners of fed-
eral law and as such should be open to all re-
gardless of sexual orientation or gender iden-
tity.
Currently, the FBA recognizes the impor-
tance of nondiscrimination and has adopted a
diversity statement that includes race, gender,
ethnicity, national origin, religion, age, dis-
ability, sexual orientation, and gender identity.
Diversity statements are valuable but they
do not carry the weight of law.
The addition of a nondiscrimination provi-
sion to the FBA Charter is an important action
and when gender identity is an enumerated
protected characteristic in the law, transgender
people will be protected from discrimination.
Discrimination on the basis of gender iden-
tity is a form of sex discrimination, and laws
prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sex
protect transgender people.
Numerous federal circuit and district courts
opinions have held that our nation’s nondis-
crimination laws that prohibit discrimination on
the basis of sex protect transgender people
from discrimination, including Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Equal Credit Op-
portunity Act, and Title IX of the Education
Amendments of 1972.
The EEOC determined in Macy v. Holder
that Title VII’s prohibitions on sex discrimina-
tion also prohibit discrimination on the basis of
gender identity.
This decision is binding on the federal gov-
ernment with respect to employment practices.
Our laws work best when there are clear ex-
pectations.
While gender identity will be covered by the
sex nondiscrimination provision, it is better to
enumerate gender identity.
Listing out protected characteristics helps
those making determinations about member-
ship understand their obligations and those
seeking membership understand their rights.
By passing H.R. 4100, we can prevent dis-
crimination by ensuring gender identity is a
protected characteristic.
I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for
H.R. 4100.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY8.029 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1070 July 25, 2018
HONORING GERALDINE JAMES
PETTIE
HON. LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to remember Geraldine James Pettie, a long-
time Washingtonian, a dedicated public serv-
ant, a devoted spouse, a loving mother, an at-
tentive grandmother and great grandmother, a
cherished sister, an adored friend and neigh-
bor. Mrs. Pettie passed away quietly on July
18, 2018, at her home in Washington, DC at
the age of 91.
I never had the honor of meeting Mrs.
Pettie, but my chief of staff, Victor Castillo,
has shared many wonderful stories and anec-
dotes with me about his wonderful, welcoming
neighbor. In tribute to Mrs. Pettie’s life efforts
and to share with my colleagues and the na-
tion the story of Geraldine Pettie, I would like
to include in the RECORD the obituary memori-
alizing her which was included in program for
her funeral services at Mount Zion United
Methodist Church today.
A CELEBRATION OF THE LIFE OF GERALDINE
JAMES PETTIE
MAY 5, 1927–JULY 18, 2018
Geraldine Audrey James Pettie was born
May 5, 1927, in Sandy Level, Virginia. She
was the first child of the late Morris E. and
Veatrice Jackson James. Geraldine was
united in marriage to the late Lynwood E.
Pettie on August 18, 1950, and to that union
two children were born.
Gerry, as she was affectionately known, at-
tended the public schools of Pittsylvania
County, Virginia, and received her Bach-
elor’s degree from Virginia State College in
1946. She taught in the Pittsylvania County
school system until moving to Washington,
DC, in 1951. It was then Gerry began her ca-
reer with the Department of Defense, retir-
ing from the National Security Agency in
1979 after 27 years of service. Although Gerry
could not share details about her responsibil-
ities at NSA, the pride she felt for the work
she did was obvious.
Upon moving to Washington, DC, Gerry
joined Mount Zion United Methodist Church
and was an active member until the un-
timely death of her husband in 1989. She also
maintained her affiliation with the Ridge-
way United Methodist Church back home.
After retiring, she was able to dedicate
more time to her greatest joys—her grand-
children, the Kappa Alpha Psi Silhouettes,
and antiquing. Gerry and Lynwood loved
finding and restoring antiques. They trav-
eled extensively in pursuit of their hobby
and together opened a small antique store—
LYN & GERRY—in Maryland. Some of their
antiquing trips were combined with Kappa
and Silhouette activities, often arriving at
conference hotels with a car packed full of
their ‘‘treasures’’.
Gerry devoted herself to her family. Her
daughters and grandchildren were the pride
of her life. Gerry was always armed with a
collection of her kids’ business cards and
graduation photos which she proudly shared.
In her final years, her greatest happiness
came from the years spent living with her
devoted sister, Lucille, in Gretna, Virginia.
Lucille’s in-laws embraced Gerry and treated
her as one of their own. They became known
as the ‘‘Golden Girls’’ and everyone around
town enjoyed witnessing their obvious love
for each other.
Gerry departed this life peacefully on
Wednesday, July 18, 2018. She leaves to cher-
ish her memory, her devoted daughters,
Deborah Pritchett and Jan Whitley; four
grandchildren, Kimberly Pritchett, Derek
Whitley, Dara Whitley Champ, and Dana
Whitley; one great-grandchild, Anthony
Champ, Jr.; one sister, Lucille J. Younger;
one brother, Morris E. James (Rosa) and one
son-in-law, Michael Pritchett; one grandson-
in-law, Anthony Champ; two nephews, Ron-
ald Turner (Rita) and Lindell Younger; one
niece, Lisa Turner; and a host of other rel-
atives and friends.
Mrs. Pettie was laid to rest at Fort Lincoln
Cemetery in Brentwood, Maryland alongside
her beloved spouse Lynwood.
f
RECOGNIZING EARLE FRANCIS
JONES ON THE RECEIPT OF THE
REGINALD ‘‘REG’’ GILLIAM
AWARD FOR LIFETIME ACHIEVE-
MENT
HON. G. K. BUTTERFIELD
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
recognize my dear friend, Earle Francis Jones
who today is being honored by the Wash-
ington Government Relations Group with the
Reginald ‘‘Reg’’ Gilliam Award for Lifetime
Achievement for his decades of government
relations work in Washington. Mr. Jones is
most deserving of this great honor and I ask
my colleagues to join me in offering our con-
gratulations.
Mr. Jones was born in Washington, D.C. to
Earle Sr. and the former Sylvia Carroll and
raised here in our Nation’s Capital. He is a
product of the District of Columbia Public
School system where he attended historic
Coolidge High School and exceled in sports,
music, and community service. Mr. Jones was
highly academic and upon graduating from
High School, went on to attend the internation-
ally renowned American University. He later
attended the University of California at Berke-
ley where he received his Juris Doctor Degree
from the Boalt Hall School of Law.
Following law school, Mr. Jones began
practicing at the firm of Holland and Hart in
Denver, Colorado. He eventually left the firm
to serve the Regional Transportation District
as one of their legal representatives. He then
entered into private practice.
Mr. Jones then served for two years on the
Judicial Ethics Advisory Board as the Ethics
Counselor for Colorado lawyers. He was rec-
ommended by a justice of the Colorado Su-
preme Court to serve in this important posi-
tion. Earle served in that capacity for two
years and was also an adjunct Law Professor
at the University of Denver.
Returning to the National Capital Region,
Mr. Jones joined Tele-Communications, Inc.
(TCI) in 1989 where he served as Division Di-
rector for Government Affairs and then its
Federal Communications Commission Wash-
ington Counsel. He then served as Director of
Government Affairs for TCl’s five-state Mid-At-
lantic region.
For three years, Mr. Jones led Washington,
DC’s District Cablevision as its General Man-
ager and oversaw Comcast’s acquisition of
District Cablevision from AT&T in 2001.
Mr. Jones joined Comcast as Vice President
of Government Affairs for its Eastern Division,
and in January 2009, he joined Comcast Cor-
poration’s Washington Federal Government
Affairs office where he continues to serve with
distinction as their senior public policy rep-
resentative on Capitol Hill.
Over decades of work, Mr. Jones has devel-
oped strong relationships with members of
Congress and their staff. This is particularly
true among members of the Congressional
Black Caucus who regularly seek his advice
and counsel.
Mr. Speaker, I have had the high honor of
knowing and working with Mr. Jones for more
than a decade. As a member of Congress, I
have many relationships on Capitol Hill, but
none exceed the bond of friendship that I
enjoy with Mr. Jones; he is one of the kindest
individuals I’ve ever come to know. I’ve always
been impressed by his honesty, integrity, and
commitment to others.
Mr. Jones has generously given his time to
serve on the Congressional Black Caucus
Foundation Corporate Advisory Council where
he advised the CBCF’s Board of Directors on
policy, special initiatives, and leadership devel-
opment. There is no doubt that his service on
the Council furthered the CBCF’s mission to
advance the global black community by devel-
oping leaders, informing policy, and educating
the public. His professional drive is exceeded
only by his love for family.
Mr. Jones is married to the former Linda
Eatmon whose family is from my congres-
sional district in Winton, North Carolina. They
were married in 1998 and together have one
son Steve, daughter-in-law Heather, and two
grandchildren, Ryan and Rachael.
Mr. Jones’ steadfast leadership and dogged
commitment to honesty and integrity enabled
him to earn the trust and respect of his
friends, colleagues, congressional staffers,
and countless members of Congress. Like so
many others, I am honored to know Earle
Jones and call him my friend.
On behalf of the United States House of
Representatives and the people of the First
Congressional District of North Carolina, I con-
gratulate Earle Francis Jones upon his selec-
tion to receive the Reginald ‘‘Reg’’ Gilliam
Award for Lifetime Achievement. It could not
go to a more deserving individual.
f
IN REMEMBERANCE OF COLONEL
DAVID ELLIS
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
solemn remembrance of the life of Colonel
David Alton Ellis, a retired Air Force veteran,
husband, father, and grandfather from Fred-
ericksburg, Virginia. Mr. Alton admirably
served in the U.S. Air Force and will be re-
membered for his selfless devotion to his com-
munity.
Colonel Ellis was born on October 30, 1937,
in Fredericksburg, Virginia. He is an alumnus
of the University of Tennessee, where he
earned a B.S. in Liberal Arts. He received his
master’s degree in International Affairs from
Catholic University. Col. Ellis spent over 31
years in the Air Force where he served in Air
Defense Surveillance. After his time in the Air
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JY8.035 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1071
July 25, 2018
Force, Col. Ellis worked on the Joint Leader-
ship Council of Veterans Service Organiza-
tions (JLC), represented the National Associa-
tion for Uniformed Services (NAUS) and
helped advocate for veterans issues at the
state level with the Governor and the Virginia
General Assembly. His advocacy and support
through the JLC was vital to several areas of
state veteran’s services, especially benefit
services, the Virginia Veteran and Family Sup-
port program, state veteran’s cemeteries, and
the Virginia War Memorial.
Col. Ellis is survived by his wife Sally;
daughter Tracy; stepsons Stephen, Jeff, and
Shawn; nine grandchildren; and sister Louise.
I extend my deepest condolences to his family
members and anyone who had the privilege of
knowing this fine gentleman. Col. Ellis was a
very loved man whose service both to his
community and our nation, will be dearly
missed.
Mr. Speaker, I implore you and my col-
leagues to join me as we honor the memory
of Colonel David Alton Ellis.
f
IN HONOR OF WENDELL LAW-
RENCE’S SERVICE TO KENTUCKY
HON. BRETT GUTHRIE
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor Wendell Lawrence upon his retirement
as Executive Director of the Lincoln Trail Area
Development District (LTADD) on August 1,
2018, after 35 years of service and more than
20 years as Executive Director. LTADD pro-
vides economic and workforce development
services for Breckinridge, Grayson, Hardin,
Larue, Meade, Nelson, and Washington Coun-
ties in Kentucky’s Second District.
Wendell began his lifetime of service in the
U.S. Army and retired as a captain from the
U.S. Army Reserve after serving for 23 years.
He has worked for LTADD since 1983, where
he has proven himself an invaluable member
of our local community and advocate for the
region. Under his leadership, LTADD has
grown and has helped countless Kentuckians
find jobs.. Wendell has worked with Fort Knox,
other community stakeholders, and the gov-
ernment to direct resources to the Lincoln Trail
area, and our community is better off for his
service.
I want to thank Wendell for his years of
service to our community. He will be missed,
but I wish him and his family the best in his
retirement.
f
CONGRATULATING THE ST. LAW-
RENCE CENTRE ON THE OPENING
OF ITS NEW SPORTS COMPLEX
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor and congratulate the St. Lawrence Cen-
tre Shopping and Entertainment Mall on the
grand opening of its new Sports Complex.
The St. Lawrence Centre is a mall in
Massena, New York, that has experienced im-
pressive business growth since it was built in
1990. To continue serving the residents of St.
Lawrence County, the St. Lawrence Centre is
opening a brand new Sports Complex at-
tached to the mall. The Complex features a
1,300 person-capacity field turf that can host
activities year-round ranging from professional
sports to children’s birthday parties. The open-
ing of this complex, along with the addition of
new stores to the mall, will bring together
members of the community and help stimulate
the local economy.
On behalf of New York’s 21st District, I want
to congratulate the St. Lawrence Centre on
the grand opening of its new Sports Complex.
Efforts to expand the mall exemplify success-
ful business growth in Northern New York, and
I look forward to seeing the St. Lawrence Cen-
tre continue to flourish.
f
THE AMERICAN LEGION 100TH AN-
NIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE
COIN ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 24, 2018
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, today I
will vote against the 39th short term extension
of the National Flood Insurance Program that
did not provide any reform whatsoever.
I’ve been working to improve the flood insur-
ance program for over 20 years. The current
program is ever deeper in debt, does not pro-
vide the right incentives to move people out of
harm’s way, and misses an opportunity for at
least a small set of incremental improvements
to save money and make America’s families
and businesses safer.
I know this extension will pass but I want to
register in the strongest possible terms my in-
sistence that we get on with the business of
having a sustainable safe flood insurance pro-
gram that is so important to so many Ameri-
cans. The time to start this is now and this
short-term extension fails that test.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. VICKY HARTZLER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday,
July 24, 2018, I was unable to vote. Had I
been present, I would have voted as follows:
on roll call no. 368, YEA; on roll call no. 369,
YEA; on roll call no. 370, YEA; on roll call no.
371, YEA; and on roll call no. 372, YEA.
f
HONORING MAGISTRATE JUDGE
JAMES E. SEIBERT
HON. DAVID B. McKINLEY
OF WEST VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. MCKINLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
honor my long time friend, Judge James E.
Seibert as he transitions into retirement after
33 years of service to the people of West Vir-
ginia.
Judge Seibert graduated from West Virginia
University’s College of Law in 1969.
Upon graduation, he joined the Law Firm of
Seibert and Kasserman in Wheeling, West Vir-
ginia.
In 1985, Judge Seibert entered public serv-
ice as a Magistrate Judge for the Northern
District of West Virginia.
But as much as he is recognized for his
service on the bench, he is known for his con-
tributions to the community, having served as:
Chairman of the Ohio County Bar Association,
President of the Wheeling-Ohio County Plan-
ning Commission, Chairman of Saint Vincent’s
Home, The Mental Hygiene Commissioner,
President of the Wheeling Auto Club, and
served on the Board for the Oglebay Park
Children’s Association.
I thank, Judge Seibert for his 33 years of
service and wish him, his wife Jenny, his three
adult children, and three grandkids all the
best.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, on
July 23, 2018 I missed a series of Roll Call
votes. Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘YEA’’ on No. 366 and 367.
On July 24, 2018 I missed a series of Roll
Call votes. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘YEA’’ on No. 368, 369, 370, 371, and
372.
f
CELEBRATING THE EXTRAOR-
DINARY WORK AND LEGACY OF
VICTOR VILLARREAL
HON. JOHN R. CARTER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I cele-
brate the extraordinary work and legacy of
Victor Villarreal, Ph.D. This Lone Star State
native has led a life of continual service to
Central Texas. His leadership, vision, and
commitment to hard work has made the grow-
ing city of Leander, TX a great place to live
and work.
Dr. Vic served the City of Leander as a
councilmember from 2005–2009, which in-
cluded a term as Mayor Pro-Tem. Knowing
that Leander deserves a first-class higher-edu-
cation institution, his tenure was focused on
bringing an Austin Community College (ACC)
campus to his beloved community.
Dr. Vic unselfishly gave countless hours
over the span of a decade toward making an
ACC campus in Leander a reality. Those who
worked alongside him describe the time, plan-
ning, and effort he put in to bringing a college
campus to Leander as a true labor of love. Dr.
Vic’s leadership led to the establishment of
ACC’s San Gabriel campus; classes will begin
in Fall 2018. His commitment to higher edu-
cation in Leander didn’t end there as Dr. Vic
served as a member and a Vice Chairman of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25JY8.037 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1072 July 25, 2018
the ACC Board of Trustees before becoming
Chairman.
Many go through life wondering if they’ve
made difference; Dr. Vic doesn’t have that
problem. I’m glad civic-minded leaders like
him are working hard to improve their commu-
nities. He’s led Leander to new heights and
positioned his beloved city to continue into a
bright future. I salute his work, congratulate
him on his achievements, and wish him noth-
ing but the best for the years ahead.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 2018 SISTER
CITIES INTERNATIONAL ANNUAL
CONFERENCE
HON. MIKE COFFMAN
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Mr. COFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the 2018 Sister Cities International
Annual Conference. For 2018, the conference
will take place in my hometown of Aurora, Col-
orado, from the 2nd to the 4th of August. This
is both Aurora’s and Colorado’s first time
hosting this important international conference.
I look forward to participating in it as a guest
and as a speaker.
First established in 1984, the Sister Cities
International Annual Conference joins together
numerous government officials, national lead-
ers, business leaders, and diplomats for dia-
logue on many important global issues. The
focus of this year’s conference is Cities Lead-
ing the Way. It will showcase how, ‘‘in an era
of unrest, cities across the globe are leading
efforts to create smarter, healthier, more inclu-
sive, and more innovative communities.’’
I am proud to attend this prestigious event
and look forward to observing how its partici-
pants will offer ideas on how to resolve impor-
tant global issues and promote cross-cultural
dialogue at the highest level. Colorado is a
world leader in a variety of fields, including ag-
riculture, energy, medical research, natural re-
sources, and tourism. There are numerous
tours and guest speakers Colorado will pro-
vide to inform and assist the participants as
they develop ideas and solutions. I am con-
fident that all will look back upon the conclu-
sion of the conference and recognize that Au-
rora was a wonderful place to meet.
The Conference made the decision to award
the 2018 event to Aurora thanks to the efforts
of many, but I want to note particularly the
leadership of my late friend and Aurora’s big-
gest booster, Mayor Stephen Hogan. I know it
would have meant a great deal to Mayor
Hogan to have participated in and to have
opened this conference. I am confident that
Aurora’s new Mayor, Bob LeGare, will ensure
that it will be a great success. Finally, I wish
to recognize the work of Sister Cities Inter-
national led by Board Chair, Tim Quigley, and
Aurora Sister Cities International led by Board
Chair, Dr. Christopher Ward.
TRIBUTE TO YOUNG STAFF MEM-
BERS FOR THEIR CONTRIBU-
TIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PEO-
PLE OF THE 18TH CONGRES-
SIONAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS AND
THE UNITED STATES
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as Mem-
bers of Congress we know well, perhaps bet-
ter than most, how blessed our nation is to
have in reserve such exceptional young men
and women who will go on to become leaders
in their local communities, states, and the na-
tion in the areas of business, education, gov-
ernment, philanthropy, the arts and culture,
and the military.
We know this because we see them and
benefit from their contributions every day.
Many of them work for us in our offices as jun-
ior staff members, congressional fellows, or in-
terns and they do amazing work for and on
behalf of the constituents we are privileged to
represent.
Mr. Speaker, I believe there is no higher
calling than the call to serve a cause larger
than ourselves. That is why I ran for public of-
fice. I was inspired to serve by President Ken-
nedy who said, ‘‘Ask not what your country
can do for you, ask what you can do for your
country,’’ and by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr. who said, ‘‘Everybody can be great
because anybody can serve. . . . You only
need a heart full of grace. A soul generated by
love.’’
By this measure, there are several other
great young men and women who served as
volunteers this year in my offices. They may
toil in obscurity but their contributions to the
constituents we serve are deeply appreciated.
That is why today I rise to pay tribute to 13
extraordinary young persons for their service
to my constituents in the 18th Congressional
District of Texas and to the American people.
They are:
Callie Lucia from Texas Christian University;
Kelly Clifford from New York University; Mat-
thew Marion from the University of Colorado;
Farah Mechref from Texas Tech University;
Chaniqua Nelson from Howard University;
Zohair Alam from the University of Houston;
Sabri Siraj from Arizona State University;
Naomi Stelivan from Fisk University; Andy
Hong from Brown University; Mariam Boguifo
from Texas Tech University; Rishal Jagtap
from Langley High School; Ritwik Jagtap from
Langley High School; and Fangxin ‘Amy’ Yu
from The Madeira School.
Mr. Speaker, the energy, intelligence, and
idealism these wonderful young people
brought to my office and those interning in the
offices of my colleagues help keep our democ-
racy vibrant. The insights, skills, and knowl-
edge of the governmental process they gain
from their experiences will last a lifetime and
prove invaluable to them as they go about
making their mark in this world.
Because of persons like them the future of
our country is bright and its best days lie
ahead. I wish them all well.
Mr. Speaker, I am grateful that such
thoughtful committed young men and women
can be found working in my office, those of
my colleagues, and in every community in
America. Their good works will keep America
great, good, and forever young.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
July 26, 2018 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JULY 31
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Subcommittee on Communications, Tech-
nology, Innovation, and the Internet
To hold hearings to examine the internet
and digital communications, focusing
on the impact of global internet gov-
ernance.
SR–253
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
To hold hearings to examine reducing
health care costs, focusing on decreas-
ing administrative spending.
SD–430
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
immigration enforcement and family
reunification efforts.
SH–216
AUGUST 1
9:45 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Business meeting to consider S. 2242, to
amend the Omnibus Public Land Man-
agement Act of 2009 to clarify the au-
thority of the Administrator of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration with respect to post-
storm assessments, S. 2773, to improve
the management of driftnet fishing, S.
2861, to prosecute, as a Federal crime,
the assault or intimidation of a pas-
senger train crew member to the same
extent as such actions against aircraft
crew members are prosecuted, S. 3119,
to allow for the taking of sea lions on
the Columbia River and its tributaries
to protect endangered and threatened
species of salmon and other nonlisted
fish species, S. 3143, to provide for a co-
ordinated Federal program to accel-
erate quantum research and develop-
ment for the economic and national se-
curity of the United States, S. 3265, to
require the Secretary of Commerce to
undertake certain activities to support
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25JY8.044 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1073
July 25, 2018
waterfront community revitalization
and resiliency, S. 3273, to improve the
safety, efficiency, and reliability of the
movement of goods through ports and
intermodal connections to ports, an
original bill entitled, ‘‘Space Frontier
Act of 2019’’, and the nominations of
Rick A. Dearborn, of Oklahoma, to be a
Director of the Amtrak Board of Direc-
tors, and Martin J. Oberman, of Illi-
nois, to be a Member of the Surface
Transportation Board.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of R. Clarke Cooper, of Florida,
to be an Assistant Secretary (Political-
Military Affairs), and John Cotton
Richmond, of Virginia, to be Director
of the Office to Monitor and Combat
Trafficking, with the rank of Ambas-
sador at Large, both of the Department
of State.
SD–419
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
Business meeting to consider pending
calendar business; to be immediately
followed by a hearing to examine the
Environmental Protection Agency’s
agenda, focusing on protecting the en-
vironment and allowing America’s
economy to grow.
SD–406
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Subcommittee on Space, Science, and
Competitiveness
To hold hearings to examine the search
for life, focusing on utilizing science to
explore our solar system and make new
discoveries.
SR–253
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
To hold hearings to examine S. 3184, to
amend title 38, United States Code, to
modify the requirements for applica-
tions for construction of State home
facilities to increase the maximum per-
centage of nonveterans allowed to be
treated at such facilities, S. 1596, to
amend title 38, United States Code, to
increase certain funeral benefits for
veterans, S. 2881, to direct the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to seek to
enter into an agreement with the city
of Vallejo, California, for the transfer
of Mare Island Naval Cemetery in
Vallejo, California, S. 1952, to improve
oversight and accountability of the fi-
nancial processes of the Department of
Veterans Affairs, S. 1990, to amend
title 38, United States Code, to increase
the amounts payable by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs for depend-
ency and indemnity compensation, to
modify the requirements for depend-
ency and indemnity compensation for
survivors of certain veterans rated to-
tally disabled at the time of death, S.
2485, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to provide payment of Medal of
Honor special pension under such title
to the surviving spouse of a deceased
Medal of Honor recipient, S. 2748, to
amend title 10, United States Code, to
require members of the Armed Forces
to receive additional training under
the Transition Assistance Program, S.
514, to direct the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs to carry out a pilot program to
provide access to magnetic EEG/EKG-
guided resonance therapy to veterans,
H.R. 299, to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify presumptions
relating to the exposure of certain vet-
erans who served in the vicinity of the
Republic of Vietnam, H.R. 5418, to di-
rect the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to carry out the Medical Surgical
Prime Vendor program using multiple
prime vendors, an original bill entitled,
‘‘Veterans Dental Care Eligibility Ex-
pansion and Enhancement Act of 2018’’,
an original bill entitled, ‘‘VA Hiring
Enhancement Act’’, an original bill to
require the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to establish a program to award
grants to persons to provide and co-
ordinate the provision of suicide pre-
vention services for veterans
transitioning from service in the
Armed Forces who are at risk of sui-
cide and for their families, and an
original bill entitled, ‘‘Modernization
of Medical Records Access for Veterans
Act’’.
SR–418
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:14 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M25JY8.000 E25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D867
Wednesday, July 25, 2018
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, page S5315–S5391
Measures Introduced: Sixteen bills and two resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 3262–3277, and
S. Res. 592–593. Pages S5360–61
Measures Passed:
Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery
Amendment Act: Senate passed S. 2779, to amend
the Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery
Act of 2001, after withdrawing the committee
amendment in the nature of a substitute, and agree-
ing to the following amendment proposed thereto:
Pages S5319–20
Murkowski (for Flake) Amendment No. 3541, in
the nature of a substitute. Page S5320
East Rosebud Wild and Scenic Rivers Act: Senate
passed H.R. 4645, to amend the Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act to designate certain segments of East
Rosebud Creek in Carbon County, Montana, as com-
ponents of the Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
Page S5390
National Ada Lovelace Day: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 592, designating October 9, 2018, as ‘‘National
Ada Lovelace Day’’ and honoring the life and legacy
of Ada Lovelace, the first computer programmer.
Page S5390
Honoring the Life and Legacy of Grace Hopper:
Senate agreed to S. Res. 593, honoring the life and
legacy of Grace Hopper, professor, inventor, entre-
preneur, business leader, and Rear Admiral of the
Navy. Page S5390
Measures Considered:
Department of the Interior, Environment, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act—Agree-
ment: Senate continued consideration of H.R. 6147,
making appropriations for the Department of the In-
terior, environment, and related agencies for the fis-
cal year ending September 30, 2019, taking action
on the following amendments proposed thereto:
Pages S5316–19, S5320–56
Adopted:
By a unanimous vote of 98 yeas (Vote No. 168),
Moran Amendment No. 3433 (to Amendment No.
3399), to prohibit the use of funds to revoke certain
exceptions. Pages S5339–40
By 95 yeas to 4 nays (Vote No. 169), Udall
Modified Amendment No. 3414 (to Amendment
No. 3399), to express the sense of Congress relating
to the importance of long-distance passenger rail
routes. Pages S5339–40
By a unanimous vote of 99 yeas (Vote No. 170),
Collins (for Manchin) Amendment No. 3553 (to
Amendment No. 3399), to make an amount avail-
able for the Office of Terrorism and Financial Intel-
ligence of the Department of the Treasury to inves-
tigate the illicit trade of synthetic opioids origi-
nating from the People’s Republic of China.
Pages S5347–51
Rejected:
By 25 yeas to 74 nays (Vote No. 171), Collins
(for Paul) Amendment No. 3543 (to Amendment
No. 3399), to reduce the amounts appropriated to
comply with the spending limits under the Budget
Control Act of 2011. Pages S5347–52
Pending:
Shelby Amendment No. 3399, in the nature of a
substitute. Pages S5316–19, S5320–56
Murkowski Amendment No. 3400 (to Amend-
ment No. 3399), of a perfecting nature. Page S5316
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the bill at ap-
proximately 9:30 a.m., on Thursday, July 26, 2018.
Pages S5390–91
Messages from the House: Pages S5358–59
Measures Referred: Page S5359
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S5360, S5390
Executive Communications: Page S5360
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5361–63
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S5363–74
Additional Statements: Pages S5357–58
Amendments Submitted: Pages S5374–90
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S5390
Record Votes: Four record votes were taken today.
(Total—171) Pages S5340, S5351–52
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:30 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JY8.PT2 D25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D868 July 25, 2018
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:31 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Thursday,
July 26, 2018. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on pages S5390–91.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
RACE TO 5G
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the race
to 5G, focusing on exploring spectrum needs to
maintain United States global leadership, after re-
ceiving testimony from Meredith Attwell Baker,
CTIA, Dean R. Brenner, Qualcomm Incorporated,
and Tom Stroup, Satellite Industry Association, all
of Washington, D.C.; and Craig Cowden, Charter
Communications, Denver, Colorado.
MARS
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Space, Science, and Competiveness
concluded a hearing to examine destination Mars, fo-
cusing on putting American boots on the surface of
the red planet, after receiving testimony from
Salvatore T. Bruno, United Launch Alliance, LLC,
Centennial, Colorado; Chris Carberry, Explore Mars,
Inc., Stafford, Virginia; Dava J. Newman, Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology, Cambridge; and Peggy
Whitson, Spicewood, Texas.
AMERICAN DIPLOMACY
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine American diplomacy to ad-
vance our national security strategy, after receiving
testimony from Mike Pompeo, Secretary of State.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Committee ordered favorably reported the following
business items:
S. 2554, to ensure that health insurance issuers
and group health plans do not prohibit pharmacy
providers from providing certain information to en-
rollees, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
H.R. 1222, to amend the Public Health Service
Act to coordinate Federal congenital heart disease re-
search efforts and to improve public education and
awareness of congenital heart disease, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 2465, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to reauthorize a sickle cell disease prevention and
treatment demonstration program and to provide for
sickle cell disease research, surveillance, prevention,
and treatment, with an amendment in the nature of
a substitute; and
S. 3016, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to improve essential oral health care for low-income
and other underserved individuals by breaking down
barriers to care, with an amendment in the nature
of a substitute.
NOMINATIONS
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nominations of Joseph
Maguire, of Florida, to be Director of the National
Counterterrorism Center, Office of the Director of
National Intelligence, and Ellen E. McCarthy, of
Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Intel-
ligence and Research), after the nominees testified
and answered questions in their own behalf.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 38 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 6501–6538; and 6 resolutions, H.
Res. 1026, 1028–1032 were introduced.
Pages H7685–87
Additional Cosponsors: Page H7688
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
Conference report on H.R. 5515, to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2019 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense and for military
construction, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes
(H. Rept. 115–874); and
H. Res. 1027, providing for consideration of the
conference report to accompany the bill (H.R. 5515)
to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2019 for
military activities of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe military per-
sonnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other
purposes (H. Rept. 115–875). Page H7685
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:30 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JY8.PT2 D25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D869
July 25, 2018
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he
appointed Representative Lamborn to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H7159
Recess: The House recessed at 11:36 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H7169
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Bishop Irinej, Serbian Orthodox Di-
ocese of Eastern America, New Rochelle, New York.
Pages H7169–70
Suspensions—Proceedings Resumed: The House
agreed to suspend the rules and pass the following
measure. Consideration began Tuesday, July 24th.
The American Legion 100th Anniversary Com-
memorative Coin Act: S. 1182, amended, to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint commemora-
tive coins in recognition of the 100th anniversary of
The American Legion, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of
366 yeas to 52 nays, Roll No. 373; Page H7199
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To ex-
tend the National Flood Insurance Program, and for
other purposes.’’. Page H7199
VA Hospitals Establishing Leadership Perform-
ance Act: H.R. 5864, amended, to direct the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to establish qualifications
for the human resources positions within the Vet-
erans Health Administration of the Department of
Veterans Affairs, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 417
yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 374.
Pages H7199–H7200
Making Available Information Now to Strength-
en Trust and Resilience and Enhance Enterprise
Technology Cybersecurity Act: The House agreed
to take from the Speaker’s table and pass S. 770, to
require the Director of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology to disseminate resources
to help reduce small business cybersecurity risks, as
amended by Representative Webster (FL).
Pages H7201–02
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To re-
quire the Director of the National Institute of Stand-
ards and Technology to disseminate guidance to help
reduce small business cybersecurity risks, and for
other purposes.’’. Page H7202
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Long-Term Care Veterans Choice Act: H.R.
5693, amended, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to enter into contracts and agreements for the place-
ment of veterans in non-Department medical foster
homes for certain veterans who are unable to live
independently; Pages H7172–75
Strengthening Career and Technical Education
for the 21st Century Act: Concur in the Senate
amendment to H.R. 2353, to reauthorize the Carl
D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of
2006; Pages H7175–94
Condemning the violence, persecution, intimida-
tion, and murders committed by the Government
of Nicaragua against its citizens: H. Res. 981,
amended, condemning the violence, persecution, in-
timidation, and murders committed by the Govern-
ment of Nicaragua against its citizens;
Pages H7194–97
Energy Diplomacy Act of 2018: H.R. 5535,
amended, to amend the State Department Basic Au-
thorities Act of 1956 regarding energy diplomacy
and security within the Department of State;
Pages H7197–99
Amending title 23, United States Code, to ex-
tend the deadline for promulgation of regulations
under the tribal transportation self-governance
program: H.R. 6414, to amend title 23, United
States Code, to extend the deadline for promulgation
of regulations under the tribal transportation self-
governance program; Pages H7639–40
Save Our Seas Act: S. 756, amended, to reau-
thorize and amend the Marine Debris Act to pro-
mote international action to reduce marine debris;
Pages H7640–45
Expressing the sense of the House of Representa-
tives that the lack of timely and predictable fund-
ing unnecessarily undermines the mission of the
United States Special Operations Command and
jeopardizes the security of the United States: H.
Res. 1009, expressing the sense of the House of
Representatives that the lack of timely and predict-
able funding unnecessarily undermines the mission
of the United States Special Operations Command
and jeopardizes the security of the United States;
Pages H7645–47
Expressing the sense of the House of Representa-
tives that the United States Air Force faces signifi-
cant readiness challenges due to insufficient per-
sonnel levels, a shrinking and depleted aircraft
fleet, and maintenance deferrals, all of which are
affected by budgetary uncertainty and impede the
Air Force’s ability to meet ongoing and unexpected
national security threats, putting United States
national security at risk: H.R. 1010, expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that the
United States Air Force faces significant readiness
challenges due to insufficient personnel levels, a
shrinking and depleted aircraft fleet, and mainte-
nance deferrals, all of which are affected by budg-
etary uncertainty and impede the Air Force’s ability
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:30 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JY8.PT2 D25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D870 July 25, 2018
to meet ongoing and unexpected national security
threats, putting United States national security at
risk; and Pages H7647–49
Expressing the sense of the House of Representa-
tives that not fully resourcing the United States
Army in a timely manner erodes the Army’s abil-
ity to maintain readiness and poses risk to the
Army’s ability to conduct military operations: H.
Res. 1007, expressing the sense of the House of
Representatives that not fully resourcing the United
States Army in a timely manner erodes the Army’s
ability to maintain readiness and poses risk to the
Army’s ability to conduct military operations.
Pages H7650–51
Amending the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act to modify the definition of qualified health
plan for purposes of the health insurance pre-
mium tax credit and to allow individuals pur-
chasing health insurance in the individual mar-
ket to purchase a lower premium copper plan:
The House passed H.R. 6311, to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act to modify the definition of
qualified health plan for purposes of the health in-
surance premium tax credit and to allow individuals
purchasing health insurance in the individual market
to purchase a lower premium copper plan, by a re-
corded vote of 242 ayes to 176 noes, Roll No. 376.
Pages H7658–67
Rejected the Frankel (FL) motion to recommit the
bill to the Committee on Ways and Means with in-
structions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a yea-and-nay vote
of 187 yeas to 229 nays, Roll No. 375.
Pages H7665–66
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 115–83 shall be considered as
adopted, in lieu of the amendment in the nature of
a substitute recommended by the Committee on
Ways and Means. Page H7658
H. Res. 1011, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 184) and (H.R. 6311) was agreed
to yesterday, July 24th.
Restoring Access to Medication Act of 2018: The
House passed H.R. 6199, to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to include certain over-the-
counter medical products as qualified medical ex-
penses, by a yea-and-nay vote of 277 yeas to 142
nays, Roll No. 377. Pages H7651–58, H7667
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 115–82 shall be considered as
adopted, in lieu of the amendment in the nature of
a substitute recommended by the Committee on
Ways and Means now printed in the bill. Page H7651
H. Res. 1012, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 6199) was agreed to yesterday, July
24th.
Cambodia Democracy Act of 2018: The House
agreed to discharge from committee and pass H.R.
5754, to promote free and fair elections, political
freedoms, and human rights in Cambodia, as amend-
ed by Representative Royce (CA). Pages H7668–69
Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery
Amendment Act of 2018: The House agreed to
take from the Speaker’s table and pass S. 2779, to
amend the Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Re-
covery Act of 2001. Pages H7670–72
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 9 a.m. tomorrow, July 26th. Page H7672
Senate Referrals: S. 2278 was referred to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce. S. 2779 was held
at the desk. Page H7684
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
today appears on page H7169.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes
and two recorded votes developed during the pro-
ceedings of today and appear on pages H7199,
H7200, H7666, H7666–67, and H7667. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 8:34 p.m.
Committee Meetings
EXAMINING THE UPCOMING AGENDA FOR
THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING
COMMISSION
Committee on Agriculture: Full Committee held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Examining the Upcoming Agenda for
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’’. Tes-
timony was heard from Chris Giancarlo, Chairman,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Appropriations: Full Committee held a
markup on FY 2019 Homeland Security Appropria-
tions Bill; and the Revised Report on the Suballoca-
tion of Budget Allocations for FY 2019. The FY
2019 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill was or-
dered reported, as amended. The Revised Report on
the Suballocation of Budget Allocations for FY 2019
was approved.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:30 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JY8.PT2 D25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D871
July 25, 2018
21ST CENTURY CURES IMPLEMENTATION:
UPDATES FROM FDA AND NIH
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Health held a hearing entitled ‘‘21st Century Cures
Implementation: Updates from FDA and NIH’’. Tes-
timony was heard from Francis Collins, Director,
National Institutes of Health; and Scott Gottlieb,
Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration.
BACKGROUND ON RENEWABLE
IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS UNDER THE
RENEWABLE FUEL STANDARD
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Environment held a hearing entitled ‘‘Background
on Renewable Identification Numbers under the Re-
newable Fuel Standard’’. Testimony was heard from
Brent Yacobucci, Energy and Minerals Manager,
Congressional Research Service, Library of Congress.
OVERSIGHT OF THE FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Oversight of the Federal Communications
Commission’’. Testimony was heard from the fol-
lowing Federal Communications Commission offi-
cials: Ajit Pai, Chairman; Michael O’Rielly, Com-
missioner; Brendan Carr, Commissioner; and Jessica
Rosenworcel, Commissioner.
BUDGET PRIORITIES FOR SOUTH ASIA
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on Asia
and the Pacific held a hearing entitled ‘‘Budget Pri-
orities for South Asia’’. Testimony was heard from
Alice G. Wells, Principal Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary, Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs,
Department of State; and Gloria Steele, Senior Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Asia, U.S.
Agency for International Development.
ASSESSING THE STATE OF FEDERAL
CYBERSECURITY RISK DETERMINATION
Committee on Homeland Security: Subcommittee on Cy-
bersecurity and Infrastructure Protection held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Assessing the State of Federal Cyberse-
curity Risk Determination’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
USING INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY AND
PRACTICES TO ENHANCE THE CULTURE
OF PREPAREDNESS
Committee on Homeland Security: Subcommittee on
Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Communica-
tions held a hearing entitled ‘‘Using Innovative
Technology and Practices to Enhance the Culture of
Preparedness’’. Testimony was heard from Daniel
Kaniewski, Deputy Administrator for Resilience,
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Depart-
ment of Homeland Security; Daniel Cotter, Director,
First Responders Group, Science and Technology Di-
rectorate, Department of Homeland Security; Dereck
Orr, Division Chief, Public Safety Communications
Division, National Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology, Department of Commerce; and John V.
Kelly, Senior Official Performing the Duties of the
Inspector General, Office of Inspector General, De-
partment of Homeland Security.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on House Administration: Full Committee
held a business meeting to consider Committee Res-
olution 115–20. Committee Resolution 115–20 was
adopted.
OVERSIGHT OF THE LIBRARY OF
CONGRESS’ STRATEGIC PLAN PART 2
Committee on House Administration: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Library of
Congress’ Strategic Plan Part 2’’. Testimony was
heard from the following Library of Congress offi-
cials: Carla D. Hayden, Librarian of Congress; Kurt
W. Hyde, Inspector General; and Dianne Houghton,
Director of Strategic Planning and Performance
Management.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
markup on H.R. 1872, the ‘‘Reciprocal Access to
Tibet Act of 2017’’. H.R. 1872 was ordered re-
ported, as amended.
MANAGEMENT CRISIS AT THE PUERTO
RICO ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY AND
IMPLICATIONS FOR RECOVERY
Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Management Crisis at the Puerto
Rico Electric Power Authority and Implications for
Recovery’’. Testimony was heard from Eduardo
Bhatia, Minority Leader, Senate of Puerto Rico;
Bruce Walker, Assistant Secretary, Office of Elec-
tricity, Department of Energy; and public witnesses.
GAO HIGH RISK FOCUS: CYBERSECURITY
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: Sub-
committee on Information Technology; and Sub-
committee on Government Operations held a joint
hearing entitled ‘‘GAO High Risk Focus: Cybersecu-
rity’’. Testimony was heard from Gene L. Dodaro,
Comptroller General, Government Accountability
Office; and Suzette Kent, Federal Chief Information
Officer, Office of Management and Budget.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:30 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JY8.PT2 D25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D872 July 25, 2018
FEDERAL GRANT MANAGEMENT
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: Sub-
committee on Intergovernmental Affairs held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Federal Grant Management’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Michelle Sager, Director, Stra-
tegic Issues, Government Accountability Office; An-
drea L. Brandon, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Office
of Grants and Acquisition Policy and Accountability,
Department of Health and Human Services; Natalie
Keegan, Analyst, American Federalism and Emer-
gency Management, Congressional Research Service,
Library of Congress; and public witnesses.
CONFERENCE REPORT TO ACCOMPANY
THE JOHN S. MCCAIN NATIONAL DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR
2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee concluded a hear-
ing on the Conference Report to accompany H.R.
5515, the ‘‘John S. McCain National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019’’. The Com-
mittee granted, by voice vote, a rule providing for
the consideration of the conference report to H.R.
5515. The rule waives all points of order against the
conference report and against its consideration. The
rule provides that the conference report shall be con-
sidered as read. The rule provides that the previous
question shall be considered as ordered without
intervention of any motion except one hour of debate
and one motion to recommit if applicable. The rule
provides debate on the conference report is divided
pursuant to clause 8(d) of rule XXII. In section 2,
the rule provides that the Committee on Appropria-
tions may, at any time before 3 p.m. on Thursday,
August 2, 2018, file privileged reports to accompany
measures making appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019. Finally, in section 3,
the rule provides that H. Res. 1020 is laid on the
table.
JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE: PROGRAM
BREACH AND ITS IMPLICATIONS
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Full Com-
mittee held a begin hearing entitled ‘‘James Webb
Space Telescope: Program Breach and its Implica-
tions’’. Testimony was heard from Jim Bridenstine,
Administrator, National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration; and a public witness.
THE TAX LAW’S IMPACT ON MAIN STREET
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘The Tax Law’s Impact on Main
Street’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
EXAMINING CHANGES TO SOCIAL
SECURITY’S DISABILITY APPEALS PROCESS
Committee on Ways and Means: Subcommittee on So-
cial Security held a hearing entitled ‘‘Examining
Changes to Social Security’s Disability Appeals Proc-
ess’’. Testimony was heard from Patricia Jonas, Dep-
uty Commissioner, Analytics, Review, and Over-
sight, Social Security Administration; Elizabeth
Curda, Director, Education, Workforce, and Income
Security Issues, Government Accountability Office;
Will Morton, Analyst, Income Security, Congres-
sional Research Service, Library of Congress; and
public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
INNOVATION ECONOMY
Joint Economic Committee: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the innovation economy, entre-
preneurship, and barriers to capital access, after re-
ceiving testimony from Phil Mackintosh, Nasdaq,
Inc., New York, New York; Rachel King,
GlycoMimetics, Inc., Rockville, Maryland; and Lisa
Mensah, Opportunity Finance Network, Wash-
ington, D.C.
MULTIEMPLOYER PENSION SYSTEM AND
STAKEHOLDERS
Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Pen-
sion Plans: Committee concluded a hearing to exam-
ine how the multiemployer pension system affects
stakeholders, after receiving testimony from James P.
Naughton, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illi-
nois; Joshua D. Rauh, Stanford University Hoover
Institution, Stanford, California; Timothy P. Lynch,
Morgan Lewis and Bockius LLP, Annapolis, Mary-
land; and Kenneth Warren Stribling, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin.
ATTACKS ON ROMA IN UKRAINE
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Com-
mission received a briefing on attacks on Roma in
Ukraine from Zemfira Kondur, Chiricli International
Roma Women’s Fund, and Oskana Shulyar, both of
Kyiv, Ukraine; and Halyna Yurchenko, Roma Youth
of Ukraine, Lviv.
CORRUPTION AND DOPING IN
INTERNATIONAL SPORT
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine the state of
play, focusing on globalized corruption, state-run
doping, and international sport, after receiving testi-
mony from Travis T. Tygart, United States Anti-
Doping Agency, Colorado Springs, Colorado;
Dagmar Freitag, Chairwoman of the German Bun-
destag Sports Committee, Berlin, Germany; Jim
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:30 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JY8.PT2 D25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D873
July 25, 2018
Walden, Walden Macht and Haran, New York, New
York; Katie Uhlaender, Breckenridge, Colorado; and
Yuliya Stepanova, Kursk, Russia.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D851)
H.R. 446, to extend the deadline for commence-
ment of construction of a hydroelectric project.
Signed on July 23, 2018. (Public Law 115–202)
H.R. 447, to extend the deadline for commence-
ment of construction of a hydroelectric project.
Signed on July 23, 2018. (Public Law 115–203)
H.R. 951, to extend the deadline for commence-
ment of construction of a hydroelectric project.
Signed on July 23, 2018. (Public Law 115–204)
H.R. 2122, to reinstate and extend the deadline
for commencement of construction of a hydroelectric
project involving Jennings Randolph Dam. Signed
on July 23, 2018. (Public Law 115–205)
H.R. 2292, to extend a project of the Federal En-
ergy Regulatory Commission involving the
Cannonsville Dam. Signed on July 23, 2018. (Public
Law 115–206)
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
JULY 26, 2018
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, to hold
hearings to examine proposed budget estimates and jus-
tification for fiscal year 2019 for the Office of the United
States Trade Representative, 9:45 a.m., SD–192.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to
hold hearings to examine the nominations of Rick A.
Dearborn, of Oklahoma, to be a Director of the Amtrak
Board of Directors, and Martin J. Oberman, of Illinois,
to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board, 10
a.m., SR–253.
Committee on Finance: to hold hearings to examine the
nominations of Justin George Muzinich, of New York, to
be Deputy Secretary, and Michael J. Desmond, of Cali-
fornia, to be Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Serv-
ice and an Assistant General Counsel, both of the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, 9:30 a.m., SD–215.
Subcommittee on Taxation and IRS Oversight, to hold
hearings to examine improving tax administration today,
10:30 a.m., SD–562.
Committee on Foreign Relations: business meeting to con-
sider S. 1023, to reauthorize the Tropical Forest Con-
servation Act of 1998 through fiscal year 2021, S. 1580,
to enhance the transparency, improve the coordination,
and intensify the impact of assistance to support access to
primary and secondary education for displaced children
and persons, including women and girls, S. 3248, to re-
strict the provision by international financial institutions
of loans and financial and technical assistance to the Gov-
ernment of Turkey, S. Res. 501, recognizing threats to
freedom of the press and expression around the world and
reaffirming freedom of the press as a priority in efforts
of the Government of the United States to promote de-
mocracy and good governance, S. Res. 541, expressing the
sense of the Senate that any United States-Saudi Arabia
civilian nuclear cooperation agreement must prohibit the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia from enriching uranium or sep-
arating plutonium on its own territory, in keeping with
the strongest possible nonproliferation ‘‘gold standard’’, S.
Res. 571, condemning the ongoing illegal occupation of
Crimea by the Russian Federation, the nominations of Jo-
seph Cella, of Michigan, to be Ambassador to the Repub-
lic of Fiji, and to serve concurrently and without addi-
tional compensation as Ambassador to the Republic of
Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru, the Kingdom of Tonga,
and Tuvalu, and Denise Natali, of New Jersey, to be an
Assistant Secretary (Conflict and Stabilization Oper-
ations), both of the Department of State, and routine lists
in the Foreign Service, 10 a.m., S–116, Capitol.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: to
hold hearings to examine modernizing apprenticeships to
expand opportunities, 11 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Manage-
ment, to hold hearings to examine the challenges and op-
portunities of the proposed government reorganization on
Office of Personnel Management and General Services
Administration, 10 a.m., SD–342.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to receive a closed brief-
ing regarding certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m.,
SH–219.
House
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Health, hearing entitled ‘‘MACRA and MIPS: An Update
on the Merit-based Incentive Payment System’’, 10 a.m.,
2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Sub-
committee on National Security; and Subcommittee on
Government Operations, joint hearing entitled ‘‘The Fed-
eral Trade Commission’s Enforcement of Operation
Chokepoint-Related Businesses’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, continue hearing entitled ‘‘James Webb Space
Telescope: Program Breach and its Implications’’, 9:30
a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:30 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25JY8.PT2 D25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D874 July 25, 2018
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Thursday, July 26
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of H.R. 6147, Department of the Interior, Environ-
ment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Thursday, July 26
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Consideration of the Conference
Report to Accompany H.R. 5515—National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Aderholt, Robert B., Ala., E1065
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E1071
Buck, Ken, Colo., E1064
Butterfield, G.K., N.C., E1070
Carter, John R., Tex., E1063, E1068, E1071
Clyburn, James E., S.C., E1064
Coffman, Mike, Colo., E1062, E1066, E1072
DeGette, Diana, Colo., E1066
Dunn, Neal P., Fla., E1065, E1067
Esty, Elizabeth H., Conn., E1066
Gosar, Paul, Ariz., E1065
Granger, Kay, Tex., E1067
Graves, Sam, Mo., E1071
Guthrie, Brett, Ky., E1062, E1071
Hartzler, Vicky, Mo., E1071
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E1064
Himes, James A., Conn., E1061
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E1062, E1064, E1069, E1072
Katko, John, N.Y., E1061
Keating, William R., Mass., E1068
Long, Billy, Mo., E1069
McCarthy, Kevin, Calif., E1067
McKinley, David B., W.Va., E1071
Moolenaar, John R., Mich., E1065
Poe, Ted, Tex., E1063
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E1068
Roybal-Allard, Lucille, Calif., E1070
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E1062, E1071
Thompson, Bennie G., Miss., E1061
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E1063
Thornberry, Mac, Tex., E1061
Torres, Norma J., Calif., E1068
Wagner, Ann, Mo., E1069
Wasserman Schultz, Debbie, Fla., E1067
Waters, Maxine, Calif., E1069
Wilson, Joe, S.C., E1064, E1069
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E1062, E1070
Young, Don, Alaska, E1068
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:30 Jul 26, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D25JY8.PT2 D25JYPT2
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
